01-09-2020||Gurugram||Work on Sohna elevated road to remain suspended till safety measures are adopted: NHAI||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Tuesday said that work on Sohna elevated road project will remain suspended till adequate safety measures are taken on the entire project site. The authority has asked the contractor to ensure seamless barricading, covering the construction area, up to one-third of the height of the structure. It has also recommended the deployment of more security guards and traffic marshals. NHAI officials said that despite directions being issued last week, adequate measures have not been taken. The work on Sohna elevated road project was temporarily suspended by the authority last Tuesday, following the collapse of a span between pier 10 and pier 11 on August 22. The authority has also formed a high-level technical committee, which is probing the incident. Ashok Sharma, NHAI project director, on Tuesday said that work will continue to remain suspended till seamless barricading is put up at the entire project site and other safety measures are taken. Further, the contractor, Oriental Engineering, will continue to face a penalty of ₹50,000 per day. “The seamless barricading has not happened and the height of barricading in areas where construction work is being carried out has not been raised to one-third of the structure’s height,” said Sharma. He further said that number of traffic marshals deployed at the site need to be increased to ensure safe movement of vehicles along the road. “The measures taken by the contractor are not satisfactory. Therefore, till an independent engineer doesn’t submit his report and verifies that requisite measures have been taken, the work will not be allowed to restart,” he said. Members of the technical team that visited the site last Thursday also said that the contractor will not get any additional time on account of the delay caused by the accident. The 21.66 km-long Sohna road project has two parts — an underpass and an elevated road from Subash Chowk to a point beyond Badshahpur. The second part comprises the expansion of 12.72-km road from Badshahpur to Sohna and will involve the construction of flyovers and underpasses at major crossings to ensure smooth movement of vehicles on the entire stretch.The deadline for both these projects is July, 2021. A senior official of Oriental Engineering said that they have taken all measures for barricading and improving safety and security of commuters and workers at the site.”Additional measures as per NHAI directions have been taken and more are in the offing. We hope that in next couple of days we will get permission to resume work,” he said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/work-on-sohna-elevated-road-to-remain-suspended-till-safety-measures-are-adopted-nhai/story-EJVAhvlaAkLhA6Ac9RAKbM.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||₹2 crore licence fee collected as Chandigarh bars reopen||The UT excise and taxation department collected around ₹2 crore on Tuesday in liquor licence fee after the administration allowed bars to open for the first time in the city since the Covid-19 lockdown on March 24.Many hotels, restaurants and bars could not serve customers as payment for licences and assessment fees (excise levy) on liquor cases, which is mandatory before sales.“On Tuesday, 50 establishments paid the fee with more than Rs 2 crore deposited with the department. In the next few days, we expect most license holders to pay up,” said RK Chaudhary, assistant commissioner, excise and taxation.“It will take some time before most of the establishments start serving liquor to patrons. They have to first deposit licence and assessment fee and buy fresh stock,” said Arvinder Pal Singh, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh.The liquor licence has to be renewed every year with fees ranging from ₹4 lakh to ₹15 lakh per annum depending on the scale of the establishment.The assessment fee is charged on cases of alcohol, ranging from around ₹300 for beer to ₹3,000 for whiskey.“After depositing the assessment fee with the excise department, an establishment gets the permit to sell liquor. The fee is submitted online, but on Tuesday we could not pay up because of the glitches in the department’s e-permit site. We were told it would take some days for the site to be restored,” said a restaurant owner requesting anonymity.FEE FOR SEVEN MONTHS BEING CHARGEDNotably, the administration has decided to charge the licence fee or a shorter term. “The excise policy 2020-2021 mentions fee rates for nine months. But the administration has decided that the department will consider the day on which the bars open, that is September 1. So we are charging money only for seven months now,” said Chaudhary.The excise department has set up a special desk for a smoother process to deposit the fees. “We have deputed special staff and are ensuring that the process is completed quickly,” said Chaudhary.Seeking more relief from the administration, industry representatives want relaxations in payments. “We have requested the administration to allow deposition of license fee on instalments. The sector is going through tough times and the hospitality sector has been hit hard because of the pandemic,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-crore-licence-fee-collected-as-chandigarh-bars-reopen/story-WXUR6bprow5IhW7H8yHUgO.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Five-year law entrance: HC asks PU to rethink scrapping exam, restrains admissions on 10+2 basis||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday asked the Panjab University (PU) to reconsider its decision on scrapping the entrance exam for the five-year law course run by University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS).The high court bench of justice S Muralidhar also restrained the varsity from admitting students on the basis of Class 12 marks for now. PU has been asked to take a decision by September 15 and upload it on its website.The decision to scrap the exam was taken on August 11 in view of Covid-19 outbreak, and was challenged by two law course aspirants Navya Raj and Saurav Rao arguing that the premise not to hold the entrance is not valid when PU is taking such exams for other courses. Class 12 marks as a sole criterion for determining the suitability of a candidate for admission to the course would be neither reasonable nor reliable, it was argued.During the hearing, one of the counsels, Deepak Vashishth, also pointed out that while the said entrance has been scrapped, varsity would hold the same for its three-year law course.The bench while asking PU to reconsider the decision observed that there is generally little scope of inclusion of law-based subjects in the syllabus for 10+2 classes and it is not possible to make a comparative assessment of suitability of candidates for admission to the 5-year law course solely on the basis of marks obtained in the Class 12 exam.“It would not be safe or reliable to either give equal weightage to the performance of students in the science, arts, commerce streams in the 10+2 level or give preference to one over the other in adjudging the suitability for the 5-year law course,” the bench observed adding that Common Law Admission Test for admission to the national law schools too has not been scrapped so far and the UGC is going ahead with many other such exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-year-law-entrance-hc-asks-pu-to-rethink-scrapping-exam-restrains-admissions-on-10-2-basis/story-yDto5Cb6N87NfvksZAS9nL.html
01-09-2020||City||Cricketer’s son recovers from Chinese manjha injury||Former Indian cricketer Maninder Singh’s son Arjun Singh, 24, was severely injured after a Chinese manjha cut him in Ghaziabad on Independence Day. His upper lip was torn and his cheeks slashed leading to severe blood loss. Now, two weeks later, he has recovered after a successful surgery that restored the shape, alignment and functions of the lips. Arjun, a student of diploma in interior designing and fitness freak, said he was cycling from Delhi to Ghaziabad at 5.30 pm on August 15. “I normally cycle around 90-100 km a day. I thought that since it was Independence Day, there would only be light traffic. I left East Delhi for Ghaziabad on my cycle. As I was crossing the Raj Nagar area, a kite with Chinese manjha crossed my path and cut my upper lip,” he said. Arjun said he stopped the cycle and found his lips bleeding profusely. “I was in need of medical help. A car driver stopped there but he refused to take me to hospital saying his car will get dirty. After some time, another car stopped there and the man took me to Max Super Speciality Hospital, Vaishali. The thread was stuck in my mouth and it was painful,” he said. Meanwhile, someone lifted his cycle and drove away. Dr. Manoj K Johar, Director & Head, Department of Plastic Surgery, Max Super Speciality Hospital, Vaishali said, “With severe blood loss, the patient was in a very serious condition and his lip was badly injured. It required immediate surgery in order to restore function and for aesthetic outcome. Following all the safety precautions related to Covid-19, plastic surgery was successfully performed to restore the shape, alignment and functions of the lips.” Maninder Singh was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cricketer-s-son-recovers-from-chinese-manjha-injury/story-b8P2wOJurSLrRW4R01gQzM.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Contractor gets paid for only completing 10% MCG work; third such matter in 10 months||The engineering wing of the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is under the lens again after it and the accounts branch had allegedly paid a contractor nearly a quarter of the cost of a project despite only 10% work being completed.The MCG ordered a verification of records on Friday after ward 25 councillor Subhash Singh alerted the civic body during its house meeting on August 28.The project was with regard to laying pavement tiles in 60 streets across ward 25. A Faridabad-based contractor won the project for Rs 2 crore in September 2019. It was supposed to be completed by March 2020.“Just a few weeks before the enforcement of the Covid-19 induced national lockdown on March 22, he took Rs 50 lakh from the MCG in the form of running costs for the work he claimed he had done,” said Singh. “But only the earth has been dug up and nothing since then. Initially, under the pretext of national lockdown and coronavirus, the contractor kept asking for an extension. When things started to reopen, he stopped responding to our calls. We later came to know that after collecting his payment from the MCG, he had sold his residence in Faridabad and has left Haryana altogether.”He said MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had told the engineering wing to probe the matter.MCG chief engineer Raman Sharma said a show-cause notice had been sent to the contractor to explain his version of events and specify the reason for not completing the work.“We have levied a 10% penalty on the contractor for leaving the work mid-way and also blacklisted him. A report has been sought from the concerned executive engineer regarding the payment made to the contractor,” he said. “The contract has been cancelled and we have initiated the formalities to issue a new tender and allocating it to a new contractor for finishing the work.”Sharma said that the MCG is in the process of “digitising” its operations and with online process of conducting work there will be greater transparency in the day-to-day operations and will result in discrepancies being highlighted immediately.Over the last 10 months, there have been several instances where MCG has allegedly payments to the contractor despite little work.In February, a vigilance wing probe was initiated after Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla informed the MCG that its engineering wing had paid Rs 1.67 crore, the total project cost, to a contractor for building a two-kilometre road in ward 1 even before the construction had started. In this case, the MCG recovered the total cost from the contractor and a show-cause notice was sent to an engineering wing official.In December 2019, ward 34 councillor RS Rathee had complained that the engineering wing had paid Rs 35 lakh to a contractor for constructing 1.7-kilometre track between Khusbhoo Chowk and Bristol Chowk, along Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, even though only 600 metres of work, worth Rs 11 lakh had been completed.MCG had marked vigilance wing probe in both the matters. Here, the MCG blacklisted the contractor, suspended a junior engineer, and served show-cause notices to three engineering wing officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-contractor-gets-paid-for-only-completing-10-mcg-work-third-such-matter-in-10-months/story-6y083UbCipZPr0BH4GOBAK.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Prime suspect arrested for killing 28-year-old man in April||The police have arrested the prime suspect in connection with the murder of a 28-year-old man in April this year. The arrested suspect is believed to have been the mastermind behind the shooting, the aftermath of a suspected gang rivalry, and five people have already been arrested in the caseThe crime branch of Palam Vihar arrested Sunny Mandal, a resident of Feroz Gandhi Colony from Basai Chowk on Monday.The police said the victim, Rahul Singh, was named in at least 10 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, illegal possession of weapons, and assault, in New Colony police station area.On the night of April 17,Singh was found dead near a private school in Sector 9, a few kilometres from his house. Prior to his death, several unidentified men had come to his house on a scooter and a motorcycle and taken him along to discuss something, said the police. Singh, who was out on bail in a criminal case, had suffered eight gunshot wounds in the abdomen and chest.Five men, identified by first names as Manish, Mangal, Prem, Vicky, and Darshan, were arrested in connection with Singh’s murder in April. The police said that during questioning the five suspects told them that they were involved in the smuggling of liquor, and Singh had been threatening them for some time. On several past occasions, there had been skirmishes between the victim, his associates, and the accused men. Police said the victim was also involved in a suspected gang rivalry after his name had cropped up in the murder of a gangster Nitu Gehlot. Rahul was one of the suspects named in the murder of gangster Gehlot in 2009, following which there has been an intermittent gang rivalry among some gangs, who are involved in the illegal supply of liquor.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “During questioning, the prime suspect, Sunny Mandal, said he had a personal enmity with the victim, which led to the murder. We are also probing a gang rivalry angle. A country-made gun and a scooter used in the crime have also been recovered.”All the suspects have been booked under sections 302 (punishment for murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Sector 9 A police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-prime-suspect-arrested-for-killing-28-year-old-man-in-april/story-AhgpSJjqypxnDP2IccZtQO.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Lockdown in containment zones till September 30||The Gurugram district administration on Tuesday issued Unlock 4 guidelines, opening up more activities outside containment zones in line with the Union ministry of home affairs orders issued last week. The lockdown in containment zones will be extended till September 30, schools will be allowed to call in half their teaching and non-teaching staff but students of classes 9 to 12 can go to school on a purely voluntarily basis to clear their questions, while research scholars and post graduate students can go to their institutes to attend their laboratories. Otherwise, schools and other educational institutes will not be allowed to call in their students. Haryana Government schools in Gurugram and other districts of the state will continue to operate at 100% workforce, as they had been doing since May, following a previous state government order.Currently, the district has 54 containment zones and one Large Outbreak Region (LOR). Containment zones continues to change based on the number of Covid-19 cases reported from a particular area. It is considered de-notified after the tentative period of 14 days provided no new positive case is reported from the zone. Going with the previous guidelines issued during lockdown and other unlock phases, within the containment zones, strict perimeter control will maintained and only essential activities allowed. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Covid-19 testing facilities are now available everywhere. Therefore, testing camps will now be containment zones only where antigen detection kits will be widely used. Any person outside the containment zone who wants to get antigen test can visit Civil Hospital sector 10, old Civil Hospital near Sadar or the local Primary Health Centre (PHC) of a particular area.” The health department is conducting more than 100 testing camps this week. Even private labs have been allowed to conduct antigen and antibody tests for coronavirus, besides the gold standard Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). In the Gurugram order, issued by the deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, from September 21 onward any function related to social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious or political matter can now have a gathering of 100 people. Currently, only 50 people are allowed in marriages and 20 in funerals. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks and theatres will continue to remain closed. Be it a Covid-19 affected or a non-affected zone, people above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, are advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes, as per the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-september-30/story-QTVhAKL1lsUBaDShTzViLN.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn rejigs departments as top IAS officers’ tenures end||With finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha and special secretary Harish Nayar completing their deputation with the UT administration on Tuesday, the departments under their charge were re-allocated among the other officers.The administrative rejig was long overdue. In the last six months, seven IAS officers have either been relieved or retired. While Sinha and Nayar’s tenures ended on Tuesday, Arjun Sharma and Saurabh Mishra, were relieved last year. They were both posted as sub-divisional magistrates besides additional charges as land acquisition officer and information technology director, respectively. Former education secretary BL Sharma and transport secretary Ajay Singla retired last year. In contrast, only one IAS officer, Sarpreet Singh Gill, joined the administration last month.Sinha was holding charge of 16 departments, most of which have been given to Arun Gupta, principal secretary, home. In addition to his existing departments, Gupta will head finance, excise and taxation, planning, estate and housing departments. He has also been designated as the chief electoral officer and chief administrator. With this, he now holds 24 charges in all.UT adviser Manoj Parida will now chair the Chandigarh Housing Board, a charge earlier with Sinha.Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar has also been given charge of the transport department.Sarpreet Singh Gill, who joined the administration last month, has been appointed as education and technical education secretary and special secretary for finance, house allotment and vigilance.Meanwhile, for Sinha’s replacement, the administration has sent a panel of three Punjab cadre IAS officers to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The administration is expecting the MHA’s response within a month.Criticising the slow replacements for officers, RTI activist RK Garg said, “It is pertinent to mention that retirements and completion of deputations are known well in advance, but no timely action is taken for replacement. It is not for the first time that the UT has seen such sorry state of affairs; there is almost a complete history.”A senior UT official said, “We are pursuing the issue of replacement of officers with the MHA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-rejigs-departments-as-top-ias-officers-tenures-end/story-KlGFavhhYwM7FlKFaX4UMJ.html
01-09-2020||City||Casino operating from hotel busted in Faridabad, 12 arrested||Gurugram Faridabad police on Tuesday busted an illegal casino operating from a hotel in New Industrial Town (NIT) on Neelam Bata Road and arrested 12 people for gambling. The police said ₹1.35 lakh and gambling chips worth ₹7.35 lakh were seized from the casino. A case under the gambling act was registered at Kotwali police station on Tuesday against the 12 arrested suspects. The suspects were identified as Nitin Kumar, Ankit Singh, Anil Kumar, Anurag Singh, Firoze Khan, Sandeep Kumar, Amit (single name), Jatin (single name), Niket Azad and Harnek and two-Delhi based women, said police. Dharna Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (crime against women), said that Niket Azad, a resident of Faridabad, was the main organiser and he has been setting up casinos in the city since the beginning of the lockdown. “Azad used to set up casinos in different establishments such as hotels, farmhouses, and guest houses etc. He is into illegal gambling for the past many years and is a history-sheeter,” Yadav said. OP Singh, commissioner of police, said the police had received a tip that a casino was operating out of a hotel room and the organisers had rented the entire hotel on Monday to set up everything and invited people in the evening for gambling. The police said their team raided the hotel premises and unearthed a full-fledged dice joint being run from the dinning room of the hotel . “The casino was designed by Azad with the help of two women who have worked in different casinos and were associated with the kingpin since March,” Singh said. Singh said there were no entry charges and only a limited people were invited. “Azad used to send detailed messages on WhatsApp to the gambling group regarding the time and location of the casino. He has set up casinos at more than 150 venues since March,” he said. Azad used to work with a partner earlier but due to some financial dispute, they parted ways and started set up casinos in different areas, said the police. All the suspects were released on bail by the magistrate later in the evening.Earlier on August 22, the police had arrested six persons for allegedly running an illegal casino from a house in Faridabad’s Sector 5. The police had recovered ₹15,380 in cash and other gambling items from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/casino-operating-from-hotel-busted-in-faridabad-12-arrested/story-oBAgHLOseePh8Qm1H4w7HO.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Buyers face difficulties in booking appointments online for property registration in Gurugram||Registration of properties, which was banned by the Haryana government on July 22, resumed across the state, including Gurugram, on Tuesday. However, officials said that it would still take some time for the new online system to function normally. On Tuesday, only a handful of people had booked online appointments for property registration, said revenue officials. Property buyers and brokers also said that they faced difficulties in generating appointments and expected things to improve in a few days. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that they have initiated the process of property registration under the new system as per the directions received from the government. “How the new online system fares will be clear in the coming days. It will take a week or so for people to get used to the new system,” said Khatri.As per the revenue officials, under the new property registration system, the applicants can book an online appointment anywhere in the state. However, they will be required to upload documents online. Earlier, applicants had to visit the revenue office or the tehsil office physically to get an appointment. While the new process has made online application easier, many people are not conversant with scanning and uploading documents online, said officials. Basti Ram, district revenue officer (DRO), Gurugram said that they have initiated the registration process and in the coming days, all the issues would be sorted out. “The advantage of the new system is that they need to come to the tehsil office only once for registration,” he said. Another aspect of the new system is that appointment for properties that fall under the controlled areas under the Haryana Urban Development and Management Act, 1975, the applicant must obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the department of town and country planning (DTCP). Otherwise, the new system will not generate appointment.Basti Ram said that if an applicant’s property falls under controlled area and under Section 7A, then a message would be generated by the system and sent to concerned district town planner. If an NOC has been issued then the number of the same will be sent to the applicant and get automatically updated in the system. In case, the NOC is not issued, the system will not generate an appointment for registration, he added. The third major change under the new system is that all government lands with its Khasra numbers have been updated online. Any one who tries to get land owned by government registered in his name would not be able to do the same as the updated software system will not generate registration appointment for such an application, said revenue officials. In case, an applicant is registering for a land falling in the Aravallis, under the forest areas covered by sections 4 and 5, the new system will allow registration of private land but will notify the buyers about prohibited activities on protected lands. “Many buyers from outside the state are not aware about the regulations imposed in Aravallis and forest areas under the new registration process. They will be made aware of these conditions,” a forest official said on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, home buyer and property dealers, who tried to generate online appointments, however, said that they could not generate approval as the new system is too complicated. “We have been trying to book an appointment for sometime but the process is too slow and complicated,” said Subash Sharma, a real-estate broker. Property dealers also said that their business had already suffered due to pandemic and this ban on registrations had further undermined it. “In order to revive the property market, government must support and expedite the process,” said Rakesh Malik, a real-estate broker. Haryana government had imposed a ban on property registrations from July 22 following a large-scale irregularities in registration of property deeds in the state, including Gurugram during the lockdown. The state government had also suspended six revenue department officials for registration of property in violation of rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/buyers-face-difficulties-in-booking-appointments-online-for-property-registration-in-gurugram/story-srU8ZBcXgMxdO5t94bwLLN.html
01-09-2020||Noida||Noida: E-challan help-desk set up at police control room in Sector 14A||The Noida traffic police department has set up a help desk at the police control room located in Sector 14A for speedy redressal of complaints pertaining to e-challan. The help desk became operational for the general public on Tuesday. “The idea is to help the public with any challan related concerns. There is an e-challan submission window at the office already. However, earlier people having any concerns or queries had to speak with the personnel concerned separately. Now, with the set up of the help desk, they will get all the help at the same place,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic). He said that there will be a drop box near the help desk where people can drop their suggestions. Besides, written public complaints can also be lodged at the help desk. The e-challan window had been closed in May after a few personnel at the traffic police office were found positive for Covid-19. “We are now taking all precautions to ensure that such a situation doesn’t occur. All measures are being taken. While one person is busy with the formalities, arrangements have been made for others to safely sit at a distance. Also, sanitization of the office is also carried out regularly,” said the DCP. Noida residents have welcomed the initiative. “There are sometimes issues with e-challans. If the problems are easily sorted out at one go, that will be really helpful,” said Amit Gupta, a Noida resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-e-challan-help-desk-set-up-at-police-control-room-in-sector-14a/story-ylSSHdnqjKqAT94frLc9qM.html
01-09-2020||City||Centre holds meetings with metro corporations, to issue guidelines on Wednesday||New Delhi: The ministry of housing and urban affairs is likely to issue on Wednesday standard operating procedures (SOPs) for restarting Metro services under the Unlock 4 guidelines, following discussions with the managing directors of 15 Metro rail corporations on Tuesday. Officials aware of the development said the SOPs will be issued after approval by the Union home ministry. Under its Unlock 4 plan, issued on Saturday, the home ministry had allowed Metro services in a graded manner from September 7. The meeting on Tuesday was chaired by urban housing ministry’s secretary Durga Shankar Mishra and was attended by the managing directors of 15 metro rail corporations, officials said. “As informed earlier, the Metro Rail operations have been allowed from 7th September, 2020. The SOPs already circulated were discussed today through video conferencing by DS Mishra, secretary, MOHUA with MDs of various Metro companies. The suggestions were considered in the meeting and accordingly SOPs are being finalised. MOHUA minister Hardeep S Puri, will be announcing SOPs/guidelines in this regard on 2nd September,” ministry spokesperson Rajeev Jain said. In its Saturday order, the home ministry had said that the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Metro will be issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs.“We discussed the broad outline of the guidelines today. The same will need to be discussed and finalised with the home ministry tomorrow (Wednesday) and issued by afternoon. We heard suggestions of Metro managing directors, which will be considered and accordingly the SOP will be finalised. The final guidelines will be announced by the minister on Wednesday,” said an official, who was part of the meeting.The Metro corporations have been asked to prepare a list of stations where trains will begin operations in consultation with the state governments.Passengers will have to follow strict guidelines on wearing a mask and practising social distancing norms failure of which may result in fines, officials said.The metro rail companies are also free to impose their own restrictions based on the scale of the pandemic in the region, officials had told HT earlier. “Broadly we may have few stoppages and open the stations in a phase wise manner, there will mandatory thermal screening, face masks, social distancing, contact-less ticketing etc, which will have to be practised,” an official aware of the development had said.In addition to this, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which provides security to Metros, have chalked out protocols to ensure smooth and contactless travel in the time of the pandemic.Officials aware of the development said Delhi Metro corridors will begin operation in a phase wise manner. “Suggestions were made to begin operation of metros with large corridors in phases. We will begin in a graded manner,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-holds-meetings-with-metro-corporations-to-issue-guidelines-on-wednesday/story-TAHkE7rUWMqI5GLaMC2nYK.html
01-09-2020||Noida||Five employees of mobile phone factory in Noida held for theft of display screens||Phase 2 police on Tuesday arrested five employees of a phone component manufacturing firm in Noida for allegedly stealing from the company. The suspects were identified as security guard Rakesh Kumar who is from Bihar, security supervisor Indra Narayan Shukla from Pratapgarh, labour contractors Ankit Bhati from Yakubpur village in Gautam Budh Nagar and Abhay Kumar from Bihar, and shift supervisor Brajesh Kumar from Aligarh. They were employed at Alantech India, which manufactures phone display units from sector 83. According to police officials, they had been using their positions to steal manufactured goods from the company for a while. “We received a complaint on August 29 from an official of the company that some goods had been stolen the previous night. The suspects had not turned up for work the next day leading us to suspect them,” said Raj Kumar, station house officer, Phase 2 police station. Police said that according to company officials, the thefts had happened on at least one more occasion earlier but came to light much later. The exact amount of the stolen goods is still being determined, said police. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the suspects at the Phase 2 police station under section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code. “The suspects had falsified documents. Another security guard’s role is being investigated,” said the SHO. They were arrested from the area, produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail. Three employees of another company had also been arrested by the phase 2 police on August 29 for being involved at a robbery in a warehouse in sector 80.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/five-employees-of-mobile-phone-factory-in-noida-held-for-theft-of-display-screens/story-GLSPHStZXIU6XJd1AKR6lJ.html
01-09-2020||City||HT Explainer: Why Punjab social welfare minister finds himself in a spot in SC scholarship scam||Chandigarh Punjab social welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot is in the eye of the storm for alleged involvement in the ₹64-crore post-matric scholarship scam. After a report indicted Dharamsot and five officials last week, chief minister Amarinder Singh asked the chief secretary to probe the matter amid demands from the opposition parties and some Congress leaders for the minister’s sacking and a CBI probe. On Monday, the Centre also ordered a departmental inquiry by two joint secretary-level officers. Navneet Sharma dissects the anatomy of the scam and its aftermath: What is the scheme PMS-SC is a centrally-funded scheme to provide financial assistance to Scheduled Castes students to complete their education. Scholarships, including maintenance allowance and reimbursement of fee and other charges, are given to eligible students pursuing degree and diploma courses. The Centre had stopped funding the scheme in Punjab in 2017-18, but scholarship payments were pending for the previous years. The Union social justice and empowerment ministry, therefore, released ₹303.92 crore in three instalments in February and March 2019. What are the irregularities Of this, ₹248.11 crore were withdrawn by the state’s social justice department and the irregularities in distribution of this money to private institutions are behind the controversy. The funds were disbursed in an “arbitrary” manner with some authorities misusing their official positions, according to a 33-page report submitted by additional chief secretary Kripa Shankar Saroj to chief secretary Vini Mahajan on August 24. The report put the embezzlement at ₹64 crore, including ₹39 crore paid to “ghost institutions” and release of ₹16.91 crore to private institutions against which the audit team of the finance department had recommended a recovery of ₹8 crore after getting a re-audit done. “Despite making lots of efforts, no files/papers pertaining to the payment of ₹39 crore have been found so far,” reads the report, concluding that the funds were paid to ghost institutions. Show-cause notices were also served on five officers, including deputy director Parminder Singh Gill, for clearing the payments. Where does Dharamsot figure in this Kripa Shankar’s report has raised serious questions about the role of the minister in fund release, pointing out the patronage to his “handpicked” officer Gill, who handled the scheme. “On the basis of available files, it is clear that minister, director, deputy director and other officials had distributed ₹248.11 crore from time to time through split files and in a completely arbitrary manner,” it said, indicting Dharamsot. Also, the minister was distributing work to the department officers, a power vested in the director, and had assigned the work of PMS-SC to Gill under his own signature. However, Dharamsot has denied any wrongdoing, saying: “I am willing to face action if an iota of truth is found in these unsubstantiated allegations.” Taint on official machinery Coming down hard on the then PS/ACS, who “abdicated their responsibilities”, the report said either they were reluctant to deal with the subject or they unwillingly allowed the nexus between the deputy director and the minister’s office. The then director Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal (IAS) was having an agenda to enter politics and Gill was reporting directly to the minister. Dhaliwal got elected as an MLA from Phagwara (reserved) seat on a Congress ticket in the by-election in October last year. How did the irregularities come to notice Kripa Shankar, who was posted in the department in August 2019, found that the entire focus was on PMS-SC and almost all the other schemes “lay dead”. The department officials were reluctant to share information on paper. A few weeks later, a new director took charge and redistributed the work. Thereafter, the ACS started getting information and found a lot amiss. Fallout of the scam The minister’s indictment has not just left the Congress government red-faced, but also given ammunition to opposition parties in the state which has the highest percentage of SC population among all the states. The AAP and SAD have gone after the government and Capt’s detractors in the Congress are also demanding the minister’s removal. The issue later rocked the assembly. The govt response The state government has announced another probe. Amarinder on Saturday asked chief secretary Vini Mahajan to probe the irregularities, but the opposition parties have rejected the move, calling it an exercise to give a clean chit to the minister. They are demanding a CBI probe. What next After Union social justice minister Thavar Chand Gehlot on Monday ordered a departmental inquiry by two joint secretary-level officers of his ministry, Amarinder termed it as yet another attack on the federal structure. However, it is not unusual for the central ministries to depute teams to look into misuse of funds given under the centrally sponsored scheme, often for initiating “recovery”. But this is just the first step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ht-explainer-why-punjab-social-welfare-minister-finds-himself-in-a-spot-in-sc-scholarship-scam/story-oMUU9VARctSb41KYzjtbbL.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sons threaten to kill parents over property division; case filed in Panchkula||An elderly couple in their 70s registered a case on Monday against three of their sons and a daughter-in-law for threatening to kill them if their property, believed to be valued between Rs 30 crore to Rs 40 crore, was not divided between them.A case was registered at the Sector 5 Police station under section 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 34, 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.Sadhu Ram (75) from Bathinda complained to the police against his sons, Anil Kumar (50), Sanjeev Kumar (47), Rajeev Kumar (45) and daughter-in-law, Aanchal.Ram said he was an arthiya (those involved in getting grain cleaned, auctioned and sold to buyers) at Bathinda who owned a shelling unit. Anil was living in Sector 2 for the last 15 to 16 years, and the other sons lived with him in Bathinda.Preety Bansal, Ram’s daughter, was married and lived in Sector 10. “I have property worth Rs 150 crore, out of which my wife and I have kept property worth Rs 30 crore to Rs 40 crore and distributed the rest among the boys. Three of my sons and daughters-in-law keep asking us to divide the property between them, threatening to kill us if we refuse,” Ram said in the FIR.So petrified were the couple of their sons that they came to their daughter’s home in Panchkula on June 7 this year . However, “on August 30, at around 8:30pm, Anil Kumar came to my daughter’s home with his wife Anchal and two daughters. He and his wife started beating me and my wife, and when my daughter came forward to save us, they left after issuing threats to us,” Ram complained.A few days ago the sons and grandson threatened the couple, Ram said. “Even today in the morning (August 31), the two sons and Anil came with their family and started pushing the gate and threatening us,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sons-threaten-to-kill-parents-over-property-division-case-filed-in-panchkula/story-NZjHUCh4aYKiMVyd73hgcI.html
01-09-2020||City||Gautam Budh Nagar admin asks banks not to finance projects without verifying their legality||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Tuesday asked the banks in the district not to finance the realty projects without complete verification of their legality. The administration has also decided to take stern legal actions against the sanctioning authorities, who approve the finance to any illegal project. Taking serious notes of complaints received against some builders, who carry out advertisements through different mediums that they have approval of some banks to lure buyers, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that it needs to be monitored by banks and ensure that nobody uses their names and credibility in an illegal manner. “The banks must be stricter against the builders, who give false sense of financial security to the prospective buyers. Legal activity should be supported within framework of law, and illegal activities should be dealt with in the strictest possible manner,” he said. Citing the RBI circular dated July 1, 2015, the DM said that it is mandatory for the banks to verify beforehand, regarding legality of the documents before financing projects brought before them. “Sanctioning authorities will now be held accountable for all such financial disbursements made in such cases. As per law, builders/colonizers are obligated to take permission from Noida/Greater Noida/Yamuna authority in notified area. Those projects, which do not have necessary permission or are being sold on false promises, should not qualify for banks’ approval for financing,” Suhas said. The issue was raised in district level consultative committee (DLCC) meeting of the first quarter of the financial year 2020-21, held on Monday. The lead district manager (LDM), Vedratna Kumar, said that DM had also directed all the non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) in the district to follow these guidelines. “They have been told by the DM that in case of any violation, it will be reported to RBI and accountability will be fixed thereof. The DM also instructed to all the banks, to be actively involve themselves in all the government-sponsored schemes and achieve the allotted targets so that more and more employment opportunities could be created,” Kumar said. The LDM, who is a nodal agent between the administration and the banks in the district, further said that at present credit-debit (CD) ratio of GB Nagar district is 58.44%. “The annual credit plan target allotted for 2020-21 is ₹10,600.69 crore, of which 27.43% disbursement (₹2,907.80 crore) has been achieved so far,” he said.When asked about the issue, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) said that after the implementation of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, no illegal project can be financed by the banks. Subodh Goel, secretary, Credai (western UP), said that these rules can only be implemented with the projects approved by gram panchayats. “Banks can’t finance any project not registered under RERA. So, the administration or banks have no role in rejecting the loan applications of RERA-approved projects as they have all the rights to have the financing from the banks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gautam-budh-nagar-admin-asks-banks-not-to-finance-projects-without-verifying-their-legality/story-pJE3IW1ABRDUf7YJi28YXN.html
01-09-2020||City||Weekend restrictions relaxed, UP allow markets to open on Saturdays||In what spells relief for shop owners and traders, the Uttar Pradesh government officials on Tuesday said markets across the state will now be allowed to open on Saturdays. Weekend restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease will now only be limited to Sundays.On July 9, the Uttar Pradesh government had announced statewide weekend restrictions mandating markets to remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays during which extensive sanitisation drives were to be taken up to break the chain of Covid-19 infection. With the new instructions, markets need to be cleaned every Sunday and shops can remain open from 9am to 9pm on the rest of the days of the week.“The chief minister has directed that markets can now open from 9am to 9pm can remain open on Saturdays. Markets will be cleaned and sanitised on Sundays. The restrictions will commence from Saturday/Sunday midnight and will continue till the midnight of Sunday/Monday,” UP’s additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Awasthi said in a press briefing at Lucknow on Tuesday.Till now, under the weekend restrictions, all markets were completely shut from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday.“The sanitisation drives have been taken up regularly during the weekend restrictions. We have come to know that opening of markets has been allowed on Saturdays, however, we are waiting for the written orders from the state government before implementing them,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate. “It will now be up to the traders’ community and people to observe Covid-19 protocols and ensure social distancing,” he added.UP chief secretary RK Tiwari issued an order late Tuesday night directing markets to be shut only on Sundays. The state government’s step to partially relax the weekend restrictions has been welcomed by the traders who said that the move will give a boost to market sentiments.“We have been writing regularly to the chief minister to allow the opening of markets on weekends. With the new directions that allow shops to open on Saturdays, traders have expressed satisfaction. Opening on Saturdays will help bring in more customers which will positively impact our sales. We will also ensure that social distancing and other health protocols are followed diligently,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram (a traders’ group).“In wake of the upcoming festival season, we would also like the Sunday restrictions to be done away with as most people shop on weekends. The market can be shut down on Tuesdays as was done earlier. We will send our request to the chief minister again,” he added.The move has also been received well by traders in Gautam Budh Nagar.“The decision will benefit both the customers and the business owners. The general public will have at least one day of the weekend to get their outdoor chores done The business owners will also get a chance to earn more revenue. We hope that soon we could open shops on Sundays as well,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president of sector 18 Noida market association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekend-restrictions-relaxed-up-allow-markets-to-open-on-saturdays/story-TqOpsKeN1NJcoVO6AvcK4J.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rail underpass project in Ambala on slow track||Though the foundation stone of the railway underpass next to Ambala City Railway Station was laid down by city MLA Aseem Goel on January 5, 2018, the project is on a slow track, much to the frustration of locals. The underpass will provide an alternate route connecting the railway station with the city’s Manav Chowk, bypassing crowded areas such as the Old Cloth Market.However, its completion anytime soon does not seem likely as a visit to the site reveals stagnant pools of rainwater with wild overgrowth. People have also started dumping garbage here. “Work on the project started initially for a few months and then stopped due to some water issues. Things are continuing at a slow pace,” said Ram Prasad Jangid, a retired professor. To enable pedestrian movement from across the rail line, a narrow lane running along the site along has been built, but shopkeepers say they have informed local leaders that they want it to be tiled.Till date, however, no one has responded, they say.Complaining that business had been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Kamal Singh, a dhaba owner said. Customers rarely came to the shop due to the poor connectivity. “We have spoken to the administration a number of times, but there has been no response,” he said. Goel, who is isolating at home at the moment after testing positive for Covid-19, could not be reached for comments.GM Singh, divisional railway manager, Ambala division, said the project has been stalled earlier due to heavy railway traffic and needed to be “blocked” for nearly eight hours. It would be resumed again after September 15 by the railway’s construction department in Chandigarh. Surinder Pal, chief project manager of the department, said he was not aware of the total construction cost but the first phase of the project had been started by the railways around August 2019. Due to certain “complexities,” he said, some part of the work had been delayed till December and the whole project would be finished, tentatively, by the end of March.Daljit Bhatia, ex-MC from ward no 7, where the site is located, said the bhoomi poojan (ceremony to launch the project) took place on September 21, 2018, and work was being undertaken jointly by the PWD and the railways, but things were going slow. The state government had done its share of the work to lay out the roads leading to the underpass, and the railways would be covering the stretch over the underpass, Bhatia said, adding that as part of the construction had not been completed, finalising the work by March did not seem likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rail-underpass-project-in-ambala-on-slow-track/story-b2YaZj19lAwHeeOmTQ74wM.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Connecting to PGIMER’s phone-in psychiatry service gets easy||Phone-in facilities for psychiatry services at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research have been made more accessible to patients with new numbers added.The step has been taken to deal phone lines getting jammed by callers wanting to register for tele-consultation services, said Prof SK.Mattoo, head of the department of psychiatry. For phone consultations, patients will have to call the dedicated telephone numbers between 8 am to 9 am for registration.For tele-consultation registration, people have to call 0172 2756809 (landline), 0172 2753801(landline) and 7087007392 (mobile) numbers.The department can also be contacted via WhatsApp number 7087007392 and email at telepsychiatry.pgi@gmail.com“Once the registration process is done via any of the above means, patients will be contacted as soon as possible, during the working hours of 9am to 5pm. They are requested to provide a working mobile number preferably with WhatsApp facility during the registration for ease of communication with doctors”, said Prof Mattoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/connecting-to-pgimer-s-phone-in-psychiatry-service-gets-easy/story-b8jgOPCkxJTC3d2ujPIJNK.html
01-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad to look for non-operational institutes for quarantine centres as colleges ready to open||A few educational institutions in Ghaziabad have approached the district health department, urging them to vacate the premises that were taken over by authorities and converted into quarantine centres and L1 category hospitals for Covid-19 patients. The district officials had taken over nine private colleges and converted them into quarantine centres. A few were turned into L1 hospitals to treat non-critical Covid patients. The officials of the district health department said the management of such colleges have approached them seeking the premises back as they will be reopening soon.Under the unlock 4 guidelines, issued by the UP government, the government had said that all educational institutions, coaching centres and schools etc will remain closed till September 30. The guidelines also said that from September 21, up to 50% teaching and non-teaching staff may be permitted to be called to schools at a time for online teaching/tele-guidance/counselling and related work. “Currently, we have only two quarantine centres running which have admission of 70 suspected patients. We also have one L1 hospital operational at SRM College, Modinagar, where we have 66 patients admitted. We had earlier vacated the Divyajyoti Hospital in Niwari and the number of Covid-19 cases admitted there were fewer. Now, one more college has approached us and asked us to vacate,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said. The CMO added that they have also shut one testing/sampling booth which was set up at IMS College, Dasna, and are in the process of shifting it elsewhere. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for functioning of educational institutions will be issued by the Union health ministry separately, the guidelines said. The officials said that due to expected operations from September 21, the colleges have demanded vacating the premises. “Some of the colleges have approached us asking us to vacate their premises. In such a case, we will now be focussing on finding non-operational institutions to set up quarantine centres and L1 hospitals. We can also choose banquet halls where these arrangements can be made. As of now, we have fewer number of L1 category patients as well as suspected cases in quarantine centres,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The officials said a majority of L1 hospitals were vacated after the state government allowed home isolation for asymptomatic patients on July 21. Since then, about 1,200 patients were allowed home isolation and this considerably reduced the burden on L1 hospitals. According to health department officials, of the total cases, about 75% patients are asymptomatic while 15% are those who have moderate symptoms and need to be referred to L2 category hospitals. The rest are admitted to L3 hospitals, which are meant for treatment of patients with severe symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-to-look-for-non-operational-institutes-for-quarantine-centres-as-colleges-ready-to-open/story-UTq2vZ896i0XKMYfo8FMuM.html
01-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 10 residential segments accounted for about 66% Covid-19 cases in last six months||Out of the 25 residential segments in Ghaziabad, 10 of them accounts for over 66% of total Covid-19 cases in the district, according to limited six-month figures available with the health department till August 30. Till Tuesday, according to the state control room, Ghaziabad accounted for 8465 cases, figuring in the top-10 districts in terms of case count in Uttar Pradesh.According to August 30 limited data, Ghaziabad had 8212 cases, with 6756 discharges and 68 deaths.The resdiential segments under Karhera-2 (comprising Indirapuram, Makanpur and Kanawani), with 805 cases, shared 10.56% of the total Covid-19 case load in the district, while the Carte segment (comprising localities like Kavi Nagar, Avantika, Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Chiranjeev Vihar, Daulatpura, Maliwara, Mahindra Enclave, Ashok Nagar, and Nasirpur) shared of about 8.63% of the case load. Similarly, Raj Nagar had 7.99% of cases, Sahibabad-II 7.35%, Dasna 7.03%, Vaishali 5.56%, Vasundhara 5.54%, Sadik Nagar 4.85%, Ghookhna 4.64% and Vijay Nagar-1 4.03%. “The areas have high population density and after opening of lockdown, interaction among the population and their mobility has also increased. This has led high number of cases in these areas. The incidence is however low in rural pockets. Although the share of these areas is high, we have been able to achieve discharge rate of about 82.26% (till August 30) and our patients are recovering fast,” said Dr. NK Gupta, Ghaziabad’s chief medical officer (CMO).Earlier in June, the segments of Karhera-2, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Sahibabad-2 and Khoda among others were ranked in the top 10 high incidence areas, which are in trans-Hindon (city) areas of the city, in the district. Thereafter, with curbs being relaxed, the trend changed with more activities opening up and cis-Hindon (old city) segments of Carte, Raj Nagar and Vijay Nagar-1 etc started reporting more cases. SEVEN CONSTANTSWhile the top-10 segments with high incidence of cases is subject to change every month, seven resdiential segments -- Karhera-2, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Sahibabad-2, Carte, Raj Nagar and Dasna -- have consistently ranked under the top-10 high incidence, in terms of case numbers, area from June. Dasna was a high incidence area even in May when the district had only 305 cases. Ghookhna joined the top-10 list from July. In June alone, the top-10 high incidence areas accounted for 65.5% of total Covid cases, while in July they had a share of about 67.27%. In August alone, the top 10 segments have a total share of about 73.10%.In August, segments of Carte, Dasna and Raj Nagar, all parts of cis-Hindon areas, remained as the three high incidence areas while the segments of Karhera-2, Sahibabad-2, Vasundhara and Vaishali lagged in number of fresh Covid-19 cases. “The incidence of cases is spreading in different areas but we are tackling them with increased surveillance and testing. Since there are no more restrictions at the borders, people are travelling to other cities,” said district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. “We can only bank on surveillance to find cases and followed immediately by testing and referral so that their treatment can start. The Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad, said that the top-10 segments had a higher working population that had to move out of the city often. “Initially the infection was high in areas like Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara and Khoda etc where majority people go to Delhi for work. When the lockdown was opened, the infection spread in city areas also. Covid-19 is more prevalent in areas where population density is high and people move regularly. However, in rural areas the incidence is less,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of IMA, Ghaziabad. “Although the incidence is high in these areas but the discharge rate of patients recovering is also high at about 83% and the severity of infection has also come down. Now, since activities have opened up, the onus is also on residents to strictly follow health protocols with use of masks and adhere to social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-10-residential-segments-accounted-for-about-66-covid-19-cases-in-last-six-months/story-oPTMKPSUWJqU6cazfDvqLP.html
01-09-2020||City||Man beats up bank’s security guard when asked to follow social distancing||Noida: A man allegedly barged into a prominent bank’s Sector Alpha II branch on Monday evening and beat up the security guard who had asked the suspect to follow the social distancing norms when he had visited the branch in the morning. After the incident, the suspect fled with his accomplices who were waiting in a car parked nearby, the police said. The security guard, Shivranjit Singh, a resident of Jewar, said that the management of IDBI Bank has enforced a social distancing norm and only four persons are allowed inside at a time. “On Monday around 10.30 am, I was standing at the door when the suspect visited the bank and tried to go inside the branch. He said that he wanted to deposit money. I stopped him and asked him to wait for his turn. The suspect lost his cool and manhandled me. I somehow managed the situation and ousted him,” Singh said. The complainant said that the suspect came back again at 6.15pm and beat him up. The bank’s branch manager, Dr Sarvesh Gupta, said that the business hours were over by that time. “The bank’s shutters were half down and the unarmed security guard was standing at the door. The suspect approached the security guard and started slapping him without a provocation. The man also tried to push him inside the parked car,” Gupta said. The branch manager further said that the suspect and his accomplices may have come with criminal intent. The security guard put up resistance and banged the shutter to alert the bank officials, after which the officials reached the spot and sounded an emergency alarm and informed the police, Gupta said.The suspect soon fled the spot in the car parked outside. The security guard filed a complaint at Sector Beta 2 police station. Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer, Sector Beta 2 police station, said that the police have received the complaint. “We are investigating the CCTV footage to identify and arrest the suspect. A case has been registered against the suspect under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code,” he said. The bank manager said he will write to the headquarters to provide armed security guards for more safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-beats-up-bank-s-security-guard-when-asked-to-follow-social-distancing/story-07kj0i8a4FXYeD77Unv3dM.html
01-09-2020||City||Gang of four men cuts through ATM in Ghaziabad, flee with ₹2-3 cash||A gang of four unidentified men early Tuesday broke into the ATM kiosk in Vasundhara and fled with cash after cutting through the machine. The police said they have registered an FIR but are yet to ascertain the amount of cash stolen, but sources estimate that it could be about ₹2-3 lakh.The incident took place between 4am and 4.30am Tuesday at the Sector 11 branch of a prominent bank, which has an ATM kiosk at its main entrance. The police said no guard was posted outside the kiosk during the night hours.The thieves blinded the CCTV cameras by spraying some liquid on them. “They were about four men and two of them, with their faces masked, entered the kiosk. As soon as they entered, they sprayed some liquid on the CCTV cameras after which nothing could be seen. The others stood guard outside. The bank’s security guard was not on duty at night. Our police control room van reached the spot within seven minutes after being alerted y the centralised control room of the bank in Mumbai,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). “They used a gas cutter to cut the machine and flee with the cash. The bank officials are yet to confirm the amount of cash in the ATM. However, they have given a complaint based on which we have registered an FIR,” he added. Police have registered an FIR under IPC sections 380 (theft) and 427 (mischief causing damages) at the Indirapuram police station. There was a similar incident in Gautam Budh Nagar -- robbers had attempted to flee with the machine itself. Since both these incidents took place the same night, police suspect the role of the same gang in both crimes.“There was an attempt to take away an ATM from a kiosk in Harola village around 3.05am Tuesday. They had just started cutting through the machine with a gas cutter when a PCR van, making rounds of the area, came that way and seeing it, the robbers fled. The Ghaziabad incident occurred a few of hours later. There is a strong possibility that it might be the same gang behind both incidents. No formal complaint was filed in the GB Nagar incident as yet,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Noida police. On August 13, robbers had decamped with an ATM machine from the Gijhore village which had Rs 4 lakh in it. The same night they had also attempted to take another machine in Mamura village but were unable to do so after alarms were activated. “We will beef up patrolling and investigation is on to trace the gang. We are also scanning CCTV footage from the area to get clues,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-four-men-cuts-through-atm-in-ghaziabad-flee-with-2-3-cash/story-TUnnklzGUfD6GeqnpEVV5K.html
01-09-2020||City||Punjab reports record 59 Covid-19 deaths||Chandigarh Punjab on Tuesday reported a record 59 deaths due to Covid-19, which took the overall fatality figure to 1,512, while 1,522 new Covid cases pushed the patient tally to 55,508, as per the daily health bulletin of the state government. The previous highest single-day death figure was 56, reported on August 30. Of the fresh deaths, 13 were reported from Ludhiana, eight from Jalandhar, seven from Amritsar, five each from Ferozepur and Patiala. Among other places, four deaths each were reported from Kapurthala and Fatehgarh Sahib, three from Bathinda, two each from Faridkot and Barnala, while one each from Fazilka, Tarn Taran, Moga, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur, as per a medical bulletin. One person, who had been running a private hospital in Tarn Taran district, died of the virus.The new cases of infection were reported from Ludhiana (216), Mohali (211), Jalandhar (158), Patiala (120), Amritsar (111), Faridkot (110), Gurdaspur (104) and Bathinda (64), among others. A total of 1,120 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 38,147 people have recovered. There Are 15,849 active COVID-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin. Seventy-seven critical patients are on ventilator support while 464 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. The total number of sample taken for testing coronavirus has reached 10,81,671 so far, with the latest addition of 19,004 samples, it said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-reports-record-59-covid-19-deaths/story-s6yEDloYbISs4jak7IprON.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt announces two new campuses of Netaji Subhas University of Technology||The Delhi government on Tuesday announced two new campuses of state-run Netaji Subhas University of Technology (NSUT) made by integrating two existing colleges -- the Chaudhary Brahm Prakash Government Engineering College (CBPGEC) in Jaffarpur and the Ambedkar Institute of Advanced Communication, Technology and Research (AIACTR ) in Geeta Colony. According to the Delhi government statement, although these two colleges are already registered under the department of training and technical education, they have not been performing well. Their integration into NSUT will add 360 BTech and 72 MTech seats to the university.Education minister Manish Sisodia said both these colleges will benefit from the reputation and resources of NSUT. “It will also enable the colleges to progress in a more focussed manner, considering NSUT’s history, academic progress and partnerships with the industry. I congratulate NSUT, CBPGEC, and AIACTR on this new beginning,” he said.While the west campus in Jaffarpur will offer courses in core engineering branches such as civil, information technology and mechanical engineering, the east campus in Geeta Colony will offer courses in electronics and communication, and computer science, the government statement said.The admission to NSUT is done through Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE), which is currently under way. “After the integration, admission to these campuses will also be made through JEE and therefore, the quality of student intake will improve.The current batch of students will pay the same fee as prescribed at the time of admission. The fee for newly enrolled students would be decided by the NSUT’s board of management. Degrees of currently enrolled students will be from Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University. Students enrolled after the integration will be given degrees from NSUT,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-announces-two-new-campuses-of-netaji-subhas-university-of-technology/story-0TGCshGGCHFXuNrUPGwVfN.html
01-09-2020||City||PAU ties up with private firm to market carrot variety||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has entered into an agreement with Ruchi Hi-Rich Seeds Private Limited, Indore, Madhya Pradesh, for the commercialisation of PC 161 carrot variety, the license for which has been granted on a non- exclusive basis. NS Bains, director of research, PAU, and Jagdish Kumar, vice-president (research and development, Ruchi Hi-Rich Seeds Private Limited, signed the memorandum of agreement (MoA) on behalf of their respective organisations.Bains congratulated TS Dhillon, associate-director of seed, PAU, for developing PC 161 which has a very high yield potential and wide adaptability.Gursahib Singh, additional director of research, PAU, congratulated the proprietors for sharing the responsibility of disseminating the technologies developed by PAU at the field level.Bains added that PC 161 is a tropical variety and attains edible maturity in 90 days. The roots are sweet, rich in beta carotene with high juice content and its average root yield is 640 quintals per hectare, he added.SS Chahal, consultant (scientific), technology marketing, and IPR Cell informed that PAU has signed 226 MoAs and commercialised 54 technologies, along with the commercialisation of hybrid lines of mustard, chilli, and brinjal varieties, Trichoderma, bio-fertilizers, leaf colour chart, forced solar circulation dryer, low alcoholic naturally carbonated beverage, sugarcane juice bottling, water testing, lucky seed drill, PAU cutter-cum-spreader, PAU super SMS, vegetable washing machine, honey heating-cum-filtration technologies, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-ties-up-with-private-firm-to-market-carrot-variety/story-3YgJbigcH40MsqZnmDUoSI.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Man murders roommates after tiff over paying rent in west Delhi||Two men were stabbed to death by their third roommate in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar on Monday evening after an altercation over payment of rent.Police said the third man, who shared the room with the duo, had refused to pay rent because he had gone to his hometown in Amora, Uttar Pradesh, for four months during the lockdown. Police said the suspect was arrested from his hometown early on Tuesday.According to the police, a call was received at Khyala police station around 7.30pm stating that two men had been stabbed and were lying in their room on the first floor of a building in D block. The duo was identified as Mohammad Ajam, 45 and Amir Hasan, 46, both vegetable vendors. “A police team reached the spot found the two men lying in a pool of blood. They were shifted to a hospital where they were pronounced dead and the bodies sent for post-mortem examination. The duo had been stabbed multiple times. A case of murder was registered and a forensics team was called to inspect the scene of crime ,” said a senior police officer. The officer said that the incident came to light after one of Amir’s friend called him but the call went unanswered. When he couldn’t reach Aamir despite multiple calls, he visited his room and found the door unlocked. When he entered inside, he found both Aamir and Aazam lying on the floor in blood and alerted the neighbours, who in turn informed the police, the officer said.“Locals told us that Ajam and Amir shared their room with one Saakir, 23, who is also a roadside vendor and a native of Amroha, UP. They said Sakir had left for his hometown four months ago and had returned a fortnight ago. After his return, Amir and Ajam asked him to pay rent for four months, to which Sakir refused. This led to an altercation. The police also realised that Saakir was missing since the time of murder” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said teams were then sent to Saakir’s hometown and he was nabbed from there, before he could flee.“Saakir confessed to having killed the two men. He said they were pressurising him to pay the rent for the time period which he spent in his village. He said they had had many arguments and the two men had used foul language against him, which enraged him. On Monday night, he said, when the two men were asleep, he murdered them using a knife and a chopper. He hid the murder weapon and left for his village to collect some money and then flee to an undisclosed location,” Purohit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-murders-roommates-after-tiff-over-paying-rent-in-west-delhi/story-EtPYT56ogplQeKOmn6YqHK.html
01-09-2020||City||GADVASU, ICAR-CIPHET sign pact for educational collaboration||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University(GADVASU), has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research(ICAR)- Central Institute of Post Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET), Ludhiana, for collaboration in teaching, research, and extension activities for the welfare of livestock farmers of the state. The MoU was signed by Dr JPS Gill, director, research, GADVASU, and Dr RK Singh, director, CIPHET, in the presence of Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, GADVASU, along with other varsity officers and scientists of CIPHET. Dr Inderjeet Singh highlighted the importance of engineering in the livestock sector to improve automation in dairy and poultry farms. He urged the engineers to develop a low-cost buffalo milking machine and mechanical scrappers for cleaning the dairy farms. He also emphasised the role of engineering in small-scale dairy and meat processing units. Dr RK Singh ensured complete cooperation in this regard and said that both the institutes will start collaborative research projects based on pertinent issues. Further, he stressed the need to share research facilities and expertise to harness the synergy for the welfare of the livestock farmers and society. Dr Gill said, “Both the institutes are already collaborating in various areas of teaching and research. Such collaborations will strengthen their research outcome. GADVASU is working day and night to improve the production, animal health, and income of the livestock and fish farmers.” Dr Narsiah and Dr Deep Yadav, scientists from CIPHET, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-icar-ciphet-sign-pact-for-educational-collaboration/story-rSkrNp1UQSgPmQEI4E1XfI.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Give confirmed tickets to students to appear for DU exams, HC urges railways||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the railways to make efforts to give confirmed tickets, under the emergency quota, to the physically challenged students of Delhi University so that they can appear for the in-person exams.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad, while hearing two pleas -- one by law student Prateek Sharma and the other by National Federation for Blind -- directed that students book wait-listed tickets and inform the railways about the same two days in advance to ensure that they get their tickets confirmed.The court also directed the varsity to file an affidavit by September 21, indicating the number of students, who are to appear for the second leg of the open book exam (OBE), which are being held both offline and online, from September 14. DU was also told to inform the court the cut-off date by which the results of the first and second phases of the exam will be declared.Appearing for the railways ministry, advocate Jagjit Singh said the railways will help in getting confirmed seats to students with disabilities. .The bench asked senior advocate SK Rungta, appearing for National Federation of Blind, to provide a list of physically challenged students who will travel to Delhi from far-off places. Taking note that the exams will commence on September 14, the court listed the matter for further hearing to September 22. The varsity also told the court that around 1,500 students expected to take the examination in the second phase. The court was informed that a system is already in place for providing digital certificates, which will be used for giving a digital marksheet to all students.The University Grants Commission (UGC) told the court that the provisional admission to PG courses will be permitted after September 30 until a revised academic calendar is in place and the relevant documents of the qualifying exam can be accepted after September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/give-confirmed-tickets-to-students-to-appear-for-du-exams-hc-urges-railways/story-2YYkJRrvzmc9q65h50SisL.html
01-09-2020||City||Man bludgeoned to death in front of wife over financial dispute||New Delhi: A 45-year-old man was bludgeoned to death with bricks, allegedly by his relatives, in front of his wife over a financial dispute at their home in outer Delhi’s Kanjhawala on Sunday evening, police said. His wife was also injured and her clothes were torn when she tried to save his life, the police said. The victim’s wife and son alleged that the man was murdered over a financial dispute – demanding R45 lakh that his brother, who died in July due to some ailment, had given to their relatives as a loan a few months ago. The woman accused her in-laws of allegedly “instigating their relatives to kill them,” deputy commissioner of police (Rohni) Pramod Kumar Mishra said. A first information report has been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. “We registered a case on the woman’s complaint. Nobody has been arrested yet as the suspects are absconding,” DCP Mishra said. The names of all the people in the case -- the victims and the alleged accused -- have been withheld since disrobing and assault charges have been mentioned. The couple’s 17-year-old son said that on Sunday, a condolence meeting was organised at his home to mark his uncle’s death. It was attended by his father’s maternal uncle, his wife, and cousins. “During the gathering, my father asked his maternal uncle and cousin to return R45 lakh that they had taken from my uncle before his death. An argument ensued over that and the relatives left our home,” the teenager said. Around 5.30 pm, the teenager said, he had gone to a nearby market when his father’s relatives returned with a dozen people in four different vehicles and forcibly entered his house. “Seeing the relatives, my grandparents came out of their room and instigated them to kill my parents. They kicked and punched my father before repeatedly attacking him on his chest, face and head with bricks. When my mother went to save him, they tore her clothes and assaulted her. When my father fell unconscious, all of them, including my grandparents, fled,” the minor said. The injured couple was admitted to two different hospitals. While the husband was declared brought dead, the woman has suffered simple injuries. Her statement was recorded, the DCP said. “Our probe has revealed that the murder took place over a financial dispute. Efforts are on to nab the suspects. Further investigation is on,” said DCP Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-bludgeoned-to-death-in-front-of-wife-over-financial-dispute/story-yaWgOq8J8ikUCVzPAddc7L.html
01-09-2020||City||Delhi: Man who jumped parole caught twice in 72 hours||New Delhi: A 25-year-old man who had jumped parole earlier this year found himself twice cornered as he was arrested two times in 72 hours after again committing crimes.The arrested man, Aakash alias Bawla, was first arrested on August 28 when he was escaping after snatching a mobile phone in Rohini and then again on August 31 -- two days after he fled from police custody while being produced at the court in the Tihar Jail complex in the first case. Aakash had been involved in nearly a dozen crimes, including murder, robbery and snatching over the years, police said on Tuesday. Officers from the Rajouri Garden police station, who arrested Aakash for the second time, said he was riding a red scooter when they intercepted him near a drain at Punjabi Bagh around 7 pm on Monday. “When the man saw the police at a check post, he changed his route. This raised suspicion and our motorcycle patrol team chased him. After some distance, the team brushed their bike against his scooter, causing him to fall. He tried to jump into the drain but was caught,” a senior police officer said, asking not to be named. According to the officer, the man identified himself as Aakash alias Bawla. Until his arrest, the police did not know he was a habitual criminal and had fled from Tihar Jail just two days ago. Aakash had a country-made pistol loaded with a bullet, a stolen scooter, and four stolen cellphones with him. “He was found to be a parole-jumper as well,” said another police officer, requesting anonymity. During his interrogation, the second officer said, it was found Aakash had his first brush with crime at the age of 17 in the year 2012 when he and his 13 associates allegedly murdered a security guard of a factory during a dacoity bid in outer Delhi’s Samaipur Badli. He was apprehended at that time and sent to a correction home for a few months. “In 2013, Aakash allegedly entered the house of a minor girl in Mangolpuri and injured her father with a sword because he had asked him not to stalk her. Aakash was arrested and jailed for three years,” said the officer. After being released from jail in 2016, Aakash teamed up with a Sagarpur resident, Sunny, and they committed a series of snatchings and robberies, police said. During this period, he was arrested at least three times. He last came out jail in March 2020 on a parole of 45 days. He jumped parole and continued his criminal activities, the officer said. On August 28 this year, Akash and his associate Amit alias Tushar were caught when they were fleeing after snatching a cellphone. The next day, the two were being produced in a court at Tihar Jail when Aakash freed himself from a constable’s custody, scaled a 10-foot boundary wall of the jail and fled in an auto-rickshaw. Director General (Tihar prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed the incident. “The person escaped while he was being produced in court at the Tihar jail complex.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-who-jumped-parole-caught-twice-in-72-hours/story-uEKxHmEn0Yo8QNGlMchV3J.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Provide case charge sheet to Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, orders HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the police to provide the entire charge sheet, after it has been filed, to Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, who has been arrested for spreading communal violence in north-east Delhi during the anti-CAA protests in February this year.Justice Vibhu Bakhru directed the police to also provide all the statements, including those of protected witnesses, that it was relying upon, to Narwal.“The statements of the protected witnesses can be suitably redacted to protect their identity, the court said, noting that a statement to this effect was made earlier by Additional Solicitor General SV Raju, who was representing the police.The court also noted that the police have assured it will file the charge sheet on or before September 17.The order came after Narwal’s counsel said that her bail application was being withdrawn from the high court and it will be moved before the appropriate trial court after the filing of the charge sheet.On Monday, August 31, the high court had asked Narwal to consider if she wishes her bail application to be heard after two weeks when a charge sheet is likely to be filed in the case against her. The high court had said that after filing of the charge sheet before the concerned trial court, the bail plea can be filed there.Narwal, who was arrested in May, had challenged a trial court’s order denying her bail. She is an accused in three cases under various sections of the IPC and UAPA.Meanwhile, the court sought the response of the Delhi Police on a plea by an accused, booked under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA, challenging extension of time to complete investigation in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February.Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued notice to the Delhi Police on the petition by Khalid, who is a member of campaign group -- United Against Hate -- and is lodged in judicial custody in the case.United Against Hate was a citizens’’ campaign launched in 2017 to protest against series of lynching in the country and was allegedly involved in the violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in which financial support was provided by the the PFI, formed in 2006 in Kerala as a successor to the National Democratic Front (NDF).The accused has sought to set aside the trial court’s August 13 order by which police was granted extension till September 17 to complete investigation against 10 people booked under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/provide-case-charge-sheet-to-pinjra-tod-member-natasha-narwal-orders-hc/story-VdJ22sjvWQBbzweW7JrxGL.html
01-09-2020||City||2 schoolteachers killed in Rohtak road mishap||Two schoolteachers were killed when a Haryana Roadways bus jumped the divider and rammed into their car on National Highway 71-A near Makrauli Kalan toll plaza in Rohtak on Tuesday. The victims have been identified as Anita, 38, a resident of Mandothi village in Jhajjar and Pankaj Malik, 39, a resident of Rohtak’s Sector 2. The teachers were posted at government elementary school in Panipat’s Urlana Kalan village.As per eyewitnesses, the accident took place when a Haryana Roadways bus on its way to Rohtak from Gohana jumped the divider and crashed into the car in which the two teachers were travelling.“Both the teachers died on the spot. After the accident, the bus driver and conductor fled the scene,” one of the onlookers said.A spokesman of Rohtak police said the mishap took place when the victims returning home after school hours from Urlana village.“We have registered a case under sections 279-A (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the driver of the bus, who fled the spot with conductor. We are trying to obtain the driver’s details with the help of bus number,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-schoolteachers-killed-in-rohtak-road-mishap/story-JnTxnulVcS3fc3fcQiE4jJ.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Covid tally hits new high with 1,694 cases||Seventeen people died from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Haryana on Tuesday and in the last 24 hours, the virus infected 1,694 people across all 22 districts, the health bulletin said. The infection claimed three lives in Panchkula, while two people each died in Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Faridabad districts. One fatality each was reported in Rewari, Panipat, Ambala, Hisar, Yamunanagar and Palwal. While the death toll mounted to 706, the cumulative number of people so far found Covid-19 positive has risen to 66,426. Panchkula reported 98 new cases, Ambala 78, Yamunanagar 83, Kurukshetra 84 and Karnal 141 cases, an indication of the infection spreading fast in northern districts of the state. As per the bulletin, Gurugram logged 196 new infections, Faridabad 132, Sonepat 130, Rewari 79, Rohtak 59, Panipat 161, Hisar 98, Palwal 19, Mahendergarh 57, Jhajjar 31, Bhiwani 37, Nuh 16, Sirsa 60, Fatehabad 24, Kaithal 53, Jind 37 and Charkhi Dadri 21. The state saw 1,163 recoveries in the last 24 hours, which took the number of those cured of Covid to 53,835. The number of active Covid-19 cases rose to 11,885. The doubling rate in Haryana was 34 days on Tuesday and the tests per million count stood at 46,263. Meanwhile, an official on Tuesday said that BJP’s former Fatehabad district vice-president Ramesh Singla succumbed to the virus.‘Khattar is feeling better’Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who has been undergoing treatment at Medanta hospital in Gurugram for the past eight days, “is well rested and has no fever”. In a medical bulletin issued by the hospital on Tuesday, medical superintendent Dr AK Dubey said that symptomatically, the chief minister is feeling better. He said that CM is being examined twice a day by a team of specialists under Dr Sushila Kataria with inputs from teams from AIIMS, PGIMS Rohtak and civil surgeon, Gurugram. “His appetite has improved and he is doing physical exercises routinely along with walking,” Dr Dubey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-covid-tally-hits-new-high-with-1-694-cases/story-vu9dl2na0lSW6p6goH5VPP.html
01-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: A2Z stops fuel plant at Jamalpur dump, PPCB cites violation||At a time when the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has taken strict note of the municipal corporation’s (MC) failure in taking up solid waste management, private garbage collection company A2Z company has stopped operating the Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) plant and compost plant at the main dumpsite on Tajpur road after Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has denied consent for running the same.This has increased the trouble for MC which is facing heat over its failure in dealing with around 20 lakh tonnes of legacy waste (garbage), which has already been dumped at the main dumpsite. Around 1,000 metric tonnes of garbage, which is generated in the city on a daily basis, would now accumulate at the main dumpsite.The landfill generates highly combustible methane that leads to spontaneous fires, causing massive burning of garbage and highly toxic emissions. This, in turn, leads to widespread air pollution, with serious health implications. Recently, the NGT monitoring committee had directed the PPCB to impose a ₹15 lakh bank guarantee on MC for its failure in dealing with solid waste, and out of this ₹5 lakh was for not dealing with legacy waste.General manager of A2Z company, Vishant Chaudhary said, “The PPCB had given consent to operate the RDF plant for three months in October 2017. After that, we are regularly in touch with the PPCB for getting their permission and have been clearing the objections raised by the board. Now on August 21, the PPCB has rejected their application, due to which we had to stop the RDF and compost plant at the main dumpsite. Now, we have written a letter to the MC to get permission from the PPCB. If we still fail to get the consent then we will be left with no other option than to move the NGT.”A PPCB official said that one of the reasons is that the A2Z company was not running the plant to its full capacity. Starting from March this year till July, the plant was run only at 15% of its capacity, while the remaining waste was getting accumulated at the dumpsite, he said.PPCB member secretary, Krunesh Garg said, “The permission was denied due to certain violations and the company had also failed to follow the directions issued in the past. The company has again applied for permission to operate after fulfilling the requirements.”In 2011, the MC signed a contract with the A2Z company to lift garbage from houses and secondary dumping points and manage the waste by installing a refuse-derived fuel plant, compost plant, and sanitary landfill at the main dumpsite. The RDF plant was made functional in 2017 but it has not been running on full capacity. The A2Z company has also made operational the compost plant at the main site. On average, around 1,000 metric tonnes of garbage is generated in the city, which was around 1,100 metric tonnes before the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-a2z-stops-fuel-plant-at-jamalpur-dump-ppcb-cites-violation/story-cXUZMgSz665rOjurGIrSDN.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Final year exams of Haryana college, varsity students to begin in September end||The examinations of the last year students of all universities and colleges in Haryana will be conducted by the end of September, an official spokesperson said. This decision was taken in a meeting organised by Haryana State Higher Education Council through videoconferencing. The meeting was attended by the vice-chancellors and controllers of examination of all the government-aided universities. The spokesperson said there are about 2 lakh students studying in the final year classes in various colleges and universities of the state. Provisions have also been made for compartment and reappear examinations for final year students in all universities. He further informed that for students coming from faraway places, accommodation will also be arranged in the hostels. Social distancing norms will be followed at the examination centres. The spokesperson said that the examination question papers will be of multiple choices, short answer and explanatory answers. The students, who are unable to take the exam due to any valid reason, will be given one more chance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/final-year-exams-of-haryana-college-varsity-students-to-begin-in-september-end/story-b8zIurORhjjqC7weUVPGSJ.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Deemed suspension of IPS officer Kalson confirmed by Haryana govt||The Haryana government on Tuesday confirmed the deemed suspension of controversial IPS officer Hemant Kalson, who was arrested on August 22 in Panchkula. Kalson was on the same day booked under the charges of trying to outrage the modesty of a woman, misconduct in public in a state of intoxication, house trespass and voluntarily causing hurt in two separate cases As per rule 3 (2) of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, a member of the service who is detained in official custody whether on a criminal charge or otherwise for a period longer than 48 hours, shall be deemed to have been suspended by the government. A September-1 home department order said that the state government has confirmed Kalson’s suspension with effect from August 24, 48 hours after he was arrested at Pinjore. The home department has also asked the director general of police to send the draft of a chargesheet against the delinquent officer. Kalson, an IG-rank officer, has allegedly assaulted two women and a man after trespassing into their houses at Pinjore. The woman in her complaint alleged that Kalson forcibly entered her house on Friday evening and assaulted her daughter. However, this is not for the first time that Kalson was found on the wrong side of the law. He was stripped of his duties as an election observer in Tamil Nadu in 2019 after he fired aerial shots from the firearm of a security man posted at the circuit house where he was staying. Subsequently, he was placed under suspension. His suspension was revoked a few months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deemed-suspension-of-ips-officer-kalson-confirmed-by-haryana-govt/story-ZZm22aCeN8a3M0dU7d6d5I.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||NCRB report: 11 people ended lives, 14 killed in road mishaps daily in Haryana last year||Seventy nine percent of the total 4,191 suicides recorded last year in Haryana were committed by men, stated the ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides in India-2019’ report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). With 3% share in total suicides in the country, Haryana was way ahead of Delhi where 2,526 people ended their lives followed by 2,357 in Punjab, 584 in Himachal Pradesh, 284 in Jammu and Kashmir and 131 in Chandigarh. A total of 1,39,123 suicides were reported in the country in 2019, with the majority of them in Maharashtra (18,916). As per the NCRB’s suicide data collected from the police records, of the 4,191 people ending lives in Haryana, 3,297 were men and 894 women. In 2018, at least 3,547 suicides were reported in the state. Hence, at least 11 people killed themselves everyday in Haryana in 2019. While 2,338 men who killed themselves were married, 610 were unmarried and 26 were widower. Similarly, among the women, 629 were married and 199 unmarried. Among those who took the extreme step in Haryana were 130 men and 22 women with economic status of over Rs 10 lakh per annum. The suicide rate, the number of suicides per lakh population, of Haryana was 14.5 in 2019. 5,269 LIVES LOST IN ROAD ACCIDENTSIf Haryana saw at least 11 suicides in a day last year, road accidents killed as many as 14 people daily in 2019. As per the NCRB data, the number of road accidents came down from 11,652 in 2018 to 10,937 in 2019 in the state wherein 9,247 people were injured and 5,269 (4,592 men, 677 women) were killed. However, the total traffic accidents (including road, railway and railway crossing mishaps) were 12,403. Apart from 5,269 people killed in road accidents, 1,278 lives (1,149 men, 129 women) were snuffed out in railway accidents and 84 people died in railway crossing mishaps. Thus, a total of 6,631 (5,825 men, 806 women) people lost their lives in traffic accidents in the state. The accidents at the railway crossing left 104 people injured. The national highway (NH) accounted for the most of the road accidents (3,182) in which 1,829 people had died. The state highways saw 2,542 accidents and 1,274 fatalities, while 104 people died in 173 accidents on expressways. Maximum casualties were reported in the age group of 30-45 years followed by the 18-30 years bracket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ncrb-report-11-people-ended-lives-14-killed-in-road-mishaps-daily-in-haryana-last-year/story-9prxq05S1AIBVnI22RZksK.html
01-09-2020||City||93 govt upper primary schools to get mathematics kits||Mathematics kits would be provided in 93 government upper primary schools of the city to improve the quality of teaching in this subject. The funds for the same have been released by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). Of the 93 schools, 16 schools are in urban areas and the remaining are in rural areas.In Punjab, 1,086 government upper primary schools will get these kits.The kit has been prepared by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). Each kit costs ₹1,907, funds for which have been sanctioned to the schools by the district education officer (DEO).The council has already trained teachers on how to use these kits and make learning a joyful experience for students.The kit includes plastic strips, a protractor, fly screws, 64 plastic cubs of unit length and of four different colours, a pack of cards numbered from 1 to 100, a sheet showing numbers from +104 to -104, Dice numbered 1-6, a geoboard, paper nets for solid shapes, cutouts of parallelogram, triangles cut from a parallelogram, trapezium and triangle to form a rectangle, counters whose one side is blue and other side is read, counters of different colours, kit box etc.Block mentor of mathematics and state resource group member, Kirandeep Singh said, “These kits are very beneficial that will help teachers to clear the concepts by using various items. For better clarity and practical exposure, these items in the maths kits will benefit the child and teachers to use innovative ways to explain/learn the concepts.”Pradeep Kumar, principal of government senior secondary school, Lalton Kalan, said, “Mathematics is a very important subject and many students face difficulties in understanding the concepts. The kit will provide practical exposure to students and will make it easy for them to understand the topics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/93-govt-upper-primary-schools-to-get-mathematics-kits/story-wlqhJPAtSPHBqUYqZ5wDaJ.html
01-09-2020||City||Coronavirus claims three more lives in Himachal||Three more people died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the death toll in the state to 39, officials said. A 42-year-old woman who succumbed to the virus in Shimla. Chief medical officer Dr Surekha Chopda said the woman was admitted at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. A 37-year-old man of Solan district has also died at Nalagarh Hospital. The samples of a 70-year-old woman from Una district, who died on Saturday, have tested positive. Her death has also been added to the toll in the state.139 fresh infections, tally rises to 6,255 Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 139 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally to 6,255, officials said. Of the new cases, 35 cases were reported in Bilaspur district, 34 in Sirmaur, 25 were reported in Kangra district, 17 in Una district, 14 in Shimla district, eight in Hamirpur, five in Solan and one in Solan Chamba. In Sirmaur district, out of total cases five cases are from Nahan and they have been shifted to dedicated covid care centre, said chief medical officer Dr KK Parashar. In Shimla district, three ITBP personnel have tested positive in Rampur Bushahr while head of urology department at IGMC was also found infected. In Chamba district, a 60-year-old woman has tested positive. Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal said 173 more patients have been cured and the overall recoveries have reached 4,647.With 1,456 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Sirmaur where 921 cases have been reported till date. Kangra has 885 cases, Hamirpur 575, Una 504, Chamba 432, Mandi 400, Shimla 347, Bilaspur 358, Kullu 283 and 81 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported eight Covid-19 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-claims-three-more-lives-in-himachal/story-NpbDqcHrurz5KZgddHLnjO.html
01-09-2020||City||In Facebook live, Ludhiana police chief warns residents against spreading rumours||Commissioner of Police Rakesh Agrawal warned people against spreading rumours or sending fake messages during a Facebook live on Tuesday. The police chief said that people are spreading rumours on WhatsApp and social networking sites stating that hospitals are stealing kidneys and other organs of patients after declaring them coronavirus positive.He said that doctors and medical staff are risking their livesto treat Covid-19 patients, but some people are creating panic among residents. The police are tracing people who are spreading rumours and if caught they will be jailed for at least three years.Agrawal added that Covid-19 cases are rising in the city, but with stringent curbs like weekend lockdown and night curfew, the number of cases has come down. He appealed to the people to venture out only when it is necessary.He said that the police and district administration has roped in private hospitals for the treatment of coronavirus patients. The city has 3,500 beds that have been reserved for coronavirus patients.Facebook users have appealed to the government to set a limit on bills charged by private hospitals from Covid-19 patients, as there are complaints of fleecing. The police commissioner said that the government has already set a limit for private hospitals and no hospital can charge more from patients.Agrawal said that shops selling essential commodities are allowed to operate on Saturday and Sunday, while all other shops will remain closed. There will be restrictions on movement from 7 pm to 5 am till further orders. Factories can be operational on weekends.Facebook user Akshay Mishra has inquired about procedures for home isolation. In his reply, the police chief said that Covid-19 patients can be home isolated if they are following the necessary procedures. A team of the health department will visit them and issue instructions; the patient has to maintain social distancing from other members of the family, the cop said.Facebook user Balbir Singh has urged for allowing study centers and institutions to operate, however, the police chief said that they should wait for government instructions.Agrawal appealed to the residents to stay at home and wearing masks while venturing out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-facebook-live-ludhiana-police-chief-warns-residents-against-spreading-rumours/story-MxZJn80m1fTV0UDhzkQV9M.html
01-09-2020||City||NCRB report: Punjab saw 7 suicides a day in 2019, recorded 37% surge over last year||Punjab witnessed an average seven suicides a day in 2019, reveals the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report that was released on Monday. The report, however, fell short of making vocational classification of these deaths and attributes ‘illness’ as the single largest contributing reason behind the suicide cases reported in the state at 27.7%. A total of 2,357 suicide cases were reported in Punjab last year. The report shares only national figures for farm suicides. Even the state-wise breakdown of the all-India numbers has not been released by the bureau. Experts and rights associations claim that small and marginal farmers and farm labourers form a sizeable section of those taking their lives due to financial stress. What makes them equally worried is that Punjab witnessed a surge of 37.5% per 1 lakh population in 2019 than number of suicides reported in the previous year. The report says Punjab was the second state after Bihar (44.7%) that saw the highest spike in suicides in percentage terms over the last year. Of the 1.39 lakh suicide cases reported in all states last year, 10,281 (7.4%) were associated with the farming sector. Of these, 5,957 were farmers/cultivators and 4,324 agricultural labourers. The NCRB report’s claim that ‘bankruptcy or indebtedness’ was behind only 4.2% suicide cases across the country has been contested by the farmer organisations. Joginder Singh Ugrahan, state chief of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Ugrahan) raised finger at the figures of suicide cases in Punjab. “As per our estimate, about 3,000 farmers ended their lives in Punjab whereas the NCRB pegs the overall figure at less than 2,400. Projection of linking only 4% deaths to indebtedness reflects dilution of facts,” he said. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of another BKU faction, said even in the suicide cases attributed to ‘illness’ financial stress among farmers cannot be ruled out. “It is only tweaking of figures as anyone taking life due to a disease is actually facing non-availability of resources like healthcare facilities. For a small and marginal farmer, illness and family disputes are directly related to their inability to repay loans and an increased cost of living,” said Lakhowal. Central University of Punjab chancellor SS Johl, an agriculture economist, said the debt waiver scheme the Congress government launched has not helped the farmers in distress. “Following local waiver scheme announcement, small and marginal farmers stopped repaying loans. As the Amarinder Singh-led government did not implement the plan in letter and spirit, farmers are in now more miserable situation as interests have spiraled,” said Johl. Kesar Singh Bhangoo, a professor at the Centre for Research in Economic Change at Punjabi University who has done an intensive research on farm suicides, said the number of farmers who took the drastic step has been rising since 2011. “There may be instances wherein families were reluctant to complete the legal formalities of deaths to claim the death as suicides. It is contrary to the ground reality that a sizeable number of farmers are taking extreme steps. Even the Punjab State Farmers & Farm Workers Commission has ended up as a government organ and failed to prepare any roadmap for the farming sector,” said Bhangoo. Suninder Tung, a professor of psychology at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), said it is important to identify the vulnerable sections who were committing suicides. “The suicide rate is alarming. It is important to identify the reasons behind such a high rate of suicides in a holistic manner,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncrb-report-punjab-saw-7-suicides-a-day-in-2019-recorded-37-surge-over-last-year/story-cTQWvCyJpmW4ltqTQfX00O.html
01-09-2020||City||After odd-even rule, shopkeepers in Ludhiana want weekend lockdown to go||A day after the odd-even rule for opening shops of non-essential items was discontinued in the city, shopkeepers are now demanding that the government should remove weekend lockdown.All the shops in the markets of the city were opened on Tuesday and shopkeepers heaved a sigh of relief. Some shopkeepers also distributed sweets in the Chaura Bazar market welcoming the government’s decision to discontinue the odd-even rule.Shopkeepers now demand that the government should also remove weekend lockdown in the city so that they could pull themselves out of the financial morass.State general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Sunil Mehra said that the decision taken by the government to discontinue the odd-even criteria has come as a relief for traders and the footfall of customers has already increased in the markets. But still, only around 25% of footfall is being witnessed in the markets.“If the liquor vends and restaurants can be allowed to open on weekends, then why not the shops? Only traders are being targeted by the decisions being taken by the state government. Most customers visit markets on weekends and weekend lockdown is taking a toll on our business. We will conduct meetings with different market associations in the coming days and raise an agitation to press for our demands,” said Mehra. President of Jawahar Nagar shopkeepers’ association, Om Prakash Ahuja said, “If the weekend lockdown is removed, it would be a big relief for traders, who are reeling under losses.”Shopkeepers in Ghumar Mandi raised an agitation against the odd-even rule on Monday and opened few shops to mark their protest against the government.Social distancing goes for a toss in marketsWith all shops opening on Tuesday, the hustle-bustle in the markets returned especially in the old city area, but visitors and shopkeepers were seen giving social distancing a miss. Visitors thronged shops in Mata rani chowk, Saban Bazar, Girja Ghar chowk, and adjoining areas.A shopkeeper in the Mata Rani chowk area, Gurjeet Singh said, “We are making all efforts to maintain social distancing and asking visitors to wear masks. But it is very difficult to maintain social distancing due to the narrow streets in the market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-odd-even-rule-shopkeepers-in-ludhiana-want-weekend-lockdown-to-go/story-ETk34w6NyvKiKJXpDTBnXL.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Multani disappearance case: Mohali court dismisses former DGP Saini’s bail plea||A Mohali court on Tuesday dismissed the bail application of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee.Saini, the then Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP), is facing charges of torturing, eliminating Multani and disposing off his body in 1991. Now, he can be arrested any time.Special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula said, “The statements of the three approvers proved to be clinching evidence against the former DGP.” Earlier, Saini had filed an anticipatory bail application seeking stay on his arrest after murder charges were added to the FIR registered against him and others at the Mataur police station in Mohali. The police have claimed that Saini misused the concession of bail granted to him while violating the conditions set out in the court’s May 11 order. The accused has also tried to stall the investigation, they said. The prosecution also pointed out that he also violated another condition of staying in his Chandigarh house till the lockdown period except in case of medical emergency. Saini’s lawyer APS Deol said they will file an appeal against the judgment in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Saini’s another plea in high court wherein he is seeking quashing of the FIR or transfer of the case to the CBI, will come up for hearing in HC on Wednesday. Multani was allegedly picked up by two officials in 1991 after a terrorist attack on Saini, in which four policemen deputed in his security were killed. The police later claimed that Multani escaped from their custody in Qadian, Gurdaspur. Former DSP Baldev Singh, Satvir Singh, a former inspector, Har Sahai Sharma, Anokh Singh, a former sub-inspector, besides Jagir and Kuldip Singh were named in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini/story-fwWtOpDJcqIwBPD9bxZYCO.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh saw 18% dip in suicides in 2019||The number of suicides dropped by 18.2% between 2018 to 2019 in Chandigarh.This is the third highest drop among the states and union territories of the country, according to the accidental deaths and suicides report released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Lakshwadeep saw the steepest drop of 100%, followed by Himachal Pradesh at 21.1%. In 2019, 131 people committed suicide in Chandigarh, as compared to 160 in 2018 and 113 in 2017, according to the report.Data provided by Chandigarh Police reveal that 89 people have died by suicide between January and August this year, as compared to 63 in the corresponding period last year.MOST DUE TO FAMILY PROBLEMSMaximum suicides in 2019 have been attributed to family problems (47). Constituting 35.5% of the total, it is above the national average of 32.4%. Other reasons include unemployment and career issues (15), illness (13) and marriage or love related issues (6).Men continue to be more prone to commit suicide. In comparison to 93 men, 38 women ended their life in 2019, in line with the trend in previous years. Also, as compared to 43 unmarried people, 88 of those who were married opted to take the extreme step. Among women, while nearly 50% (18) were homemakers, nearly 50% (48) of men who committed suicide were salaried. However, in both cases those earning less than ₹1 lakh (53 men and 26 women) were most likely to end their life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-saw-18-dip-in-suicides-in-2019/story-1bqttfPsWBimsy5U3WyljN.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir expresses shock over neglect of Amritsar||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday expressed shock at the callous manner in which the Congress government had neglected Amritsar which has been ranked amongst the 10 filthiest big cities in the country. Demanding a high-level probe to identify those responsible for defiling the name of the holy city globally, Sukhbir said the city was being discriminated against under the Congress government. “It is shocking that the Swachh Survekshan rankings had revealed that cleanliness in the walled city comprising Sri Harmandar Sahib was the worst, with sewerage facilities being choked and no planned system of garbage collection,” he said. On Tuesday, HT published a story, the first in a five-part series, on Amritsar’s performance in the national rankings, taking an in-depth look at what ails its sanitation and cleanliness. Stating that this state of affairs as well as the Swachh Survekshan ratings undertaken under the Swachh Bharat mission would have a detrimental effect on the image of the city internationally, the SAD president called upon the Congress government to probe corruption in use of funds. He also called for immediate approvals for all pending infrastructure work as well as procurement of more modern machinery that would be needed for cleaning and disposing garbage. Sukhbir said he had been constantly highlighting how the Congress government was discriminating against the city and how cleanliness had been given the go-by in the case of the Heritage Street. “I have myself also cleaned the street on occasions to send a message to the government to maintain this prestigious project but it does not seem to have had any effect on the Congress government. Garbage piles keep lying unattended, making them eyesores for visitors who come from across the globe,” he added. He said the SAD would not sit idle and allow this state of affairs to continue. “The party would initiate a campaign to force the government to provide optimum civic facilities to the holy city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sukhbir-expresses-shock-over-neglect-of-amritsar/story-GsEJm5fLrWJgsa8wuEKcxJ.html
01-09-2020||City||12.5 lakh domicile certificates issued are to apply for jobs: J&K administration||The Jammu and Kashmir administration, on Tuesday, said that so far, they have issued 12.5 lakh domicile certificates to people and claimed that possession of this document does not entitle a person to buy land in the UT. Of all certificates made, 11,398 have been issued to West Pakistan refugees and 12,340 to registered migrants.“Of the 12.5 lakh certificates issued so far, almost 99% have been issued to erstwhile PRC (permanent resident certificate) holders; in addition, 11,398 West Pakistan refugees, 415 members of Valmiki community, 10 members of Gorkha community, and 12,340 registered migrants have also received domicile certificates,” said principal secretary (information) and government spokesperson Rohit Kansal.“The PRC holders who got domicile certificates also include migrant Kashmiri Pandits,” he said.After J&K’s special status was revoked and the region was split into two UTs in August last year, in May, the government notified Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, which specify conditions and process of obtaining documents required for applying for jobs and avail other privileges restricted to residents.Everyone who are residing in the UT for 15 years or have studied here for seven years and appeared in Class 10 or 12 exam in an educational institution in the region, and their children, are eligible for domicile.“First we had given 15 days time to issue the certificates, but then we reduced it to five days for PRC holders as no further enquiry is needed to issue domicile certificates to them. The issuance will be further accelerated and it will be monitored to ensure that pendency rate is lowest,” he said.Pawan Kotwal, principal secretary (revenue), said that there have been 25,000 rejections while issuing domicile certificates.The regional parties of J&K have raised concerns saying the changes brought in after August 2019 decisions are meant to slowly change the demography of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-5-lakh-domicile-certificates-issued-are-to-apply-for-jobs-j-k-administration/story-JL9VLa7rO7LwrdKEed1USM.html
01-09-2020||City||Himachal mulls opening temples with new SoPs||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said the Himachal Pradesh government is preparing new Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) to reopen temples in the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The CM was addressing deputy commissioners (DCs) and police chiefs of 12 districts through video conferencing from Shimla. He directed the DCs to simplify process of entry to the state but also continue with the mandatory e-pass. He said the government was ensuring that the development in the state does not get affected due to the pandemic. The CM said the life of virus during the rainy season as per medical experts is longer, thus, greater caution must be adopted to check its spread. He said effective steps must also be taken to keep a check on infection amongst the corona warriors including doctors, paramedical staff, police and sanitary workers. The chief minister said asymptomatic patients should be kept in home isolation and health workers should regularly visit such patients for their medical check up. He said better quarantine facility must also be provided for doctors and other paramedical staff. “Industrial units must be asked to create their own quarantine facilities with a minimum 10% total strength of their employees. Small industrial units must be encouraged to create such facilities by pooling,” the CM directed the officials. He said till date 2,14,182 people have been tested for the virus, out of which 6,116 were found infected. “Cases per lakh in Himachal Pradesh were 87.3% as compared to national average of 267.7 cases per lakh. Death rate in Himachal is 0.58% per hundred cases which was quite low as compared to national average of 1.7% per hundred cases,” the CM said. He said the Centre has provided 500 ventilators, 1.60 lakh PPE kits and over 3 lakh N-95 masks to the state for effectively fighting Covid-19. “The movement of people accompanying patients and students/candidates, who need to move in and out of the state due to competitive examinations, may be facilitated by waiving off the condition of quarantine, if they exit or re-enter the state or vice versa within a period of 72 hours,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-mulls-opening-temples-with-new-sops/story-PK5sBvaIugvPOc5hpB8TvN.html
01-09-2020||City||BJP has ruined India’s economy: Himachal Congress chief Rathore||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Tuesday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led central government over negative Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and said that the party has ruined India’s economy.In a statement issued here, Rathore said he does not think that the present government will be able to pull the country out of recession and the demise of Indian economy started the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrogantly announced demonetisation in 2016. “He destroyed many industries in the country by implementing Goods and Services Tax (GST) without any discussion and suggestions, the results of which can be seen today as the country’s economy is completely devastated,” he said. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi kept reminding the PM but he does not listen to the opposition or the public. “Narendra Modi led government has no worries about the country and its people at a time when people are suffering due to Covid-19 pandemic. Crores of people lost their jobs during lockdown period and the government still has not made any plan to rehabilitate them,” Rathore added. Expressing concern over the country’s GDP falling below zero, Rathore said Narendra Modi should answer every question put up by the Congress to make things clear. “The gap between rich and poor is widening which can be a big threat to a developing country like ours,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-has-ruined-india-s-economy-himachal-congress-chief-rathore/story-zeWAYf5qPK23l52L7N5QkM.html
01-09-2020||City||Congress used people as vote banks for last 60 years: HP BJP chief Suresh Kashyap||The BJP’s Himachal Pradesh president and MP Suresh Kashyap on Tuesday lashed out at leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and said he has no right to comment on chief minister Jai Ram Thakur as the Congress betrayed the nation for past 60 years by using people as a vote bank.“The Congress, which is known for its misconduct has no right to comment on the BJP government in any state,” he said.“The Congress leaders are a bundle of lies. For decades, the party promised all sections of the society that they will prosper in the nation but nothing happened. Since the Narendra Modi government has come to power at the Centre, all sections of the society have prospered and been well taken care of,” Kashyap said.Kashyap said the government has announced welfare schemes for all sections of the society from time to time. “These schemes could be either central, state specific or a joint collaboration between the governments. The Congress, the oldest political party in India, allowed multiple scams during its rule which have resulted in the loss of a staggering amount of Rs Rs 4.82 lakh crore over the last 70 years,” he said. The party, on its own as well as with its allies, has been accused of a host of scams including the 2G, Bofors, AgustaWestland helicopter, Scorpene submarine, Maharashtra irrigation, Commonwealth Games, Coal scams and others, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-used-people-as-vote-banks-for-last-60-years-hp-bjp-chief-suresh-kashyap/story-xBONXmd19mJx8VNFci37hN.html
01-09-2020||City||Batala road rage murder: 2 ASIs among five cops dismissed from service||BATALA Police on Tuesday terminated the services of five cops, including two assistant sub-inspectors, who were arrested for allegedly killing a Kabaddi player in a road rage incident at Bhagwanpur village of Dera Baba Nanak sub-division in Gurdaspur district on Sunday night. Gurmej Singh, 28, was shot dead allegedly by a group of six, including the five policemen, following road rage. Gurmej’s father Amrik Singh is former sarpanch of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) while his sister-in-law (cousin brother’s wife) Amanpreet Kaur is posted as an inspector in the excise department. After the incident, Batala police had arrested ASIs Ranjit Singh and Baljit Singh, both posted with the Amritsar traffic wing; head constables Avtar Singh and Balkar Singh, both posted as gunmen with ADGP (retd) Parampal Singh Sidhu; head constable Surinder Singh who was deployed with the CM security; and Simrat Singh, a civilian from Batala. According to police, the incident took place when the accused got into an argument with Amanpreet Kaur over the passage of their two cars from a street in the village. Amanpreet called Gurmej to the spot and Baljit Singh allegedly shot dead Gurmej with his service weapon, police said. Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashpal Singh said, “Head constables Balkar Singh and Surinderpal Singh have been dismissed by us. Similarly, the other three cops were dismissed from the service by the Amritsar police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/batala-road-rage-murder-2-asis-among-five-cops-dismissed-from-service/story-WbWtSGmGmpi8KTgGQYsd1K.html
01-09-2020||City||Students in Himachal stand divided over JEE exams||Students in Himachal Pradesh stand divided over the decision to conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2020, which commenced on Tuesday across various centres in the state.As many as 8,397 candidates are expected to appear in the JEE examinations at 11 centres in Himachal.Many students believe that the examinations should have been postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and travel restrictions while many say that it was a right decision to conduct the exams.As many as 62 students appeared for the examination at one of the centre’s in Shimla. All precautionary measures, including thermal scanning, face masks, hand sanitizers for students and social distancing was followed during entry and exit at the examination centre.A candidate Gunjan Thakur said there was a confusion about whether examinations will be conducted or not but it was a right decision as the delay could have led to mental stress in students. “Although I did not face any problems because my examination centre was near my house, the same cannot be said about others who came from far away places,” she said.“All precautionary measures were followed and we did not face any problem during the exam,” she added.Another candidate, Vikas, said it was a right decision to conduct these examinations as we had been preparing for a very long time. “Despite the pandemic, exams could be conducted while following precautions and this is also the last chance for many students,” he said.Another student, Tanvi, said the examinations should have been postponed as the virus cases are on the rise in the state and life of students cannot be risked. “We students also had to face travel and accommodation problems. We were hoping that the examinations should have been postponed until the situation got better,” she said.A parent, who was accompanying his son, said it is right to conduct the examinations as students have been preparing for it since a very long time. “We parents have also spent a lot of money for coaching of our children,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-in-himachal-stand-divided-over-jee-exams/story-Pu9FVl8if8ZkqmCSrS9KzK.html
01-09-2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: No Sunday lockdown in MP; movie halls, pools to remain shut till Sept 30||After the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines, the Madhya Pradesh government on Monday announced withdrawal of statewide lockdown on Sundays, but cinema halls and swimming pools will continue to remain shut till September 30.Home Minister Narottam Mishra said there would be no lockdown on Sundays now after the Union Ministry for Home Affairs issued Unlock 4 guidelines.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe said social events, political rallies and sports events with a cap of 100 attendees will also be allowed from September 21.“There would be no lockdown in the state without the Centre’s permission now. The lockdown can only be imposed in containment zones,” he said.Mishra said the government has decided that industries can now operate with 100 per cent staff capacity. Besides, no e-passes will be required for entry and exit in the state, he said.The home minister said religious places and shopping malls have been opened while open air theatres will be allowed to function from September 21.However, cinema halls and swimming pools will continue to remain shut till September 30, he said.Mishra said students from Class 9 to 12, except those from containment zones, can voluntarily go to schools to seek guidance from their teachers from September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/unlock-4-no-lockdown-on-sundays-in-mp-as-govt-eases-covid-19-restrictions/story-gT1fk5dwbCVwZkdAhkEcqI.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial killing: Zaidi withdraws bail plea from HC||Himachal Pradesh’s senior IPS officer, Zahur Haider Zaidi, withdrew his bail plea in 2017 Kotkhai custodial killing case from the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday. The plea was pending since February, when his bail was cancelled by a special CBI court in Chandigarh.In May, he had sought bail on health grounds in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. However, the same was dismissed by the HC. “The petition was withdrawn with a liberty to file it afresh in event of fresh cause of action,” his lawyer Sumit Jain said. However, a detailed order is awaited.Zaidi, on suspension is an IGP-rank officer and accused in the Kotkhai custodial death case. He granted bail by the Supreme Court in April 2019. The trial court had cancelled the bail after prosecution witness and SP-rank officer Soumya Sambasivan gave a statement before it, claiming that she was being pressured by him in an attempt to influence the trial. The custodial killing case is an offshoot of an alleged rape and murder case of a 16-year-old schoolgirl from Kotkhai area in Shimla district. Initially, six men were arrested by the Himachal Police in the case and one of them was later found dead at the Kotkhai police station. The case is being probed by the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-killing-zaidi-withdraws-bail-plea-from-hc/story-M5LIBpLzTaR91kFYrgKxFJ.html
01-09-2020||Lucknow||Unlock 4: Weekend lockdown to continue in UP; shops to remain close only on Sundays||Shops in Uttar Pradesh will remain closed only on Sundays, instead of the two-day weekend lockdown, the state government said on Tuesday.The government had in July announced that shops and offices would remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays to stop the spread of the coronavirus infection.Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi on Tuesday said, “The chief minister has instructed that there will be no weekly closure on Saturdays, and shops can remain open from 9 am to 9 pm.Click here for full covid-19 coverage“However, shops will remain closed on Sundays from midnight of Saturday to midnight of Sunday,” he said.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to speed up development projects.At a routine meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, he directed divisional commissioners to review developmental projects of over Rs 50 crore.“Development projects in the state should be given pace. Agriculture production commissioner, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, additional chief secretary and principal secretaries should inspect offices,” Adityanath said.“All markets should open from 9 am to 9 pm and weekly closure of markets should be fixed on Sundays,” he said.The chief minister directed officials to conduct “microanalysis” of Covid-19 situation in Lucknow and Kanpur districts, make “effective plan” and implement it there.Adityanath reiterated that testing facilities should be increased in the state and there should be 1.5 lakh tests daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/unlock-4-weekend-lockdown-to-continue-in-up-shops-to-remain-close-only-on-sundays/story-Izn1qAKt63OY0HYlubFc5J.html
01-09-2020||City||Police develop app to keep tabs on vehicles in J&K||In their fight against terrorism, the Jammu and Kashmir Police have introduced an android-based app at multiple checkposts to keep tabs on vehicles, their owners and drivers in the UTs.“The app will act as a major help as police will be quicker in tracing vehicles involved in illegal activities including narcotics smuggling and terror attacks,” said Jammu district police chief, SSP Shridhar Patil.“We have developed this app and it has been introduced at multiple checkpoints. The database of every vehicle which is checked will be generated and it will have the vehicle number, driver’s name and picture, owner’s details, mobile number and picture of the vehicle,” he added.Terrorists use explosive-laden vehicles in J&K to target convoys of security forces. Last year’s Pulwama terror attack on a CRPF convoy still remains fresh in the minds of people.“If such vehicles are checked via the app, they can easily be traced. Those who indulge in illegal activities on the Pathankot-Jammu-Srinagar highway will surely feel the heat,” the SSP said.“This technology will also reduce burden on cops. It is not practical for human mind to remember all faces and vehicles, so the app will be of immense help. Many stolen vehicles have been recovered in the past few days,” he added.The SSP said that the J&K Police would like to bring all the vehicles entering, leaving and plying in the UT under its ambit.“Checking all vehicles entering the UT will be difficult as the volume of traffic is heavy in J&K. So we are randomly assigning registration to different checkpoints to begin with,” he said. The SSP added that the app is easy to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-develop-app-to-keep-tabs-on-vehicles-in-j-k/story-gJg9jR4UOetnOUCeh4CgQO.html
01-09-2020||City||Punjab govt presents Rs 5 lakh cheque to boxer Simranjit Kaur||Simranjit Kaur, the first boxer from Punjab to qualify for Olympic Games, has been presented with a cheque of Rs 5 lakh by the Punjab government. The cheque was handed over to her mother by the state’s minister for sports and youth affairs, Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, in Ludhiana on Tuesday. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had recently called the boxer to his office and announced the reward.Minister Sodhi said that Simranjit was a beacon of hope for the girls from the state who want to make a future in boxing. He added the state government will bear the entire expenditure of her preparations for the Tokyo Olympics.A native of Chakar village of Ludhiana district, Simranjit has won a bronze medal in the Junior World Championships in 2013, a bronze medal in the Senior World Championships in 2018 and a silver medal in the Asian Boxing Championships in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-presents-rs-5-lakh-cheque-to-boxer-simranjit-kaur/story-CS4l2cG108gHd0TqhLttIP.html
01-09-2020||City||Another RJD MLA joins JD(U); 13 desertions in a month||PATNADesertions from the RJD ahead of assembly polls in Bihar continued on Tuesday when another party MLA, Virendra Kumar, joined the ruling JD(U), taking the total number of legislators, including MLCs, who have recently bolted the Lalu Yadav-led party in the state to 13.JD(U) leader and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lallan Singh, who inducted the MLA from Teghra assembly segment into the party, said, “Several other MLAs are sending feelers. If JD(U) decides to provide a free entry, there will be a virtual stampede in RJD.”Seven MLAs and five MLCs of RJD, which leads the opposition Grand Alliance, have already joined JD (U) in the last one month. This includes Parsa MLA Chandrika Rai, the estranged father-in-law of Lalu Yadav’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav. Chandrika Rai is son of former chief minister Daroga Prasad Rai.“The RJD tally will be worse than 2010. It is like product which has no takers,” Lallan Singh said.RJD, however, challenged Munger MP’s claim. “Such inductions and invites are indicative of desperation. JD(U) has now become a clone of BJP and, like its partner, can go to any length to encourage desertions. When a leader switches sides, it is hardly an endorsement of a winning team. Rather, it’s a last-ditch attempt to stay relevant in electoral politics at any cost,” said Mritunjay Tiwari, media coordinator of RJD.Given the seat constraint in alliance politics, the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) is seriously hamstrung in extending an open offer to sitting RJD MLAs, especially after the recent demand aired by BJP MPs during their interaction with national president J P Nadda favouring a 50:50 seat sharing formula with JD (U).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-rjd-mla-joins-jd-u-13-desertions-in-a-month/story-virTdhAfLkNNZiv3a9Y7UJ.html
01-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Only 178 appear for JEE Main, against 1,400 in January this year||The Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main, for admission to engineering colleges was held on Tuesday amid stringent precautions and social distancing measures in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Candidates appearing for the examination in the first shift from 9 am to 12 pm reached the examination centre at TCS ION digital zone, Sherpur chowk and were asked to abide by Covid norms.As per sources, only 42% of candidates showed up in the first shift and 48% appeared in the examination in the second shift (3 pm to 6 pm).In the first shift, of the total 170 students, only 73 appeared in the examination while 105 students out of 218 turned up in the second shift. However, in January this year, over 1,400 students took the entrance examination in two shifts. JEE Main is a computer-based test (CBT) conducted by National Testing Agency twice a year for admission to National Institute of Technology (NITs), Indian Institute of Technology (IITs), and government-funded technical institutes. Candidates can appear for either one or both entrance examinations. The best of the two scores is considered for the ranking.Staff was deployed at the entry gate to check the admit card of candidates and a 3-ply mask was given to them by the examination authority. Candidates had to undergo thermal screening at the entry gate and at several points hand sanitisers were also kept.Many students who appeared in the BArch paper in the first shift found the mathematics section to be difficult on account of numerical questions. The paper carried a total of 400 marks.A candidate Anjali Yadav said, “I found the mathematics portion difficult as it took me plenty amount of time to answer all questions. Physics and chemistry were comparatively easy and it was a balanced paper. The authorities have made elaborate arrangements to maintain social distancing at centres. All the students have been asked to go to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they entered the centre, they were told to use the masks provided by the examination authority.”“In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, NTA has taken extra precautions to ensure the safety of students,” said, Rahul Kumar, a resident of Kitchlu Nagar. He said, “Of the three sections, I found the mathematics portion tricky and time-consuming. Overall, it was a balanced paper. Somehow, I was able to complete the paper in the prescribed time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-main-held-amid-stringent-covid-protocols/story-oblGqk1JvmcfwsgVYFQ0FO.html
01-09-2020||City||CM too guilty for Patna waterlogging, says ex-PMC boss in the dock||PATNAFormer commissioner of Patna Municipal Corporation, Anupam Kumar Suman, on Tuesday ridiculed the state government’s show cause slapped on him for disciplinary action for the last year’s water logging in the capital city and said chief minister Nitish Kumar should also be held to account for the mess.Suman, a 2004-batch Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer, said he took to the media to reply to the state government’s charge, which he received a couple of days ago, because the letter did not bear any significance as he had taken voluntary retirement. “I would have definitely given a befitting reply had I been in service,” said Suman, adding that he came to know about the state government’s action against him only through the media.Blaming the acute shortage of resources and lack of political will for perennial waterlogging in Patna, Suman said he fell victim to witch-hunting. “If head of the institution is held accountable for fault at the subordinate level, how the PMC mayor, departmental minister and the chief minister shall escape the responsibility. They also review every bit of PMC’s preparations for the monsoon,” he said.Dismissing the charge levelled by the state government against him, Suman said flimsy grounds such as lack of leadership quality, inaccessibility, absence of proper cleaning of drainage, etc, were cited as reasons for his suspension, which never came into effect. “Why the government did not fix responsibility on the officers who waste public exchequer and time to sanction projects under Smart City mission and then cancel them without any substantial reasons,” asked the former PMC head.Almost a month before Patna was caught in deluge due to heavy showers for four days (September 27-30) last year, Suman had stepped down as the PMC chief and sought voluntary retirement from his parent department, the ministry of revenue. Suman claimed his VRS was accepted recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-too-guilty-for-patna-waterlogging-says-ex-pmc-boss-in-the-dock/story-TWKsWtvutuBhBfTddtzvoO.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sirsa’s sweets shop owner wins Punjab Rakhi bumper lottery of Rs 1.5 crore||Chandigarh: Dharam Pal, a sweets shop owner from Mandi Kalanwali in Haryana’s Sirsa district, has won the Punjab State Rakhi Bumper-2020 of Rs 1.5 crore. The festival of Rakshabandhan was a low-key affair for him amid the Covid-19 pandemic but the Punjab government’s lottery win turned him into a crorepati overnight. After submitting his documents for the encashment of the prize, Dharam Pal said that he had been buying Punjab state lottery tickets for the past 13 years but has won the prize for the first time. The Rakhi bumper draw was held on August 20. Dharam Pal was informed by the lotteries department on August 21 that he has won the first prize of Rs 1.5 crore on ticket number B-315094. The father of a daughter and two sons said that his eldest son is married and his daughter and younger son are studying. “This is a dream come true. This amount will help me provide them better higher education besides enabling me to expand my business,” he said. The officials assured him that the prize money would be transferred to his account at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sirsa-s-sweets-shop-owner-wins-punjab-rakhi-bumper-lottery-of-rs-1-5-crore/story-BrjFas3ELHvdU4b1lTGQkI.html
01-09-2020||Dehradun||Reluctant donors make plasma collection tough at Uttarkhand’s Doon Hospital||The authorities at the Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) Hospital in Dehradun, Uttarakhand’s premier healthcare facility dedicated to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment, are finding the going tough as far as plasma therapy is concerned owing to reluctant plasma donors amid a daily spike in the viral infection cases in the hill state.Doctors said recovered Covid-19 patients are steadfastly refusing to donate plasma because they are “scared that they might contract SARS-CoV-2 that causes the viral disease”. “This is a dedicated Covid-19 facility after the first case of the viral outbreak was reported in Uttarakhand. Many Covid-19 patients, who have since recovered, are reluctant to donate plasma because they are scared that they might get infected again. However, we are trying to convince them that the Covid-19 wards and plasma donation centres are two separate entities. And the plasma donation process is absolutely safe,” said Dr. Ashutosh Sayana, principal, GDMC.He explained that the hospital authorities had pulled out all stops to create awareness about donation of plasma through mass media such as newspapers, television channels and other means of communication like social media platforms. Hospital counsellors have been tasked to convince recovered Covid-19 patients to donate plasma, but their efforts have come a cropper to date. Dr. Shashi Upreti, in-charge of plasma therapy and blood bank, GDMC Hospital, said not a single recovered Covid-19 patient has donated plasma since the equipment for plasma therapy was installed at the government-run healthcare facility.“The machinery for conducting plasma therapy was installed at the hospital around end-July, but not a single recovered Covid-19 patient has donated plasma to date. We managed to trace seven-eight recovered Covid-19 patients, but unfortunately, they didn’t have sufficient anti-bodies. As a result, they couldn’t donate plasma,” said Dr. Upreti.She said only the mild and severe Covid-19 patients are mostly able to develop enough antibodies to donate plasma.“For plasma donation we have to check a few parametres. For instance, Covid-19 patients in the age group between 18 and 65 years are eligible to donate, except for pregnant women and those suffering from comorbidities. Most Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic, who recover quickly. However, only mild and severe Covid-19 patients can develop enough antibodies that help them to donate plasma. We have over 800 such eligible donors, but a vast majority refused to donate their plasma. Of the 800, only eight were screened and all of them found to be ineligible, as they did not have sufficient antibodies,” she said.The officials urged the public to come forward and help other Covid-19 patients in the hill state. Dehradun district has reported the second-highest Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, as over 4,000 people have been found to be afflicted with the contagion.The hospital authorities also highlighted a crisis of blood in the blood bank. Only 10 units of blood were available in the bank until Monday and none from negative blood groups. “We are trying to organise blood donations camps, as the hospital is in dire need of blood for its bank,” Dr Upreti added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/reluctant-donors-make-plasma-collection-tough-at-uttarkhand-s-doon-hospital/story-qn1Is2BmtxKscnz3N96sPM.html
01-09-2020||City||Gang takes away gold ornaments from two women in Ludhiana||Two women lost their gold ornaments to a four-member gang pretending to be their relatives in Sarabha village and Jodhan Bazaar on Monday. In the first case, the victim, Amarjit Kaur, 60, a resident of Khandur village, said she had gone to Jodhan Market on Monday. There, three women and a man in a car stopped near her and introduced themselves as her relatives.Amarjit said the man was in the driver’s seat, an elderly woman in the seat beside him and two more women in the back seat. The group engaged her in a conversation, and soon after they left, she realised that her gold earrings were missing. ASI Hakam Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had registered a case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code on Amarjit’s complaint.Police said another woman, Baljit Kaur of Kishangarh Channa village, was targeted by a gang with similar modus operandi in Sarabha village.A separate case of theft was registered in this regard. Police investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-takes-away-gold-ornaments-from-two-women-in-ludhiana/story-o3DaOT7CYrl8MiQeLM1jBI.html
01-09-2020||Bhopal||Congress cries foul as Madhya Pradesh police says 70% of complaints in Vyapam scam vague||The Madhya Pradesh police’s special task force (STF), which initiated the re-investigation of Vyapam scam on direction of then Congress-led state government in July 2019, has found 70% complaints vague and anonymous and not even related to the scam, said an STF officer. However, the opposition Congress has alleged that it’s Bharatiya Janata Party government which prevailed over the STF to dispose of complaints without indicting anyone. Also read: Five years on, Vyapam scam returns to haunt Madhya PradeshAccording to the STF officer, the force had received 1,355 Vyapam-related complaints in 2013 and 2014. During this period, the STF registered 154 cases and handed them over to the CBI in July 2015, under orders of the Supreme Court. A large number of complaints were handed over to various district police stations and 197 complaints were pending with the task force. “STF started scrutiny of these 197 complaints last year in July and didn’t find complaints related to Vyapam scam or any other organized crime. Out of 197, STF found more than 70% complaints vague and anonymous as reportedly these were mainly based on accusations against individual candidates, high profile people and government officers without any evidence while the remaining were mostly against candidates for allegedly using fake documents and committing irregularities in different recruitment exams. There were more of personal complaints than any concrete charge related to Vyapam scam,” said the STF officer who didn’t wish to be named. “Out of the remaining, 55 complaints have been disposed of and 16 FIRs have been registered against 16 people for using fake domicile certificates and forged documents, in February this year. The probe in the remaining few complaints has come to a halt in the absence of any documents related to proof for the past six months,” said another officer. STF, additional director general (ADG) of police, Vipin Maheshwari said, “Out of the total complaints, a few complaints have been found worthy of investigation but these are not related to Vyapam scam. Mostly these are individual complaints against candidates who appeared in different exams organised by MP Professional Examination Board (Vyapam). The investigation in these complaints is getting delayed as it needs proof, which are being collected from other government departments.” We will take all the complaints to a logical end soon, said Maheshwari. The CBI has already completed the investigation in 164 complaints out of 170 and filed charge sheets. In five of the remaining cases, the CBI will soon file supplementary charge sheets and in one case, a fresh charge sheet. According to a CBI officer, no foul play was found in 16 death cases out of the 24 related to middlemen, candidates and a journalist, who died during Vyapam scam investigation. The CBI has also filed a second closure report in the matter of much hyped death case of medical student Namrata Damor, which is pending before the court, said a CBI officer, who is not authorized to talk to media. Meanwhile, the whistle blowers said it was the end of Vyapam scam. “The STF didn’t register the statement of complainants. They didn’t even try to investigate the pending complaints. Otherwise, they would have surely found how medical college owners, politicians and government officers were involved in the scam and were also hiding important proof during the earlier investigation. When STF officers were afraid of taking action against high profile people during the regime of then Congress-led state government, we couldn’t have thought of any action against them under the BJP. Now, there is no hope left for justice to Vyapam scam victims,” said Dr Anand Rai, whistleblower and RTI activist. Another whistleblower, Ashish Chaturvedi, said, “Vyapam scam is now a thing of past. The CBI has already failed in probing the case efficiently and STF didn’t do anything concrete except registering FIR against some people. I put my life to risk to fight against high profile people for ruining the future of at least one generation but real culprits managed everything so well that the truth didn’t come out.” Congress MLA and former public relation minister PC Sharma said, “BJP formed its government in a hurry as its leaders were afraid of being sent behind the bars. It’s not STF which didn’t find anything but its BJP-led state government which asked the STF to dispose of all the complaints to save their people.” Home minister Narottam Mishra refused to comment when HT reached out via phone. BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Congress leaders have now started raising questions on everything. The investigative agency did its work efficiently, whether it was the CBI or the STF. The then Congress-led state government’s decision on re-investigation was just a political gimmick. The STF had already taken up all the complaints during investigation in 2013 and 2014.” The Vyapam scam surfaced in July 2013 when police in Indore arrested 20 impersonators appearing for the medical entrance examination. Vyapam is the acronym for Vyavsayik Pareeksha Mandal, the Hindi name for the Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB) which conducts entrance examinations for professional courses and recruitment tests for government posts ranging from food inspectors to forest guards. In all, 3,500 people were made accused by the CBI in different cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/congress-cries-foul-as-madhya-pradesh-police-says-70-of-complaints-in-vyapam-scam-vague/story-vSNSmPMEtSnqA3Jf199flJ.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||ED files plea with Ludhiana court to inspect new records of IT cases against Punjab CM, son||Jalandhar: The enforcement directorate (ED) has filed three applications in a Ludhiana court for the inspection of new documents filed by the income tax department in the cases against Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh, it is learnt. The applications were filed by the ED on August 14 before the chief judicial magistrate, Ludhiana, through special public prosecutor Lokesh Narang. The court heard the matter on August 18 and its order says, “Papers put up before me being duty magistrate. Record not received. Same be awaited till 29.08.2020.” The ED filed three applications after it learnt that the income tax department has placed fresh documents on the case files of Captain Amarinder Singh and Raninder Singh. The ED wanted to inspect or obtain the documents to carry forward its investigation under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), ED sources confirmed, requesting anonymity. The ED has urged the court to allow it to inspect the case file. Earlier, it had initiated action against Raninder under FEMA after the income tax department complained that he had lied under oath about trusts allegedly owned by him in Virgin Islands. Raninder had appeared before the ED in connection with a FEMA violation in 2016 also. Hearing in the three income tax cases against Amarinder and Raninder are underway in the Ludhiana court. The next hearing in the case of the CM is on September 9, while Raninder’s cases would come up on September 10. The IT department claimed Raninder misguided it during the probe and claimed he had documents related to the family’s income and trusts abroad. The IT department alleged that Raninder was a ‘settler’ of Jacaranda Trust, which the family formed. Other undisclosed trusts include Mulwala Holdings Limited and Allworth Venture Holding Limited. The father and son also allegedly carried out ‘undisclosed’ financial transactions through a bank account in HSBC, Geneva, and HSBC Financial Services Limited (Middle East). The IT department said the trusts were established in 2005 and most of the deals were routed through Virgin Islands. It submitted in the court that it has documents sourced from Virgin Islands that show Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder are owners of Marine Mansions in Dubai and other properties in the United Kingdom. Both Amarinder and Raninder had earlier denied any wrongdoing and termed the charges false. Hindustan Times sent an email to the ED headquarters for seeking its official response on the matter but no reply was received till Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ed-files-plea-with-ludhiana-court-to-inspect-new-records-of-it-cases-against-punjab-cm-son/story-V5HuIrCXkokeWZPVEorfTI.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre’s probe into scholarship scam attack on federal structure, says Punjab CM||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday took strong exception to an inquiry being ordered into the alleged scholarship scam by the Union ministry for social justice and empowerment without consulting the state government or waiting for the chief secretary’s probe report. Earlier, Union minister of state for commerce Som Prakash was quoted as saying that a departmental inquiry has been ordered by the social justice and empowerment ministry on his complaint and that he had taken up the matter with the minister concerned, Thawar Chand Gehlot. “The move is another attack on the federal structure of the Indian constitutional polity,” Capt Amarinder Singh said, adding that it was aimed at eroding the state government’s authority as part of the BJP-led central government’s agenda to undermine the governments in all non-BJP ruled states. But, he said, his government will not succumb to such petty and motivated pressures by the BJP or any of its alliance partners, including the Shiromani Akali Dal. He pointed out that the alleged scam into which the inquiry has been ordered took place from 2015-17 under the SAD-BJP regime. The chief minister said if the intent behind the so-called central government departmental investigation was to cover up the BJP-SAD tracks in the case, it would not succeed. It was during an audit by his government that misappropriations came to light, which were now the subject of the chief secretary’s inquiry, Capt Amarinder Singh said. The department had come across gaps in payments made to certain colleges as per the funds sanctioned during the previous regime and it was then that he had decided to order the probe, said the chief minister. The inquiry by him was in line with specific rules of governance and the only lawful course to take, he said, adding that any inquiry by a central department into a case relating to the state without consulting the latter was untenable. Capt Amarinder Singh also slammed the Centre over its anti-Dalit act of withdrawing the post-matric SC scholarship scheme, which was benefitting lakhs of poor SC students in the state by providing them access to higher education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-s-probe-into-scholarship-scam-attack-on-federal-structure-says-punjab-cm/story-vYE2NSXoDPMtCVfHJSAgnL.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal ex-BJP chief Rajeev Bindal’s cryptic post on social media creates flutter in party circles||Rajeev Bindal, who quit as state BJP chief on May 26 after his name surfaced in connection with the bribery scandal involving Dr Ajay Gupta, then Himachal director, health services, created a buzz in party circles with a cryptic social media post on Monday night, saying the BJP and the Jai Ram Thakur government should introspect on what they have lost and what they’ve gained. “Bharatiya Janata Party nay kya khoya kya paya va BJP sarkar nay kya khoya kya paya, iska akalan karna chahiye (The BJP and the government should analyse what they have gained and what they’ve lost),” Bindal, a five-time legislator, wrote on Facebook and Twitter on Monday night. He is incommunicado since then.State unit chief Suresh Kashyap, who has cracked the whip on dissidence in the past fortnight, refused to draw any inference from Bindal’s Facebook and Twitter posts, dismissing them as “Bindal ji’s personal views”. “Whatever Bindal ji has posted are his personal views. He has expressed his opinion on social media not on any party platform. One cannot draw any inference from the post,” said Kashyap, who represents Shimla in the Lok Sabha. Less than four months after being appointed state unit chief, Bindal had stepped down when health director Dr Ajay Gupta was arrested by the State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau for irregularities in the purchase of equipment by the department. In his resignation letter to BJP national president JP Nadda, Bindal wrote: “Fingers are being raised at the BJP after the arrest of the former director, health services. Being the state BJP president, I feel the matter should be investigated thoroughly without any pressure. I am submitting my resignation on moral grounds.” AUDIO CLIP VOICE SAMPLES MATCH Meanwhile, the voice samples of the audio clip of the conversation between Dr Gupta and Prithvi Singh, an employee of a Punjab-based medical equipment supply firm who is also behind bars, have matched. In the clip that was widely shared on social media in May, Dr Gupta is heard demanding Rs 5 lakh for clearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kit orders for the state health department. Investigators had sought information from the state government on whether Bindal had recommended extension in the service of Dr Gupta, who was due to retire on June 30. The vigilance team could not find any such evidence. REACHING OUT TO SULKING LEADER Meanwhile, Bindal’s successor Kashyap is trying to quell dissidence within the state unit. More than half a dozen squabbling leaders of the state BJP’s Mahila Morcha were divested of their responsibilities recently. BJP general secretary in-charge of Shimla parliamentary constituency Purshottam Guleria has been assigned the task of holding consultations with Bindal, who has been sulking since chief minister Jai Ram Thakur did not induct him into his cabinet even though he was unanimously elected Vidhan Sabha Speaker later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-ex-bjp-chief-rajeev-bindal-s-cryptic-post-on-social-media-creates-flutter-in-party-circles/story-PgQ2f1EsRKsz5Jy79oCa1J.html
01-09-2020||City||Army says multiple hideouts busted along LoC in Uri sector||Indian Army has said that multiple hideouts were busted by security forces along the restive Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu & Kashmir’s (J&K) Uri sector and a cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from these hideouts.Defence spokesman Colonel Rajesh Kalia said that on August 30, a movement of suspicious persons was detected along the LoC in Rampur sector in J&K’s Baramulla district.“The movement was from a village close to the LoC and the suspects had crossed into Indian territory. Their move was kept under constant surveillance. Soon, an alert was sounded about a likely infiltration bid in the treacherous terrain amid the dense vegetation and inclement weather conditions. The search operations continued through the night and until 5 am on Monday,” he said.“A cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from two hideouts in the Rampur Sector following a seven-hour search operation,” he added. The recovered arms comprised five Avtomat Kalashnikova 1947 (AK-47) rifles along with six magazines and two sealed boxes that contained 1,254 rounds of AK-47 ammunition.The security forces also seized six pistols, including nine magazines and six rounds of ammunition, 21 grenades, two under barrel grenade launchers (UBGLs) and two Kenwood radio sets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-says-multiple-hideouts-busted-along-loc-in-uri-sector/story-cS267gv5F1jZRl4YdzZMUJ.html
01-09-2020||City||City reports 875 new cases, 7 deaths on Monday||The state health department reported 875 new cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits on Monday, taking the progressive count for Pune city to 1,01,111. The death toll in the city stands at 2,539 after seven new deaths were reported on Monday. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 592 new cases on Monday, taking the progressive count to 47,809, with the death toll at 801. No Covid-related deaths were reported in PCMC on Monday. The state health department reported 1,931 fresh Covid-19 positives for the district on Monday, taking the district progressive positive count to 1,75,105 - the highest in the state. Maharashtra reported 7,92,541 Covid-19 progressive positives as of Monday. Of the 1.75 lakh progressive positives in the district, 1,18,324 have been discharged after they were declared recovered, taking the recovery rate for the district to 67.57%. Also, 4,069 deaths have been reported till date in Pune district, putting the case fatality rate at 2.32%. Currently, there are 52,712 active cases in the district as per the state health department. Within the district, Pune rural which has now become a Covid hotspot, reported 464 new positives on Monday, taking the progressive positive count to 26,185. Pune rural reported two Covid-related deaths on Monday putting the rural toll at 729. The state reported 5,73,559 (72.36%) recovered patients of its 7.92 lakh progressive positives, with 24,926 deaths (3.14%) and 1,94,056 active cases currently undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-reports-875-new-cases-7-deaths-on-monday/story-2dDpHOH2IhKMtXzcbB9WBJ.html
01-09-2020||City||474 defaulters owe PMC Rs1,218 crore in property tax, reveals RTI query||PUNE Officials of the Pune municipal corporation (MC) are facing a tough time trying to recover the dues of property tax from defaulters.As per the information sought in a query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act by civic activist Vivek Velankar, as many as 474 defaulters in PMC have property tax dues worth Rs1,218 crore, the amount of each defaulter is more than Rs one crore.Velankar said, “According to PMC data 474 property owners have more than Rs one crore dues and the total amount is Rs 1,218 crore. Among them, 50 cases are pending in the court and the total amount of these legal cases tax owners is Rs375 crore.”He said, “Most of these cases are of various mobile companies who had challenged the dues in the High Court. If the law department of the PMC follows up these cases on time, the civic body can get more revenue through property tax.”Vilas Kanade, head, property tax department, said, “There are some cases which have double registration for the same property. The total amount for such cases is around Rs136 crore. PMC administration is in a process to put the proposal in front of elected members to delete the double registration.”Velankar said, “Under RTI information, PMC accepted that they had various dues with government offices and various government departments like Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune (IISER), Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) and irrigation department.”“PMC property tax department has written a letter to the water department that instead of paying the water fee to the irrigation department they will recover the tax dues of Rs53 crore from them,” he said.Velankar said, “PMC is playing bands in front of citizens’ homes every year. Instead of concentrating efforts for small recovery, ideally, the PMC should focus on big defaulters.”Hemant Rasne, chairman, standing committee, said, “We are making all efforts to increase the revenue this year. We have deployed 500 additional staff in the property tax department to recover the dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/474-defaulters-owe-pmc-rs1-218-crore-in-property-tax-reveals-rti-query/story-5tWBoqO9nti5bWVf3rrMCK.html
01-09-2020||Pune||Online darshan and 7,500 police officials to ensure empty streets in Pune||The 11-day Ganpati festival will come to a close in Pune on Tuesday without the festivities that usually mark the end of the annual festival. However, the immersion ceremonies will be broadcast by the mandals on their respective social media accounts and by local news channels. “Pune has followed the code of conduct and has proved itself to be the cultural centre. Tomorrow’s (Tuesday) rules are clear: no permission for public immersion. All immersions should be done at local immersion spots. The manache Ganpati have decided the timings and will immerse at the mandaps or within the temple,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police. Annually, the city witnesses over 4,73,000 immersions in the river or at the public immersion spots, according to Shisve. “The immersion will begin at 11:30am with Kasba Ganpati. The manache Ganpati will follow within half an hour of each other as per the order,” said Shrikant Shete, president of Kasba Ganpati mandal. The manache Ganpati (five most important Ganpati’s of Pune) will follow an order for visarjan starting from Kasba Ganpati, followed by Tambdi Jogeshwari Ganpati, followed by Guruji Talim, Tulshibaug, and Kesari Wada. The details of the live broadcast can be found on the independent websites of each of the five. The annual festivities of devotees, rangoli, flowers, dhol-tasha, and procession will be missing and the immersion will happen either within the temple or the nearby mandaps installed by the public Ganpati trusts. “Hardly 10 people will be present - important trust workers - since it will be happening inside the temple. People have extended tremendous co-operation. The need of the hour was such. At least 1.5 crore people watched online. Next year, we will make up for all the lost fervour,” said Ashok Godse, trustee, Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Sarvajanik Ganpati Trust. Over 7,500 city police officials along with bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS), quick response team (QRT), riot control police (RCP) will be present on the streets of Pune. However, the proceedings might end much before the usual time this year, according to Shisve. “People who come for darshan will be stopped. If need be, we will make a temporary diversion for the roads that lead to major Ganpatis during their visarjan timings. Hopefully, tomorrow everything will wind up by 11pm-12am. Like every year, it will not go on until the next morning,” said Shisve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/online-darshan-and-7-500-police-officials-to-ensure-empty-streets-in-pune/story-wkeYL3CRzjviQqBTZLUNeM.html
01-09-2020||Pune||No Ganpati immersion procession today; PMC seals all ghats||For the first time in at least 100 years, Pune will not witness the much celebrated immersion procession on Tuesday, on the occasion of Anant Chaturdashi. To prevent residents from reaching the riverbeds for immersion of the Ganesh idols, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), has sealed all the ghats and some routes in the peth areas, with police expected to keep a strict watch to avoid crowding in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Most mandals, including the five “manache Ganpati” (most revered), have decided to immerse idols in make-shift tanks set up on the respective mandap premises. Started in 1893, the annual immersion procession for the Sarvajanik Ganeshostav, that lasts over 24 hours, passes through Laxmi road and attracts five lakh people to partake of the festive grandeur. This year though, PMC has arranged for mobile water tanks, idol immersion centres and Nirmalya (offerings) collection centres for people who will not be able to immerse idols at home. According to police estimates, the city witnesses 4,73,000 immersions in the Mula-Mutha rivers, or at public immersion spots, every year. Solid waste management department head Dyaneshwar Molak said, “Many elected members on their own have set up the idol donation centres. A total of 191 idol donation centres have been set up at various chowks and prominent places where citizens can donate the Ganesh idols.” PMC has also set up the nirmalya collection centres at 190 places and erected 191 mobile water tanks where citizens can do the immersion.“As there is no procession, there was no need to depute the staff to clean the roads like every year,” Molak said.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Against the background of Covid-19, citizens and Ganesh mandals helped a lot this year, co-operating with the municipal corporation by not carrying out the immersion. I am appealing to all citizens to either immerse the idols at home, only or donate the idol at the centres erected by PMC at prominent places.” Fire brigade department head Prashant Ranpise said, “As there is no procession, fire brigade department has not deputed manpower near the water bodies.” BOX 1No night shift? The Shreemant Dagdusheth Ganesh Trust’s executive president Hemant Rasne said, “It is the first time on the day of Ganesh immersion, the city would remain calm. Every year, people stay awake the whole night to see the immersion on Laxmi road, Kumthekar road, Kelkar road and Tilak road. People used to sit on roads to take the darshan of Dagdusheth Ganesh, which is one of the attractions of the festival. This year the Dagdusheth mandal will do the arati at the temple in the evening and later there will be no procession. The city will start functioning the next day; every year, the immersion procession is continued till the next afternoon.”BOX 2Ganesh immersion schedules of the manache Ganpati mandals All immersions in temples or at site mandaps itseld1) Kasba Ganesh - 11.30am2) Tambdi Jogeshwari - 12.15pm3) Guruji Talim – 1pm4) Tulshibaug Ganpati - 1.45pm5) Kesri Wada- 2.30pm6) Bhausaheb Rangari - 3.15pm7) Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganesh - 6.47pm8) Akhil Mandai Ganpati- 7pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-ganpati-immersion-procession-today-pmc-seals-all-ghats/story-2nYF94hH9RJZjY00ti4A8K.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai receives light showers, rain intensity to remain low throughout this week: IMD||The city woke up to first day of the new month and also the last immersion day of Ganesh Chaturthi (Anant Chaturdashi) with only sporadic light showers on Tuesday. The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs, recorded 9.3 mm rain while 9.2 mm rain was recorded in Colaba (South Mumbai). The weather bureau said a partly cloudy sky, with the possibility of light to moderate rain, is expected for the rest of Tuesday and very light to light rain has been predicted for Wednesday.Also Rain: Mumbai receives highest August rain since 1959“A marginal increase in rain activity could be expected on Tuesday evening as the day progresses,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD). “Rain intensity is likely to remain low as all weather systems leading to active monsoon conditions have died down for the moment.”Meanwhile, the suburbs and South Mumbai recorded the minimum temperature on Tuesday of 24 degrees Celsius. August ended with the second highest all-time monthly rainfall at 1,248 mm. August rain across other parts of Maharashtra was high with Bhira in Raigad district recording 2,861 mm rain followed by Mahabaleshwar 2,821 mm, Matheran 2,551 mm, Gaganbawada 2,451 mm, Lonavala 2,128mm, Palghar 1,758 mm and Thane 1,573 mm.Also Read: Number Theory: How rainfall pattern is changing significantlyThe IMD said rain showers are likely in September but not as strong as in July and August. A few heavy rain spells cannot be ruled out for the city and suburbs through the month, it added. Meteorologist Akshay Deoras said below average rainfall activity is possible during the first fortnight of September. “First fortnight is looking unusually dry, unlike July and August where entire monthly rainfall occurred in the first few days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-light-showers-rain-intensity-to-remain-low-throughout-this-week-imd/story-SB2fOTVDmnXTDinANF3TeO.html
01-09-2020||Lucknow||Sero survey in 11 UP districts from Friday||The Uttar Pradesh government will conduct its first serological survey to determine the prevalence of coronavirus infection among people in Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Agra from September 4 to 6.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the survey is being conducted in coordination with Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU). The survey will involve testing of blood serum of a group of individuals to determine presence of antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19. Prasad said dedicated teams are being trained for the survey.Also Read: Delhi Covid-19 sero survey from Sept 1 to Sept 5: All you need to knowOfficials said 1,080 blood samples will be collected from select groups of people for the survey in each of the 11 districts. The samples will be sent to the KGMU to determine the presence of antibodies.“Our lab is ready for the serological survey testing. As soon as we start getting the samples, we will start testing,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, KGMU spokesman.“We have been testing samples for Covid-19 on reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machines and the lab has been functioning here in the microbiology department since March. The staff is trained and equipment ready.”Also Read: ICMR starts second all-India sero survey; results expected in SeptemberThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has conducted a separate serological survey in seven districts, including Balrampur, Gonda, Mau, Unnao, Auraiya, Saharanpur and Gautam Buddha Nagar. “The data will be released by National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, in mid-September,” said an ICMR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sero-survey-in-11-up-districts-from-friday/story-SbPFW3Rm3Cyf5emdpwadGN.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC starts physical hearing on rotational basis||The Delhi high court’s (HC) five benches on Tuesday started physical hearing on a rotational and experimental basis with a limited entry for advocates and litigants were barred following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. One fourth of the seven district courts in the national capital also started functioning in a restricted way with limited participation amid the easing of restrictions, despite a spike in viral infection cases in the past 10 days. While five benches in the Delhi HC will hear cases physically, the rest of the judges will still follow their pandemic schedule of video-conference that had started in May. The HC put out an elaborate standard operating procedure (SOP) to curtail overcrowding at court premises and start physical hearing on an experimental basis following repeated demands from various bar associations. The SOP has stated that the entry to court blocks to attend physical hearings will be restricted to an advocate per litigant, whose case is listed on that day. No other legal aide will be allowed to enter the premises to help the advocate. A litigant will only be allowed entry at the specific direction of the court. The HC cause list will have two separate sections for physical and virtual hearings. The physical hearing of cases will be restricted to a maximum 25 a day and all social distancing norms will to be maintained in the court premises. “Entry time to any court block shall be regulated as per the time slots mentioned in the cause list for different batches of cases. Each batch shall consist of 10 cases. No person shall be permitted entry inside the court blocks before the designated time slot, as per the cause list,” stated an order issued by the HC. In order to ensure strict adherence to the social distancing norms, seats in each courtroom have been limited to a bare minimum and an entry in the courtroom shall be permitted to those advocates, whose matter is called out for hearing and also for the lawyers, whose item is the immediate next, subject to availability of space, it added. Air-conditioners have been replaced with fans following several pleas from the various bar associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-starts-physical-hearing-on-rotational-basis/story-Sl4Xm77ZuiSEdmGU5qenHP.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||After murder of uncle, cousin in robber attack, Suresh Raina seeks action from Punjab Police||Nearly a fortnight after his uncle and his family were attacked by a gang of robbers in Punjab’s Pathankot district, cricketer Suresh Raina took to social media on Tuesday to share his anguish and urge Punjab Police to investigate the matter and arrest the culprits. Tagging chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Raina wrote: “What happened to my family in Punjab was beyond horrible. My uncle was slaughtered to death, my bua (paternal aunt) and both my cousins received severe injuries. Unfortunately, my cousin also passed away last night (Monday) after battling for life for days. My bua is still very critical and is on life support.” “Till date, we don’t know what exactly happened that night and who did this. I request @PunjabPoliceInd to look into this matter. We at least deserve to know who did this heinous act to them. Those criminals should not be spared to commit more crimes,” he posted. According to the police, three to four members of the notorious Kale Kachhewala gang had come with the intention to loot and attacked Ashok Kumar, a government contractor, and his family members at their house in Thariyal village near Madhopur of Pathankot. At the time of the attack on August 19 night, the family was sleeping on the terrace of their house. Ashok Kumar suffered head injuries and died the same night, the police said. Kumar’s 80-year-old mother Satya Devi, his wife Asha Devi, sons Apin and Kaushal were injured. The robbers decamped with cash and gold from the house. Pathankot senior superintendent of police Gulneet Singh Khurana said: “We are investigating the matter.” With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-murder-of-uncle-cousin-in-robber-attack-suresh-raina-seeks-action-from-punjab-police/story-z03b0byZ3xemDrf81XVZpK.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots case: High court grants bail to Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita||The Delhi high court on Tuesday granted bail to Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita in one of the cases filed against her for alleged provocative speech ahead of the February riots in Delhi, saying it is the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that every individual is presumed to be innocent till found guilty. It said police have failed to produce any material that her alleged hate speech instigated women of a “particular community” or it led to the loss of a young man’s life and damage to property.Also read: ED gets suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain’s custody for 6 daysThe court cited the case diary produced in a sealed cover along with pen drive before it and added Kalita’s presence is seen at a peaceful agitation, which is a fundamental right guaranteed under Constitution’s Article 19.Kalita was arrested along with another member of the group in May for their role in an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protest, which led to violent clashes during the Delhi riots. The two were booked for rioting, unlawful assembly, and inflammatory speeches.“Admittedly, agitation was going on since long, print and electronic media was present throughout in addition to cameras of police department, but there is no such evidence which establishes that the alleged offence has taken place on the act done by the petitioner, except statements recorded under section 164 CrPC much belatedly, though, those witnesses were allegedly remain present at the spot throughout,” the court said.It added no “prejudice would be caused” to the police investigation by the grant of relief to Kalita, and she would be prevented from suffering further unnecessary harassment, humiliation, and unjustified detention. The court said “similarly placed persons” like Kalita have not been arrested. It added the continued custody of the petitioner would serve no purpose.Justice Suresh Kait granted the bail in lieu of Rs 25,000 bond and surety of the same amount while directing Kalita against influencing any witnesses or tampering with the evidence. He underlined personal liberty is the most important fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution.Kalita has been arrested in four cases related to communal riots in north-east Delhi in February and has been charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for her alleged role in “hatching a conspiracy along with other accused persons”.The Delhi police have accused some anti-CAA protesters, who blocked a road and made inflammatory speeches, of planning the riots. The arrested anti-CAA protesters, who include students, activists, and local politicians, have denied the allegations and said the police have launched a witch-hunt against them. The violence claimed 53 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-case-high-court-grants-bail-to-pinjra-tod-activist-devangana-kalita/story-k26U7sLCS2HhFq4gOLOesO.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: CBI to question Rhea’s parents||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has summoned the parents of actor Rhea Chakraborty, who is at the centre of a controversy regarding the alleged death by suicide of her friend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea’s parents left their residence in suburban Mumbai at around 10:30 am and reached the DRDO guest house in Santacruz (East) around 10:50 am. CBI has been investigating Rajput’s death based on a first information report (FIR) filed by the late actor’s father KK Singh. ED, which is also investigating a case of money laundering against Rhea and others in connection with Rajput’s death, will question Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya for the second successive day on Tuesday. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Maharashtra home minister says he got requests to probe Sandip Ssingh’s alleged drug linksArya reached the ED office in Mumbai at 11 am. Rajput was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week quiet, a political controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.The jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena as the Supreme Court was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Chakraborty families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry split vertically.The case opened up a debate in and about the industry, devolving into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers). Chakraborty and her supporters alleged that the Bihar government was trying to hijack the emotive issue for political capital ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-cbi-to-question-rhea-s-parents/story-MIXnDfSjvyVWtwv8khzCuI.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab prisons see maximum human rights violation complaints in country||Punjab jails are the worst in the country when it comes to protecting human rights of prisoners, if the number of complaints filed by inmates is of any indication. According to the National Crime Records Bureau’s recently released report for 2019, the national and state human rights commissions received the highest number of complaints of cruelty and denial of lawful rights of inmates from Punjab in 2019. The state has 24 prisons where 24,174 inmates, including 8,172 convicts and 15,949 undertrials, are lodged against the capacity of 23,488 prisoners, it says. Nearly 20 percent of a total of 290 complaints filed by the inmates with the NHRC are from Punjab. Also, 180 such complaints were received by the Punjab State Human Rights Commission from prisoners, 38 percent of the total received by all state-level commissions across the country. In terms of pending complaints with the NHRC, the highest (59 of 101) were from Punjab. Of a total of 464 complaints pending with all state-level rights commissions, the maximum 103 were with the Punjab body. HAD SECOND HIGHESTNUMBER OF CLASHES The report highlighted that Punjab along with Madhya Pradesh witnessed the second-highest number of clashes or group clashes in the country after Delhi. While the two states recorded 25 incidents each, the national capital had 57 incidents. Interestingly, Punjab was the only state that reported an incident of firing in prison that year. Also, 49 prisoners and 12 jail staff were injured in clashes in Punjab jails, after Delhi where 92 inmates got injured. MOST UNNATURAL DEATHS OF INMATES AFTER UP The report reveals that 137 deaths, including 117 natural and 20 unnatural, occurred in the Punjab jails in 2019. The number of unnatural deaths of inmates was highest after Uttar Pradesh where 29 such incidents were reported. As many as 13 inmates committed suicides in the state’s prisons, again the second highest across the country after UP (20). Two prisoners each were murdered by fellow inmates in the jails of Punjab and Haryana, the highest figure for the prisons of all the states. The report underlines the fact that Punjab reported the highest number of deaths due to HIV the same year. The state reported 9 deaths due to HIV of a total of 41 such deaths across the country’s jails. The data also shows that Punjab has the highest number of inmates at 272 (21 convicts and 251 undertrials) in youth detention centres (borstal schools) across the country. In 2019, of a total of 26,390 persons released on parole, maximum 7,973 were from Punjab, followed by Madhya Pradesh (3,663). IT’S A FASHION TO FILE PLAINTS IN PUNJAB, SAYS ADGP JAILS Additional director general of police (ADGP jails) Praveen Kumar Sinha said it is a fashion in Punjab to file complaints. “Merely filing of complaints don’t establish the fact that there have been human rights violations of inmates in the prisons. Not even a single complaint did go unattended whether it was probed by judicial officers, senior jails officials or police,” said Sinha. On the deaths due to HIV, Sinha said the most victims were drug addicts who used syringes of each other for substance abuse and ended up infecting others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-prisons-see-maximum-human-rights-violation-complaints-in-country/story-3iZh4h0dcqjhANiXN8WgyJ.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 sero survey from Sept 1 to Sept 5: All you need to know||The third round of sero survey in Delhi to identify people who have the antibodies to fight against the coronavirus disease is scheduled to begin on Tuesday. The survey will be conducted between September 1 and 5 to know the section of people who may have contracted Covid-19 and have already recovered from the disease without realising it. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The exercise helps the administration analyse trends and formulates schemes and strategies to contain the infection. Here’s everything you need to know about it--The swab sample of nearly 17,000 individuals will be collected for the sero survey drive that begins today. --The Delhi government is likely to share the result of the survey by September 21, an official said. --Health workers have been asked to collect 50% of the samples from individuals aged between 18 and 49 years in the Capital’s 11 revenue districts. While 25% samples need to be collected from age groups that represent minors, and the remaining from people aged 50 years and above, according to standard operating procedure (SOP) shared with officials. --In the first phase of the exercise, as many as 21,387 samples were collected starting from June 27 till July 10. According to the survey, 22.86% people were found to have developed antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus. The government had then announced it as a monthly exercise. --Around 15,000 samples were tested in the second round of sero survey in the first week of August. Of them, 29.1% individuals were found to have developed antibodies.--As of Monday, there were 1.74 lakh confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Delhi while the doll from the disease stood at 4,444, according to the health bulletin issued by the state government.--Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has begun the second round of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sero survey to determine how many more Indians have been exposed to the infection since the first such exercise was conducted in May. Results are likely to be shared later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-sero-survey-from-sept-1-to-sept-5-all-you-need-to-know/story-EfWXvjpuiaxtEIv7pvEXPI.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sero survey: BMC explores tie-up with private labs to increase sample size||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities are exploring the possibility of a tie-up with private laboratories to collect blood samples from a large section of Mumbaikars to ascertain how many of them have recovered from coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but are still unaware about it. The exercise will help the civic officials to figure out how many Mumbaikars have developed antibodies.The private laboratories may be given the task of testing each blood sample they collect from Covid-19 patients and the cost will be borne by BMC.However, private laboratories will conduct the antibody test after they obtain permission from Covid-19 patients. The BMC officials said the proposal has been sent to Maharashtra government for its approval.Daksha Shah, deputy executive officer, public health department, BMC, said, “The tie- up between the civic body and private laboratories for collection of blood samples to ascertain antibodies is at a proposal stage. We have sent our proposal to the state government.”The BMC has a tie-up with 15 private laboratories in Mumbai to conduct Covid-19 tests, using both real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method and rapid antigen detection (RAD) methodology.Besides, In a bid to ascertain antibodies level, the BMC has conducted the first phase of sero-surveillance survey, where 6,900 people were tested. The survey results showed that 57% of slum-dwellers developed antibodies, while the corresponding figure in non-slum areas was 16%.A second round of the survey is in progress for which around 6,300 samples are being collected.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Sero-surveillance survey of antibodies test will help in understanding exposure of virus among a large population. We can also identify potential plasma donors. Private laboratories are conducting these tests over a month, and the figures available for reference to understand the situation.”A sero-surveillance survey that collects blood samples helps identify individuals, who were afflicted with Covid-19 but have since recovered from their viral infection. The survey gives a sense about the spread of the contagion and the measures that can be taken to prevent the viral outbreak.Of the 8,376 samples collected across Mumbai by a private laboratory between July 3 and August 7, the results showed that 2,420, or 28.89%, were detected with Covid-19 antibodies.A high ratio of the antibodies was developed among the residents from Govandi (57%), Dharavi (54%), Worli (42%), Chembur Extension (48%) and Mazagaon (40%), which had emerged as Mumbai’s Covid-19 hotspots.The prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies was relatively lower in certain areas in suburbs and south Mumbai, varying between 20% and 40%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sero-survey-bmc-explores-tie-up-with-private-labs-to-increase-sample-size/story-KPNUNvXB9F66N3MjSnXJgP.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Third sero survey begins today||Delhi’s third sero-survey drive is scheduled to start Tuesday. While samples will be collected from around 17,000 individuals between September 1 and 5, the result is likely to be shared by the government by September 21, said a senior government official. As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) that has been shared with the officials in the Capital’s 11 revenue districts, 50% of the samples are to be collected from individuals aged between 18 and 49 years, and 25% each from the age groups that represent minors and people aged 50 years and above -- much like the previous two sample collection drives.In the first serological survey, samples were collected from 21,387 people, between June 27 and July 10, of which 22.86% people were found to have developed antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In the second survey - for which around 15,000 samples were collected between August 1 and 7 - 29.1% individuals were found to have developed antibodies.Sero surveys help to know the chunk of population that may have contracted the virus and recovered from the disease without realising it. It helps the administration analyse trends and draft Covid management strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-third-sero-survey-begins-today/story-UCGXgyjiNjcKlia4L2mCSN.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||JEE Mains exam gets underway in Punjab, Chandigarh||Nearly 14,000 candidates in Punjab are taking the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), Mains, for admission to undergraduate engineering courses being conducted in two shifts from Tuesday to Sunday. This is the first major entrance exam being conducted nationwide by the National Testing Agency (NTA) during Covid-19 times. The candidates, who arrived more than an hour before the morning shift was to begin at 9am, were put through thermal scanning and social distancing was strictly maintained at different centres in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Chandigarh. The first shift of the computer-based exam ends at 12 noon, while the afternoon shift will be held from 3pm to 6pm. Seven lakh students are expected to take the exam across the country over the next six days. Top 2.45 lakh candidates of JEE Mains papers 1 and 2 will take JEE Advanced for entry to 23 IITs. JEE Advanced is to be held on September 27. Students were given three-layered masks and gloves on reaching the examination centres, where hand sanitisers are freely available. The NTA is using loudspeakers to relay messages as masks could impede audibility of announcements. The JEE Mains exam is being held amid stiff opposition to the conduct of tests amid Covid concerns. FIVE CENTRES IN CHANDIGARH, MOHALI The NTA has set up five exam centres for 7,263 candidates in Chandigarh and Mohali. In January 2020, 8,254 students had taken the exam at four centres. KBDAV School, Sector 7, principal Pooja Prakash has been appointed the exam incharge by NTA. Since traffic movement between the tricity is allowed during the test hours, the authorities have not taken any steps to transport students to exam centres. The NTA had held a training session for the teachers conducting the exam. ALL SET FOR NEET ON SEPTEMBER 13 As many as 15,931 students will take the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges in Chandigarh on September 13. Thirty-two centres have been set up for the purpose. Last year, 16,938 students had taken the exam in 19 centres. This year only 12 students will be allowed to sit in one classroom to maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-mains-exam-gets-underway-in-punjab-chandigarh/story-r8J3VaoZ9hWzjBIddn4DlO.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Back to dreaming||As the worries for everyday struggles seem to recede for him, autorickshaw driver Raju has started to think again of a dream he had before the coronavirus shook his world. “My ambition is to have a small plot of land in Gurgaon, and build a house on it.”Indeed, life and its aspirations must go on, and Raju, 24, is back to riding his autorickshaw from 8am to 10pm. “I started driving again not long after the lifting of the (coronavirus-triggered) lockdown, but for some weeks I wouldn’t spend the whole day on the road,” he says, chatting on phone. Initially, Raju explains, he wouldn’t get many customers—“Most people were still scared to get out of their houses.” He thus didn’t see the point of staying out for too long, and would mostly remain at the one-room rented dwelling he shares with his wife and three little kids in Gurugram’s Gandhi Nagar.At this very moment, while talking, the masked Raju is driving a customer to Sector 6— but he rushes to assure that he is chatting through his mobile’s earphones, and that his hands are safely placed on the auto’s steering handle. “Now I get more customers... so I’m working the regular hours,” he says, his voice being one among a host of highway sounds, including the horn he is frequently blowing through the traffic.Feeling secured enough in reclaiming the old routines of his working life, the auto driver is freely talking of his long-time dream. He calculates that it would take him about ₹3 lakh to buy just the land. The realisation of having his own house is essential for him because “I have never had a true home. My parents died when I was very young… my chacha-chachi (uncle and aunt) are the ones who raised me.”Actually, some weeks ago, Raju even slipped out of the metropolis for a 10-day solo trip to his Dwas Pipra village in Katihar, Bihar, to visit the elderly couple: “I had to go check on chacha-chachi. I am what I am because of them.”But he is also a self-made man. Raju arrived in Gurugram years ago as a “baledar”, a labourer. “Buying an auto last year, on loan, raised me to a higher level, until all the gains were destroyed by the coronavirus... I still have to pay back my loan instalments for the auto.”Despite certain improvements in the income, things are not the same as in the pre-corona days. “Back then, I would be earning about ₹10,000 every month,” he says, adding that the figure has now been cut in half.And yet, daily living today is superior to what it was during the lockdown and the weeks that followed. “We were having only aloo or dal-chawal for food, but now we are also having hari subzi (green vegetables), that were difficult for us to afford in those days.”The normal life is back, he concludes, and his earnings shall consequently rise again. “My kids will eat better, they will continue with their school, and my wife and I will again start to save money so we can buy land, maybe somewhere just outside Gurgaon.”By now, he has already dropped the aforementioned customer and is waiting for another one. “I recently studied the rate of my earnings and the price of land these days, and have determined that if something like coronavirus doesn’t happen again, it will take me three years to have my dream of getting a house come true.”He now takes off his mask—there’s no other person in the auto—and flashes a smile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-back-to-dreaming/story-a5wDQt0JIJd5kcthLYJxbM.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Those appearing for JEE, NEET allowed to travel on special local rails on exam days||Students appearing for the upcoming JEE and NEET exams in Mumbai, will be permitted to use the special suburban services of Central and Western Railways on exam days.According to a joint press release by the Central and Western Railways, the admit cards of the candidates will be considered as proof to enter stations with companions.The frequency of trains will also be increased to help the students.They have, however, been asked to follow SOPs and maintain social distancing during their journey.The National Testing Agency is scheduled to conduct the NEET on September 13 and JEE between September 1 and 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/those-appearing-for-jee-neet-allowed-to-travel-on-special-local-rails-on-exam-days/story-mTabAfCTTCiOZBVY0ltFQK.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||‘Dragon is alive’: HC tells Delhi govt to rework test||The Delhi High Court directed the Delhi government on Monday to rework its testing plan in order to allow the maximum number of people who are asymptomatic to undergo a Covid-19 test through swab-based lab tests (RT-PCR method), pushing for the wider use of a technique that is seen as more reliable. The court, while expressing dissatisfaction on the number of tests being conducted, said “the Covid-19 dragon has been tamed much less slain” and “is looming large in the city and needs to be tackled on priority”. The need to ramp up testing is particularly needed since more people are being allowed to move freely. “You (Delhi government) thought that you had slain the dragon (Covid-19). However, this dragon has several heads which is making life miserable for people. The dragon is alive and cases are rising up in the city every day,” the court said while expressing concern on the increasing number of cases in the city. “This court is therefore not satisfied with the number of testing actually being conducted on the ground by the Delhi government,” it said while hearing a plea filed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra on the ramping up of tests in the city. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, while asking the city government to come up with a new policy, also asked it to examine as to whether the necessity of obtaining a prescription from a private doctor for undergoing the RT-PCR should be made mandatory/optional or done away with. The court also directed the Delhi government to set up Covid-19 testing centres at inter-state bus terminals in the city within seven days for migrants who return to the city from different states. On August 19, the Delhi government had told the high court that it had already set up a testing centre at Anand Vihar ISBT.On Monday, the high court said it expects the Delhi government to come up with an advisory for persons who want to get themselves tested for Covid-19 through the RT-PCR method, as long as it does not adversely impact the testing of samples sent by the government to private laboratories or the timeline within which reports are to be submitted by labs to the government.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.However, Dr Nutan Mundeja, chief of the Delhi directorate general of health services under the city government, told the court it would re-strategise the plan for testing. Since early July, when Delhi increased its testing numbers, the city has been heavily reliant on antigen tests, which are done through swabs as well, but are on-the-spot at health centres and testing camps. Over the past week, at least seven of every 10 tests conducted in the city has been using the rapid antigen method. This proportion has been largely consistent throughout August. Daily tests in Delhi also appear to have hit a plateau. The seven-day average for daily tests in the city stands at 19,715 — off the peak of 21,660 for the week ending July 10. On Monday, the health bulletin said 14,389 tests were conducted in 24 hours. To be sure, the number of tests generally reduces on Sundays and holidays.After going through a comparative study of the sero survelliance reports, the court said that a significant portion of the population in Delhi remains asymptomatic and it is that population which would cause a silent spread of the disease, posing a serious challenge to the health system. The court sought to know from Dr Nivedita Gupta of the ICMR whether the strategy with respect to testing in Delhi can be changed. To this, Gupta said ICMR is only an advisory body and is going to come out with new guidelines. She, however, clarified, that its guidelines do not stop any state government in coming out with their own rules. Citing an example of Punjab, Gupta said the state government had done away with the need for a prescription to getting tests conducted. She said Maharashtra has also tweaked its (ICMR) rules according to its own needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dragon-is-alive-hc-tells-delhi-govt-to-rework-test/story-G70A7re136z7VchLtSHR1I.html
01-09-2020||City||82 residents of destitute home test positive for Covid-19, Navi Mumbai civic body deputes medical team||Eighty-two residents of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity-run Prem Daan, a home for the destitute, have tested positive for Covid 19. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has deputed a medical team at the centre for women to monitor the health of the patients who have been quarantined at the home. Their condition is reported to be stable.An official of the home said, “All those who have tested positive are asymptomatic and have been quarantined. NMMC is taking good care of everyone. There is nothing to worry.”The cases came to light after an NMMC antigen test camp was organised by former legislator Sandeep Naik through local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. Sources said that apart from the residents of the home, two nuns and some employees have also tested positive. Local BJP leader Sudarshan Jirge, who coordinated the camp, said, “On the directions of Sandeep Naik, we contacted the civic officials and organised an antigen camp, as we had learnt that some of the inmates were sick and needed medical attention.Following the tests of 149 inmates on Sunday, 82 were found positive. They have been quarantined at the centre itself.”Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “An NMMC medical team has been deputed on a 24-hour basis at the centre. Patients have been divided into three wards. Oxygen levels are being monitored after every two hours and oxygen cylinders have been kept on standby at the facility itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/82-inmates-of-destitute-home-test-positive-for-covid-19-navi-mumbai-civic-body-deputes-medical-team/story-EGITLAhNLLUufRrgcx9d1O.html
01-09-2020||City||37 labourers test positive for Covid-19 at construction site in Thane’s Teen Haath Naka||Thirty-seven labourers working at a construction site in Thane’s Teen Haath Naka area were tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The labourers are undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 facility in Bhayanderpada.Their results came positive after reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests were conducted on 82 labourers at the construction site.“We had asked all the construction site owners and developers within the jurisdiction of the civic body to conduct mandatory testing of all their labourers to ensure that there is no spread of the virus. The results of 37 labourers came positive during the testing at one of the sites. The construction site is sealed and the other workers are sent home,” said deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi. Thane city recorded more than 26,000 Covid-19 cases till August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/37-labourers-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-construction-site-in-thane-s-teen-haath-naka/story-CNumYmYkqqZ3Hjmph23H9J.html
01-09-2020||City||Thane city to utilise bike ambulances for Covid-19 antigen testing||With an aim to increase testing in the city, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has introduced antigen testing at doorstep with the help of 17 bike ambulances. “The testing will be mostly conducted in huge housing complexes and market areas. If residents with symptoms need to be tested, the bike ambulances can reach them easily and the antigen tests will be able to determine the results within half an hour. This will help in providing timely treatment for patients,” said civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma.The bike ambulances were introduced by the Thane civic body to facilitate easy travel through traffic-prone areas of the city for providing medical assistance within the golden hour incase of accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-city-to-utilise-bike-ambulances-for-covid-19-antigen-testing/story-g6TjxKBi1aNHfLkHvB8vgL.html
01-09-2020||City||2 Covid centres with 500 beds to be set up at Bhiwandi near Mumbai||Thane Rural region will soon get two Covid centres with a total of 500 beds at Bhiwandi. “One 300-bed hospital will be set up in the Bhiwandi-Ganeshpuri area, while the other at Sawad will have 200 beds. From the past 15 days, we have started antigen testing for rural areas also. These facilities are being set up as a precautionary measure,” said Dr Manish Renge, district health officer, Thane zilla parishad. The rural areas of Thane district have a recovery rate of around 82%, but the zilla parishad is taking steps to ensure that the Covid-19 cases do not rise and patients get proper treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-covid-centres-with-500-beds-to-be-set-up-at-bhiwandi-near-mumbai/story-wOH6lSorSjUZxpAWZEMGHJ.html
01-09-2020||City||2 Turkmenistan students, stranded in Mumbai amid lockdown, return home after Bombay high court intervention||Following the directions of the Bombay high court (HC), two Turkmenistan students who were stranded in India owing to the lockdown since February, were able to return to their country on Sunday. The students, who are studying in Pune, had approached the HC, as they were kept in a shelter home at Mumbai’s Kandivli area after being rescued from a hotel at Andheri in a raid against human trafficking. While the magistrate had allowed the students to go back to their home country in February, their departure was delayed owing to incomplete documentation and non-availability of flights due to the lockdown. After the students informed the court that there was a flight available for them, the court directed the authorities to expedite the procedure and allow them to return home. A single bench of justice CV Bhadang, while hearing the petition filed by the two foreign students, was informed by advocate Sujit Pathak that the women came to India to pursue the Bachelor of Arts course. While one of them enrolled in a Pune college in 2018, the other joined last year. The duo knew each other and resided in a rented room. In January, they received a call from a mutual friend who invited them to Mumbai. The two students met the friend in a hotel, but soon thereafter, the social service branch of Mumbai Police raided the hotel and rescued them both, along with an Indian woman. It was only when they were produced before the magistrate court did the authorities realise that the caller had tried to trap them into a prostitution racket. Thereafter the custody of the two students was handed over to two non-governmental organsations – Save the Child India and Rescue Foundation – which work to rehabilitate women rescued from prostitution rackets. The duo were kept in a shelter home at Kandivli. On February 10, after perusing the inquiry reports by the officers concerned, the magistrate passed an order allowing the repatriation of the two students to their home country. The students, however, challenged the order as they wanted to complete their education, but the order cast aspersions on their antecedents and restrained them from returning. After their appeal was rejected later the same month, the students decided to return to their country and booked tickets. However, as the exit formalities were not completed, they could not board the flight. Though one of their friends in Pune sought their custody, it was not permitted and hence the students had to continue staying in the shelter home. Pathak informed the court that due to the lockdown, the students were able to travel only in July, but their flight was cancelled. The stigma they faced and their stay at the shelter home was causing the students mental agony and hence, Pathak sought their repatriation at the earliest, as well as setting aside of the February 10 order. On August 28, after the court was informed that a flight was available for the students, the judge directed the authorities to ensure that their exit procedure from India was expedited. According to Pathak the students boarded a flight on the night of August 30 and had managed to leave after spending more than 200 days in the shelter home for no fault of theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-turkmenistan-students-stranded-in-mumbai-amid-lockdown-return-home-after-bombay-high-court-intervention/story-gCJQ34dDkSImTkUtM8pUgP.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Schools in Mumbai demand exorbitant fees amid lockdown, say parents; plan to approach Bombay high court over issue||Parents of students from 10-12 prominent schools in the city are planning to move the Bombay high court (HC), challenging the fee structures of these schools. The decision was announced on Monday at a press conference organised by Forum for Fairness in Education (FFE), a non-governmental organisation (NGO) working for parents. Jayant Jain, president, FFE, said private schools were not being “considerate” towards parents despite the current situation in which many have their lost jobs or are facing salary cuts. “Schools are charging exorbitant amounts as fees under various heads and have not given any concession to parents even at a time when classes are happening online. Charges like bus fees, laboratory fees etc. need not be taken now. In many cases, fees are not even approved by the parent-teacher associations. We are helping such parents in approaching the right authorities to make themselves heard,” said Jain. Parents said schools asked them to submit documents with respect to their income when they asked for certain concessions. “We are not asking schools to waive off the fees completely. But in some cases, they are asking us to pay thousands of rupees for unnecessary things. For instance, we have been asked to purchase a gadget (tablet) worth ₹50,000. When we questioned this, school asked us to prove that we cannot pay,” said a parent whose child studies at a south Mumbai school. A government resolution (GR) released on May 8 stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay HC on June 26 in response to a petition filed by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-in-mumbai-demand-exorbitant-fees-amid-lockdown-say-parents-plan-to-approach-bombay-high-court-over-issue/story-ebAVlJrfoqEegEYlI7JaPP.html
01-09-2020||City||Shiv Sena MP says Prakash Ambedkar’s protest outside Maharashtra’s Vitthal-Rukmai temple a “joke on social distancing”||Shiv Sena leader and Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut has termed the protest outside Pandharpur’s Vitthal-Rukmai temple by Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) founder Prakash Ambedkar a “joke on social distancing”. Ambedkar and his supporters staged a protest outside the temple on Monday, demanding the reopening of temples and other religious places in the state. He and 14 others also went inside the temple and declared it a “victory” of the agitation. Raut on Monday said that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government , led by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, will gradually lift all the restrictions. He added that the government has spoken to all the stakeholders who run temples as well as the representatives of the Varkari community on the gradual reopening of the famous temple at Pandharpur. The Sena leader said that Ambedkar, who is the grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, should not have violated the law and the measures put in place to curb the spread of Covid-19. “Prakash Ambedkar is a patient leader, who has studied law and he’s also the descendant of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. Such statements about going against the law, especially during a medical emergency, is like instigating people... The Covid-19 situation in the state is improving and Prakash Ambedkar should not create any sort of tension in the state,” Raut said, while speaking to reporters in Mumbai. He further said that the protest led by Ambedkar made a joke of social distancing as the crowd that had gathered at Pandharpur for the protest was pushing each other. “Social distancing, which is the most important step to break the Covid chain, had become a joke outside the temple today. Thousands of people gathered there. The transmission of Covid-19 can spread through this [gathering]. The chief minister has anticipated this and thus has not so far allowed the reopening of religious places. Even Prime Minister Modi is not in the mind set to completely lift the lockdown,” Raut added. He also expressed confidence and said Thackeray and the political opponents will collectively find a solution on the reopening of religious places in the state. But Raut also added that no leader should take an “anti-law” stance on the issue and must engage with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-mp-says-prakash-ambedkar-s-protest-outside-maharashtra-s-vitthal-rukmai-temple-a-joke-on-social-distancing/story-K3H9YXpY5acf48b7OZjKFJ.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai bus contractor loses business during lockdown, now drives taxi to make ends meet||In 2015, bus contractor Yusuf Khan was earning approximately Rs4 lakh a month and his company, Khan Travels, had eight buses to its name. Since the lockdown, most of those buses have been seized by banks; Khan Travels has been effectively grounded, and Khan is making ends meet as a taxi driver. Born and raised in Dharavi, 44-year-old Khan has worked hard to climb up the ranks. As the son of a fruit seller, his childhood was marked by poverty. He left school after Class 8 and started working as an electrician. When he was in his 20s, Khan learnt how to drive and went to work in Saudi Arabia as a taxi driver. He stayed in Saudi Arabia for five years and then returned to Mumbai. With his hard-earned savings, he bought a small bus. In 2013, he set up Khan Travels. By 2015, he had invested in eight buses and was earning around Rs 4-5 lakh each month. When the lockdown was imposed, his earnings dwindled swiftly as schools were closed and transport was taken off roads. “Two school buses were left, after the rest were seized by the banks [Khan had bought the buses with the help of loans], and they are biting the dust in the bus stand. There was no income for several months after the lockdown and I did not see the situation improving,” said Khan, who is the sole breadwinner for his family and the father of two sons aged 13 and 17. In August, Khan started driving a black and yellow cab, which he has leased on rent. “I manage to earn Rs 20, 000 a month as a taxi driver but it is not enough to make ends meet,” he said. The effects of the lockdown were harder to bear because Khan had been hit hard by demonetisation in November 2016. Khan’s monthly income reduced from Rs 4-5 lakh to between Rs 50,000 and 60,000 and subsequently, he had to scale back his operations. He had been hoping to expand by adding more school buses to Khan Travels, but the lockdown put an end to those plans. Since March, Khan could only watch was his carefully-built business collapsed and his savings were depleted. Despite the setbacks, Khan remains determined and optimistic. “I have no regret that things did not turn out as planned and I have no shame to work as a taxi driver again. The money I earn is through sheer hard work. Financially, I have seen some very difficult phases in life and if I have managed to overcome those, I shall overcome this as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bus-contractor-loses-business-during-lockdown-now-drives-taxi-to-make-ends-meet/story-c66coaIKrXym0NcvXRjQSO.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||341 new cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra Police; 2 more deaths take toll to 156||The Maharashtra Police department recorded 341 cases of coronavirus among its personnel on Sunday, taking the total tally to 15,294. Two personnel also succumbed to the virus, following which the death toll in the force surged to 156, which also includes 15 officers. Of the 15,294 personnel who were infected, 12,306 have recovered. One of the personnel, who died in the past 24 hours, 46-year-old head constable Santosh Zende, was attached to the Chakan traffic division. This is the first death in the newly-constituted Pimpri-Chinchwad commissionerate. “He complained of sore throat and underwent an antigen test on August 24 and was tested positive for Covid-19. Since August 25, he was undergoing treatment at the Birla Hospital (in Pimpri-Chinchwad). As he suffered from high blood pressure, his condition got worse and he passed away on Sunday,” said senior inspector Vitthal Kubade from the commissionerate. Kubade said that Zende is survived by his mother, wife, an 18-year-old daughter who is pursuing the MBA course and a 13-year-old daughter. “He was a sincere, honest and disciplined policeman. All his colleagues are in a shock. He was the sole wage earner in his family.” According to the commissionerate’s Covid officer, assistant inspector Anil Lohar, of the 322 cases of Covid-19 recorded among the Pimpri-Chinchwad police personnel, only 68 are active cases, while the others have recovered. Meanwhile, 53-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached to the Kulgaon police station of Thane Rural police was the second personnel who died of Covid-19 on Sunday. Shriram Sonawane was undergoing treatment for the virus for over a month at Thane’s Vedanta Hospital. “He developed high fever first and was admitted to the hospital. During treatment, he also developed pneumonia and was given oxygen support for over a month. Sonawane also suffered from high blood pressure. His condition deteriorated and he passed away on Sunday,” said assistant inspector Sandeep Nigade of Kulgaon police station. Sonawane is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/341-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-maharashtra-police-2-more-deaths-take-toll-to-156/story-okskWFXpbqhVd538yZFzTP.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai receives highest August rain since 1959||Monday’s showers brought the August rain tally to 1,247.7mm, making it the highest in August since 1959. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), this month’s rain was the second highest all-time August rainfall, after 1,254mm recorded in 1958, which means it was just 6.3mm short of crossing the all-time August record. In August 1983, Mumbai had recorded 1,243.8mm rain. With 7.6mm rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Monday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 1,247.7mm rain from August 1 to August 31 8.30pm. South Mumbai recorded its second highest August rainfall for the period of 1959-2020, as the Colaba weather station recorded 1,132.9mm rain between August 1 and 8.30pm on August 31. IMD data shows the highest-ever rainfall recorded in Colaba was 1,187.6mm in August 1983. IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said, “As per our accurate forecast, entire Maharashtra, especially north Konkan, including Mumbai, received above-normal rain during July and August, breaking rain records during both the months.” Mohapatra said during August, the formation of five low-pressure weather systems – a region of lower or reduced atmospheric pressure than normal causing weather disturbances including increased precipitation and cloud formation – in the Bay of Bengal led to 26.6% excess rain or the highest monthly rain pan-India since 1973. “For Mumbai, recurring occurrence of a mid-tropospheric circulation (separate system) over south Gujarat and north Konkan coast simultaneously led to an active monsoon trough and increased moisture incursions from the Arabian Sea, leading to moderate to heavy rain throughout most of the month,” he said. This month, the city witnessed one extremely heavy rain day (August 3-4), one very heavy rain day (August 5-6 when south Mumbai received 331.8 mm over 24 hours), two heavy rain days and 12 moderate rain days. Remaining were light showers, with no rain on only two days of the month (August 2 and 13). Mumbai received 50% of its August average rain (585.2mm) in just the first four days, with 293mm rain. Of this, 271mm was recorded between August 3 and August 4. The monthly mean rain mark was crossed on August 9, and thereafter light to moderate showers continued with a few intense spells up to August 21. Between August 29 and 31, the city witnessed moderate to heavy rain spells that allowed the 1983 monthly rain record to be broken. Independent meteorologists said above-normal August performance was indicated by lake levels (supplying water to Mumbai). With just 37.2% of the required quantum on August 5, lake levels rose to 60% by August 13, further 85% by August 19, and currently stands at 96.1%. IMD said September is likely to have rain showers, but not as strong as July and August. Independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom Akshay Deoras said below-average rainfall activity is possible during the first fortnight of September. “The first fortnight is looking unusually dry, unlike July and August where entire monthly rainfall occurred in the first few days only,” he said. IMD has predicted light to moderate rain from September 1 to 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-highest-august-rain-since-1959/story-6dASU2D75VmZnvWonEUfPK.html
01-09-2020||City||Maharashtra extends price cap for treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals till November 30||The Maharashtra health department, late on Monday, issued a circular extending the duration of the price cap imposed on private hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients till November 30.The circular also stated that private hospitals can begin charging regular rates for the 50% beds reserved for non-Covid patients, even as the government rates will be applicable to the remaining 50% beds meant for Covid-19 patients. This order will remain effective till November 30. In April, the state government had mandated that private hospitals would have to allocate 20% beds for Covid-19 patients. Out of these, 80% beds are regulated by the civic body. As the order lapsed in August, BMC officials held a meeting with 12 representatives of private hospitals on August 27. However, private hospitals have raised their concerns over the move. They said another extension of the rule will cause them economic losses. Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician with Bombay Hospital, said, “Several private hospitals are facing losses owing to the price capping rule. That’s why we held a meeting with the officers and put forward our issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-extends-price-cap-for-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-at-private-hospitals-till-november-30/story-IUUoosMl2Lrex8yiwOXfrI.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||British Sikh soldier’s promotion makes waves on social media||A British Sikh soldier’s promotion within the UK Army ranks has become a social media sensation after the news posted by his proud wife attracted thousands of messages and comments. Corporal Chamandeep Singh, a Punjab-born soldier in the Royal Logistic Corps (RLC) of the British Army, attended a military school in India for 12 years. During this period, he read about another Indian soldier, Havildar Major Rajinder Singh Dhatt, and his heroic involvement in the Burma campaign of World War II. The story of this Sikh war veteran, along with Singh’s own father having served in the Indian Army, inspired him to move to the UK and join the British Army. He is now a Twitter sensation after his wife, Ceese Kaur Seera, posted the news of his promotion earlier this month, which attracted over 7,300 likes and 500 retweets and comments. “The person who has supported me throughout my journey is my wife, Ceese,” said Cpl Singh, who has been amazed by the worldwide response, including from India. “I just couldn’t believe how many people from all around the world shared and commented on her tweet; it made me feel so proud to be a Sikh soldier and serve this country,” he said. His wife herself works in a challenging role, as a Forensic Science Investigations Officer, and is also the National Lead for the National Sikh Police Association. “We support each other by having a mutual understanding that is built on teamwork and trust. I am always incredibly proud of my husband’s achievements and getting promoted is a huge deal to any soldier, but as a Sikh, it’s so wonderful for our community to see soldiers going up the ranks and achieving so much,” said Ceese Kaur Seera. “I wanted to share this incredible news with my friends through social media; I didn’t think for a second the tweet would do as well as it did – the number of messages we had was amazing,” she said. Her soldier husband was posted to 22 Signals Regiment in October 2017 where he now works as part of the Unit Spares Account providing first-line equipment support to the Light Aid Detachment, the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) said in a statement marking his promotion. Singh is part of 150 Sikhs serving in Britain’s Regular Army, amid soldiers famed for their fierce fighting ability, bravery and loyalty, the MoD said. “I have always been supported throughout my career in the Army, particularly by Staff Sergeant Rogers and Sergeant Adeboga from 22 Signals Regiment. These individuals, in particular, have shown me a huge amount of support, I cannot thank them enough; they are true examples of excellent Army leadership and mentoring,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/british-sikh-soldier-s-promotion-makes-waves-on-social-media/story-EvA4DzauHQMGO9uhorjQ9J.html
01-09-2020||City||Unlock 3.0: Mohali, Panchkula witness major surge in cases, deaths||The Unlock 3.0 procedure that began on August 1 in Mohali witnessed 77% of all positive cases so far and 83% of all casualties.Of the total 3,770 cases reported in the last five months, 2,920 were recorded in August alone, while 65 people out of a total 80 lost their lives.Even the recovery rate in the district saw a decline from 72% in July to 55% in August. According to cumulative test results, a total of 27,076 samples were tested, of which 25,676 returned negative at the rate of 94.85%.The rate of active cases on August 1 was 39.26%, a 5% from 26% recorded on July 1. In the past 60 days, active cases have risen by 20%.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the spur in cases was due to extensive contact tracing and most persons, who became spreaders, had a domestic travel history. “More than 90% positive cases are those who came in contact with pilgrims from Hazoor Sahib, overseas NRIs and residents stranded in other states,” he said.On the spike in deaths, Dayalan said most of them were comorbid patients suffering from diabetes and hypertension. “We have directed all private hospitals to increase their tertiary Covid-care bed capacity to cope with the surge in cases. Keeping in view the deaths of comorbid patients, more hospitals will be equipped with type-III facilities to give primal treatment apart from Covid-19,” he added.‘EXPECT 100 CASES DAILY IN THE NEXT 3 WEEKS’ With 75% of all Covid-19 cases in the district being reported in August alone, experts are expecting a similar pace in the next three weeks as well.Total 1,669 persons tested positive within August out of total 2,230 cases since March. Only 561 cases were reported till July 31. Meanwhile, 18 deaths (1.07% fatality rate) were reported this month as compared to just two till July 31 (0.35% fatality rate).Till July 31, 19,370 samples had been taken and by August 31, 33,001 samples were being tested.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “With Unlock 3.0, people started travelling, training began at ITBP, government offices and public transport resumed service. For nearly a fortnight now, people are least bothered about social distancing or wearing masks. All this led to a sudden surge of cases in August.”“As we are doing parallel testing, house-to-house surveys and picking people who are symptomatic, we expect the same pace of cases (over 100 per day) in the next three weeks and after that we can expect regular 50-60 cases per day,” she added.“However, it’s too early to predict anything and we have to hold on. The focus is on minimising deaths and managing the situation in the best possible way,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-3-0-mohali-panchkula-witness-major-surge-in-cases-deaths/story-00fZ3oYd9bTtSUZYXuWqhO.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||JEE, NEET aspirants in Mumbai Metropolitan Region allowed to travel by local trains to reach exam centres||Students who will appear for the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) this month will be allowed to travel by local trains. Parents or guardians of the students will also be allowed to accompany them on locals. The aspirants will have to carry their admit cards, as the railway authorities will check them at the entrance of the stations. The Central Railway and Western Railway will also open additional booking counters at the railway stations to facilitate ticket bookings for students. On Monday night, the Central Railway issued a statement on the permission for train travel granted to JEE, NEET aspirants. “Candidates who are appearing for JEET and NEET, that will be conducted in September are permitted to travel by special suburban services of the Mumbai suburban network of Central and Western Railways. Except for essential services staff and aspirants and their companions, others are requested not to rush to the stations. It is also requested that travellers follow medical and social protocols as mandated for Covid-19,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jee-neet-aspirants-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-allowed-to-travel-by-local-trains-to-reach-exam-centres/story-SBcOUzZOtiVuoO6xUwrWSL.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||73% of all Covid-19 deaths in Chandigarh reported in August alone||August has proven to be the worst month so far for Chandigarh where the pandemic is concerned with 3,300 new positive cases and 41 new deaths being reported.This means that 75% of the total cases were reported in August alone while more than 73% deaths reported so far were also registered in this month.At 5.3%, the average seven-day growth rate of cases is the highest in the country, while the number of active cases has increased five times between July 31 and August 31. A majority of the positive patients, however, opted for home isolation.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed doctors to focus on symptomatic patients and regularly monitor those in home isolation. An official spokesperson said, “They should be brought to the hospital in case there is deterioration or aggravation of their medical condition. The control room must check their status every day over the phone and the ambulance should be ready to shift them to the hospital. Such a facility should be available round-the-clock.”SEPTEMBER CRUCIAL MONTHExperts say September is going to be a crucial period, and tracking and testing should be ramped up.Director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Dr Jagat Ram, said the cases were expected to grow in the month of September as well. “This month is going to be crucial for the pandemic. The cases may start decreasing only by the end of this month. Till then, extra precautions need to be taken; not adhering to safety precautions could be more harmful,” he said.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and school of public health at PGIMER, said for every positive case, a minimum of 15 contacts needed to be traced and tested to control the pandemic. “If 100 persons test positive, 1,500 of their contacts need to be identified and tested. This chain needs to grow and if enough contacts are identified and tested, you can expect that the cases will start to decrease in the next one to two weeks,” he said.INCREASING POSITIVITY RATE A GRIM FACTORIn August, the UT recorded an increase in the positivity rate as well. For every 100 people tested in this month, 20 returned positive. This ratio was only 7 positive cases per 100 people tested till July 31. The UT conducted 16,138 tests in August against 14,239 tests conducted from March till July 31.“This calls for more aggressive testing and tracing. On average 15 contacts need to be identified and tested. High-risk groups with underlying diseases need to be taken special care of. Chandigarh being a small city can actually take the lead in such initiatives. People in certain professions who make direct contact with a large number of people should also be regularly tested. They can be asymptomatic carriers,” added Dr Rajesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/73-of-all-covid-19-deaths-in-chandigarh-reported-in-august-alone/story-m192d1MSRBocMkJtb7hMmO.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Students in Maharashtra can appear for final-year exams from home||The Maharashtra government will allow students to appear for their final year examinations from their homes, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. These exams for professional and non-professional courses are likely to start in early October and the state may seek an extension up to November 10 from the University Grants Commission (UGC) to complete the examination process. A final decision is expected in the next two to three days. The state’s higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said on Monday, “Majority of the vice chancellors have suggested seeking one month’s time [up to October 31] from UGC to complete the examination process. A few also suggested an extension up to November 10. The state government has requested the committee ensure students won’t have to step out of homes to appear for examinations considering the pandemic. A consensus among vice chancellors has been reached on the issue, following which a decision has also been taken,” Samant said. Following a Supreme Court (SC) order, the state had formed a committee of vice chancellors to suggest measures to safely complete the examinations process. A committee of vice-chancellors from various universities had met on Sunday to consider the best options for final year exams. It is expected to submit its report on Wednesday to the higher and technical education department. The report will later be discussed before the state disaster management authority, which is headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, for final approval. “The committee of vice chancellors will submit their report on September 2 which will be discussed in the meeting of state disaster management authority where a final decision will be taken,” said Samant, after meeting the vice-chancellors. Samant said the vice chancellors have sought a day’s time to finalise modalities and guidelines for conducting examinations. “The committee of vice chancellors will submit their report on September 2, which will be discussed in the meeting of state disaster management authority where a final decision will be taken,” said Samant, after meeting with the vice-chancellors. Last week, SC had ruled out students being promoted without writing final year examinations and also upheld a July 6 directive of UGC to hold exams by September 30. However, SC gave states the liberty to approach UGC to postpone the deadline and hold examinations after September 30, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is likely that examinations can be conducted in the first week of October and will be of fewer marks than the regular ones so that students won’t have to go through lot of stress. They will also get September for studies,” Samant said, adding that organising examinations during Covid-19 crisis was challenging. “We are also trying to figure out how to accommodate students who are not comfortable with online examinations,” he said. Prajakt Tanpure, minister of state for higher and technical education, said that there are multiple options that allow students to take the exams from their homes. “The state has options such as open book exams that allow students to refer to books to answer the question; multiple choice question (MCQ); optical mark recognition (OMR); and assignment-based exams, through which students can appear for examinations from home,” Tanpure said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-in-maharashtra-can-appear-for-final-year-exams-from-home/story-Q8Yffu39ZNfrWyJi7a6HnI.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Speeding car rams into 8 at Mumbai’s Crawford Market; 4 killed, 4 hurt||Four pedestrians, including three elderly women, were killed and four others seriously injured after the driver of a speeding Maruti Esteem lost control of the vehicle at Crawford Market on Monday night. The incident took place around 9pm opposite Cafè Janata, near Colombo junction on Lokmanya Tilak Road. The driver, identified as Sameer Diggy alias Sayyed, believed to be a resident of Imambada, suffered minor injuries. The victims have been identified as Mohammed Nadeem, Saroja Naidu, 65, Zubeda Abdul Rehman Khan, 60, Saira Bano 60. Rajiv Jain, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, said, “The car (MH02-NA-5325) was heading towards Carnac Bunder when the driver lost control and rammed into pedestrians on the footpath.” The injured have been identified as Hanif Jainul, 32, Nadeem Ansari, 45, Kamlesh Singh, 20, and Mustakeen Chhotu Shah, 41. They are undergoing treatment at JJ hospital. Jainul worked as a waiter at the cafè, while Ansari was a street vendor. Ansari had gone to bring food for his family from the restaurant, preliminary probe revealed. The police have carried out the spot panchnama and recorded the statements of witnesses and the injured.At the time of going to press, Sayyed was taken into custody, but police were still to file a case of causing death by negligent and dangerous driving. The police said that in June, too, Sayyed had rammed his vehicle into a truck. “All angles would be probed, including if the driver was under the influence of alcohol or drugs,” said an officer from Pydhonie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/speeding-car-rams-into-8-at-mumbai-s-crawford-market-4-killed-4-hurt/story-rMpdApYajKEDUM3T93uJ9J.html
01-09-2020||City||Maharashtra government allows inter-district travel, permits more staff in office||Almost five months after imposing the lockdown, the state government has now allowed inter-district travel, increased the workforce in government-private offices, done away with e-passes required for travel and allowed hotels and lodges to operate at their full strength. The relaxations will come into effect from September 2, a day after the conclusion of the ongoing Ganesh festival. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar issued the notification on Monday, extending the ongoing lockdown till September 30, while lifting a few restrictions. Although the Central government has restricted the lockdown only to containment zones, the Maharashtra government has continued the curbs in 19 municipal corporation-governed urban areas. Contrary to the Central diktat, the state government continued a ban on operations of Metro services in Mumbai. The state government has not allowed religious places to open, despite the pressing demand by various political parties and religious organisations. The state has also not allowed gymnasiums to open, although chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said two days ago that the government was positive about allowing them to operate. Eight days after the Central government’s diktat of doing away with e-passes required for inter-district travel, the state has announced lifting curbs on inter-district travel, doing away with passes or permission. Private passenger buses, mini buses, too, have been allowed to operate. The restrictions on inter-state travel, however, continue. While increasing the attendance in government offices, all officers in Class A and B category have been asked to attend the office daily. The attendance of the employees in category C and D has been increased to 50% or minimum 50 employees in areas, excluding the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region. In these areas, the category C and D employees will attend the offices at 30% of their strength or 30 employees, whichever is more. “Private offices can now operate at 30% of their strength (or 30 employees, whichever is more) from existing permitted strength of 10% or minimum 10 employees,” the notification states. After allowing hotels, lodges, guest houses to operate at a third of their capacity from July 8, they have now been given permission to operate at their full strength. “We have continued with certain restrictions outside containment zones, under the powers conferred upon states. States can impose stricter norms, but cannot dilute the central restrictions. There could be more relaxations in a phased manner in the future. We have not allowed inter-state travel, although inter-district movement has now been allowed,” said chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. Schools, colleges, educational institutions, theatres, swimming pools, bars will remain closed till September 30, the notification has stated. Metro rail too will remain shut at least for one more month. The restrictions on social, political, cultural gatherings, too, continue, the notification has stated. “From operations of the gymnasium to opening of the religious places are on the cards. Even the Centre has given relaxations in a phased manner and some of them come into effect from September 21. We have ample time to think over more relaxations till then,” said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-allows-inter-district-travel-permits-more-staff-in-office/story-2hhndZ1EkewPI6pg3uPgiO.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court directs Maharashtra govt to respond to Parsis’ plea to pray at Tower of Silence||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state government to hear a plea by the representatives of the Bombay Parsi Panchayat (BPP) who sought permission to hold a prayer meeting for its members at the Dongarwadi Tower of Silence at Kemps Corner.After the state submitted that it could only allow one such prayer meeting across Maharashtra for the entire community, the court directed the panchayat to consider the same, and meet Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary home (special) and Kishor Raje Nimbalkar, secretary, disaster management department at Mantralaya on Monday evening. The court also directed the state to submit the decision of the two officers by Wednesday. A division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar while hearing the petition filed by Viraf Mehta, a trustee of BPP was informed by advocate Prakash Shah that the panchayat representing its Mumbai members had approached the court seeking permission to hold special prayers for the departed souls at the Dongerwadi Tower of Silence at Kemps Corner.Shah submitted that the premise was spread over 55 acres and has five separate pavilions where members of the community wanted to come and pray for the souls of their departed loved ones on Farvardin Roj on September 3. Shah submitted that the panchayat would ensure that all social distancing norms would be followed, hence the state should be directed to grant permission for allowing the around 500 members of the community to conduct prayers between 7.30am and 4.30pm on the day. However, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni objected to the petition and said that if the petition was only meant for one Tower of Silence then the state was opposed to it. He, however, added that if the petition was representative of all Towers of Silence across Maharashtra, the state was willing to consider the application in the same way as it had considered the applications of the Jain and Muslim community for Paryushan and Moharram respectively.Though Shah submitted that the BPP was only seeking permission for Doongerwadi at Kemps Corner, the court directed the officials at Mantralaya to give the representatives of BPP a hearing on Monday evening and submit its report to the court on Wednesday when the petition would be decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-directs-state-to-respond-to-parsi-community-s-plea-to-pray-at-tower-of-silence/story-juWus2Abxx3WAWRzFT2KkL.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana jails have maximum convicts from other states: NCRB report 2019||Jails in Haryana have the maximum number of convicts belonging to other states, show the nationwide prison statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for year 2019. The bureau data showed that in 2019, there were 1,353 ‘other state domicile’ convicts in Haryana prisons, about 15.5% of the nationwide 8,726 convicts belonging to other states. It also reported the highest number of transfer of convicts (269) to other states. The NCRB report showed that Haryana with 17,043 inmates was among the top three states in the country in terms of highest number of inmates lodged in its jails. The first two are Uttar Pradesh (87,569) and Bihar (21,084). Haryana is also among the 12 states which does not have any open jail. It also figured among a few states having more than 2,000 inmates with no correctional staff. At 26.39%, Haryana in 2019 reported the highest number of convicted inmates lodged for committing offences against public tranquillity (rioting) under the Indian Penal Code. The state, whose prisons had an occupancy rate of 106.48%, also figured among the 17 states which reported more than 100% occupancy rate in 2019. The report said that the occupancy rate of district jails at national level is 129.71%, which showed overcrowding in jails. The state during 2019 was also among the top four in terms of prisoners released on parole (2,377). Punjab with 7,973 parole releases followed by Madhya Pradesh (3,663) and Gujarat (2,919) were ahead of Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-jails-have-maximum-convicts-from-other-states-ncrb-report-2019/story-kUjjEu4lZmLqSplZU16AAP.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Equal street in Mumbai: BKC roads to open up for bicycles soon||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) will soon introduce the ‘equal streets’ concept in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). This would mean no vehicular entry in BKC for a day, enabling citizens to ride their bikes or undertake other leisure activities. MMRDA is planning to start the initiative from October 2. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA made this announcement at the launch of a public bike-sharing initiative at BKC on Monday. “It will be like the equal streets initiative of Bandra or the one in Bengaluru where the roads are free for citizens for a day. We are planning to do it every Sunday,” said Rajeev, adding that except the main BKC avenue, all roads will be free. The initiative in Bandra was started by a group of citizen associations, organising various leisure activities for all age groups. BKC is Mumbai’s topmost commercial hub, where there is not much activity on weekends. MMRDA is also planning to improve all the footpaths in the complex and make it cycle-friendly. The work will start after monsoon, Rajeev said. On Monday, the authority launched Yulu bikes, a public electric bike-sharing facility from the Raheja Towers in BKC. Around 100 e-bikes will be available at nine different locations (including the Bandra and Kurla stations) for commuters. “Around three lakh people alight at the Bandra and Kurla stations every day, of which 75% come to BKC via autos. While autos have their own advantage, these bikes will also work to commuters’ advantage with its pricing, ease of commute and parking,” Rajeev added. Commuters can download the Yulu app from the play store and register. Once you find a Yulu zone, you can unlock the bike for ₹5, post which you will be charged Rs 1.5 for every minute. Commuters will have to pay Rs 199 as a deposit and can also avail the super saver packs. The bikes will also be sanitised after every ride, a spokesperson from Yulu said. Madhav Pai, director, World Resources Institute (WRI) said, “Mumbai needs last-mile connectivity options and these initiatives are ideal for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/equal-street-in-mumbai-bkc-roads-to-open-up-for-bicycles-soon/story-57FzjentRKCHkWdttTBz4M.html
01-09-2020||City||New sewer lines: Dug Mohali road turns into swimming pool||After work to lay new sewer lines in Mohali was interrupted due to monsoon, the dug-up roads turned into a swimming pool during recent rains where kids could be found frolicking in. Residents alleged that the authorities were waiting for a mishap to happen and that there was no supervision on the part of the civic body or the concerned contractor.Mukesh Garg, MC superintending engineer, said though they had cleared the water, they will check again and direct the contractor to depute somebody so that children don’t jump into the water.Former GMADA executive engineer NS Kalsi said, “It is complete negligence on the part of the civic body. Commuters are facing a lot of problems due to road blockage. In case any accident happens, the MC will be held responsible since they have failed to lend an eye to the issue.”The ₹22-crore project, inaugurated on March 2 by health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, will mitigate the sewerage problems of Phases 1 to 11. The project is being set up near NIPER in Phase 10 under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. The 9.9-km and 24-48 inches thick new modern pipeline is being laid in Phases 1, 2, 3b1, 3b2, 4,5,6,7,8,9,10 and 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-sewer-lines-dug-mohali-road-turns-into-swimming-pool/story-0eU9JGbSN1OCN2bEemZ25H.html
01-09-2020||City||Barvi dam in Thane reaches its full capacity, over 2,000 cusecs water released||The nine gates of the Barvi dam were opened on Monday at around 5.30am, after the dam water level reached its full capacity due to constant rainfall, since last four days. As per the officials, 550 cusecs of water was released from the dam in the morning hours, and over 2,000 cusecs of water was released in the evening.“The water level of the dam reached its full capacity on Sunday night followed by which the water released. However, this has not led to any flooding in the nearby premises till now,” said Sachin Rakshe, executive engineer, Barvi dam. Out of the 11 gates of the dam, nine were opened. In a notification issued by the Thane collector office, all the municipal corporations in its limits were alerted to take precautionary measures, due to the continuous rainfall since Friday morning in the catchment area of the dam. The notice issued to civic bodies, Tehsil office, Thane rural police and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) of Kalyan- Dombivli, Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Badlapur regions stated that on Friday. The overflow level of water in the dam is 72.60 meter. The water from Barvi dam is supplied to Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Mira-Bhayander, Bhiwandi and Navi Mumbai. The irrigation department had increased the dam’s height in 2016 to 234 mcm. They now plan to increase the capacity to 340mcm, after the rehabilitation issue of the people near the dam is resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/barvi-dam-in-thane-reaches-its-full-capacity-over-2-000-cusecs-water-released/story-RVuwBwHT1JlvCv31E4WdtI.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Bidding adieu to Ganpati: 35,000 cops deployed in Mumbai||Over 35,000 police personnel will be on duty today as part of Mumbai Police’s bandobast for Anant Chaturthi, the last day of Ganeshotsav. A general high alert has been sounded across the city and the police have appealed to citizens to only go to visarjan points if it’s absolutely necessary. A total of 16 roads will be closed in south Mumbai, six roads will be closed at Central suburbs, 20 roads will be closed at eastern suburbs, and 12 roads will be closed at western suburbs of Mumbai, during Ganesh visarjan.Important roads which will remain closed for traffic are Bharatmata Junction to Bawla compound on Dr BA Road, Chinchpokli bridge to Shravan Yashvant Chowk and Kalachauki on Dr SS Road, Parel TT to GD Ambedkar Road, Ranade Road, Shivaji Park Path number 3 and 4, Keluskar Marg, NC Kelkar Marg and MB Raut Marg.Citizens have been asked to perform rituals, like aartis, at home rather than at visarjan spots to prevent crowding. “Citizens shall not come out and crowd the street unnecessarily amid the pandemic,” said Mumbai Police spokesperson, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) N Ambika. According to Mumbai Police, staff members from all 94 police stations have been assigned duties from Monday midnight onward. Nearly 1,500 from special units and side branches – such as crime branch, local arms police, economic offences wing and special branch, among others – will help local police stations maintain law and order. “Policemen in plain clothes would be deployed at places which witness big crowds, to keep a check on molesters,” said DCP Ambika.A statement issued by Mumbai Police on Monday said, “The CCTV network of over 5,000 cameras would be used to monitor people’s movement on streets leading to chowpatties for Ganesh idols’ immersions. The police have also roped in additional troops of state reserve police force, riot control force and rapid action force, quick response teams (QRTs), bomb detection disposal squads and home guards for the bandobast.” Mountain cops on horses will patrol areas on the sea front to ensure people do not gather in large number. Drone cameras may be used at the major chowpatties such as Girgaon and Juhu. The city police will also deploy divers and arrange for boats in coordination with the Coast Guard and the Indian Navy at visarjan spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bidding-adieu-to-ganpati-35-000-cops-deployed-in-mumbai/story-JRmQXsK0r5hJx8FUMj3jmN.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||IAS officer Khemka trains guns at CBI, seeks accountability||Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka on Monday trained his guns at the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) seeking performance accountability from the probe agency.In a cryptic tweet in Hindi, Khemka said the CBI has an annual budget of ₹800 crore. “But how many convictions and acquittals (in the cases probed by the central agency). How will be the accountability fixed? If we take into account cases investigated in the last few years… Did any big wheel get sentenced?” Khemka tweeted.“Haathi ke daant dikhane ke kuch aur khane ke kuch aur hote hain (The visible teeth (tusks) and those used by an elephant to eat are not the same,” the officer wrote on the micro-blogging site, hinting at the possible double standard in the agency’s working.Responding to a follower who asked whether the Supreme Court ruling on punishing cops when accused get let off in criminal cases was relevant, Khemka said, “Has any cop ever been punished when an accused gets acquitted. Bofors? 2G Spectrum? Or any other.”To another follower, he wrote: “The question is who will appoint an honest and effective officer. Everybody liked a flexible spine.” In reply to a question about an alternate solution, the officer asked: “What is the solution to a weak character?”While the IAS officer refused to comment on the intent behind his tweet, it clearly showed his disillusionment with the functioning of the central agency tasked with probes involving politicians, bureaucrats and high-profile individuals.Khemka, who has been in a whistle-blower in several major scams, is also learnt to be disappointed with the way the CBI has probed cases involving former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, including the Manesar land release case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ias-officer-khemka-trains-guns-at-cbi-seeks-accountability/story-SBKvf6Zr2HRJcnmxn3zBFJ.html
01-09-2020||City||3-year-old drowns in open car washing pit in Virar||A three-year-old girl drowned in an open car washing pit which was filled with rainwater in Kaner Phata, in Virar (East) on Friday. Her body was fished out on Saturday morning.According to police, the deceased Aradhya Kishen Auji is a resident of Borivli and had come to stay with her grandparents in Virar. While playing outside, she climbed on the ramp of the garage, where vehicles were hauled up for washing, and slipped. “She fell in a six-feet deep washing pit which was filled with rainwater and died,” said senior inspector Suresh Warade of Virar police station.The grandparents had alerted the locals on finding the girl missing. Her body was then found floating in the pit. Locals rushed her to the nearby hospital where she was declared dead.The garage was closed since March due to the lockdown. “We have sent the body for post-mortem and have registered a case of accidental death,” said Warade. “We have booked Vipin Raut, the owner of the garage for negligence. If the pit would have been covered or a guard was deployed, this accident would have been averted,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-year-old-drowns-in-open-car-washing-pit-in-virar/story-fKXZl6Owtt0WTpru5Et4UL.html
01-09-2020||City||53-year-old rapes minor in Kalyan||Titwala police have arrested a 53-year-old man for allegedly raping a 12-year-old neighbour when she was alone at home. According to police, the accused Husain Boblai, 53 visited her under pretext of repairing the fan and allegedly raped her on Saturday. The girl shared the incident with her teacher, after which a complaint was registered. The accused identified as Husain Boblai, 53, moved in the area just 10 days ago. He tried to talk to the girl often. Titwala police said, “On Saturday afternoon after the girl’s parents left for the work, she was playing inside the house with her siblings. The man gave some money to her siblings to bring chocolate, after which, he locked the door and raped the girl. He was threatened the girl not to tell anyone. Although on Sunday, girl went to meet her teacher and narrated the incident.”Titwala police arrested the accused immediately from his house. He work as a labourer and was at home since past few days. He was arrested under IPC section 376 and POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/53-year-old-rapes-minor-in-kalyan/story-vYYEnMcrZ9zItG1uzP4JHO.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: CBI continues to question Rhea Chakraborty; ED quizzes Goa hotelier||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) continued to question actor Rhea Chakraborty for the fourth consecutive day on Monday in their probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea is at the centre of a controversy following the alleged death by suicide of Rajput, 34, on June 14. Rhea left her home at 10:30am on Monday to appear before CBI officials at the DRDO guesthouse in Santacruz (East) and was questioned for nine-and-a-half hours. The agency also quizzed Rhea’s brother Showik, Rajput’s cook Neeraj Singh, househelp Keshav Bachner, flatmate and creative manager Siddharth Pithani, and his former business manager Shruti Modi. CBI officials, on condition of anonymity, said Rhea and the others were questioned about various financial transactions. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is conducting a parallel probe into money laundering allegations that have emerged in the case, questioned Goa-based hotelier Gaurav Arya for around nine hours on Monday. Arya reached the ED office in Mumbai at 10:45am, after he was summoned for questioning. Arya runs Hotel Tamarind and Café Cotinga in Goa.ED officials had last week visited Hotel Tamarind at Anjuna, a coastal village in north Goa, but found the property to be shut. They have stuck a notice on the door of the hotel, which according to officials has been shut since the lockdown restrictions were enforced in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. Arya has also been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and is being investigated by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). The NCB had last Wednesday registered a first information report (FIR) against Rhea, Showik, talent manager Jaya Saha, Modi and Arya under sections 20, 22, 27 and 29 of the NDPS Act.Modi’s advocate Ashok Sarogi said, “Rajput was a very ambitious person, and was looking for various kinds of investments. He had called a meeting of his chartered accountant (CA), advocate and others on how he could utilise his money, and how he could save money for his future. My client has no role to play with respect to the drugs angle that has come up in the case. But it is certain that Rajput used to do drugs. There are WhatsApp chats in their closed group in which people were chatting about it, Sushant was also in the group. Modi had just joined work, around mid-July last year. They used to chat in the group and she was asked to forward the message to another person and it seems that it was regarding drugs, and Modi was not aware. But subsequently, when she got to know by end-July, she clearly told Rajput that she was not here for all these things, and had offered to quit her job.” “Sushant told her that she will not be part of the WhatsApp group, and after that she did not get any messages related to drugs and was not part of it,” said Sarogi. “She quit the job after she fractured her leg in February. As of now, NCB has not called her for inquiry. ED has already questioned her.”The NCB action came after the ED wrote to the agency, asking it to probe if drugs were supplied to Rajput and Rhea, who has been questioned multiple times by the latter.Arya’s name cropped in Rhea’s WhatsApp conversations related to drugs. ED officials, however, have so far refused to divulge details of whether there were any financial transactions between Arya and Rajput, or Chakraborty or others named in the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered by the central agency.Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. The post-mortem report concluded he died by suicide. After a two-week quiet, a controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterparts. The probe was handed over to CBI by the Supreme Court, after it upheld the validity of the Bihar Police’s first information report (FIR) filed on the basis of a complaint by Rajput’s father, KK Singh, who has accused actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting his son’s suicide and misappropriating his money.Chakraborty, who has been questioned multiple times by the agencies, has denied all allegations levelled against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-cbi-continues-to-question-rhea-chakraborty-ed-quizzes-goa-hotelier/story-9lPkCqKaEdQJ5x0TifrsSO.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Congress demands probe against filmmaker Sandeep Ssingh||Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant on Monday met state home minister Anil Deshmukh and demanded a thorough probe into filmmaker Sandeep Ssingh’s alleged links with the drug cartel in Bollywood and his relationship with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sawant said he has also handed over a few documents as proof and the minister has assured him to pass on the complaint to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is currently investigating actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.BJP, however, rubbished the allegations and termed them a “publicity stunt”. When HT called Ssingh for a comment, his phone was switched off, and he had not responded to messages till the time of going to press. Ssingh was one of first few people to reach the residence of Rajput after the news of his death emerged on June 14. Sawant, in his three-page letter to Deshmukh, has pressed for the need to probe Ssingh in various cases. “The producer of a biopic on PM Narendra Modi was the only filmmaker to sign a MoU worth Rs177 crore at the Vibrant Gujarat summit in January 2019, just days ahead of the release of the biopic. Did Gujarat government favour Ssingh’s Legend Global Studio by signing a MoU with him just because he was the producer of the biopic? The MoU was signed despite the fact that the company had suffered financial losses of Rs66 lakh in 2017 and Rs4 lakh in 2019. On what basis did Gujarat government sign a MoU worth Rs177 crore with such a loss making company,” said Sawant.Sawant also alleged that Ssingh had called state BJP office 53 times from September 1, 2019, to December 23, 2019 during the Maharashtra Assembly elections. “In the backdrop of the allegations of Ssingh’s direct involvement in the drug cartel in Bollywood, the questions being raised are who in BJP was in touch with Ssingh and who is shielding the producer… The producer is learnt to have briefed a senior BJP leader about the death case,” Sawant alleged. When asked about the evidence he has about Ssingh, Sawant said a probe will “bring out the truth”. “I have submitted the balance sheet of Ssingh’s company, the photographs of him signing a MoU and the records of a serious case registered against him in Mauritius. We have demanded a probe so that the truth comes out,” he said.BJP rubbished the allegations, saying it was just a publicity stunt by the Congress. “Sawant has started levelling allegations the moment Rajput death case went to the CBI. If there was serious proof against Ssingh in the case, why did the state police not investigate it when the probe was with them for more than two months? Was the state police under political pressure to not probe certain angles? Instead of levelling allegations, Congress should give firm evidence to the investigating agency helping it to unearth the truth,” said Maharashtra BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-congress-demands-probe-against-filmmaker-sandeep-ssingh/story-nI4bNwXoYatFfnQsmC7HNL.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||13-year-old heart recipient recovers from Covid-19 in Chandigarh||A 13-year-old heart recipient was discharged from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Monday after his successful recovery from the transplant and then winning the battle against Covid-19. The young recipient, a Class-8 student at a private school in Sector 19, was greeted with flowers and best wishes and a painting on organ donation symbolising that the “circle of life should not break”, as he and his mother exited the hospital and got into the home-bound ambulances. Madhu, the boy’s mother, said, “We are indebted to the PGIMER team for their care, concern and compassion. There were many phases of hopelessness and despair when we thought we have lost the battle. But, the PGIMER team with their constant medical and psychological support, helped us sail through and come out victorious in both challenges; first the heart transplant and then, Covid-19.”Complimenting the young boy on his successful recovery, PGIMER director Jagat Ram said, “I am elated that the untiring efforts of the PGIMER team paid off and the young heart recipient is on his way home. It is a moment of triumph and jubilation not only for him and his family, but for the entire medical team as his recovery from Covid-19 was a tremendous challenge due to his recent heart transplant.”GD Puri, dean (academics), PGIMER, appreciated the family for their cooperation and trust in the hospital team. He urged them to take forward the message of observing safety precautions including wearing masks, hand washing and social distancing. “This will be the biggest service to the medical fraternity, who are risking their own lives to save the lives of others,” he said.The cardiothoracic and vascular surgery (CTVS) team, headed by Shyam K Singh, conducted the transplant surgery on July 31. The donor’s heart was in good condition.“The only hick-up we faced was the recipient contracting Covid positive, but he was taken good care of and recovered well,“ doctors saidAjay Bahl, department of cardiology, PGIMER, who has been involved in the case since the beginning, said, “A week after the transplant, while still in recovery here in PGIMER, the boy developed fever and was found to be Covid positive. Prior to the transplant, he had tested negative. But thanks to the multi-disciplinary teams that managed him, he has made full recovery and been discharged exactly a month after the transplant.”Vipin Koushal, additional medical superintendent and in-charge, Covid hospital, and Ajay Bahl from department of cardiology, were present at the Class-8 student’s sending-off ceremony along with other team members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/13-year-old-heart-recipient-recovers-from-covid-19-in-chandigarh/story-OkIyWchXGyX3bGYocAlTKL.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana asks colleges to make UG admission process more inclusive for students with disabilities||In an initiative aimed at making the admission process more accessible for students with physical disabilities, the state higher education department has asked colleges across Haryana to make arrangements for having a more “inclusive” process for the upcoming undergraduate (UG) admission process.In a directive shared with college principals of government colleges across the state on Tuesday, the department said it wants bring more PWD (persons with disabilities) students into institutions across the state under its ‘Inclusive Admissions’ campaign.As part of the campaign, a phone number for missed call registrations will be procured by the department. Students who call on the number will receive assistance from the ‘Inclusive Admissions’ teams in during the online admission process.“To aid our PWD students in filling online admission forms, the department seeks to launch an Inclusive Admission Campaign. Under the campaign, a number for registering missed calls will be procured and PWD students will be encouraged to give a missed call on the said number to get their admission forms filled,” Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, wrote to college principals.The state education department said that keeping in mind the goals of National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, which was approved by the Union Cabinet of India on 29 July 2020, Haryana government wanted to incorporate an element of inclusivity at the entry-level by assisting prospective candidates with disabilities at the time of admissions.Pooja Khullar, principal, Dronacharya Government College, said the government was introducing the element of inclusivity to the admission process for physically disabled students, who face inconveniences at the time of admission. She said the college had already deputed students from the college who would be volunteering during the entire admission process. “The department is focusing on an inclusive admission process this time. Due to the pandemic, it becomes even more imperative that disabled students receive assistance. Our student volunteers will be involved at every stage of the admission process. They will act like virtual friends who’ll ensure that disabled candidates are able to complete the admission process without any hassles,” said Khullar.Student volunteers will be trained virtually and will be provided access to laptops and other devices required for completing the online process, said Khullar.The state education department is, however, yet to release the schedule for online admissions to government colleges across the state. Due to the pandemic, the admission process has been delayed by months this year.Vijay Adlakha, principal, Government Girls College, Sector 14, said the missed call number for admission would be made operational once the admission portal opens for registration and prior to that, colleges had been asked to prepare a team of volunteers who would take part in the initiative.“Applicants with any kind of disability who require assistance with the admission process can call on the helpline that will be released by the department. Such applicants will then be connected to volunteers who will assist them till the admission process is completed,” said Adlakha. He said that the admission process and the volunteers will be monitored through WhatsApp support groups.Currently, colleges across the state have a select number of reserved seats for PWD students under various categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-asks-colleges-to-make-ug-admission-process-more-inclusive-for-students-with-disabilities/story-jkVUYbIsMDzTDaaIyiBpmJ.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||35 bars and restaurants in Gurugram shut their business due to poor demand||At least than 35 bars and restaurants in the city, including 11 in CyberHub, have shut down since a nationwide lockdown was imposed in March to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The excise and taxation department said in the past few months, several restaurant owners have approached them, offering to surrender their licence, as they are finding it difficult to survive in the current situation. Several new establishments have also surrendered their liquor licence and vacated their premises.Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation officer (DETC), East, said 35 restaurant owners have surrendered their licences so far due to high operational costs and poor consumer demand. Although many restaurants have started their operations, but people are hardly visiting them. “We have already waived one-third of the licence fees, bringing it down to ₹2 lakh. We have started the liquor licence renewal process for the next quarters. But we fear that more restaurant and pub owners might be prompted to surrender their licences.There is not even a single case where owners have resumed operations without liquor due to poor footfall,” she said. There is a total of 327 restaurants, pubs and bars across the city. Most of the outlets are situated on Golf Course Road, Sector 29 and the Cyber Hub.Earlier this year, the excise department had waived off licence fee for the first quarter (April-June) and is now offering a 20% discount on the advance payment of the fees for the third and fourth quarters in an effort to revive the food services industry. It is not yet clear if the fee for the second quarter (July-Sept) would be waived off as well. Last week, the Haryana government allowed liquor to be served only at tables of restaurants. However, pubs and bars will continue to remain closed, including all establishments with dance floors.However, despite such concessions, the future of the food services industry seems grim, said many restaurant owners. Aditya Bhaskar, owner of Nooba chain of outlets which shut their operations in Cyber Hub and on Golf Course Road on August 1, said that the industry was going through a tough time. “There are no guests in any of the places; people are not willing to come out to dine. We don’t know from when can pubs and bars start operating. We did pay our staff, including all our chefs, as it was our responsibility to take care of their well-being. However, we are unable to pay the rent anymore without any income,” he said. The restaurant owners also alleged that the government did nothing for the food services industry and left them to fend for themselves. Vikram Nair, owner of Khaaja Chowk which shut shop in July, said the rents were really high and dealing with government officials was difficult. “With the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, there’s no clarity as to when the situation will get back to normal. It might take another year or so for the food services industry to get back on its feet,” said Nair. Restaurant owners added that even though the lockdown rules have been relaxed, the crisis is likely to have a long-term impact on the industry. Owners who shut their operations also said that the remaining outlets will find it difficult to survive if the present situation continues for next quarter or so. On an average, one in three establishments could shut down permanently, said restaurant owners. “The rent and overhead costs are so high that without any income it was very difficult to continue. We waited for five months but failed to revive the business. It was difficult to pay salaries, electricity bills and rent. While the liquor licence fee for first quarter was waived off, but we are unwilling to pay for the upcoming quarters without knowing the future of the business,” said Raghav Baweja, owner of Big Wong at Cross Point Mall in DLF Phase-4, that stopped operations in March-end. He added that the rent of an 80-seater restaurant in Gurugram is nearly₹6 lakh per month. Aruna Singh, DETC, East said they are waiting for new orders from the state government that are likely to benefit the hoteliers and restaurant owners. “The industry has suffered huge losses and owners had no other option but to surrender their liquor licences. They were paying high rents and many of them were paying their staff salaries despite little or no business. The department is trying to support such establishments but regaining consumer demand is not in our hands. Restaurants have been allowed to serve liquor but the pub and bars are yet to be operational. We have sent recommendations to the government, requesting for a waiver of their liquor licence fees until the operations are in full swing,” she said. The restaurants were given permission to resume their operations at 50% capacity from June 8. A total of nine five-star hotels, seven four-star hotels and five three-star hotels have also resumed serving liquor to guests. Officials said the hotel association of Gurugram had written to the department in June requesting them to waive their liquor licence fee as they have been shut since March 25. Inderjeet Banga, head, National Restaurants Association of India, Gurugram chapter, said that they have requested the government to support the food services industry given the present state of affairs. “The sate government has allowed serving liquor at tables in the restaurant. It has also offered a rebate of 20% for the next two quarters if we submit the liquor licence fees in the next 10 days,” he said, adding that they are trying to get more concessions so that more restaurants do not have to shut their operations. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/35-bars-and-restaurants-in-gurugram-shut-their-business-due-to-poor-demand/story-1bQ8jHvRorTSQZqqiRKa1L.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Armed robbers steal car, motorcycle, cash from priest in Farrukhnagar||Three unidentified men barged into the premises of a temple in a village in Farrukhnagar Sunday morning and allegedly robbed the temple’s priest and his family of cash worth ₹28,000, five mobile phones, a car and a motorcycle. The police said at least one of the suspects was carrying a gun while the other two had wooden sticks. No arrests have been made in the case so far.According to the police, the incident was reported around 2am on Sunday morning when the complainant, Murari Das, who is a priest at a temple in Hari Nagar village, was asleep in a room in the temple’s compound. In the police complaint, he said, “I was asleep when a suspect, who had a gun, barged into my room. He was accompanied by two aides, who had wooden sticks with them. Their faces were covered. They threatened me to no make any noise or else they would shoot me. They took the keys of my car, my wife’s earrings, and ₹28,000 cash.”Das added that the suspects then entered another room, where his relatives and a helper were asleep. “The suspects took their phones and also forcefully snatched the keys of a motorcycle from my relative. Then they drove away in the car and the motorcycle,” he said.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The suspects are yet to be identified. We are checking the footage from CCTV cameras in neighbouring areas for possible leads.”A case was registered against the unidentified suspects under sections 392 (robbery), 458 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Farrukhnagar police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/armed-robbers-steal-car-motorcycle-cash-from-priest-in-farrukhnagar/story-LcXMWU00wfoTSi2RSjw2eO.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Schools, parents divided over calling senior students for academic guidance||With the Central government’s Unlock 4 guidelines allowing students of classes 9 to 12 to visit schools on a voluntary basis from September 21 to seek academic guidance, some government schools in the city are preparing to call students on a rotational basis once the SOPs are issued by the state government. Most private schools, on the other hand, plan to continue with online classes and are not in favour of asking senior students to visit the school. Parents too continue to remain divided on the issue. While those who do not have access to smartphones and internet connection are willing to send their wards to schools, others prefer online or telephonic consultation. As part of the guidelines, students of classes 9 to 12 can be permitted to visit schools for academic guidance with the written consent of parents, starting September 21. The standard operating procedures for this will be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). While protocols for the same are yet to be issued, government schools in the city welcomed the move and said that it will help students who are unable to access online lessons. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that such visits would help students who had not been able to stay in touch with online lessons regularly due to issues ranging from the absence of smartphones to erratic internet connectivity. “Apart from issues of accessibility, there are some students who are unable to keep up with online lessons due to poor comprehension or irregular lessons. Teachers will be able to assess the issues that they are facing better through in-person interaction,” said Sharma. She said that the school had plans to call students in small batches of five each for clarification of doubts pertaining to concepts. “Our school has enough space to accommodate small groups of students. We are planning to call five students from classes 10 and 12 on a particular day. This will give them a chance to resolve queries and understand concepts that they might be struggling to comprehend. Each student can interact with a teacher while practising physical distancing protocols,” said Sharma. She said that the school had already made arrangements for thermal scanning and sanitisation at the entrance. Asha Miglani, principal of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Sector 43, said that the school was awaiting state guidelines before allowing students to visit schools. “Parents whose children have not been able to keep in touch with online classes regularly would prefer if they are allowed to visit the school for clarification of doubts. We already have Covid-19 protocols in place but will wait for the government to issue specific guidelines,” said Miglani. Most private school administrators, however, said that online classes were going well due to which students might not prefer to visit schools for academic assistance. Anita Malhotra, principal of Lotus Valley, said that the school would wait for another month or more before it decides to call students for even academic assistance. “We will write to parents, and only if they agree, we will consider the possibility of calling students. September is too early to call students and we are planning to wait till October or much later,” said Malhotra. She said that online classes had been going smoothly and children were happy with lessons. “We are getting good feedback on online classes and don’t think parents would be willing to send them to school this year,” said Malhotra, adding that the school was planning to call teachers to school before students. “We are planning to call teachers in smaller groups so that they can gradually start taking classes from school. They need to get used to school visits, possibly on alternate days,” she said. Parents of children in private and government schools had mixed responses about sending children to school. Most parents whose children study in private schools said that they would prefer online or telephonic interaction over physical visits for any assistance. “We’d prefer to call or email the teacher if our son needs any assistance. Physical visits to schools would be our last choice. So far, teachers have been available for remote assistance,” said Kaushik. Lalit Kumar, whose daughters study in different government schools in the city, said that he’d send his daughters to school if they needed help. “We don’t have a smartphone at home due to which regular lessons have been disrupted. If the school allows, my daughters would definitely visit and meet the teachers for guidance,” said Kumar. Sudesh Raghav, who holds additional charge as Gurugram’s block education officer, said that while the Central government had given permission to schools, the state government was yet to issue any guidelines on the subject. “We are waiting for the state government to issue guidelines and will proceed accordingly. Teachers in the state have already been reporting to work since June,” said Raghav. He said that parents, teachers, and students, especially in senior classes, were worried about the completion of the syllabus and the government was taking feedback from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-schools-parents-divided-over-calling-senior-students-for-academic-guidance/story-xJ2znBPwdQRacboh7HHuDK.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Man strangles wife, cooks up story that she was bitten by a ‘venomous creature’; arrested||A man was arrested for allegedly strangling his wife to death in Nathupur village in DLF Phase-3 area on Monday. The police said after murdering her, the suspect cooked up a story that she had died after being bitten by a “venomous creature”. The police said inquest proceedings were initiated and after the post-mortem examination, it was found that she had died of asphyxia. Following this, the man was booked on charges of murder and was subsequently arrested. According to the police, on Sunday morning, they received a call from Nathupur village. The caller told the police that a 20-year-old woman, Nikki Kumari, had died due to a suspected case of poisoning after being bitten by some worm. The police said her husband, Roshan Paswan, a gardener, stated, in a written complaint at Nathupur police post, that she had died after being bitten by a venomous creature. The police filed an inquest report under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and the post-mortem examination was conducted on Sunday. The police said, according to the preliminary report of the autopsy, the cause of death was “asphyxia due to ante mortem ligature” — thereby suggesting that the woman had been strangled. Kumari’s father, Parmanand, 48, a rickshaw driver from Supaul, Bihar, said in the police complaint, “My daughter had got married to Paswan in March 2019 and both had been staying in a rented room in Nathupur since then. I live in the same plot three rooms apart. For the past few days, he had been harassing her. He used to beat her up and had threatened to kill her. On Sunday around 7am, Paswan came to my room and informed me that Nikki was unable to breathe as she had been bitten by a poisonous worm. I reached her room and saw her lying dead and we informed the police. Parmanand said that he suspected that his daughter was strangled to death by Paswan sometime between Saturday night and Sunday morning. “The post-mortem report confirmed my suspicion. Paswan had given a false complaint to the police, claiming that she died after being bitten by a venomous creature.” Lal Singh, in-charge, Nathupur police post, said, “The suspect, Roshan Paswan, strangled his wife after an alleged argument and then cooked up a story that she had died due to a bite from a worm. After the post-mortem report, he was booked on charges of murder and arrested.” A case has been registered at the DLF Phase-3 police station. Man found dead near Pataudi RoadIn another incident, a 38-year-old tea seller was found murdered, across the road from Pataudi Road police post, on Monday morning. The police said preliminary probe suggested that he was bludgeoned to death with stones the previous night. The police have registered a case of murder against unidentified persons. According to the police, the victim has been identified as Baijnath Jha, a native of Darbhanga in Bihar. The police said Jha had been selling tea and vegetables from a cart near the police post on Pataudi Road for several years and often slept on a mattress next to his cart. The police said after Jha did not return to his house on Sunday night, his wife, Usha, asked one of their five children to check upon him on Monday. His son saw him lying on the mattress with a blanket covering his body and assumed that he was asleep. A few hours later, his wife decided to check. She removed the blanket and saw him lying motionless with injuries on his face and head. Rakesh, in-charge of Pataudi Road police post, said, “Preliminary probe suggests that he was beaten up and hit with stones on head and face, sometime during the night. His wife has not named any suspect in the police complaint. We have initiated a probe.” A case was registered against the unidentified accused under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Shivaji Nagar police station on Monday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-strangles-wife-cooks-up-story-that-she-was-bitten-by-a-venomous-creature-arrested/story-NzkV2g0sYpX4kiM4YPrF1I.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||MC approves plan to recover ₹41 crore from unpaid water bills||The municipal corporation (MC) gave the go-ahead to a scheme to recover around Rs 41 crore from unpaid water bills at Monday’s house meeting. However, a number of steps recommended by the revenue generation committee to improve the civic body’s financial health could not be discussed.This was the first time that the MC offered a one-time settlement scheme to water bill defaulters despite absence of such a provision in the Chandigarh Water Supply Bye Laws. That was the reason why the general house approval was required after it was suggested by the committee.With this, the MC will issue a notification and three months will be given to around 20,000 defaulters to pay the arrears at discounted rates.The scheme stipulated one-time payment of arrears with a 10% rebate. Those paying in two instalments will get a 7% discount and others paying in three lots will get 5% off.About Rs 41.60 crore remains unpaid for up to June 30, 2020, with defaulters including domestic, industrial, and commercial users and government departments. Of this, Rs 37.44 crore was the principal amount and Rs 4.16 crore the surcharge amount.A surcharge of 10% will be imposed on those not paying their bills by the due date.Other approvalsThough the committee made around 20 suggestions, the house was able to discuss just a few, including generation of funds from Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38, and revised license fee for permissions to grow hedges.A proposal to increase charges from Rs 25 per 100 sq ft a year to Rs 250 for permissions to grow hedges was rejected.The hedges can be grown adjacent to houses on V5 and V6 roads of MC.When BJP city chief and councillor Arun Sood objected to the provision of conviction against violators, the MC decided that a request would be made to the UT administration to drop the conviction clause.Imposition of fines will continue.Till the administration’s approval no conviction proceedings will be started, the MC decided.Other plans that were approved included display of advertisement boards at the around 74 public toilets in garden/green belt/parks under MC jurisdiction, which its horticulture department maintains.The house also gave the go ahead to the installation of bank ATMs at various tubewells, boosters and community centres. It decided that the best sites would be selected first before requisite permissions are taken from the UT administration.SETTLEMENT SCHEME FOR DEFAULTERSThose who haven’t paid their water bills will get three months to deposit arrears.10% rebate if arrears are paid in one instalment7% rebate if arrears are paid in two instalments5% rebate if arrears are paid in three instalments||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-approves-plan-to-recover-41-crore-from-unpaid-water-bills/story-viPldrTIvSlpirw9QE7VoO.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Nearly 81% of active cases home isolated till Aug 29 in Gurugram||Gurugram had the third-highest number of people infected with the coronavirus disease(Covid-19) recuperating in home isolation in Haryana, according to data by the state health department. Till August 29, nearly 81% of the people infected with the deadly infection in the district were under home isolation.In Haryana, Rewari had the highest number of patients under home isolation (90%) followed by Jind (86.5). Sonipat district had the least number of patients (19%) in home isolation.Till August 29, Gurugram had a total of 11,693 patients infected with Sars-CoV-2—the pathogen that causes coronavirus, and out of these, 9,509 asymptomatic patients were under home isolation. According to the state’ health department data at least 8,687 patients in home isolation have recovered completely so far. As many as 165 of patients under home isolation had to shift to a hospital or a Covid care centre after their condition deteriorated. So far, one death has been reported under home isolation in the district.Across the state, only four such deaths have been reported including two in Faridabad and one in Jind.Gurugram health officials said asymptomatic Covid-19 patients preferred to be in home isolation, while those with symptoms and co-morbid condition are being hospitalised. “Home isolation is allowed only if the coronavirus positive patients have appropriate facilities at their home. We won’t allow patients to go for home isolation until we confirm they have necessary facilities,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.Home isolation was allowed in Gurugram in the first week of May.Since the cases are increasing in the district, Yadav said the district health department is working on a campaign to keep family members of an infected person under home quarantine for 14 days and high-risk contacts (with co-morbidities) suspected of contracting the virus will be shifted to Covid care centres. Due to poor occupancy of beds in such centres, the district administration has also reduced the number of isolation beds reserved in hotels and guest houses for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. From 3,481 beds reserved in different hotels in June, the count now stands a 386. Since, most asymptomatic patients prefer home isolation, only 321 beds in seven hotels have been reserved as self-paid isolation facilities. and 65 beds in two hotels are kept as government-paid facility.Faridabad, as per the state data, had shifted highest number of coronavirus patients, at least 237 from home isolation to hospitals and Covid-19 care centre so far. Across the state, nearly 62% Covid-19 patents are under home isolation (till August 29).On Monday, Gurugram reported 113 new cases, taking the total tally to 11,917. At least 994 are active cases, with 858 patients under home isolation, 120 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals, and 16 in Covid care centres set up in hotels. The Covid-19 death toll stands at 133 in the district. Panipat, which has the highest number of active case (over 1000) at present has kept 59% of its patients in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nearly-81-of-active-cases-home-isolated-till-aug-29-in-gurugram/story-Z9yLuCFTtbS61t0FJAs3WN.html
01-09-2020||City||Farmers accused of illegal construction on authority land get anticipatory bail||GREATER NOIDA: The district court has granted anticipatory bail to two farmers accused of construction on the land acquired by the Noida authority. The accused, Rishi Ram Chauhan and Nand Kishore, both residents of Baraula in Sector 49, claimed that their land on khasra numbers 767 and 768 is declared as abadi land for over 50 years.The authority had booked them under IPC Section 447 and under the provisions of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.The prosecution stated that the two accused were constructing multi-storeyed building on Noida authority’s acquired land in Baraula. They were restrained several times by the authority, but they refused to stop the work.The court stated that as per the available documents it is clear that the Noida authority acquired the said land. However, petitioners claimed that the land was abadi land and they have not taken any compensation from authority for its acquisition, which was confirmed by Industrial Development Committee report of April 24, 2010. The committee had found the said land a fit case for regularisation and lease back on submission of ownership documents. “Additional District Judge Vineet Chaudhary has granted anticipatory bail to the accused. Investigation officer is directed that in case situation arises that they need to be arrested, the petitioners should be released on bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs 30,000 and two sureties,” Dayanand Bhati, assistant district counsel, Gautam Budh Nagar, said on Monday.“The accused will cooperate in investigation and will be present before investigating officer when he calls them. Without court’s permission, they cannot visit foreign country. Further, it is stated that this order does not give permission to them for construction at site. The authority is free to take action on illegal construction as per law,” said Bhati.According to Bhati, land owner Shreya Chauhan, father of petitioners, had submitted lease back papers to the authority and in January 1984, he had applied for power connection to run flour mill at this land. The authority had issued NOC for the mill and thus the physical possession was with the petitioners, although records show the legal possession of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-accused-of-illegal-construction-on-authority-land-get-anticipatory-bail/story-7wL3mgitTsGpyUAuPoSseJ.html
01-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG to deploy sweeping machines to clean city streets||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to clean at least 200 kilometres of the city roads with 10 new sweeping machines allocated by the Haryana government, said officials of the civic body on Monday. Until now, MCG used to outsource the cleaning of roads to a Delhi-based contractor. However, the cleaning process was largely labour-intensive and could cover only a fraction of the roads, said officials familiar with the matter. The civic body on Sunday cancelled its contract with its concessionaire, and Monday was the last day of its operations. “The concessionaire had three sweeping machines. However, with each machine, at least six workers of the contractor were deputed for both maintaining them as well as manually cleaning the stretches. The process was hence slow. With the Haryana government announcing that they are phasing out outsourcing of road sweeping across the state, we have taken up the responsibility on our own,” said an MCG official in the civic body’s health wing.Earlier in September 2019, the then directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) minister Kavita Jain had announced that the government would be providing road sweeping machines to municipal corporations and municipal councils across the state.Between September 2019 and January 2020, 44 such machines were distributed across the state, including four for the MCG, said the civic body officials.“Over the last three months, we have procured six more from the Haryana government. With a stock of 10 road machines, we are now fully equipped for managing the task on our own. All 10 machines will be used to clean the city streets every night,” said the MCG official.As per MCG officials, each machine costs between ₹75 lakh and ₹1.5 crore and is capable of cleaning a stretch of 4km per hour. Officials added that a daily target of cleaning more than 200km has been set, which will help phase out the need for using manual labour for cleaning the roads. “With the help of these machines, one stretch of road will be cleaned at least 2-3 times in a week. Besides eliminating the need of manual labour, the machines will also help in reducing air pollution across the city by not allowing dust or other suspended particles to accumulate,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.A road sweeping machine operates like a vacuum cleaner. It first dispels a large amount of water at a particular spot, while its hydraulic broom then scrubs the road surface. Following this, a large vacuum collects dust and other particles from the streets.MCG officials said that these machines would be put to use from midnight till 6am every day when the volume of vehicles on the roads is comparatively low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mcg-to-deploy-sweeping-machines-to-clean-city-streets/story-vgiBkoi7eQIorZUYEzG1cI.html
01-09-2020||Noida||Residents raise concern over rising number of stray cattle on Noida streets||With the rising number of stray cattle roaming freely on the streets of Noida, residents of the city have raised concerns, citing issues of safety during commute. As per the Noida authority, there are nearly 2,000 stray cows on the streets of the city. Animal activists, however, peg the number at around 5,000 based on a rough estimate made during the lockdown. Additionally, the forest department, in its 2019 animal census, noted that there are at least 217 “feral cows” in the city that are born out of abandoned cattle on the roads. Both officials and animal welfare organisations associate the rising number of stray cattle to the practice of abandonment by their owners because of old age and diseases. Meanwhile, residents of the city have complained to the authority regarding the number of accidents that have taken place due to the presence of stray cattle. “Accidents are happening on a regular basis. Last year, a mother and son died in accident because of stray cattle,” said Amit Gupta, a social activist and a resident of Sector 77. “There are certain accident-prone areas like those along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway or near Sector 137, where the presence of cattle has made commuting unsafe. The roads are narrow and there are plenty of U-turns and diversions. Cows suddenly appear out of nowhere, leading to accidents” said Ankit Mishra, a resident of Sector-97, Noida. According to animal welfare organisations said at least five to six calls are received on a daily basis, reporting injuries to cattle. “We get at least six to seven calls, reporting cows being hit by vehicles. No driver would ever hit a large animal willingly. On many occasions, drivers of such vehicles are also injured,” said Kaveri Rana, district head, People for Animal (PFA). Sanjay Mahapatra, who runs the city-based NGO, House of the Animals, said, most of the cows he rescued during the lockdown seemed to have been abandoned due to old age. “Since we don’t have enough facility to accommodate so many cows, we have requested the Noida authority’s cow shelter. However even they lack adequate infrastructure,” he said. Officials of the Noida Authority said that they are expanding their infrastructure to accommodate more cows. “Two new sheds of five acres each have been approved that are capable of holding 1,000 cows and 1,000 bulls and oxen each. We are currently looking for land for the same,” said SC Mishra, Project Engineer (Health), Noida authority. According to the officials, the authority’s existing cowshed in Setor-135 houses 748 cattle as against the capacity to hold 532 animals. Out of 748 animals, over 400 are cows. “Most of these animals have been abandoned by their owners. We are currently spending ₹60,000 per day on feeding these animals. There is another private cowshed in Sector-94 but even that is filled to its capacity. Currently there are 11 sheds in Sector-135 and within a month, two more sheds will be added to accommodate more stray animals,” said Dr Abhishek Dabar, a veterinary doctor at a Sector -135 cow shed. Citing lack of money by owners to feed their cattle as the main reason for their abandonment, Dabar stressed that more investment is required to ensure the welfare of domestic animals. “Poor nutrition is a leading cause of diseases among cattle. At least 70% of the domesticated cattle are either suffering from mastitis or infertility, due to which the productivity drops, forcing owners to abandon them. Many abandoned cattle we bought here did not have their ruminal microflora developed. This means that they were not given proper straw to eat and only grazed on whatever they could find. After administering medication and ensuring nutrition, about 65 cows at our shed are now producing milk,” Dabar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-raise-concern-over-rising-number-of-stray-cattle-on-noida-streets/story-1reOI8WBhssRMPR1scQONJ.html
01-09-2020||Noida||Newborn’s body found in Noida village||The body of a newborn girl was found along a road in Chhajarsi village on Monday morning, police said. According to the police, the incident was reported to them by a passerby after which a police team was rushed to the spot. The girl was declared brought dead at the hospital, the police said.The police believe that the newborn was barely a few weeks old. “However, we will know about the exact age of the infant and cause of her death only after the autopsy report comes in,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.A case has been registered at Phase 3 police station against unidentified persons under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code.“We are working on tracing people who might be related to her and trying to find the reason why she was abandoned,” said the DCP.Police officials suspect it to be a case of an illegal abortion but are keeping all angles open like disregard of a girl child. In another incident, the body of a 34-year-old man was found in the Surajpur area around 9.30am on Monday. The man was identified from some identity cards found in his clothes’ pockets as Saroj Kumar, a resident of Kulesra.“We have spoken to the deceased’s family who said that he had been disturbed for the past few days. Prima facie it seems that he ended his life, but a probe in the matter is underway,” said Chander.The man was earlier employed at a private company in Phase 2, the police said, adding that the body was handed over to the family after an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/newborn-s-body-found-in-noida-village/story-f6rffnvUn9OD9QHOtqjq7M.html
01-09-2020||Noida||Section 144 extended till September 30 in Noida||In wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the Gautam Budh Nagar police on Monday extended the imposition of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which prohibits a gathering of more than four persons without permission, till September 30 in the district.The order signed by additional deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Ashutosh Dwivedi, is in line with the state guidelines issued for Unlock 4 late night on Sunday and directs for maintaining a cap on attendees at weddings and funerals.“Action can be taken against people for not following basic guidelines like wearing masks in public or spitting in the open. They are allowed to travel, keeping in mind the regulations that have been stipulated,” Dwivedi said.“Movement of people within containment zones except for medical and essential services personnel will be prohibited, while schools, colleges, and educational institutes, movie theatres, swimming pools will remain closed till September 30 while open-air theatres will stay closed till September 20,” said the police order.The order further said that all community, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, and political programmes will not be allowed in the district till September 20. “These events can anyway not happen without prior permission which will not be granted these days. Weddings can have a maximum of 30 people, while funerals can be attended by 20 people till September 20 after which the cap may be increased to 10,” Dwivedi said.Apart from these curbs, weekend lockdowns will continue to be imposed in the district from 10pm on Fridays till 5am on Mondays. Vulnerable groups like people beyond 65 years or pregnant women are advised to stay indoors except in medical emergencies.The police commissionerate, for the first time this year, had imposed section 144 in the district on February 15, which was to last till March 15 (during the festival and examination season). However, as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic spread across the country, the imposition is being extended with every set of fresh guidelines being released by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/section-144-extended-till-september-30-in-noida/story-93sc39ANV0nUsbvQipiC6J.html
01-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad admin directs departments to take pollution abatement measures||Ghaziabad: In view of the approaching winter season which in the past has seen high air pollution levels in Ghaziabad, the district administration on Monday held a review meeting with different departments and agencies. The administration directed that the pollution abatement measures should be kicked off well before the onset of winter season. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has sought action plans from the traffic police department, Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA), municipal corporation and pollution body, among others. He directed the officials to find out inventory of all the diesel generator (DG) sets which are used in residential, commercial and industrial sectors. “The pollution levels during winter have been high in the city. We do not wish the situation of previous years to prevail this year. So, we have directed beforehand that all the departments should proactively take measures in their domain in order to tackle pollution. The preparation should start now and all the pollution causing sources should be identified,” Pandey said. “Among several measures, we have directed that roads requiring repairs should be identified and repairs should be taken up. Further, the road sweeping machines should be deployed and work should start at the earliest. Some more meetings will follow in coming days,” he said. During the last winter season, the Ghaziabad city on several occasions had topped the list of most polluted cities in the country as per the daily air quality index issued by the Central Pollution Control Board.The DM directed the officials to pay special attention to hotspot areas like Sahibabad, Bhopra, Panchsheel Enclave, Hindon Vihar and other industrial areas. Some of these areas in the past have reported burning of plastic waste, which has added to pollution levels. Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that the agencies like the municipal corporation and the GDA have been asked to get GIS mapping of all open areas in their jurisdiction so that dust emission can be tackled. “The authority (GDA) has also been asked to communicate to the construction site owners (having projects with area more than 20,000 square metres) to make self audit of the measures available with them so that timely action can be taken to prevent pollution,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. Sharma, who attended the review meeting, also said that the pollution body will prepare the audit sheets in coming days. “The authority will also pursue projects and get the installation of anti-smog guns well before the start of winter season. The officials of the UP Jal Nigam have been directed to take up maintenance of all the sewage treatment plants in timely manner. Similarly, the traffic police and officials of the UP State Road Transport Corporation have been asked to put curb on heavy vehicles like trucks and buses which are parked roadside,” he added. The UPPCB officials said that they have been tasked to check industrial units and ensure they do not use the non-designated fuel like rubber, plastic, etc, which result in smoke and pollution. Ghaziabad is also a prominent industrial town and has witnessed high pollution levels in the past few years. It is also identified under the list of 15 non-attainment cities in UP (by UPPCB) which have high levels of air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-admin-directs-departments-to-take-pollution-abatement-measures/story-N7Ube8kpCyaiVPzr3MGBDI.html
01-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad admin seeks more ICU beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad administration on Monday asked the representatives of private hospitals, providing paid Covid treatment in the district, to increase the number of Covid and ICU beds in order to treat patients who are referred to from the government facilities. The district administration plans to increase the number of reserved ICU beds in the private hospitals to about 50 from 19, officials said. The officials said that the decision was conveyed to the private hospitals at a meeting on Monday after the directions were received from the state government which said that the district magistrate can reserve up to 50% beds in private hospitals if there is a shortage of L2 or L3 category beds in the government Covid facilities. “We have asked the private hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds and ICU beds. They have also been asked to reserve 50% beds so that these can be used for referral of critical patients from government facilities in case of requirement. Further, we have asked the district health department to find out possibility of more private hospitals which can provide Covid treatment,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. At present, the district has 10 private hospitals which are providing paid Covid treatment and having a total of 598 Covid beds that include 98 ICU beds. “Out of 98 ICU beds available in private hospitals, we have already got reserved 19 beds so far. Now, we have planned to increase the number of reserved ICU beds to about 50. We will use these beds if the government facilities face a shortage of ICU beds. This arrangement will help us bring down the fatalities further,” said an officer from district health department on condition of anonymity. In the government facilities, the district has just 37 ICU beds available at the two hospitals at Sanjay Nagar (L2) and government-acquired Santosh hospital (L3).According to the state control room, the district has a total of 68 deaths till August 31 while the tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 8,353. This gives the district the case fatality rate of 0.81%. “We have planned that critical patients will be immediately referred to the private ICU beds. In case the patients require costly medicines like Remdesivir, we can provide them or the hospitals can charge us extra,” the health officer said. The officials of the private hospitals who attended the meeting said that consideration for hike of charges should be made. “In the times of pandemic, the healthcare staff are taking risk and attending to the patients. The officials should consider raising the charges so that other operating costs are met. I don’t think that any hospital will be denying treatment, but hike in charges should be considered,” said Dr Mahesh Chaudhary, director (operations), Navin Hospital at Vaishali. The district officials said that under the arrangement of 50% reserved beds, the government will pay up for the treatment of referred Covid patients on the basis of rates prevalent under the Ayushman Bharat Yojna. Under the scheme, the cost of a general ward bed is Rs 1,800 per day and that for a high dependency unit is Rs 2,700 per day. The cost of beds without ventilators has been fixed at Rs 3,600 per day while those with ventilators are fixed at Rs 4,500 per day. The officials of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ghaziabad chapter, said that the government should consider the fact that operational cost of ICU beds are high. “So, they should consider hike in rates, at least near to what has been recommended by the Dr VK Paul committee. The rates under the Ayushman scheme are less. If the rates are increased, the hospitals will be more willing to cooperate,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of IMA – Ghaziabad. Based on the recommendations of committee headed by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul, the UP government has capped the prices for Covid-19 beds between Rs 8,000 and Rs 15,000 for paid Covid treatment in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-admin-seeks-more-icu-beds-in-private-hospitals-for-covid-19-patients/story-KAtvZpThAZTmpnzVLYE76I.html
01-09-2020||City||Tank found overflowing at office, Ghaziabad’ basic education officer, staffers fined||The Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) issued directions for levying fines on the basic education officer and the staff deployed at the office of the district’s basic education department when a water tank was found overflowing during a surprise inspection on Monday.DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said he has directed for levying a fine of ₹1000 fine on basic education officer BB Chaudhary, ₹500 fine each against all members of the clerical level staff, and ₹ 50 fine each against the housekeeping staff deputed at the office in Nandgram.“During the inspection, we observed that water was flowing from the building’s roof. Initially, we thought that it was rainwater that did not drain out. After an officer was sent to have a look at the roof, it was found that it was the overhead water tank that was overflowing and leading to wastage of water,” Pandey said.“This is why the penalties of different amounts were levied against the basic education officer and other staff of his office, “ he added. The DM issued directions for deducting the fines from the salaries of the staffers and said that amount of the fines will be credited to the water conservation fund.The DM also said that some staffers at the office were also found absent from their duty during the surprise check. “The basic education officer was in Sahibabad and attending to Covid-19 surveillance duties. However, we found that six staff members of the office were absent from their duty. Hence, their one-day salary will be deducted and they have been asked to give a reason for being absent from duty,” Pandey said.Chaudhary said he has been deployed as the sector magistrate for Covid-19 surveillance work. “The water tank was overflowing as its valve had malfunctioned. It has broken down several times even though we have got it repaired it on various occasions. The valve malfunctioned at the time of inspection too, and hence, the DM issued directions for levying fines” Chaudhary said.DM Pandey further said that all departments have been asked to complete pending works.“All departments have been asked to take up public related works on a priority basis. If it is found that the work is not taken up on time, action will follow. Surprise inspections will continue,” Pandey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tank-found-overflowing-at-office-ghaziabad-basic-education-officer-staffers-fined/story-WS9MpJWOaKMtriM3I0BewI.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University panel suggest 5% semester-fee waiver||Amid protests on campus by various student bodies, a Panjab University panel on Monday suggested 5% semester-fee waiver for all students. A panel member, requesting anonymity, said they have also suggested giving more concessions to physically disabled and students from weaker financial backgrounds. The panel has also recommended allowance for staggered fee payment. However, student bodies had rejected this proposal earlier. The committee's recommendation will be sent to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar for final approval. Protests on campus demanding complete semester-fee waiver amid the Covid-19 pandemic have also resulted in scuffles. Amid the controversy, the university has postponed the last date of fee submission. Earlier, students were told to deposit fees by August 11, which was extended to August 31 and later to September 5.Student leaders and varsity officials have discussed the matter at least twice in August without any outcome. Even the meeting between student leaders and the V-C ended without a decision being made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-panel-suggest-5-semester-fee-waiver/story-4NghMVo6J4sl3VEPEquunO.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Facebook played a role in fuelling riots, says Delhi panel||The Delhi Assembly’s peace and harmony committee on Monday said it had prima facie found that social media company Facebook was complicit in aggravating the riots that took place in north-east Delhi in February this year, leaving 53 dead and over 400 injured.The committee on Monday held its second hearing after it took cognisance of “several complaints” received from people based on an article published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14. The report titled ‘Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics’ stated that Facebook officials, especially its top public policy executive in India, Ankhi Das, allegedly cited business imperatives while choosing not to apply hate-speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in India, despite them being internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence. After the hearing, the peace and harmony committee’s chairperson Raghav Chadha said the panel is now left with no other option but to summon Facebook officials in its next hearing, the date of which will be notified soon. Facebook did not respond to mails, messages and calls seeking a comment on the matter.“The committee has decided to summon Facebook officials in its next meeting in order to examine them on oath and determine their culpability. This is because the panel has prima facie found Facebook complicit in the Delhi riots of February 2020 on the premise of the incriminatory material produced on record by the witnesses, as well as their scathing depositions before the Committee,” Chadha said.BJP spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.The committee observed that there should be an independent investigation leading to the filing of a supplementary charge sheet in the ongoing cases related to the Delhi riots on the basis of supportive and corroborative material during the course of the purported investigation.The witnesses whose statements and other proofs were examined on Monday include Awesh Tiwari, a journalist from Chhattisgarh who had lodged an FIR against Facebook’s policy director Ankhi Das, Kunal Purohit, an independent journalist and researcher and Subhash Gatade, another independent journalist.“The witnesses drew significant correlation with the recent phenomenon of Black Lives Matter Movement which emerged after the brutal murder of George Floyd, an African-American. In this case, Facebook played a major role in containing hate speech. But, when confronted with similar situations in India during the Delhi riots, Facebook chose to flagrantly ignore these guidelines and sheltered offensive and hateful content on its platform. The witness also deposed the current ruling dispensation in India is the highest spender on advertisements on Facebook platform,” the panel said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/facebook-complicit-in-aggravating-n-e-delhi-riots-says-delhi-assembly-panel/story-1HkXrGw4fWSOpoLUrVuCsO.html
01-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport gets approval to double flight operations to 200 a day||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has been allowed to operate 200 flights daily, up from the 100 operational so far. However, the airport will operate 100 flights today, as according to an official, the flight schedule for Tuesday was fixed and the airport was informed about the development by the government only in the evening. Civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola had written to the state on July 10, asking them to allow more flight operations to and from Mumbai airport. In reply to this letter, Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, civil aviation and state excise, on Monday agreed to double flight operations. The letter, accessed by HT, read “... the government of Maharashtra has agreed to double the movement of aircraft into Mumbai airport. The recommendations of 100 arrivals and 100 departures on a daily basis may be made operational from September 1 onwards.’ A Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) official said, “We are prepared and ready to commence services with double the flight operations.” The airport resumed operations from May 25, three months into the lockdown, with 25 departures and 25 arrivals. Operations were doubled to 100 in mid-June. Mumbai airport sources said flights to places like Delhi, Nagpur, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Kochi, Lucknow, Patna, Goa, Diu, Ranchi, Varanasi, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Chennai, Indore, Belgaum, Nanded, Amritsar, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Jaipur and Kandla have been scheduled to operate on Tuesday. Int’l flight ops stay suspended till September 30The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) extended the suspension of international flight operations till September 30. The circular read, “...scheduled international commercial passenger services to/ from India till 23:59 hours of 30th September. This shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-international-airport-doubles-flight-ops-to-200-a-day/story-YMcy9y8ErUQfJguNGFwj0K.html
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to charge for NoC to eateries and schools||The municipal corporation (MC) general house on Monday approved a proposal to impose charges for issuing no-objection certificates (NoCs) to hotels, restaurants, eateries and schools. It also decided that the city’s first animal carcass incineration plant will be set up in Sector 25 west.There is no charge currently for the NoCs, which are issued by the MC’s medical officer.According to the Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Business) 2011, the NoC is required for issuing of food manufacturing license and registration for which health, hygiene, waste disposal, safe drinking water and fire safety requirements are a must. Carcass plantThe MC house also rejected a proposal to set up the carcass incineration plant at Industrial Area, phase-1.As local councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali put up a stiff resistance to move the plant to Industrial Area, councillors Hira Negi, Rajesh Kalia and Sheela Devi said they did not want it in Sector 25 West or Dadumajra.Approvals were also given for setting up a committee to decide on using MC land for providing houses under the affordable rental housing complexes scheme, which is part of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Other proposalsA proposal to increase charges from Rs 25 per 100 sq ft a year to Rs 250 for permissions to grow hedges was rejected.The hedges can be grown adjacent to houses on V5 and V6 roads of MC.When BJP city chief and councillor Arun Sood objected to the provision of conviction against violators, the MC decided that a request would be made to the UT administration to drop the conviction clause.Imposition of fines will continue. Till the administration’s approval no conviction proceedings will be started, the MC decided.The house also gave the go ahead to the installation of bank ATMs at various tubewells, boosters and community centres. It decided that the best sites would be selected first before requisite permissions are taken from the UT administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-to-charge-for-noc-to-eateries-and-schools/story-fCpmcXTEzDxrWGZ3qopwmL.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt warns private schools against charging anything other than tuition fee||The Delhi government on Monday again warned all private schools in the city against charging parents anything other than tuition fees during the lockdown and directed them to immediately refund or adjust money in case they have collected any other payment from parents in the period. The Directorate of Education’s (DoE) order is in continuation of its April 18 notification that said private schools would charge only tuition fee until the lockdown was in effect -- a move that made parents happy but upset schools.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia tweeted saying, “Arvind Kejriwal’s government’s big decision in the interest of parents of private school students. Private schools have been directed not to change fee under any other components other than tuition fees. Schools will have to adjust the money in the coming months in case they have already collected additional fees from parents.”In an order issued to all private schools on Monday, the DoE said they had received a number of complaints, not only from parents but also from other quarters, alleging that many private unaided recognised schools of Delhi had started charging the fees under many other heads other than the tuition such as like annual charge, development charge, etc.The DOE said this was in “contravention to the directions issued by Directorate of Education vide order dated 17/04/2020 & subsequently dated 18/04/2020”. “Such act of the schools is not only in the clear violation of the above directions issued vide order dated: 17/04/2020 & subsequently dated 18/04/2020 but also an inhumane act on their part, keeping in view the prevailing Covid-2019 pandemic conditions and long closure of schools.” The directorate said it received several representations from private schools, saying the “lockdown period was over” and now they could charge fee under all heads -- tuition, annual charge, development fee and some earmarked levies also. “This position as claimed by Private Unaided Recognised Schools is not correct as unlocking stage is still going on in a phased manner and hence, complete lockdown is yet to be over and schools are yet to be open for physical classroom learning,” the DoE order stated.The DoE has warned schools that action under Section 24 of the Delhi School Education Act and Rules would be taken against them in case of non-compliance. It said, “...The schools will not increase any fee in the academic session 2020-21 till further directions,” the order said.“If any private unaided recognised school has charged fees/amount other than the tuition fees in contravention of order dated 18/04/2020, the same shall be refunded or adjusted immediately,” it added.The DoE asked schools not to deny access to online education to students who are unable to pay school fee due to the financial crisis arising out of closure of business activities during the lockdown. They have also been directed to give timely salaries to their staff.Parents welcomed the fresh order while private schools termed it as “injustice”. SK Bhattacharya, president of the Action Committee of Private Unaided Recognised Schools -- an umbrella group of 400 schools -- said, “How will schools survive without money? From where we will pay salaries to teachers? The annual charges and development fee are necessary to meet necessary expenses such as property tax, maintenance and also pay salary to the staff since tuition fee is not adequate. This is absolutely injustice with private schools.”Aparajitha Gautam, president of Delhi parents Association, said the order is a big relief for parents. “We have been receiving a lot of complaints from parents against schools. The government should ensure the schools follow the order. Many schools have already violated the April 18 order by charging money under other components than the tuition fee and increasing fee.The government should take action against such schools as well,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-warns-private-schools-against-charging-anything-other-than-tuition-fee/story-zkZceNqPLdZOfz57RVjvCM.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro construction behind flooding in GK-2 basements: Study||Occupants of 15 houses and shops in blocks M, S and E in Greater Kailash-2, south Delhi, have been contending with a peculiar problem for the past few months. Their basements remain flooded even when there is no rain. After having exhausted all options to rectify the problem in vain, the residents sought help from the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), whichc hecked its pipelines and found no leakage. The DJB then requested the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) to look into the issue. An interim report from the CGWB, submitted on Monday, and another from an independent scientist have found “obstructions” in the groundwater flow due to several man-made structures and the construction of Delhi Metro tunnels. A team of scientists from the CGWB had conducted a field study of the area between August 19 and 28 to table the interim report. GK-2 residents’ welfare association had also roped in a Ranchi-based geologist to conduct a study using remote-sensing technology. Findings of both reports are similar.Sanjay Rana, president, GK-2 RWA, said, “The reports have come and now we hope to get a solution to this problem soon. We fear that the foundation of these houses may get damaged due to the constant inundation.”“The groundwater movement from South (Jahanpanah city forest) to Northwest (Savitri flyover) affected. The construction of Metro tunnels and basements (more than 4 metres deep) has obstructed groundwater flow line in the study area,” the CGWB report stated. The Metro structures had come up in early 2018. “The rise in water level has gone unnoticed that year and in 2019 because till then, groundwater had not entered basements,” the report said. The report highlights that the area reported good rainfall on August 22-23 with which the water level in the area rose by an average of 0.5 metres on August 24. “The water level on August 19 ranged between 2.5-6.5 metres below ground level (bgl). The maximum depth of basements facing seepage problem is 6 metres bgl,” the report said. The report by geologist Akhilesh Singh said, “The construction of big commercial units and construction of Metro networks towards north and northwest side of the GK-2 area might have influenced the aquifer connectivity. Restricted flow of water towards northern side together with high recharge due to heavy rainfall from the southern side, might have caused the rise in groundwater and inundation.”“It is a localised groundwater problem, “ Singh told HT over phone. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), in response to HT’s query, said the tunnelling work was completed in 2018. On this particular stretch, it was completed in 2016 itself. “The tunnels near Savitri flyover were built 10-15 metres below the ground (equal to a 3-5 storey building) and the water table is below the tunnel. Therefore, it is not possible to obstruct the flow of the water, which is already flowing below this level,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said. “However, if there are any specific complaint, the DMRC is open to addressing the same,” he said. Also, the CGWB suggested several measures to the DJB, including draining of water through the existing tubewells and fixing of the stormwater drain. A DJB spokesperson said, “We have received the CGWB report. DJB will meet officials of agencies concerned and prepare an action plan to address the issue.” GK MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj, said, “I discussed the report with DJB officials. DJB will chalk out a plan to implement the recommendations to fix the problem.” Manu Bhatnagar, principal director, natural heritage division, INTACH, said groundwater level rising is a good sign and a desirable natural phenomenon. “In the past few years, the DJB water supply in the area has been good, which has reduced the dependency on tubewells. Also, the annual recharge during the monsoon has raised the water table towards its natural and original level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gk-2-basements-flooded-study-finds-groundwater-flow-obstructed-by-metro-tunnels-other-structures/story-tpJgBD3A0fUnG9SYBZXcYI.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi records AQI of 41 — lowest since records kept||Delhi on Monday recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 41 -- the lowest since 2015 since when AQI monitoring records are being maintained in the national capital. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, the average AQI in Delhi was 41 in the “good” category. This was also the fourth “good” air day recorded over a month since 2015. Board officials said the good air quality was because of a combination of factors, including incessant rainfall, good winds and already reduced levels of pollution during the lockdown months. The CPCB data says while 2015 and 2016 did not record any “good” days, two were recorded in 2017 on July 30 and 31, with AQI readings of 43 and 47, respectively. The year 2018 did not record any “good” air day as well. In 2019, two consecutive ‘days were recorded on August 18 and 19, with AQI readings of 49 on both of those days. So far, five “good” air days have been recorded this year. “There were two good air days in 2017 followed by two in 2019. This year we already have five good air days, and 41 is the lowest AQI. Its good news for residents,” said a senior CPCB official who asked not to be named.The first such day was on March 28 (during the first week of the Covid-19-induced lockdown) with an AQI reading of 45. Then on August 13, after heavy rain, the AQI was recorded at 50. On August 20, again, when Delhi received “very heavy” rainfall, the AQI was again 50. On August 24, an AQI of 45 was recorded.On a scale of 0-500, a value of 0-50, the air quality is considered good (minimal health risk), 51 -100 is satisfactory (minor discomfort to sensitive people), 100-200 is moderate (breathing discomfort to people with lungs and heart disease), 200-300 is poor (breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure), 300-400 is very poor (respiratory illness on prolonged exposure) and 400-500 is severe (affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases).“Usually, the monsoon months are cleaner than the rest of the year. This month, as well as this year so far, has been exceptionally good because of intense and continuous rainfall as well as good winds over the past few days, which cleansed the air of all the pollutants. Besides, the overall pollution levels have been low as an impact of the lockdown imposed to curb Covid,” said a second senior CPCB official who also asked not to be named. HT had earlier reported that this August recorded only “good” and “satisfactory” days with not a single “poor” air quality day being recorded. According to officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with incessant rainfall over the past two weeks, this August has been the second ‘wettest’ in 12 years. The Capital received 364.8 mm rainfall this August, 30% above the normal mark. Vivek Chattopadhyay, senior program manager, clean air programme, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said, “The air quality analysis for this year in comparison to previous years reveals the air has been much cleaner because of a combination of factors. The good meteorological conditions combined with low emission because of the lockdown and reduced economic activity even after the reopening together resulted in good air.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-records-aqi-of-41-lowest-since-records-kept/story-55eSONSKjwVKVAslQDtSnI.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||EDMC asks govt to provide ‘Covid-19 funds’||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Monday passed a proposal demanding special funds from the Delhi government to fight Covid-19. The proposal was passed in a standing committee meeting of the corporation, which said it was going through an acute financial crisis and was facing difficulty in providing PPE kits, masks and gloves to its corona warriors.Nirmal Jain, mayor of EDMC, said the proposal was passed in view of the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the city. “Since Covid-19 cases are on the rise and need to be taken care of properly. We have asked the Delhi government to provide us with a separate special fund for fighting coronavirus. Fighting with Covid-19 needs special equipment, kits, masks and gloves and for this we need additional funds. It becomes tough for EDMC to spend additionally on Covid gears as the civic body is already passing through a financial crisis,” Jain said.Responding to the EDMC’s demand, Aam Aadmi Party senior leader and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said, “Ask them to pick up the latest report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. It clearly states the Delhi government has already given around Rs 4,000 crore as loan to the three MCDs...”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/edmc-wants-special-funds-from-govt-to-fight-covid/story-GXWUGMb3y3Gq8JL6j8y6wO.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Woman trafficked from Bihar, raped, forced into prostitution||A 24-year-old woman who was trafficked from Bihar by an agent of a fake placement agency and later sold into prostitution, escaped from her confines last week and sought help from the Delhi Police.Police said after her husband left her and with no source of income to raise her two children, the woman came to Delhi with the agent in the hopes of getting a job and later brought her children along as well. But the agent allegedly sold her to another person who sexually exploited her and then forced her into prostitution, senior police officers said.Police said last week, the woman fled the place where was being confined and approached the Delhi Police, seeking their help. A team of the Netaji Subhash Place police station later carried out an operation and arrested three men, including the agent Sanjay Shah,34, the police said.“The other two arrested men were identified as Kishan Rai alias Krishnu,25, and Aarif alias Rahul,40, both from Delhi. Shah belongs to Bihar and he had allegedly lured the woman to Delhi in 2017, following his frequent visits to her native village to offer the women there employment in Delhi,” a senior police officer associated with the case said, requesting anonymity.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said on August 23, the woman called the police and in her complaint accused one Kishan Rai of “raping her and forcing her into prostitution.”The woman told the police that Kishan is the person to whom she was sold by Shah. She has alleged that Kishan raped her after promising to marry her. When she learnt that he was already married and confronted him, Kishan “forced her into prostitution”. Aarif is Kishan’s associate and he too had raped her, the woman alleged.The woman’s was counselled and her statement was recorded. She told the police that her husband left her and their two children and married another woman in their home town in Bihar. In 2017, she met Shah who promised her a job and brought her to Delhi. He got her a job as a domestic help in two houses in north and outer Delhi, the officer said.“The woman told us that in 2018, Shah made her steal cash and jewellery from her employer. She was arrested and remained in jail till February this year, when Shah got her released on bail and sold her to Kishan, who raped her and then pushed her into prostitution,” the officer said, quoting the woman’s statement.On August 24, the police team laid a trap by sending the woman to a park near Kishan’s house after she informed him about her return. When Kishan reached the park, the police caught him. His interrogation led to the arrest of Shah from Narela and Aarif from Vijay Vihar.“The three men were arrested under sections 376 (rape), 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave), 370 A (exploitation of a trafficked person), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code,” DCP Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-trafficked-from-bihar-raped-forced-into-prostitution-three-arrested/story-7qonIHBI3T0SPHIFby5gxK.html
01-09-2020||Pune||Two arrested as alert fuel pump staffers nab thief in Koregaon Park||Two men have been arrested for trying to steal money from a fuel station staffer in Koregaon Park on Sunday afternoon.The arrested men have been identified as Majid Akbar Shaikh (19) and Vrushabh Baba Pise (20), both residents of Yerawada. The complainant, Shantaram Sonane (25) is a resident of Santoshnagar in Katraj and a member of the Roshni petrol pump staff in Koregaon Park. One of the two accused snatched Rs 5,700 from Sonane. The two men arrived at fuel station on a bike and refilled petrol in their vehicle. Once done, Pise, who was riding the bike, took the vehicle to the air-filling station located at the exit of the petrol pump while Shaikh stayed near Sonane.As Pise started the bike, Shaikh snatched Rs 5,700 collected by Sonane from customers and made a run for the bike, according to the complaint. “The workers rushed behind them and grabbed the rider as Shaikh tried to sit on the bike. Shaikh slipped from their grip and left with the bike and Pise was handed over to the police,” said PSI Chalke.“They were remanded to one day in police custody. While Pise had been caught at the petrol pump, we tracked Shaikh and arrested him from Laxminagar. The entire amount was recovered from them,” said police sub-inspector Ropesh Walke of Koregaon Park police station who is investigating the case.Pise has one case of extortion registered against him by Pune police in 2020. There is no previous case found registered against Shaikh so far, according to the police.A case under Section 392 (punishment for robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Koregaon Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-arrested-as-alert-fuel-pump-staffers-nab-thief-in-koregaon-park/story-u537TmESearu7WGljb3MTJ.html
01-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Medical Association asks govt to step in, help renew licenses||The Delhi Medical Association (DMA) has asked the state government to look into the matter of a majority of nursing homes — many treating Covid-19 patients — operating with expired licences. The Delhi government has not renewed the registrations of such clinics, which expired on March 31. The Delhi government said health minister Satyendar Jain has directed the department to renew licences of nursing homes till December 31, 2020.But Delhi Medical Association officials said no order has been issued as yet.Dr BB Wadhwa, president of DMA, said, “Till last year, the registration was renewed without any hassles. All we had to do was just apply for it. But with changes in the norms for fire safety last year, no registrations have been renewed. Due to this, owners are facing problems.”Wadhwa said, “We have had several meetings with the health department, including those with health minister Satyendar Jain, in this regard. Two months ago, he had assured us that the registration will be renewed till December 31, 2020. But no order has been passed as yet.”A Delhi government spokesperson said, “Several instances have come to light recently, where renewal of health licences is pending on behalf of Delhi government’s health department. Health minister Satyendar Jain has instructed the department to issue orders for automatic renewal of all health licences up to December 31, 2020, keeping in mind the extraordinary constraints being faced by various organisations providing health care services due to the lockdown and pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nursing-homes-with-old-licences-treat-covid-patients-govt-urged-to-look-into-matter/story-NXaiXoJ0QwiGl3IvXMdglL.html
