03-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut’s tweet comparing Mumbai to PoK draws controversy||Actor Kangana Ranaut has once again kicked up a controversy after she compared Mumbai with Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). Ranaut’s comment was in response to a remark by Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, asking her not to come back to the city after she claimed she felt unsafe here.In a tweet, Ranaut said: “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?”The Sena MP had recently slammed Ranaut in an article in Saamana, the party mouthpiece, in which he condemned her for being critical of the Mumbai Police. He asked her not to come back to Mumbai given her opinions of the city.The Sena was first to condemn Ranaut, accusing her of demeaning the city and its police force. “If everything about the city is horrible then why does she want to return to the city?” remarked Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-s-tweet-comparing-mumbai-to-pok-draws-controversy/story-2ff5KhCF8gIOtmLPkS47TM.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two snatchings reported from Chandigarh||Two snatching cases in which motorcycle-borne persons targeted women were reported from different parts of Chandigarh on Wednesday. Charanjit Kaur Oberoi, 62, a retired teacher, said two miscreants snatched her purse in front of her house in Sector 44. The purse contained her I-Phone and ₹15,000, Oberoi said. Police are scanning footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the area. A case has been registered at Sector 34 police station. In Maloya’s panchayat market, an elderly woman’s gold chain was snatched by two people on a motorcycle when she was sitting outside her house. In her complaint, Asha Devi, 65, said she tried to chase the accused after raising the alarm, but they sped away. Police have recovered CCTV footage in which the accused are visible. A case has been registered at Maloya police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-snatchings-reported-from-chandigarh/story-GrfYoo1IXABvrMlvkgUO0L.html
03-09-2020||Noida||Minster asks discom to reduce line loss to below 15% in two months in Noida, Ghaziabad||The state energy minister Shrikant Sharma Thursday asked the power distribution companies in Noida and Ghaziabad to bring down line loss to below 15% and ensure uninterrupted power supply in the respective jurisdictions. While making a virtual inspection of high loss power substations in Noida and Ghaziabad, the minister also asked the distribution companies to upgrade the existing 10KVA and 16KVA transformers to higher capacities as soon as possible. “It is the duty of the power department officials to provide correct and timely bills to consumers. The officials must work out a plan to bring all the power substations, falling under the red zone, so denoted owing to higher line loss presently, to the green zone (where the line loss is below 15%) within two months,” he said. SHarma expressed his unhappiness over the line loss at substations in sectors 10, 47, 50 (a new one), 122, Mandi Shyamnagar, Rabupura, Jewar, Dankaur, Bankapur and Luharni in Gautam Budh Nagar district and Gadana, Bamheta, Muradnagar, Bapudham, New bus stand, Kala Patthar, Niti Khand-2, Behrampur and New Rajendra Nagar in Ghaziabad. “The line loss and tripping from these stations can’t be tolerated in any case as bona fide consumers also suffer due to frequent outages. Stern actions will be taken against all officials concerned if problems pertaining to line loss and frequent power cuts are not corrected within two months. Without ensuring uninterrupted power supply, making power corporations self-reliant will remain a mirage,” he said. Virendra Nath Singh, chief engineer (Noida zone) of Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), who also attended this review meeting, said Sharma has also stressed on ensuring correct meter readings. “He has asked us to provide correct electricity bills to consumers, based on meter readings. We have also been told to use the mobile phone numbers of consumers to collect feedback regularly. The consumers have been told to lodge FIRs against their billing agencies concerned, in case of discrepancies. The chairman of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) has been assigned to review the power scenario in both districts, till the problems of line loss and power cuts end,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/minster-asks-discom-to-reduce-line-loss-to-below-15-in-two-months-in-noida-ghaziabad/story-oPdeOUHSAAo9GutMaeVMBJ.html
03-09-2020||City||Man kills wife over domestic dispute, calls media house to confess||A 27-year-old man was arrested soon after he called the office of a local newspaper and confessed to killing his wife on Thursday.Police identified the suspect by his first name as Akhilesh, a mason from Kasganj in Uttar Pradesh. He allegedly killed 26-year-old Bijli, also identified by police by her first name, in their rented home in Dadha village in Kasna after an argument.. A 27-year-old construction worker allegedly killed his wife, attacking her with a hammer and a sharp object over domestic discord on Thursday afternoon, the police said. The suspect identified by police as Akhilesh called a Hindi newspaper’s local office, after the incident, and informed that he killed his wife Bijli. Soon a police team reached the spot and arrested him. The suspect, a mason, is a native of Kasganj in Uttar Pradesh. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner, Greater Noida Zone 3 said that the couple had married in 2015. “They had married against their family’s wishes and had two children -- a three-year-old son and a year-old daughter. They had moved to Dadha a month ago,” the officer said. Akhilesh allegedly told police that Bijli was not happy in their new home and he could not meet her expectations. “They used to quarrel frequently over domestic issues which involved managing household on a meagre salary,” said Pandey. On Thursday, police said that the couple had a heated argument over the same issue. “The suspect hit the woman on the head with a sharp object and kicked her multiple times and later died,” Pandey said. Once he had realised what had happened, Akhilesh called up the newspaper office which relayed it to the police. A police team reached the spot and found him sitting near the woman’s body.“We have registered a case against the suspect under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” ADCP said.The police handed over the children to the woman’s parents who live in Shahberi in Greater Noida west.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-wife-over-domestic-dispute-calls-media-house-to-confess/story-6CCe2Sy86hSYtMzHn9bB9H.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER sets up plasma bank||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has set up a plasma bank to cater to Covid-19 patients lodged in different health facilities in Chandigarh. The institute said that convalescent plasma will be issued based on Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines for its off-label use and request forms must carry information on the clinical condition of the patient and severity of disease as per ICMR treatment guidelinesGovernment and private hospitals in UT wanting to use convalescent plasma treatment need to register with department of transfusion medicine, PGIMER, through an e-mail on plasmabankpgi@gmail.com by registering their phone number and e-mail ID with the designated nodal officer of their hospitals.The nodal officers will send the patient’s clinical detail information on the email ID.Once clinical indication for transfusion of CP is approved by the clinical team of PGIMER, patient attendants can submit request form along with patient’s sample, declaration form and patient’s clinical form. A minimum of three hours will be required to process this request following all Covid-19 precautions.After confirmation of the blood group of the patient, one unit (200ml) of group specific convalescent plasma will be issued.Convalescent plasma will be issued for free to patients admitted in PGIMER and other govt hospitals in Chandigarh. However, for private hospitals, minimum processing charges will be levied as per institute policy.Plasma bank committee, PGI, Chandigarh, has recommended that nodal officers of hospitals outside PGI should share a list of Covid-19 recovered patients discharged from their hospitals with department of transfusion medicine and motivate them to donate plasma.Recovered Covid patients willing to donate convalescent plasma can contact and fix their appointment for screening and testing with Dr Suchet Sachdev (7087009487) and Dr Divjot Singh Lamba (7087003371).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-sets-up-plasma-bank/story-Ojnbms1N1T81tywobvkiKL.html
03-09-2020||City||Forest department, Greater Noida authority to develop integrated green area and trails||In a first, the district forest department and the Greater Noida authority have decided to combine their green belts and parks to develop a larger Integrated green area for the public. Planned in Gamma-1 of Greater Noida, the project will club seven separate parks and around 18 hectares of the forest department land and other green belts. The project is still in its planning phase and so the official involved in the discussion did not provide an estimate of the area they will likely develop. Officials said that tenders will be floated soon to develop in next three months, estimate its cost to be around ₹4 crore and that they are aiming at a deadline of January 2021. “We have inspected the area along with officials of Greater Noida authority and its chief executive officer (CEO). It will be a great initiative to bring the residents closer to nature. A large part of the project, which will be in the shape of an arc, will be around the high-rises,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar. The integrated green area and trail will have several facilities like open-air gym, fitness work stations, dense forest systems, children play area, facilities for senior citizens, jogging tracks and shops offering healthy drinks, officials said. “We have taken concepts from different places like the parks in London, New York, Sydney, etc. Even Delhi has the Central Park and Nehru Park, but those have a walking trail of about 4 or 5 km, and nothing much else. We aim at developing the entire green area with more elements of nature, be it water bodies, or dense forest areas, longer and continuous jogging tracks, etc to name a few. We have received several suggestions under our friends of the Greater Noida scheme. Under this initiative, we aim at integrating the green belts, parks, and forest areas into one. The work will be paid by us and forests will be developed the forest department,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO, Greater Noida authority. “The length of the overall trail is likely to be around four kilometers. The designing phase will be completed in the next two months and the tender will be awarded by the next four months. We are aiming to conduct some activities at this project next year during our annual carnival that happens from January 26 to 29.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forest-department-greater-noida-authority-to-develop-integrated-green-area-and-trails/story-PYkzLfQjWMtflYO4hCJjgP.html
03-09-2020||Noida||24-year-old man critically injured while trying to resist car robbery||A 24-year-old man was critically injured while trying to stop unidentified carjackers from fleeing with his car on Wednesday night, about a 100 metres from his house in Noida’s Sector 62, the police said.Akshay Kalra had left his house in Stellar Park, a housing society in Noida’s Sector 62, in a white Hyundai Creta car at 10.45 pm, the police said. However, more than a one-and-a-half hours later, a police team found him unconscious on the road with several injuries. He is currently undergoing treatment at Fortis Hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU).Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida (zone 1), said around 12.22am a police control room vehicle found Kalra lying unconscious on the road. “He was admitted to a private hospital and the police informed his family members. He has received injuries on his head and body,” he said.According to his family, Akshay is a final-year B.Tech student, while a spokesperson of a Noida-based private university, where he was studying, said the 24-year-old had finished his course after clearing the fourth-year exams held in June-July.Gulshan Kalra, victim’s father, said that on Wednesday night Akshay told his mother that he is going outside and would return soon. “He was returning home when some criminals robbed him of his car and hurt him grievously. It was the police who found Akshay injured on the road. The police contacted me with Akshay’s phone and told me about the incident,” said Gulshan, who came to Noida on Thursday morning from Kanpur where we is deployed as a chief engineer with the Life Insurance Corporation of India. “Akshay has received critical injuries and is on ventilator support in the ICU. He is not in a condition to talk as well,” he said.Fortis Hospital refused to comment on Akshay’s condition.Based on the father’s complaint, the Sector 58 police have registered a case against unknown suspects under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.Love Kumar, additional police commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar, along with the Noida DCP and other police personnel visited the crime spot and also met the victim’s family members. Kumar said a primary probe indicates that some criminals snatched the victim’s car and hit him for putting up resistance. “We have assigned teams to arrest the suspects,” he said. The criminals also took Akshay’s wallet. The police said they are investigating the incident from all angles and not ruling out the possibility of personal enmity. Four police teams are working on the case.The police reviewed footage from the CCTV cameras at Stellar Park society. The camera shows Akshay leaving from the society, but there is no CCTV camera where the crime took place, the police added.A police officer investigating the case, requesting anonymity, said the police found some shattered windshield glasses near the crime spot. “It is possible the criminals smashed the windshield glass in order to stop the victim.”Security in-charge of Stellar Park Apartments’, Ghanshyam Singh, said Akshay had left the society in his car around 10.45 pm according to the society’s CCTV camera footage. “We checked the society’s CCTV camera and found he drove towards the left side. However, he was found injured on a stretch that is on the right side of the society. It appears he was returning home when the criminals stole his car and hurt him,” Singh said.Stellar Park Apartments has 83 flats and 62 of them are occupied. Society’s RWA president Pradeep Mishra said the criminals fled with Akshay’s car and purse while his phone was found at the spot. “We feel the police should step up security steps around the society. The criminals should be arrested soon. A residents’ delegation will soon meet Noida police officials over safety issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/24-year-old-man-critically-injured-while-trying-to-resist-car-robbery/story-kkYCsIWhp1cASN8u2FHhhL.html
03-09-2020||City||Six persons arrested with narcotic substances||Six men were arrested with narcotics in Beta II police station area on Thursday. The suspects revealed that they procured the contraband from Bulandshahr to sell in small quantities in Greater Noida. Rajesh Kumar Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida Zone 3, said police first arrested two persons - Kafil and Naeem, residents of Bulandshahr for selling weed near a paying guest facility in Beta II police station area on Wednesday. When asked about their source, the suspects revealed the address as Anoopshahr in Bulandshahr. Singh said a team was sent to search the premises. “There were four men there in a two-room set apartment which they had converted into a warehouse. The police team found 172 kg weed, 176 kg bhang, 10.5 kg hashish and one country made revolver from the warehouse,” he said. The four suspects were identified as Radha Kishan Pandey, Mool Chand, Shivam Sharma and Tarun Chaowdhary, all residents of Bulandshahr. “They confessed to smuggling weed and other narcotic products to people in Greater Noida. Primary investigation shows they have made a lot of money. A detailed investigation will be carried out to arrest more people,” he said.Police registered an FIR against them under Sections 8 and 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Arms Act. Police said that the seized products would be worth ₹3.36 crore. The six were sent to judicial custody after they were produced in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-persons-arrested-with-narcotic-substances/story-QzNgnD53mpf3FzJqc4OjYL.html
03-09-2020||City||GIMS completes one lakh Covid-19 tests, 100 plasma therapies||The RT-PCR lab at the facility at the Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) has tested at least one lakh samples for Covid-19 and the hospital has administered plasma therapy to at least 100 patients since April, officials said. Professor (Brig, retired) Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS, said the hospital had established the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) lab on April 15 and has since performed over 1,00,000 tests till September 1. “The GIMS lab has performed the highest number of Covid-19 testing not only in Noida but the western UP region as well and completed one lakh tests on September 1, 2020. The maximum target allocated to GIMS lab was testing 2,000 samples per day, and the institute exceeded the target with its utilization of available resources to more than 3,000 tests per day now,” Gupta said.GIMS established a 250 bedded isolation ward for coronavirus positive patients in April. The Institute was also made a nodal centre for sample collection, treatment and complete management of Covid-19 cases in the district. Till now, the institute has admitted 1,300 Covid positive patients and discharged 1,100 patients after successful treatment. On Thursday, the Institute discharged 20 Covid patients after treatment.At present, the laboratory is equipped with BSL-2 facility with facilities of automated RNA extraction and RT-PCR tests. The laboratory receives samples from Gautam Buddha Nagar, and also from neighbouring districts including Baghpat, Firozabad, Moradabad, Bijnor, Kasganj, etc. GIMS has got approval from the state government to upgrade BSL - 2 to BSL 3 lab. Gupta said GIMS has also successfully performed plasma therapy to 100 patients till now. “The first plasmapheresis was conducted successfully on May 9, 2020 and has so far completed 100 procedures of plasma therapy,” he said. GIMS on Thursday organised a celebration function for its achievement in the field of cure and treatment of Coronavirus patients. Suhas LY, Gautam Budh Nagar District Magistrate, also attended the programme and appreciated the efforts of the GIMS doctors, medical staff and others in various aspects of covid care. Meanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar district has completed 2 lakh covid tests so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gims-completes-one-lakh-covid-19-tests-100-plasma-therapies/story-au6PAOk3lGftNKOuYcqG0M.html
03-09-2020||City||Private hospitals cannot charge more than the capped price, will issue fresh order: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday said that they will issue a fresh order to clarify the price cap on private hospitals could treat Covid-19 patients. This comes after it emerged that many hospitals were takind advantage of a loophole in a previous order by charging tests and other consumables separately.The July 10 Uttar Pradesh order had capped the prices upon the recommendation of a committee formed by Union home minister Amit Shah and headed by Niti Aayog member Dr. V K Paul. Patients would be charged between ₹8,000 to ₹15,000 per day depending on their condiction -- whether “moderate” or “severe” or “very severe”.However, the order did not specify whether it included the cost of medicine, laboratory tests and other extras.“We will be sending a new government order (to clarify this). The package mentioned in the previous order is all inclusive, except for medicines like remdesivir or tocilizumab. Tests like IL-6 (which measures the level of the protein Interleukin 6 that is produced in response to an infection) can also be charged extra,” UP additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said in a press briefing in Lucknow on Thursday. “The rest (testing and management) is included in the package even if the patient suffers co-morbidity. We request the private hospitals not to charge extra otherwise they may face action under the Epidemic Act.”As per the July 10 order, the cities in the state were divided in three categories. Tier ‘A’ cities included Noida area, Ghaziabad city, Meerut, Kanpur, Lucknow and Agra, among others.It said that National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH)-accredited super-specialty hospitals could charge ₹10,000 for moderately ill Covid-19 patients, Rs 15,000 for severely ill sickness (includes ICU without need for ventilator care) and ₹18,000 for very severly ill patients (which includes ICU with ventilator care).The rates for non-NABH accredited hospitals were ₹8,000 (moderate), ₹13,000 (severe) and ₹15,000 (very severe).In a recent internal communication to the health department officials in UP, state officials had cited an exampled of a Lucknow hospiral charging ₹52,000 per day for a room. It asked the district nodal officers to keep watch.“We are waiting for the new government order in this regard and appropriate action will be taken. We have about 598 beds available in 10 private hospitals in Ghaziabad with 355 patients admitted. We have about 422 active patients in home isolation,” said Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer.Private hospitals did not offer comment on their position to the government decision.“The hospitals are working as per previous order and it is good sign that the government has clarified. We will wait for the order to come and the rates recommended by the Dr. VK Paul committee are better than the rates which are offered under Ayushman Yojna,” said Dr. VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association - Ghaziabad.According to the figures of the state health department, only 2,558 patients are presently taking up treatment in private hospitals across the state while the number of patients in home isolation is about 29,588.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-hospitals-cannot-charge-more-than-the-capped-price-will-issue-fresh-order-up-govt/story-B9gGdu2ZFG0wPGztLAFLzM.html
03-09-2020||City||Those between 20 and 59 years account for 79% of Covid cases in Ghaziabad||As the number of Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Ghaziabad, the four age groups of 20-29 years, 30-39 years and 40-49 years and 50-59 years have been the most affected, accounting for nearly 79% of the total cases reported from the district, from March 1 to August 31, health officials said Thursday. The officials said people in these four age groups are the most mobile and, hence, are at a higher risk of contracting the infection. Of the four groups, the age group of 20-29 years has a total 1,806 cases from March to August, while those in group of 30-39 years account for 2,071 cases during the same period. The third group, 40-49 years, is also high on cases with 1,578 cases, while the age group 50-59 years has 1,233 cases during the six-month period. The other significant age group is 0-9 years that has reported 273 cases of the total 8,440 Covid-19 cases reported till August 31. On the other hand, senior citizens, aged 60 and above, have reported 951 cases during the period. “Those between the ages of 20 years and 59 years are the ones who have to go out for work and also due to fact that most activities have opened up with the easing of lockdown restrictions. So, these are the people who are more prone to get the infection and their numbers are on the rise,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The age group of 40-49 years has shown minor decline in the number of fresh cases in the month of August, Gupta said. “The minors and the senior citizens are contracting the disease from others in their family who step out the most. The senior citizens from the start of pandemic have been advised to stay at home and take utmost precautions. The numbers for that age groups is not much,” said Dr VB Jindal, president, Indian Medical Association. “That is why the sero surveillance which is to start soon will be taking samples from those between the age of 18 years and 59 years,” he said. Amit Mohan Prasaad, additional chief secretary (health), Uttra Pradesh, has issued an order for the sero survey which is slated to start from September 4 and has decided to include the age group of 5-18 years as well. “The number of samples will now be 1,440 for the sero survey and 360 of them will be from the age group of 5-18 years. We have prepared our teams for sample collection. The survey results will indicate how much of the population has developed antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19,” Dr Gupta said. A serological survey checks for an immune response against the virus in the form of antibodies in the blood of a random sample of the population. It can help authorities establish how far the disease had spread and how many people fought off the virus without showing symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/those-between-20-and-59-years-account-for-79-of-covid-cases-in-ghaziabad/story-EXmqNsjL2rr8c5b9SfU5hO.html
03-09-2020||City||GLADA’s freehold plots: Last date for submission of applications is September 7||The last date for submission of applications for Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority’s (GLADA) scheme of allotment of 82 freehold residential plots to general public and 11 residential plots to economically weaker section is September 7, 2020.The site where the plots are offered is located on Sua Road, behind Keys Hotel (adjoining Shaheed Bhagat Sigh Nagar). Sharing details, a spokesperson of the housing and urban development department said that GLADA has offered plots measuring upto 125 square yards at a reserve price of ₹29,000 per square yard to general public. For plots measuring less than 100 square yard which are reserved for economically weaker section, reserve price has been fixed at ₹26,100 per square yard. The applicants are required to deposit 10% of the total cost of the plot as earnest money at the time of submission of application and subsequent 15% within 30 days from the date of issuance of allotment letter.The balance 75% can be paid by allottees either in a lump sum within 60 days of issuance of allotment letter which would entitle them to a rebate of 5% or in six equated half-yearly instalments with 9% interest compounded annually, said the spokesperson.Development work at site is almost complete and possession shall be handed over immediately after issuance of allotment letter, the spokesperson added.Keeping in mind, the interests of the economically weaker section of the society, 11 residential plots in the scheme have been reserved for allotment to EWS. A separate draw for allotment of plots to EWS category shall be conducted. SCOS AT SITE ALSO OFFERED THROUGH E-AUCTION Besides the residential plots, GLADA has also put nine SCOs, that are situated on the same site, on e-auction. The reserve price for these has been fixed at ₹87,000 per sq yd. Details of auction which is slated to conclude at 1pm on September 7, 2020 are available on the e-auction portal www.puda.e-auctions.inInterested applicants can obtain the scheme brochure from the associated banks or apply online at www.glada.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/glada-s-freehold-plots-last-date-for-submission-of-applications-is-september-7/story-8cCoolndGJ4W3ycWkpt2oI.html
03-09-2020||City||Containment zones unguarded in Ghaziabad, residents raise concerns||The Ghaziabad administration on Thursday uploaded the list of 336 Covid-19 containment zones in the district on their website. However, on the ground, several of these zones say their areas were hardly “contained” with no measures to prevent people from moving in or out. With infections spreading and the economy slowly opening up, the Union government had, in its Unlock 4 guidelines issued last week, insisted on keeping containment zones off-limit to any activity, including travel by Metro. Only essential services would be allowed. These rules will be in force till at least September 30.On Thursday, Hindustan Times visited several of these containment zones in Indirapuram, Shashtri Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, among others, and found no bar on entry/exit of people neither were there any prominent posters declaring the area as a containment zone.“In our area there is no sealing or barricading witnessed for past some time. Public movement is allowed without any restrictions. Since we remain mobile in the area, there is hardly any barricading seen around,” said Mohan Sangwan, general secretary of the confederation of trans-Hindon residents’ welfare association (RWA). At Niti Khand I in Indirapuram where six patients from a household tested positive on August 26, as per administration’s list, and is scheduled to be de-sealed on September 9. However, when HT visited the area, there was unhindered public movement “There is hardly any sealing of containment zones on ground while it merely exits on paper. Nowadays, one will hardly find any barricading outside the zones,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners. “In my ward I have not seen any barricading or sealing for long time. I came across one house where there are five cases and on Thursday I got the area outside it sanitised with my own efforts. There is another house in J block where there is no sealing. It seems there is some lack of co-ordination and the officials must rope in supervisors of the corporation. Otherwise, people are free to move and there are more chances of spread of infection,” said Ajay Sharma, councillor of ward 67. Containment zones are sealed for 14 days and de-sealed in case they have no fresh cases. These zones are divided into two categories -- category-1 with only one case and a 100-metre radius “lockdown” or the entire mohalla, whichever is less; cateogry-2 with more than one case and a 200-metre radius “lockdown” and an additional buffer zone outside based on officials’ assessment. When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey referred the matter to CP Tiwari, additional district magistrate (city), who is in-charge of containment zones. “All containment activities like surveillance, sanitisation, sealing and de-sealing are taken up on regular and timely basis in containment zones. In case residents have raised issue, I will take up report from every incident commander who is in-charge of the respective areas. Once the report is received we will take appropriate measures. There is always scope for improvement,” Tiwari said, without expanding on HT’s findings.The police said they were not responsible for ensuring the containment.Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said, “We have about 500 personnel deployed on containment zone duties day and night. There is also a plan to rope in auxiliary personnel like home guards, chowkidars etc. The barricading is done by magistrates and public works department.”This passing the buck, an expert said, will be detrimental to containing the spread of the virus. “There is less visibility of containment zones nowadays as compared to initial months of the pandemic. It would also be handy if there is rigorous antigen testing taken up immediately in order to identify the suspect cases in the area,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. According to the official figures, the Ghaziabad, till September 2, has 8586 total cases which include 68 deaths and 1464 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/containment-zones-unguarded-in-ghaziabad-residents-raise-concerns/story-WViZ6P5yeXBFtX1KuHIiXJ.html
03-09-2020||Noida||NMRC to start Aqua Line metro from Monday, but difficult to keep track of commuters from containment area||Though the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) is making all preparations to resume services on the Aqua Line from Monday, as per directions from the Centre, officials said it would be difficult to check whether commuters are coming from containment zones. Officials said as per the current plan, security personnel will be deployed to check the temperature of commuters and only those will be allowed to travel whose temperature is normal. They added that NMRC may introduce some changes as needed in coming days, based on the trends in ridership and passenger behaviour that they see.NEEDS DISTRICT ADMIN QUOTE ON METRO REOPENING AND CONTAINMENT ZONES AND WHAT THEY ARE DOING TO PREPAREGautam Budh Nagar on Thursday recorded 138 coronavirus (Covid-19) positive cases while 86 patients were discharged after treatment. The official data shared by the administration revealed that there are 1,163 active cases in the district. Containment zones are decided by the district administration which sees how many positive patients are there in any given locality before taking a call. Up till Thursday, Gautam Budh Nagar had 289 containment zones, according to the health department.Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said: “The security persons will be able to check people’s temperature and allow only those whose temperature is under the prescribed limits. We may introduce some changes once the system starts working,” she said.The NMRC has placed stickers to guide commuters to stand in queues and maintain social distancing norms. This will be applicable inside and outside the trains as well. At the entry gates, Covid safety messages will be displayed on the LED screens inside the trains. According to NMRC guidelines, commuters entering the premises will have to apply sanitisers on their hands, which will be made available to them after temperature screening. To ensure adequate social distancing, passengers will be advised to stand in queues at designated spaces by visible markings one metre apart at frisking zones, platforms and inside the train.Data from the corporation shows that ridership was lower in the third week of March this year, just before the lockdown was implemented nationwide, and the outbreak was rearing its head in the region as well as the country. The district recorded its first coronavirus case on March 5.On March 2, 3 and 4, the Aqua Line had recorded 26,079, 26000, and 24,591 commuters, respectively, against March 16, 17 and 18’s 19,064, 17,720 and 16,007. Sharma said that some private organisations and MNCs had advised their employees to work from home and academic institutions had also closed, which resulted in low footfall in the last week of March 2020. She said, however, that she is not sure about what kind of footfall numbers to expect.“We hope gradually the system will be in place. But we are not sure about the number of commuters in the next few weeks. We have to wait and see,” Sharma said. Medical experts, though, say there is a risk of infection in the metro as people from all over the NCR would travelling in the trains.According to N K Sharma, president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Noida, it is possible people from containment zones may end up on the trains. “The Aqua Line connects Noida to Greater Noida while the Blue Line connects Noida to Dwarka. A number of people from various parts of the national capital region would take metro, once it starts. This may lead to spread of infection. Officials must check temperature, Aarogya Setu App and also seek a Covid negative report from the commuters to allow their entry,” he said. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, meanwhile, said in Gautam Budh Nagar, teams of health department and police keep a check on containment zones. “The teams try to ensure that people do not venture out unnecessarily from containment zones. The restrictions would keep in check metro commuters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nmrc-to-start-aqua-line-metro-from-monday-but-difficult-to-keep-track-of-commuters-from-containment-area/story-KkFzjIuDrnJWd57yyHI3MK.html
03-09-2020||City||65 staffers of famous Murthal eatery test positive for Covid-19||As many as 65 employees of Murthal’s famous Amrik Sukhdev dhaba have tested positive for Covid-19 in Sonepat, local authorities said on Thursday.A health official said they had collected samples of 360 staffers of Sukhdev dhaba on Wednesday, of whom 65 tested positive for the infection. He said 10 employees of an adjoining eatery were found infected too.Both dhabas are located Delhi-Ambala national highway, nearly 50km away from the capital.According to Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia, both dhabas have been sealed till further orders and efforts are on to trace as many contacts as possible of the positive cases. The DC said the district administration has ordered to sanitise the eateries.Dhaba owner Amrik Singh said those found infected were among the 100 workers called from Bihar last week.“These workers were yet to resume their services at the eatery. Now, we have decided to send them back,” he added. Murthal is famous for its eateries and is often thronged by people travelling on the Delhi-Ambala national highway. Many people from Delhi also visit Murthal as a getaway destination as the place has many famous dhabas.The DC said that Sonepat district administration has been running a special drive for the sampling of workers at the dhabas and it was during this process that these cases were detected. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, he said the district administration keeps carrying routine checks at dhabas to ensure that they follow all norms and guidelines, including those pertaining to social distancing. Haryana on Thursday reported its highest single-day spike of 1,881 coronavirus cases with 19 fatalities. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-staffers-of-famous-murthal-eatery-found-infected/story-e1cBnzK2zrTlp1dCKxjmEI.html
03-09-2020||City||Three-wheeler gang in Ludhiana steals Rs 40,000 from Barnala trader||Members of a three-wheeler gang stole Rs 40,000 from a Barnala-based trader in a moving auto on Wednesday. The victim Deepak Kumar, 31, said that he runs a readymade garment shop in Barnala and had come to Ludhiana to buy some stuff. In the afternoon, he boarded a three-wheeler from Bharat Nagar Chowk to get to Field Ganj. Two passengers were already sitting in the auto and one of them was being addressed as Sanjay by the other two. The accused made him get off the auto near Shri Durga Mata Mandir. It was when he got off that Deepak realised that the cash in his pocket was missing and immediately sounded the police.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Tarsem Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons. He added that the victim managed to note down the registration number of the vehicle, which will help them trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-wheeler-gang-in-ludhiana-steals-rs-40-000-from-barnala-trader/story-dRf2WgjSE8Wuj8WKSS6P6M.html
03-09-2020||City||Taking page out of Gandhi’s book, cops ask people to mask up||As the district continues its fight against coronavirus, the police on Wednesday launched an special drive against curfew violators.The cops got creative and adopted ‘Gandhigiri’ to spread awareness on the importance of following the guidelines. With folded hands, they appealed the people to wear masks and stay indoors.The police have announced to strictly implement night curfew in the city. As factories are allowed to operate, the police will be regulating traffic movement till 7.30am. In this duration, they also will check for violations by commuters.After getting complaints regarding opening of liquor vends till late evening, the police have also increased patrolling around such vends and ensured downing of shutters by 6.30pm sharp.At least 50 checkpoints have been installed in the city to ensure curfew compliance between 7pm to 5am.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at Division 8 police station, said that to make sure people remained inside their homes, the police had filed various FIRs and also lodged some violators in open jails, but having learnt no lesson, people were still roaming around the streets during the night curfew.There were complaints of residents not wearing masks and wandering around the city after 7pm, the inspector added.Cops are requesting people with folded hands to wear masks and not venture out and stay indoors as soon as the night curfew kicks in.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said if the police get strict, it is only for the safety and wellness of city residents. He sought support from the people with letting the administration and police implement the restrictions.He added that during the curfew, police are doing their duty to protect the city resident by staying outside. People should do their bit by remaining in their respective homes, he appealed.The police have already issued 64,000 challans to violators for not wearing masks and defying curfew orders. They have collected ₹3 crore as penalty so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/taking-page-out-of-gandhi-s-book-cops-ask-people-to-mask-up/story-f0QeMB8XFE7OQ9QFKVbD4K.html
03-09-2020||City||GADVASU to offer new diploma, certificate and short courses||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University has introduced new diplomas and short and certificate courses from the next academic session to uplift skills and promote micro specialisation among working veterinarians and students of different streams. From the 2020-21 academic session, GADVASU is starting nine diploma courses, eight certificate courses and two short courses. The vet varsity is starting diplomas in animal reproductive biotechnology, small animal clinical practice, extension and entrepreneurship management, feed and fodder technology, laboratory diagnostics, poultry science, health, bovine clinical practice and equine clinical practice. In certificate courses, the university will offer veterinary diagnostic imaging, small animal anaesthesia, embryo transfer technology in farm animals, semen handling and artificial insemination, fish hatchery management, aquarium sciences, fish processing technology and aqua clinics. In short courses, GADVASU has introduced courses on veterinary diagnostic imaging and small animal anaesthesia courses. The duration of diplomas will be one year, certificate courses six months and six weeks for short courses. Qualification needed for most courses is bachelor of veterinary science and animal husbandry while for some it is BSc (biosciences and agriculture), life sciences or any discipline of science. The last date for registration is different for various courses but the first crucial last date is September 7. Detailed information is available on www.gadvasu.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-to-offer-new-diploma-certificate-and-short-courses/story-AOYFzZTZ0NvXmzsAUrOHPM.html
03-09-2020||City||Webinar on nutrition held by PAU||A webinar to commemorate National Nutrition Month was organized by the skill development centre of Punjab Agricultural University on Thursday for members of PAU Kisan Club, including the women’s wing.As many as 207 farmers and farm women attended the webinar held under the guidance of Dr JS Mahal, director of extension education, PAU. TS Riar, associate director (skill development), discussed the activities of the club. Buta Singh Dhillon, an expert from department of plant breeding and genetics, spoke on successful management of rice at fruiting stage. JS Brar spoke on nutritional importance and establishment of fruit nutritional garden. Sailesh Jindal, an expert of vegetable science, explained the establishment of vegetable nutrition garden. Kiran Grover, food and nutrition expert, delivered a talk on nutritional importance of fruit and vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/webinar-on-nutrition-held-by-pau/story-qlDuJTg6HVrtvdIQdDCcIJ.html
03-09-2020||City||FICO demands regulation in steel prices||Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) has strongly opposed the hike in steel prices and demanded the formation of a committee to regulate the pricing and rationalise them from the central government.FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular and general secretary Rajeev Jain have requested Union minister of steel Dharmendra Pradhan to intervene and resolve the issue. They also requested the minister to ban export of steel in order to facilitate indigenous manufacturers.Kular stated that the prices have risen by Rs 3,000 per tonne from September 1, which is totally unjustified considering the MSMEs. Steep hike in steel prices are observed every month, and the industry is facing huge losses as previous orders have not been completed yet, he added.“The industry is forced to purchase steel and iron at renewed prices. The frequent hike is fatal for the industry and indigenous manufacturers” he said.With the easing of lockdown, industrial units are operational at around 40% of their capacity, due to social distancing and other government SOPs. Though the demand for products have increased, but production capacity hasn’t.“Steel prices have increased from Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 per tonne in last 45 days, which is totally unacceptable to the industry and consumers. As the source of income has gone down, prices of the finished goods have started increasing, which is a direct burden on the common man,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fico-demands-regulation-in-steel-prices/story-WvVGtcIauHSWUaoVG6jGzN.html
03-09-2020||City||Roll back hike in property tax for rentals, demands BJP||Strongly opposing Punjab local bodies department’s decision to increase the property tax on rental accommodation in the city, the BJP on Thursday demanded roll back of the order. Party leaders accused the state government of adding to the woes of residents who were already suffering financial crises.Earlier, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) used to collect property tax for this category at ₹5 per yard. But, the local bodies department on August 31 notified the hiked 7.5 percent tax on the annual rent generated by the owner of such a property. The new rates would be applicable from April 1, 2020.Punjab BJP vice-president and former Ludhiana senior deputy mayor Praveen Bansal said the residents are already struggling to make ends meet amid the ongoing pandemic and the government has decided to add the tax burden. Moreover, most of the PGs and labour quarters are lying vacant as the tenants have returned to their homes due to the pandemic. The owners are not getting rent and the government is burning a hole in their pockets, the BJP leader said. “Rather than providing relief to the residents amid the pandemic, the Punjab government is increasing taxes. It should revoke the hike immediately. For most residents, their incomes have shrunk, while some are bearing high treatment costs after contracting the disease. It is unfortunate that the government is not being run by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, and the bureaucracy is making all the decisions in closed-door meetings. The CM should step out of home isolation and see the ground reality,” said Bansal.Apart from criticising the increase in the property tax, former BJP councillor Inder Aggarwal slammed the government for imposing the decision with retrospective effect. “It will lead to large-scale corruption as many residents have already paid the tax and they will now be served notices for reassessment. This will also lead to chaos and harassment of the public. The government should immediately reverse the decision,” Aggarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roll-back-hike-in-property-tax-for-rentals-demands-bjp/story-8qpytZJNHQQFE1bVICqtKL.html
03-09-2020||City||Smart City Mission: Ludhiana MC commissioner asks officials to expedite projects||: To expedite development works being taken up under the Smart City Mission, municipal commissioner-cum-chief executive officer (CEO) of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL), Pardeep Sabharwal, conducted a review meeting with MC officials and the consultant company at the MC’s Zone D office on Thursday. During the meeting, Sabharwal directed officials to get the ongoing projects completed within set deadlines. Further, they were told to put up files of different projects which are pending for a long time. A few approvals are awaited from the state government, so the matter can be discussed with the higher authorities of the local bodies department, he said. Sabharwal was appointed as the CEO of LSCL on August 31, a month after the transfer of last CEO, Sanyam Aggarwal. “I have taken stock of the projects and officials have been directed to get them completed in time. Extension of a few months has been given to the contractors of ongoing projects as the works came to halt during lockdown. Officials and contractors have been given strict instructions that there should not be any further delay in the projects, otherwise action will be taken against them,” the DC said. MAYOR WRITES TO GOYAL FOR OPENING OF VIKAS NAGAR RAILWAY CROSSINGWith the MC working on construction of railway overbridge and railway underbridge at Pakhowal road railway crossing under Smart City project, mayor Balkar Sandhu has written to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal for opening the Vikar Nagar railway crossing which was has been closed down.Sandhu said, “We will have to close the Pakhowal road railway crossing for continuing the ROB/RUB project in the coming time. It will lead to traffic chaos. If the Vikas Nagar railway crossing is opened, it will be a huge relief for commuters as traffic would be diverted.”Earlier, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had taken up the matter with Goyal, but no final decision has been taken yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/smart-city-mission-ludhiana-mc-commissioner-asks-officials-to-expedite-projects/story-kK7wPylwQzYmkDvMwoQcdL.html
03-09-2020||City||PMC adds seven more crematoriums for Covid-19 victims||PUNE The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) on Thursday dedicated seven more crematoriums for bodies of victims of Covid-19 confirmed and suspected cases.These include Aundh, Pashan, Katraj, Dhankawadi, Mundhwa, Koregaon Park, Bibvewadi crematorium, which will operate between 8 am to midnight. While Kailash and Yerawada crematoriums will operate 24X7.Srinivas Kandul, head, PMC electrical department, said, “Earlier there were only two crematoriums at Kailash and Yerawada which were earmarked for bodies Covid victims. As the average deaths per day in the city have increased, PMC has added seven more crematoriums which will run from 8 am to midnight.”In the last few days, the average Covid deaths per day have reached at 35 to 40 in the PMC area. Residents residing outside of PMC limits are also cremated here. As the civic body has received complaints from family members of the deceased about waiting for long hours to perform the final rites the civic body has dedicated more crematoriums.Former Pune mayor Datta Ekbote passed away on Wednesday night. His relatives had to rush his body to three crematoriums before conducting his final rites. On this background, the electrical department on Thursday took the decision and increased the crematoriums for Covid victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-adds-seven-more-crematoriums-for-covid-19-victims/story-sGxdVzKwMi79hT4mhhTwHM.html
03-09-2020||City||JEE (Main) Day 3: Physics, maths sections lengthy, say Ludhiana students||Of the total 497 students, 337 appeared for Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main on day three at the ION digital zone near Sherpur Chowk on Thursday. The examination was conducted by Tata Consultancy Services at nine exam centers in Punjab. The question paper consisted of 75 questions with three sections comprising 25 questions each. Of the three sections (physics, chemistry, and mathematics), students found physics and maths sections lengthy. The exam was conducted in two shifts — morning and evening. As many as 167 appeared for the examination in the first shift which began at 9am and concluded at noon, while 170 turned up for the second shift which was held from 3pm to 6pm. Students said the examination centre’s authorities took various precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The candidates were given new masks at the entrance gate and thermal scanning was conducted. They ensured that social distancing was maintained. Manik Jindal, a 19-year-old student, said, “I found the exam moderate to difficult level. Physics and math sections were lengthy and unexpected questions were added to the chemistry section. I attempted the paper in the morning shift and reached the centre at 8am. The authorities had taken various safety measures keeping in mind the Covid-19 outbreak.” Another student, Dharuv Singla, said that the exam was balanced, but tougher than the one held in January. Maths and physics parts were lengthy, while the chemistry section was easy. Some new questions were added into chemistry section for the first time, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-main-day-3-physics-maths-sections-lengthy-say-ludhiana-students/story-eJGjMr3rxM8ekI1rODc4mN.html
03-09-2020||City||Two doctors donate plasma to critical Covid patients in Ludhiana||Two resident doctors who successfully defeated Covid-19 became life savers as they donated their plasma to critically-ill coronavirus patients in the city.The donors are Dr Bhanu Parkash and Dr Ashish Garg of Hero DMC Heart Institute here.Plasma therapy is a treatment where the plasma — straw-coloured, liquid component of blood that acts as a transporting medium — from a recovered person is injected into the body of an infected patient. It has been observed that the antibodies present in the cured person’s blood neutralise the virus present in the Covid patient’s body. Thus, the treatment is being suggested for patients who are moderately affected by the virus. Plasma can be donated once in 14 days.According to Dr Bhanu and Dr Ashish, plasma donation is similar to blood donation and is a half-an-hour long process. A needle is placed into a vein in the arm. Plasma is collected through a process call plasmapheresis and is conducted in cycles, they added.DMCH managing society secretary Prem Kumar Gupta appreciated the noble gesture by both the doctors to save lives of Covid patients.As per medical superintendent Dr Bishav Mohan, donating plasma will not reduce your own immunity or affect your future antibody levels. “Till now, many few people have come forward for plasma donation,” he said, urging others to do the same for ill patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-doctors-donate-plasma-to-critical-covid-patients-in-ludhiana/story-incTeRd3B7nkdHFvTPjy8L.html
03-09-2020||City||Loss-ridden banquet owners in Ludhiana demand hike in wedding guest limit||Reeling under losses due to lockdown restrictions, the owners of banquet halls on Pakhowal Road here have urged the state government to increase the gathering limit of guests in wedding events.They have asked for allowing at least 100 persons from September 21, as prescribed by the Centre in its Unlock 4.0 guidelines.The hotel and resorts association of Pakhowal Road handed over a memorandum to MLA Kuldeep Vaid on Wednesday evening in this regard.The association members rued that other states have allowed a gathering of 100 persons in a wedding event after September 21 after the Centre released the fresh guidelines, but the Punjab government in its recent order has allowed only 30 persons to such events till September 30.They said if the government did not provide any relief to the sector, they would be forced to raise an agitation. The owners claimed they were suffering losses and struggling to pay the fixed charges, besides their staff not being able to make ends meet and going jobless.Hotelier Pritam Singh said, “We have been sitting idle since mid of March as restrictions have been imposed on gatherings and people are not organising events. We are facing losses and are somehow trying to retain the staff. We want the government to allow events with 50 percent capacity in banquets and hotels, but not even 100 persons can participate in the events, even when the Centre has allowed the same. We would lodge protests if no relief is given.”Taranjit Singh, who runs a resort on lease, said, “Many staffers have lost their jobs during the pandemic, while others are struggling to support their families. But the government is not paying heed to our problems. The business is on the brink of collapse and the owners are forced to pay hefty fixed charges, including electricity bills, even when no events are being organised at our venues.”MLA Kuldeep Vaid has assured the association to the take up the matter with the state government and get help for the suffering industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/loss-ridden-banquet-owners-in-ludhiana-demand-hike-in-wedding-guest-limit/story-wCwIOlqUBLYfuSrp8dQloJ.html
03-09-2020||City||Money exchanger robbed of ₹6 lakh at his shop in Ludhiana||Four miscreants robbed a money exchanger of ₹6 lakh cash, including foreign currency notes worth ₹1 lakh, after injuring him with sharp-edged weapons at his shop near Samrala Chowk here.The victim, identified as owner of Vijay Enterprises Shakti Kumar (38), has been admitted to a private hospital. The Moti Nagar police on Wednesday lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused.As per the complainant, on Wednesday night, he was locking the shutters of his shop when the accused turned up there. They attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and barged in the shop. They robbed ₹5 lakh cash and US dollar notes worth ₹1 lakh from his shop, besides his gold chain and mobile phone. Before fleeing, the accused also hit him with the butt of a pistol, the Shakti added.The victim then raised an alarm, following which the locals huddled there, informed the police and rushed him to the hospital.ASI Dhanwant Singh, who is investigating the case, said minutes before the incident, a customer had come to the shop to transfer money to Canada. The police have also found that the suspects had come there different motorcycles. They had parked them at Shingar Cinema road, 150 metres away from the shop, and fled on their bikes after executing the crime.A case under sections 394, 120-B of the IPC and sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been lodged against unidentified accused.Recently, three motorcycle-borne miscreants had robbed an elderly man of ₹2.80 lakh on Gill Road. The suspects are still untraced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/money-exchanger-robbed-of-6-lakh-at-his-shop-in-ludhiana/story-Iwr3z7motlsUrJ0cwMUBBO.html
03-09-2020||City||Rain brings respite from sultry weather in Ludhiana||After witnessing patchy rainfall over the last one week, thundershowers provided a much need respite to city residents from the rising temperature and humidity. Although it was not a well distributed rainfall, Pakhowal Road and Civil Lines area witnessed steady showers while the outer areas of the city experienced drizzling. Met experts at Punjab Agricultural Universe (PAU) said these showers won’t affect the crop. The arrival of rain coupled with thundershowers coincided with the night curfew timings in the city. Anxious shopkeepers were seen waiting for the rain to subside after closing their establishments. “The lightning is frightening. Instead of rushing back home, I have decided to wait at the shop for some time,” said Sunil Vinayak, who runs a grocery store at Sham Singh Road. However, many commuters were seen speeding on their vehicles, hoping to reach home early.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-brings-respite-from-sultry-weather-in-ludhiana/story-f2Zac74aKOmvSbK5jqrkTJ.html
03-09-2020||City||Asha workers are the real corona warriors: Ludhiana civil surgeon||Asha workers, who have been facing the wrath of residents in micro-containment zones, have got the backing of Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga.In a statement on Thursday, Bagga vehemently opposed the vicious rumours doing the rounds of social media that accuse Asha workers of being involved in organ harvesting racket. Lauding their services, Bagga said, “Asha workers are the real corona warriors who are working round-the-clock to motivate suspected patients to get tested. Besides, they are providing health-related information to patients in home isolation,” he said. “But most importantly, they are bringing pregnant women to hospitals during pandemic and also ensuring the continuation of vaccination programme among children in these times,” he added.The civil surgeon added, “Over the last few days, instead of honouring these corona warriors, some mischievous elements have been trying to tarnish the image of Asha workers and the health department by spreading false and misleading propaganda on social media.”Recently, a letter by the Birmi village panchayat of Raikot stated that they will not allow Covid testing in the village as there is no treatment available for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asha-workers-are-the-real-corona-warriors-ludhiana-civil-surgeon/story-tRhxQh8CxXG1C455SE3lfK.html
03-09-2020||City||Shopkeeper found murdered in Payal village||A 25-year-old shopkeeper was found murdered in Dhamot village of Payal on Thursday evening. The killers seemed to have hacked him to death with a sharp-edged weapon and fled after dumping the body in the fields.The victim has been identified as Satinder Singh of Lehal village.He owned a grocery shop in the village. According to the family, he had left the house in the afternoon for paying the electricity bill. In the evening, the police informed them that his body was lying in Dhamot village.Payal station house officer (SHO), inspector Jaspal Singh said that some passersby noticed the body lying in a pool of the blood and informed the police. The SHO said prima facie, it appears to be a case of personal rivalry but investigations are on.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the unidentified accused at Payal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopkeeper-found-murdered-in-payal-village/story-7wv09hKeQoIi6MfEBfhQnM.html
03-09-2020||City||Three teens gangrape 16-yr-old girl in Ludhiana, record incident on phones||In a shocking incident, three teenagers gangraped a 16-year-old girl and recorded a video of the incident. The incident reportedly took place on Sunday evening, however, the girl told her parents about it on Tuesday night following which a case was registered at the Division Number 3 police station.In her complaint, the victim said that she works as a domestic help in the locality. The accused had been stalking for some time, but she had not told this to anyone, out of fear. On Sunday evening, when she was returning home after finishing her work, the accused intercepted her on the way. Two of them forced her to go with them on a motorcycle. When she refused, the accused threatened to throw acid on her. The accused then took her to a room where they gangraped her. She said that the accused also recorded the incident on their phones. She said that she initially did not reveal the incident to anyone at home but finally confided in her mother on Tuesday night following which they decided to lodge a police complaint. Division Number 3 station house officer inspector Satish Kumar said that immediately after receiving a complaint, police registered a case against the accused under Sections 376-D (gangrape) of the Indian Penal Code and Information and Technology Act. The accused are aged between 14 and 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-teens-gangrape-16-yr-old-girl-in-ludhiana-record-incident-on-phones/story-5tuWM6wfeaSJOsdjYViQ2L.html
03-09-2020||City||Virus claims 18 lives in Ludhiana, toll touches 460||Eighteen patients died of Covid-19 in separate health facilities in the district, taking the total death toll to 460 on Thursday. While 49 deaths have been reported in the city in merely three days, the number of fatalities was much lower at 26 for the corresponding period in the month of August.Besides, 282 new positive cases took the cumulative total of cases in the district to 10, 914. While there are 1, 677 active patients, 8,774 persons have recovered from the virus. There were five women among the deceased today. The dead include a 58-year-old male from Giaspura, a 73-year- old male from Bajra village, a 57-year-old male from Kehar Singh Colony in Khanna, a 28-year-old male from Machhiwara, a 72-year-old male from Hargobind Nagar, a 44-year-old male from Vivek Colony, a 63-year-old male from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, a 55-year-old male from Haibowal Kalan, a 65-year-old female from Cheema Chowk, a 53-year-old male from Samrala, a 89-year-old male from New Shivpuri, a 56-year-old female from Civil Lines, a 79-year-old female from BRS Nagar, a 62-year-old male from Dhandari Kalan, a 48-year-old female from Jodhpura, a 50-year-old male from Guru Ram Das Nagar, a 58-year-old female from SBS Nagar and a 57-year-old male from Kohara. Among those who tested positive are 87 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 40 contacts of positive patients, 72 patients referred from the outpatient departments and 19 healthcare workers and two pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-claims-18-lives-in-city-toll-touches-460/story-N7YYvq4XnxDhHpulN9JdMP.html
03-09-2020||City||Now, pay fine for not segregating household waste, littering||With the local bodies department notifying the ‘Solid waste management and cleanliness and sanitation bylaws-2020’, residents will now have to pay hefty fines for failure to segregate waste or indulging in other violations. The challan amount can range from Rs 250 to Rs 5,000, depending upon the category of the property or violation. Challans up to Rs 20,000 can be issued on sale of plastic carry bags and Rs 25,000 for burning garbage. The municipal corporation (MC) has also been directed to depute nuisance detectors in the city, who will keep an eye on violators and issue challans. GARBAGE COLLECTION The local bodies department has also fixed monthly charges for door-to-door garbage collection. The charges vary from Rs 50 (for households up to 200 sqm area) to Rs 25,000 for a university. There would be at least 5% annual increment in the charges. Bulk waste generators, including hotels, marriage palaces and schools, have also been directed to dispose of the waste within the premises as far as possible and only the residual waste should be handed over to waste collectors. HOLDING EVENTS AT PUBLIC PLACES A person intending to organise an event at a public place will have to inform the civic body three days prior to the event and pay user charges for collection of waste which may vary from Rs 5,000 (for up to 100 participants) to Rs 40,000 (for over 10,000 participants). If the person fails to clear the waste from the site or inform the authorities, then action would be taken by the MC. WASTE MANAGEMENT Facing heat over its failure to manage solid waste properly, the MC will soon commence a drive in the city to issue challans to those who don’t segregate their household waste as directed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The NGT had, on August 24, directed the MC to deposit bank guarantee of Rs 15 lakh to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) over its failure to take up the solid waste management project. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that bylaws have been notified to ensure compliance of the solid waste management rules. The MC General House had approved the bylaws in September last year and final approval was also given by the local bodies department in the month of January this year. However, the notification was pending due to which the MC was not able to issue the challans. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We were waiting for the notification and now extensive drives will be conducted to ensure door-to-door lifting of garbage and waste segregation. We are also working to improve the infrastructure for collection and lifting of waste in a segregated manner. Public should also support the civic body in this matter as solid waste management has become a major concern for the city.” VIOLATORS LIABLE FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE As per the notification, residents who fail to pay the penalty will be liable to do community service, such as road sweeping and graffiti cleaning, for at least one hour. A case can also be lodged against the violators under Environment Protection Act-1986, which can also lead to imprisonment and a fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-pay-fine-for-not-segregating-household-waste-littering/story-RbrMgWYcoAw6qZPEPirPTI.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||DPCC sets up 13 teams to monitor emission in industrial areas||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has set up 13 teams to rigorously monitor industrial areas, especially at night, and take strict action against those not complying with emission norms.The Supreme Court had in January directed pollution control boards of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to set up teams for this purpose.The teams will also check the dumping and burning of any type of waste in industrial and redevelopment areas, and levy environmental compensation on offenders.Deputy commissioners of east, north, and south municipal corporations have been made nodal officers to regularly monitor pollution levels at the 13 hotspots in the city, according to DPCC officials.The 13 hot spots are Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase II, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Narela, Mundka and Mayapuri.Five highly polluted areas have also been identified this year in addition to the 13 pollution hotspots.These are Gandhi Nagar, Peeragarhi, Azadpur Mandi, Rohtak Road and Sarai Rohila. Massive traffic snarls at these places leads to high levels of pollution, according to DPCC officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dpcc-sets-up-13-teams-to-monitor-emission-in-industrial-areas/story-ueLeU2XXJ8d9a2GVwlg3bM.html
03-09-2020||Pune||1,873 fresh Covid-19 cases, 47 deaths in PMC on Thursday||The state health department reported 1,873 fresh positive cases and 47 deaths in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday. At 54,838 Pune district now has the highest active cases in the state. The total progressive positive case count in Pune city stands at 1,06,428, while the total virus-related death toll is 2,654.Meanwhile, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation reported 979 new positive cases and eight new deaths on Thursday. Total deaths in Pimpri-Chinchwad stand at 816. Pune rural areas recorded 1,058 new cases and 23 deaths and the Covid-19 death deaths in Pune rural reached 768 on Thursday.Though Pune city has highest active cases in the state, maximum number of patients prefer home isolation. With asymptomatic patients opting for home isolation, pressure on the civic body-run Covid care centres has reduced and PMC shut down 12 such centres. These centres mainly functioned as isolation wards. However, the number of critical patients is still high in the city.With many complaints surfacing about the newly-erected jumbo facility, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, Pune Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar and Pune metropolitan commissioner Suhas Divse undertook a review of the jumbo facility on Thursday. The jumbo facility was recently inaugurated by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The administration had at that time said that the facility will have 800 beds, including 200 ICU ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-873-fresh-covid-19-cases-47-deaths-in-pmc-on-thursday/story-y0nLe2p4BrdPPjbGI4W4FN.html
03-09-2020||City||Third police commissioner in two years, Krishna Prakash has tough task ahead in Pimpri-Chinchwad||Pune The state government has appointed senior IPS officer Krishna Prakash, currently Nashik range inspector general, as the new Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner replacing Sandeep Bishnoi. Prakash, a 1998 batch IPS officer, is the third commissioner for PCMC in two years after the state government established the commissionerate in industrial town on August 15, 2018, as law and order became a challenge following rise in number of street crimes and cases of vandalism. Prakash’s transfer was part of major reshuffle carried out by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Wednesday in which around 50 officials were transferred. Bishnoi was the second commissioner of PCMC and had hardly completed a year before he was transferred. He was preceded by senior IPS officer RK Padmanabhan who too was transferred before completing two years in office. Prakash is known as “ironman” in police circles. Earlier, he had served as special IG at the director-general (DG) office. He originally hails from Hazaribagh in Bihar. Besides Prakash’s transfer, Pune rural police SP Sandip Patil has been promoted, and sent to Gadchiroli . The PCMC police commissionerate faces serious issues related to human resources like lack of manpower and adequate number of vehicles to address the rising crime. The shortage comprises lack of four assistant commissioners of police, independent armoury, BDDS squad, independent hospital, Rapid Action Force Unit (RAF). Due to lack of funds of state department, the commissionerate is dependent on CSR funds and also PCMC. Post lockdown, the area is facing issues like rising two wheeler thefts and house breaking incidents across the commissionerate area. Despite repeated attempts, Prakash could not be reached with calls and messages sent to him went unanswered. The force has a strength of 2,000 personnel although the requirement is of 7,000 personnel, according to the commissioner. As per the 2011 census, PCMC had a population of 1.72 million which is estimated to have grown to 2.08 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/third-police-commissioner-in-two-years-krishna-prakash-has-tough-task-ahead-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-dRhjOZZt6AsixdyFkDKJ5L.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC imposes Rs 1,000 fine on Centre for not responding to Khemka’s plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday imposed a Rs 1,000 fine on the Centre for not responding to a plea filed by senior Haryana cadre IAS officer Ashok Khemka, who has challenged the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order wherein his petition seeking direction to Centre to consider his empanelment was dismissed. The fine was imposed by the high court bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma as the Centre failed to submit its reply to the petition filed by Khemka on July 30. “Learned counsel for the respondent No.1 – Union of India prays for and is permitted to file a written statement within a period of one week from today subject to payment of Rs 1,000 as costs,” the bench said while deferring the hearing till September 15. It was on July 23 that CAT, Chandigarh, had passed the order. Khemka was seeking direction to the Centre to consider his empanelment for holding additional secretary or equivalent post at the Centre. CAT had dismissed the plea observing that appointment of a person at the Centre can’t be a matter of right. Khemka has told the court that he was empanelled as joint secretary in December 2010 and applied for central deputation in 2011, 2012 and 2014, but was not appointed. Non-empanelment at this stage, he had told the court, would lead to a cascading effect and he will not be able to serve at the Centre permanently. Subsequently, he had also sought the records pertaining to empanelment or exclusion of officers in another plea filed on August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-imposes-rs-1-000-fine-on-centre-for-not-responding-to-khemka-s-plea/story-04A3OaH9fyieB7HifOzYZL.html
03-09-2020||City||Senior leaders seek official status for Pahari language in J&K||Senior leaders have expressed resentment over the ‘neglect’ of Pahari language in the list of official languages of Jammu and Kashmir.In a joint statement, senior leaders of Pahari-speaking community have strongly condemned the Centre’s move of “ignoring the Pahari language” while declaring the official languages of Jammu and Kashmir.They said that Pahari is spoken by a large population in the UTs but they have been ignored.They said that recognising Dogri, Kashmiri and Hindi, along with Urdu and English as official languages is a welcome step but ignoring Pahari, Gojri and Punjab, and a few others who have a linguistic base is highly regrettable and needs to be rectified immediately.The signatories to the statement included former minister Shabir Ahmed Khan, former legislator Ashok Sharma, former deputy chairman legislative council Jahangir Hussain Mir, former MLC Ravinder Sharma, Nisar Ahmed Khan, retired IGP Khushal Bali, Rajinder Singh, and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-leaders-seek-official-status-for-pahari-language-in-j-k/story-41kWkIpYRieI9kPIYxSKLJ.html
03-09-2020||City||Himachal govt initiatives ushered in a sea change in people’s lives: Jai Ram||The development and welfare initiatives of the Himachal Pradesh government have ushered in a sea change in the lives of people, especially poor and marginalised communities, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday.He was addressing office bearers and workers of Sunderngar organisational districts of BJP at Vipasha Sadan in Mandi. Thakur said the state government has completed over two-and-half year’s tenure and achievements during this period were remarkable. “It becomes the duty of each and every party worker to publicize these initiatives and welfare schemes among the people,” he said.He called for better coordination between the government and the organisation, which was vital to cement the party’s position before the 2022 assembly polls and accomplish mission repeat.The CM also suggested party workers to discuss internal matters at appropriate party platform and avoid raking up issues in the media. He said all seven morchas (frontal organizations) of the party must work with great coordination to ensure ‘Mission Repeat’ of the BJP government.He said responsibility assigned by the party must be performed with utmost dedication and honesty. “Party leaders shall establish direct contact with the party workers as well as common people to strengthen party’s footprint and this could be achieved by maximum use of social media,” Thakur said.He said the massive victory of BJP in 2019 Lok Sabha elections was due to better coordination and hard work of the party workers.In his address, state BJP president Suresh Kashyap stressed that improved interaction with the masses at the grassroot level was important for betterment of the organisation. He said steps must be taken to get feedback regarding various policies and programmes of the state government. Organisation secretary Pawan Rana said party functionaries must effectively counter false propaganda of opposition parties by optimum use of information technology. He said the workers must work with utmost dedication to publicize the policies and achievements of the state government in right perspective.Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma; Sunderngar MLA and state party general secretary Rakesh Jamwal, District President Dalip Thakur and MLAs Inder Singh, Hira and Vinod Kumar were among others present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-initiatives-ushered-in-a-sea-change-in-people-s-lives-jai-ram/story-W4Uv7OWrkUDSxI0ygl2JPN.html
03-09-2020||City||PDP leaders prevented from leaving home for party meeting||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday did not allow several People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leaders to leave their homes for attending a party meeting here, its spokesman said. It was for the first time since the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year that the PDP had called the meeting of its senior office bearers and leaders at its party headquarters here .Many senior leaders, including PDP general secretary GN Hanjura, former education minister Naeem Akhtar, former legislator Ajaz Mir and former MLC Khurshi Alam were not allowed to move out of their homes by the police. “Despite being free on paper and in government submissions in high court and Supreme Court, PDP leadership continues to be under illegal detention, without any official orders. I wasn’t allowed to attend the PDP meeting nor were any of my colleagues, “Akhtar wrote on Twitter, while sharing a video of how he was stopped by the police. “Show us some order ... Or at least allow me to go on foot,” he pleads in the video to the policemen who respond saying there is no permission.PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said they had to cancel the meeting when most of their leaders were not allowed to move out of their homes. “They did not allow around 20 of our leaders and members to move out of homes saying that we are under house arrest. We told them to show us some orders or give us something in writing because recently they told the court that no one is under detention in Kashmir,” Hanjura said.He said they had written a letter to divisional commissioner and police top brass about four days ago informing about the meeting and seeking permission, however, they got no response from the authorities. “These are double standards of the government. In the high court and Supreme Court they said that nobody is under detention but on ground they are targeting a particular political party,” he said.The twitter handle of incarcerated PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, handled by her daughter Iltija Mufti, tweeted a number of videos showing the leaders being stopped from leaving their residences. “Shameful that J&K administration along with police physically prevented PDP leaders from leaving their homes in Srinagar. They shamelessly lie to courts that these people are free to move and then have the audacity to detain them illegally at home, “ Iltija wrote on Twitter. “BJP & other parties are allowed to hold meetings. But for some reason, the same freedom isn’t given to PDP. GOIs claims of setting all political leaders in J&K free is as fake as their narrative of normalcy,” she tweeted. Calls to Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole and inspector general of police Vijay Kumar did not elicit any response.Political parties lash out at govt“The government should come clean on whether someone is detained or not. This heralds the new struggle. Struggle to get the government to agree that a person is detained,” said People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone said. CPIM leader MY Tarigami condemned the police action to disallow PDP leaders from moving out of their houses for the party meeting. It has once again exposed the “hollow claims” of the BJP government about normalcy in Kashmir, he said. “Not allowing political leaders to attend their party meetings will have debilitating effects on democratic process and amounts to further squeezing of democratic space,” he said.Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) senior leader Mohammad Dilawar Mir termed the police action as highly condemnable and undemocratic. “Rather than imposing autocratic decisions the government should facilitate an early resumption of the political process in J&K which has already received a huge dent since last year,” Mir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pdp-leaders-prevented-from-leaving-home-for-party-meeting/story-EFHlEKLfnp01OFyeJWUATN.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||CBI allowed to collect graft-tainted SHO’s handwriting specimen||A special CBI court has allowed a CBI application to obtain handwriting exemplar of suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur and conduit Bhagwan Singh, who are accused in Rs 5-lakh graft case.The court order mentioned that the duo had agreed to give their handwriting and signature specimens.“Therefore, in view of the facts mentioned in the application filed by CBI and in view of no objection statements given by both the accused, the application stands allowed,” the order said.DSP Seema Pahuja, anti-corruption branch, CBI, Chandigarh, has been asked to obtain Kaur’s handwriting samples by visiting Burail Jail on Friday, and also of Bhagwan, who is on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbi-allowed-to-collect-graft-tainted-sho-s-handwriting-specimen/story-mmnZEsEt5io5OYUZ9IBEcL.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kin of dhaba owner murdered by helper awarded ₹10-lakh relief||Four years after a 55-year-old dhaba owner was murdered by his helper, the District Legal States Authority (DLSA) has awarded Rs 10 lakh as compensation to his family.Mahipal, who hailed from Assam, was killed by his 19-year-old helper, at his dhaba near the powerhouse in Sector 42 on July 1, 2016.Mahipal’s son, Eshwar Taal, who along with his brother and father ran the dhaba, had found the latter lying dead with his throat slit and the helper, also from Assam, missing. An FIR in this regard was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against the youth, then a minor.Four years later, on August 5, 2020, a district court convicted the teenager and awarded him “rigorous imprisonment for life with possibility of remission, commutation etc.,” and directed him to pay a fine of Rs 50,000.The court had also recommended compensation to the family and forwarded the case to the DLSA.“After the file was forwarded to DLSA on August 11, the family was contacted. They had shifted to Assam and reached Chandigarh on September 3,” said Ashok Kumar Mann, chief judicial magisterate-cum- secretary, DLSA Chandigarh.“In view of the meagre income of the family of the deceased, coupled with other social and economic aspects, compensation of Rs 10 lakh was awarded to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kin-of-dhaba-owner-murdered-by-helper-awarded-10-lakh-relief/story-s3azUh02t6UNy6P5ZY5MeJ.html
03-09-2020||City||Four Sangrur panchayats reverse stand against Covid tests||Sangrur Four panchayats of Malerkotla sub-division reversed their stand against Covid-19 tests and isolation in government-run centres by passing new resolutions. The change in panchayats’ stand came after members met Malerkotla sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) on Wednesday and Thursday.The panchayats of Kasampur, Nath Heri, Badeshe and Banbhaura also assured the administration in writing that they will not oppose health department teams in villages. Malerkotla SDM Vikramjeet Singh Panthey said the administration convinced the panchayats to go for testing and treatment as per the guidelines of the health department.Meanwhile, Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir has decided to send sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to address the concerns of residents who oppose health department teams. “Our SDMs are holding meetings with villages. They are trying to resolve genuine problems. Some miscreants are trying to create confusion but we are in touch with the locals to address their worries,” said Ramvir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-sangrur-panchayats-reverse-stand-against-covid-tests/story-swUsX20zabgmKBkWkqClNM.html
03-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt forms committees to increase effectiveness of its schemes||The Rajasthan government has formed four state-level committees to find ways to make various schemes, including those related to agriculture and rural development, more effective.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the formation of these committees. These committees will give suggestions regarding agriculture and allied services, rural development and panchayati raj, medical and health services, education, training and employment services and state schemes operated under welfare and social security for the marginalised sections of society, according to an official statement issued on Thursday. Gehlot had announced in the 2020-21 budget to set up a group of officers to rationalise various schemes operated in the state and prioritize||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-forms-committees-to-increase-effectiveness-of-its-schemes/story-yWCCTmOUi9YxFriJC1SjfN.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||High court gives Haryana six weeks to issue tender for artificial limbs to Panipat boy||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Haryana government to issue a tender within six weeks for artificial limbs to a Panipat boy who lost both his arms and a leg due to electrocution in 2011. In 2016, myoelectric prostheses worth Rs 50 lakh were given to Raman, who was five at the time of mishap. He had suffered 100% disability after coming in contact with a sagging 11KV transmission line passing over the roof of his house. Myoelectric prostheses are externally powered artificial limbs that one controls with the electrical signals generated naturally by his/her own muscles. However, these prostheses have become redundant now. The order came from the high court bench of Justice Sanjay Kumar on an application moved by Anil Malhotra, an amicus curiae in the case, who had apprised the court of the boy who was without artificial limbs for one year now. His upper implants practically ceased to be of any use as they did not fit him due to his physical growth over the years. These limbs were to be replaced in 2021. He had also raised issues with regard to authorities not adhering to court directions on the selection of artificial limbs to be given to the boy. Now, director general, health services, Haryana, has been asked to constitute a team of experts in orthopaedics, who would consult specialists from premier medical facilities such as All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and then make a decision about the best viable artificial limbs for the boy. The HC bench said that consultation be held through videoconferencing in view of Covid-19 and tender would be issued within six weeks. The court also directed that the exercise of replacing limbs cannot be undertaken once in every five years as decided earlier as the boy is of growing age and would substantially grow over the next few years. It would be incumbent upon the state and the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) to undertake the exercise afresh as and when he outgrows the limbs now provided, the bench directed. It was in 2013 that the high court had awarded compensation to the boy and also issued directions to provide him artificial limbs as it was found that he suffered due to negligence of authorities. The matter went up to the Supreme Court, which in 2014 had upheld the decision that UHBVN would pay Rs 60 lakh to Raman. Of the amount, Rs 30 lakh was to be kept in a fixed deposit till the boy turns 21. The remaining amount was to be deposited in an interest-bearing account to enable the child meet his day-to-day needs. The SC had also directed authorities to provide him artificial limbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-gives-haryana-six-weeks-to-issue-tender-for-artificial-limbs-to-panipat-boy/story-QSqdkCRjfQMqyl7AxTfvhL.html
03-09-2020||Lucknow||UP Police to confiscate properties of 27 criminals including SP MLC||Uttar Pradesh Police will confiscate the properties of 27 criminals including that of Member of Legislative Council (MLC) from Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya, Kamlesh Pathak, who is an accused in a murder case, said Mohit Agarwal, Inspector General (IG), Kanpur Range.Several cases against Pathak and his brothers are registered at difference police stations in Auraiya district. “A 15-day campaign has been launched to identify those who have acquired properties by doing crimes. Such 27 ‘mafias’ have been identified in the range. Reports are being prepared and their properties will be confiscated as per the legal procedure. Properties of double-murder accused in Auraiya Kamlesh Pathak and his brothers will also be confiscated,” Agarwal told ANI.He informed that properties of Jai Vajpayee, whose name came up in the Bikru incident and his brothers, will also be confiscated. Vajpayee has now been arrested.Eight police personnel were killed after a group of assailants opened fire on a police team when they reached Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur to arrest gangster Vikas Dubey on July 3.Dubey was arrested by the Madhya Pradesh Police on July 9 from the premises of the Mahakal Temple in Ujjain after he was on the run for some days following the encounter in Kanpur, where eight policemen were killed. The Uttar Pradesh Police killed Dubey in an encounter on July 10 after he ‘attempted to flee’.A girl who was arrested in connection with the encounter case was declared as a juvenile by a local court. “A girl named Khushi was arrested in Bikru incident. She was a teenager. Police did not investigate this. After investigating all documents, the juvenile justice board declared her a teenager. Police were not able to tell why she was arrested and what her role was,” Shiva Kant Dixit, Advocate of the girl said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-police-to-confiscate-properties-of-27-criminals-including-sp-mlc/story-Cyk2p35bMv4l6Xe1EOO1CJ.html
03-09-2020||City||Himachal Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, ahead of the monsoon session of state assembly which begins on September 7.“I got the Covid-19 test done after developing some early symptoms and the report came out positive. I humbly request all those who came in my contact in the recent days to isolate themselves and also undergo a test for the virus,” Thakur wrote on his Facebook page.The minister was feeling uneasy for last two days and had got a routine checkup at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla on Wednesday. He again visited the hospital on Thursday and his sample was sent for Truenat test for Covid-19. The test report came out positive in the afternoon.Thakur had visited New Delhi and met BJP national president JP Nadda on August 20 and 21.After returning from Delhi, Thakur had also attended a cabinet meeting held in Shimla.Meanwhile, a team of doctors will decide whether he will be admitted to a hospital or will home isolate. His personal staff has been quarantined and contract tracing is being done.The 70-year-old leader is the second minister in Himachal to have caught the virus after power minister Sukhram Chaudhary. Chaudhary and his daughters had tested positive on August 6, soon after he was inducted into the cabinet. He was discharged on August 20 after he recovered. Earlier, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur went into a quarantine after a deputy secretary was found infected in July. He, however, did not contract the virus.Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 199 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state tally to 6,615, officials said. This is the biggest single-day spike in the state. Of the new cases, 52 were reported in Sirmaur, 41 in Solan, 40 in Kangra, 19 in Una, 13 each in Hamirpur and Bilaspur, 11 in Shimla, six in Kinnaur, two in Kullu and one each in Chamba and Mandi. Active cases have climbed to 1,708 while 4,814 people have recovered till date. The death toll has mounted to 46 with three deaths in last 24 hours. All the deceased belonged to Solan district. A 56-year-old man residing at the housing board colony, Nalagarh, who was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, on August 31 after testing positive, died last evening. Another 80-year-old man died in Solan. Two more deaths were recorded in Nalagarh including a 28-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh who was currently residing at Manpura and 45-year-old factory worker. With 1,533 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Sirmaur where 980 cases have been reported till date. Kangra has 966 cases, Hamirpur 611, Una 533, Chamba 442, Mandi 403, Bilaspur 374, Shimla 376, Kullu 287 and 102 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported eight Covid-19 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-jal-shakti-minister-mahender-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-ojtDR3sIBqCs87tvfABcOI.html
03-09-2020||NA||Karnataka’s coastal districts likely to receive widespread rains from Sept 3-7: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru on Thursday said that the coastal districts of Karnataka are likely to receive widespread rainfall from September 3 to September 7. “Monsoon is active over Karnataka. The coastal districts are very likely to receive widespread rain from September 3- 7. Bengaluru city is also very likely to experience rainfall and thundershowers during this period,” CS Patil, Director of IMD Bengaluru said while speaking to news agency ANI. The weather department has further predicted that heavy rainfall is also likely at isolated places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and Kerala and Mahe. Also read: August receives 27 per cent more rainfall, fourth highest in 120 yearsKarnataka during the initial days of August received heavy downpour which caused flood like situation and landslides in several regions. Since August 1, more than 80 people lost their lives in rain and flood related incidents. The state government has opened 104 relief camps in which over 3,800 people have been moved so far. Earlier, the state government announced a emergency relief aid of Rs 50 crore and 10,000 as immediate relief to those affected adding that Rs five lakh was for completely damaged houses and amount for partially damaged houses would be given on the basis of extent of damage. Meanwhile, researchers from IIT Kharagpur said that Southern India is likely to record maximum increase in extreme rainfall as compared to states in central and northern parts of the country. (With inputs from ANI, PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/karnataka-s-coastal-districts-likely-to-receive-widespread-rains-from-sept-3-7-imd/story-ywp3XcJBP7q6hLqF9SW4fM.html
03-09-2020||Lucknow||BJP candidate Zafar Islam set to win Rajya Sabha bypoll||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) UP unit general secretary Govind Narayan Shukla withdrew his candidature for by-elections to the lone Rajya Sabha (RS) seat from the state on Thursday, thereby clearing the way for the party’s original nominee Syed Zafar Islam to be elected to contest unopposed on Friday. Friday is the last date for the withdrawal of nominations and now with just Zafar left in the fray, the RS election process will not be stretched till September 11—the bypoll date—as the RS bypoll has now been reduced to a no-contest. Zafar Islam would add to BJP’s numbers in the RS at the cost of Samajwadi Party whose MP Amar Singh’s demise in Singapore on August 1 necessitated the RS bypoll. After being elected, Zafar Islam would serve the remainder of Amar Singh’s term till July 4, 2022.On Tuesday, Shukla had filed his papers and, soon after, an independent candidate Mahesh Chandra Sharma filed his papers as well.Sharma’s nomination was rejected the next day itself as he didn’t have the backing of 10 MLAs as required under the election rules while Shukla— who had filed the nomination to cover up for any technical glitches in Zafar’s nomination—withdrew on Thursday. “Yes, Govind ji has withdrawn his candidature and now the BJP candidate Zafar Islam is the lone candidate in the fray,” confirmed BJP general secretary JPS Rathore, who is expected to collect the certificate confirming Zafar’s election as RS MP from returning officer Brij Bhushan Dubey after 3 pm on Friday—the deadline set for withdrawal of nominations.Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna who had filed the nominations on Saturday on behalf of Zafar, who was ill and admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), is also expected to accompany Rathore. Zafar who had taken oath from AIIMS at the time of filing of nomination—it is a mandatory requirement for all RS candidates to take oath before the returning officer—has now been discharged. However, party leaders said he may not be able to make it to Lucknow on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-candidate-zafar-islam-set-to-win-rajya-sabha-bypoll/story-LsZOSPlYXcjbHdi9mSOi3K.html
03-09-2020||Lucknow||Rakesh Pandey ‘encounter’: NHRC seeks UP DGP reply in 6 weeks||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought Uttar Pradesh police chief H C Awasthy’s response to a complaint questioning the genuineness of the exchange of fire in which gangster Mukhtar Ansari’s alleged aide, Rakesh Pandey, was gunned down on August 9, the complainant said.Social activist and lawyer Nutan Thakur, the complainant, said Awasthy has been asked to respond within six weeks and NHRC has fixed the next hearing in the matter on October 23.Thakur said she reported the matter to NHRC on August 10 following allegations of Rakesh Pandey’s father, Baldutt Pandey, that his son was picked up from his house in Lucknow a few hours before he was claimed to have been killed in the exchange of fire. Baldutt Pandey also stated that most of the cases against his son had ended and they did not even know when a 50,000 reward was declared on his head.Thakur said the sequence of events leading to the killing raised many questions. “The case in Audyogik Thana of Prayagraj in which a reward has been declared on Rakesh does not even mention him as an accused... Besides, STF [Special Task Force] sleuths claimed that the Innova car in which Rakesh Pandey was travelling hit a tree while police chased him but there is no dent on it.”Rakesh Pandey, Ansari, and another gangster were accused of killing Bharatiya Janata Party leader Krishnanand Rai in 2005 but were acquitted in July 2019. He had at least 10 criminal cases registered against him between 1993 and 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rakesh-pandey-encounter-nhrc-seeks-up-dgp-reply-in-6-weeks/story-hT7koN55FRIlGVBxHNQ2TI.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Exercise restraint while reporting on Sushant Singh Rajput case: HC to media||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the media to exercise restraint while reporting on the actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case and also asked representatives of television news channels to be present on September 10 – the next date of the hearing of the two petitions filed by social activists and former senior officials of Maharashtra Police. The court asked the media to report the case in line with the ongoing investigation.The petitioners have approached the court seeking a restraint on the TV channels from carrying out a trial by media in the Rajput case.They cited that the non-stop biased coverage would prejudice the minds of the public and would also tarnish the image of the Mumbai Police. A two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices AA Sayed and SP Tavade, while hearing the petition filed by social activists Nilesh Navlakha, Mahibub Shaikh and Subhash Chander Chaba was informed by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat that the media houses be directed from not going overboard while reporting the Rajput case. Kamat pointed out that some of the TV channels had overstepped the guidelines laid down in the programme code as per the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 and were conducting a media trial by exposing names and details of those named in the case. He submitted that some TV channels had named police officials and passed their judgements on the names mentioned in the first information report (FIR) even though the investigation was still in progress.Senior advocate Dr Milind Sathe and advocate Chetan Kapadia represented the former senior officials of Maharashtra Police. The petitioners include former director-generals of police (DGPs) PS Pasricha, K Subramaniam, D Shivanandan, Sanjeev Dayal, Satish Chandra Mathur; ex-commissioners of Mumbai Police Mahesh N Singh and Dhananjay N Jadhav; and former chief of Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), Maharashtra Police, KP Raghuvanshi.Dr Sathe submitted that the media coverage of the Rajput case was irresponsible and would create prejudice among the public about the investigation. He argued that the round-the-clock biased coverage of the case was also detrimental to the image of the Mumbai Police and, as a result, the court should restrain the TV channels from running a media trial. He prayed before the court to direct the government and media regulators to lay down guidelines for the mode and manner of coverage of any pending high-profile investigation, particularly the Rajput case. Additional Solicitor-General (ASG) Anil Singh, who appeared on behalf of the Central government, said he needed time to respond since the copy of the petition --- filed by the former senior officials of Maharashtra Police -- was served to him late at night on Wednesday. He also submitted that as the petitions involved media houses, they should also be allowed to defend their actions before the court passes any order. The bench heard the submissions and passed a brief order. “The media should exercise restraint and report the case as per the investigation,” the bench observed.The court also directed the TV channels named in the petitions to be present for the next hearing of the case on September 10. The News Broadcasters Association (NBA), a private body of various TV channels, has been asked to file its reply before September 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exercise-restraint-while-reporting-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case-hc-to-media/story-b2MBBE3tsSL6jlyj18XMbK.html
03-09-2020||City||Three held for daylight stabbing of Goa jeweller||A 41-year-old jeweller was killed after he was shot and stabbed when he resisted a robbery attempt in the heart of Margao in South Goa on Wednesday. Swapnil Walke died hours after he was attacked, police said.Also read: Teenager held in Pune for luring, robbing man on gay dating appTwo of the accused, Omkar Patil and Edson Gonsalves, were arrested on Wednesday night. The third accused, Mustafa Shaikh, who allegedly shot and stabbed Walke, surrendered to the police on Thursday afternoon. “I offer my congratulations to Director General of Police Mukesh Kumar Meena and the Goa Police who have swiftly arrested the culprits within 24-hours,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said. The incident took place around 12:45 on Wednesday. A country made pistol, a magazine, one empty cartridge, and one knife cover were recovered from the scene. Police said nothing has been reported missing from the shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-daylight-stabbing-of-jeweller/story-Pmr12WzpeKWT2pH0FFUONO.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Pune sees rise in Covid cases during two-week Ganesh festivities||While Pune is known for its lavish and traditional Ganesh celebrations every year, this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, government authorities urged people to stay indoors and even bid goodbye to bappa in a sombre way inside their homes. However, it was seen that people started coming out for festival shopping and some were even seen arguing with police officials at the riverbanks to carry out visarjan as usual. This lack of discipline form people could have led to a rise in the new cases that the city is seeing. As per the state health department, for every 1,000 new cases reported from the district 23 deaths are reported. As per figures by the state health department, with the eleven-day celebrations, the district recorded 37,968 cases in 12 days between August 22 and September 2nd while in the same period of 12 days between August 10 and August 21, the district reported 31,110 cases which is 6,858 cases more during the festivities as compared to the weeks before. While the police authorities and district administration had urged people to stay indoors and celebrate this year’s Ganesh Chaturthi in a simple way following social distancing norms and wearing masks, however it was seen across the city especially in peth areas that the jubilations continued. State director of health services Dr Archana Patil said, “Due to increased movement among people after the lockdown was lifted and also Ganpati festivities, we saw crowded marketplaces and public areas which is what has led to an increased number of cases. It is true that we are observing people not following social distancing norms or not even wearing masks.” The common crowded places were Shivaji road, Mandai and Bajirao road for shopping and during visarjan crowded roads included peth areas namely Kasba peth, Tambdi Jogeshwari and Tulsibaug. On social media, photos of politicians including Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol not wearing masks and surrounded by crowds were seen. Mohol recently tested his blood sample to donate plasma after he completely recovered of Covid-19 infection almost a month ago. Pune police too have urged people to stay indoors but at many places including along the river or at prime shopping areas including Laxmi road and Tulsibaug where crowded streets were a common site during and before the festivities began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-sees-rise-in-covid-cases-during-two-week-ganesh-festivities/story-u2BYDsvqhaXsCNvQ0tLxYP.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Lila Poonawalla Foundation invites applications for UG, PG scholarships for girls in Pune district||The Lila Poonawalla Foundation (LPF) is inviting online scholarship applications from girl candidates in Pune district who aim to pursue postgraduate studies in Engineering, Sciences and Pharmacy and undergraduate studies in Engineering, Sciences, Pharmacy and Nursing for the academic year 2020-21.The scholarship application forms are available for undergraduate and postgraduate studies at: https://www.lpfscholarship.com. Students can also visit the LPF website (https://www.lilapoonawallafoundation.com) for more details. Limited forms are available for downloads on first come first served basis.Over the last 25 years, the Lila Poonawalla Foundation has transformed the lives of 93,000 girls by educating and empowering them through scholarships for their education. The LPF had been started by Lila and Firoz Poonawalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lila-poonawalla-foundation-invites-applications-for-ug-pg-scholarships-for-girls-in-pune-district/story-4rr9PfYjZxDJPToFQ3ogBL.html
03-09-2020||City||Himachal Pradesh University to conduct BTech exams from September 21||The Himachal Pradesh University will be conducting Bachelor of Technology (BTech) second, fourth, sixth and eighth semester examinations from September 21 onwards amid the Covid-19 pandemic, university officials said on Thursday.The fourth and eighth semester examinations are scheduled to take place from September 21 and September 30 respectively till October 3 while second and sixth semester exams are scheduled to take place from September 22 till October 5. However, students, college directors and principals are directed to stay updated for any changes in datesheets, if any, uploaded on the university website. The university has directed all directors/principals to hold the examinations while strictly adhering to the guidelines and Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the ministry of human resource development.Controller of examination JS Negi said all directors/principals of the colleges concerned are requested to ensure that keeping in view the pandemic, sufficient seating capacity is available to adjust the students on a particular day in accordance with the guidelines. “In case, the seating capacity is exceeding to their strength on a particular day, the same may be intimated to the university immediately before the commencement of examinations,” he added.The datesheets are subject to guidelines/instructions issued by the Centre/state government and other regulatory bodies in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-university-to-conduct-btech-exams-from-september-21/story-y0dYd5BGenti2KhohbpWLO.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Teenager held in Pune for luring, robbing man on gay dating app||A 18-year-old teenager was arrested on Tuesday for luring and robbing a 34-year-old man through a gay dating app.The arrested accused has been identified as Jatin Santosh Pawar (18), a resident of Mahadevnagar, Charwada chowk, Majri, Hadapsar, according to a statement issued by Unit 1 of Pune police crime branch.A victim was robbed of Rs81,000 by the accused he met on a gay dating app and three other men. The incident happened in the morning hours of August 9 in a flat in DSK Vishwa in Chavan Bagh area near Nanded phata, according to the complainant.The police are now on a lookout for three others in the case.The victim was allegedly beaten up with wooden rods and threatened by the accused of circulating his video in a compromising position.A case under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sinhgad road police station on August 30.While patrolling the area in the jurisdiction of Sinhgad road police station, the crime branch officials learned that Pawar was expected at a tea stall in Upper Indiranagar, according to the statement. A team was set and he was arrested.“Upon interrogation, he confessed to having planned the robbery with an accomplice Mahesh Varbhuvan and two others. He also agreed to have been the main conspirator in the case,” read a part of the statement.A case under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Sinhgad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/teenager-held-in-pune-for-luring-robbing-man-on-gay-dating-app/story-eMcyFcPfnhPeEMI1Rc1bXL.html
03-09-2020||Pune||10 injured in cylinder blast at two-story building in Wadgaonsheri||Ten people, including four minors, sustained injuries in a cylinder blast in Wadgaonsheri on Wednesday morning.The cooking gas had allegedly leaked inside the house located on the first floor of the building and damaged the house located on the second floor as well, said fire brigade officials.The injured man has been identified as S Bhondwe, who works in the electrical department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), according to fire brigade officials.The blast happened inside a house around 7 am in Ganeshnagar area of Wadgaonsheri. The house was completely damaged in the fire incident. The explosion damaged one side of the entire two-storey structure. Bhondwe was the owner while the second-floor residents were tenants.While seven people were rushed to the hospital by locals, the fire brigade officials took three after reaching the spot. One fire brigade vehicle and one rescue van are on the site of the accident.“The structure is owned by the person who was injured the most as he tried to switch on the gas stove connected to the cylinder that was leaking. The impact was such that the walls of the house located above his house were also damaged,” said Ramesh Gangad, assistant fire officer, Pune fire brigade.“The others were pulled out but the ones on the first floor were stuck until we went to the neighbouring building and cut up the window structure with a hydraulic cutter. The impact had caused glass and debris to fall in neighbouring buildings as well,” he said.“While Bhondwe’s wife and daughter were in the house, he switched on the gas early in the morning before heading to work, according to the officials. The gas had leaked for hours probably which is why it caused such an explosion,” he said.It took two fire brigade officials and 15 Jawans about 15 minutes to bring the situation under control.On August 9, a 40-year-old man was killed while ten others were injured in a similar case in Dighi area of Pimpri Chinchwad. The cylinder had exploded at 6:30 am when the family was asleep.In 2019, 284 accidental fire cases caused by cooking gas cylinder of the stove were recorded in Maharashtra. The 284 incidents claimed 285 lives in 2019, as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/10-injured-in-cylinder-blast-at-two-story-building-in-wadgaonsheri/story-8pxv2p1uOlBkA4KJVqwdpN.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Staff shortage, poor coordination: Pune’s jumbo Covid facility invites patients’ wrath||If 42-year-old journalist Pandurang Raykar’s death highlighted lack of coordination on part of administration, it also underlined inconvenience being faced by patients in delayed treatment, no response from centre and poor food. Ganesh Punalkar, whose father is undergoing treatment at Jumbo facility located at College of Engineering, Pune, (COEP), said he has no clue about health status of father. “My father is admitted from the last four days at Jumbo Covid hospital and we are trying to contact him on his mobile phone. But it’s battery is discharged. Even reception desk at the Covid centre is not giving proper information,” said Punalkar.From shortage of doctors and inadequate equipment, to lack of coordination, the newly set up Jumbo facility has invited wrath from many patients and their relatives. Ashish Mane, social activist said, “One of my friends and his father both are Covid positive. Father is admitted at jumbo facility but for the last four days there has been no communication with him. Even the family members do not know his health status.” Set up on August 23, Jumbo facility has 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU beds. However even after 10 days, the facility is still not equipped with adequate number of doctors and medical staff. “It is a sad truth that despite ample time, administration has not been able to recruit adequate number of doctors and equipments here,” said Pune MP Girish Bapat.Lifeline hospital Management, which was responsible for recruitment of medico manpower and running the facility denied the charges that doctors and nurses are short staffed. Sujit Patkar, one of the partner at Lifeline hospital Management said, “There is enough manpower in the jumbo facility. Manpower is enough and as per planned phase deployment.” Amit Bagul, congress party’s city unit secretary said, “Jumbo facility is the worst. There are many complaints about food and admission. Though it has 800 capacity, hardly 30 percent of patients are there. I have phone records where the doctors from the jumbo facility are accepting that the ventilators are not installed yet. Even many issues in ICU wards. As the infrastructure work is not completed the hospital is showing that there is zero vacancy.” Bharatiya Janata Party’s city unit president Jagdish Mulik heavily came down on the Maha Vikas Aghadi over the jumbo facility. Mulik said, “State government did hurry in the inauguration of the jumbo hospital. The agency should announce how much manpower, doctors, nurses are provided for the facility till date. The government machineries did not have any control over the jumbo facility and it is run by private organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/staff-shortage-poor-coordination-pune-s-jumbo-covid-facility-invites-patients-wrath/story-c9XtAjiMwlKYdPffbf2kEM.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Noise pollution levels in Pune city dip on immersion day, but still exceed permissible limit||The noise pollution level in the city dipped on Ganesh immersion day (Tuesday) as compared to last year, as the deafening sound created by traditional instruments dhol-tasha, DJ systems, loudspeakers, and processions were absent from the streets due to the Covid-19 restrictions, according to data by the Pune unit of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). However, the noise levels remained above permissible limits due to pre-existing ambient noise caused by traffic, construction, among others.The permissible limit in residential areas, as per Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 (amended in 2017) published by Ministry of Environment and Forest, is 55 dB in the daytime and 45 dB in the night time.Shivajinagar, which had recorded the least level of noise pollution in 2019 with 73.4 decibels (dB), recorded 72.2-decibel average in 2020; Karve road, which averaged 96.6 dB in 2019, recorded 72.7dB; Laxmi road, with 89.6 dB in 2019, recorded 75 dB in 2020; Kothrud, which recorded 92.8 dB in 2019, averaged 72.8 dB in 2020 on the last day of the 10-day festival, according to MPCB data.“The noise levels were low this year for sure. There were no processions, dhol-tasha or DJ systems, but due to the pre-existing ambient noise, it is far from permissible limit,” said Pratap Jagtap, sub-regional officer-1, Pune, MPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/noise-pollution-levels-in-pune-city-dip-on-immersion-day-but-still-exceed-permissible-limit/story-oJqnzcMfauYGpu4ruBbXgM.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||10-day Himachal Pradesh assembly session from September 7 amid Covid curbs||The 10-day monsoon session of the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha will begin on September 7 amid strict Covid-19 safety guidelines. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar announced the decision after convening an all-party meeting to discuss the arrangements for the session. Sanitiser dispensers will be installed on the premises, while arrangements have been made for thermal scanning of those attending the session. Staff from the health department equipped with thermal scanners and oxymeters will be deployed at the main gate of the Vidhan Sabha that has four entry points. The Vidhan Sabha secretariat has installed polycarbonate sheet partitions on the seats of legislators to check the spread of coronavirus infection. Social distancing will be ensured in the 68-member assembly. To curb crowding in the Vidhan Sabha, the state secretariat will allow minimum number of people inside. Personal assistants of ministers and legislators will not be permitted in the assembly. Only 30 journalists will be allowed inside the premises at a time. The Vidhan Sabha will be sanitised after lunch and ahead of its meets in the morning. No visitors will be allowed in the visitors’ gallery. “All staff on Vidhan Sabha duty and those attending the House will be provided masks and sanitisers,” Parmar said after the meeting.“On a normal day, nearly 1,200 people would be present day inside the Vidhan Sabha but this time, the number has been curtailed to 400,” he said.As many as 577 starred questions and 288 unstarred questions have been listed for the session.The meeting, convened by Parmar, was attended by law and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Rakesh Singha and Independent legislator Hoshiar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-day-himachal-pradesh-assembly-session-from-september-7-amid-covid-curbs/story-QjrVW8aZ3ibUon96YOw8EL.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Donate idol initiative receives huge response in Pimpri-Chinchwad||On Anant Chaturdashi, visarjan ghats in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) were sealed due to the ongoing Covid-19 threat. This prompted residents to wholeheartedly support donating to the PCMC Ganesh idol program. The Ganesh immersion turned out to be different than every year as dhol tasha pathaks and huge crowds were missing. “We had requested people to not come on roads to celebrate Ganesh festival and they followed the norms so I am thankful to them. People are happily donating their Ganesha idols which is a good sign. All these idols which are collected will be immersed in water by authorities,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner on Tuesday. Sanskar Pratisthan has been doing this work since the last 27 years in association with the PCMC.“In ten days a total of 31,754 Ganesh idols were donated to us. This year due to Covid-19, the number is less. On Tuesday, we collected 11,000 idols. The immersion of the Ganesh idols till continue until Wednesday afternoon,” said Mohan Gaikwad, director of Sanskar Pratisthan. Many people donated idols for the first time as ghats were sealed. “I had heard about Sanskar Pratisthan a few years back, but I used to do it by on my own at Chinchwad ghat but this year me and many families from our society donated idols to them. They (Sanskar Pratisthan) have ensured proper immersion will be done by concerned authorities,” added Nupur Nagpure, a resident of Chapekar Chowk. Gaikwad said, “Many mandals from different parts of PCMC supported us and collected idols as we wanted to avoid rush of people and it was also a successful step taken by our organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/donate-idol-initiative-receives-huge-response-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-GsOQn5D9aVYa28WnucmoLJ.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Devotees in Pune bid adieu to Bappa from home||Responding to a call by the local civic body and police Punekars celebrated Ganesh visarjan with family in a simple, traditional and eco-friendly way amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The ten-day Ganesh festival celebration ended on Tuesday.The city witnessed 2,295 public Ganesha idol immersions and 1,31,504 home idol immersions, according to a statement issued by Pune police.Ganesh festival is celebrated with great enthusiasm in the city which has around 5,000 mandals. Due to the rise in the positive case of Covid-19 the police and district administration authorities had appealed to various prominent mandals and residents to carry out the immersion process at homes.Rajesh Chandekar, a city resident, said, “Every year we immersion the Ganesha idol at the tank near the immersion ghats, but as a safety precaution we immersed the idol at home in a bucket.”Murlidhar Mohol, Pune mayor, said, “Pune residents co-operated with us during the Ganesh festival. Almost 80 per cent citizens immersed the Ganesha idols at home and I am thankful to them for co-operating with the administration.”Dyneshwar Molak, head, PMC solid waste management department, said, “As per appeal by Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and administration, eighty per cent of mandals and residents immersed the idols at homes and in the mandals.”Molak said, “Many residents also donated the idols to the civic body and also immersed it in tanks provided by us.”“Pune Police thanks all members and executive committees Ganesh mandals for excellent cooperation and response to the code of conduct decided considering Covid-19 situation. Visarjan was well co-ordinated either at homes or mandals. We also thank Punekars in understanding the situation and respecting the new conditions amid the pandemic, celebrating the festival with same fervour but in a new way,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police.This year, Pune citizens had 2,949 Ganesha idols installed at mandals and 3,34,678 idols installed at home. Given the pandemic, 84 idols from public mandals and 45,771 idols from households were donated at collection centres.A civic official requesting anonymity said, “PMC has hired a quarry on Ahmednagar road, and all the idols which were donated to the civic body have been immersed in the quarry.”PMC and police personnel ensured that the immersion ghats were closed for immersion of idols and safety measures were followed at various mandals in the city.Congress leader Amit Bagul said, “We got a positive response from the resident and received 550 idols in a donation at Sahakarnagar.”Many elected members erected water tanks in their wards where citizens carried out the immersion. Mobile water tanks were also available at every ward of PMC across the city.While the five Manache Ganpati were immersed before 1:30 pm, the three other revered Ganapati idols namely Dagdusheth, Bhau Rangari and Akhil Mandai were also immersed before 7 pm, according to the police.The visarjan ceremonies had concluded by 10 pm in the city. In 2019, the visarjan ceremonies had lasted for 23 hours and 53 minutes while in 2018, the ceremonies had lasted for 26 hours and 36 minutes. (With inputs from Shalaka Shinde)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/devotees-in-pune-bid-adieu-to-bappa-from-home/story-ELY9DD0wZ2oCX9VNG7s5uK.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Gritty girl of Jalandhar who took on phone snatchers says her only fear was missing online classes||The 15-year-old Jalandhar girl, who bravely fought off two motorcycle-borne snatchers when they tried to flee with her smartphone recently, says fear was the last thing on her mind, rather she was concerned that she wouldn’t be able to attend her online classes if they succeeded.“My father is a daily wager. He earns around Rs 300 a day and our family is facing difficult times during the Covid-19 pandemic. Still, he bought the smartphone on instalments two months ago so that I could attend my online classes,” says Kusum Kumari, a resident of Fatehpuri Mohalla in Jalandhar.“My 18-year-old brother had to drop out of school due to our financial condition. He now works as a driver. But my father wants me to study and I want to make him proud by becoming an IAS officer one day,” she says.“My father didn’t want technology to come in the way of my education and I knew he wouldn’t be able to afford another phone so my studies would get affected if the snatchers had their way. Those were the thoughts racing in my mind as I desperately fought the snatchers,” says the teenager.‘LEARNING TAEKWONDO HELPED’Kusum suffered a wrist injury in the incident at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar near the Jalandhar-Kapurthala road after the pillion rider on the motorcycle, Avinash Kumar, 23, snatched her phone when she was returning home from tuition on Sunday afternoon.She ran behind them and didn’t give up even when she was attacked with a knife. In the meantime, a bystander overpowered the pillion rider. “I’ve been learning taekwondo for three months so that helped,” she says.ACCUSED OUT ON BAIL DUE TO COVID PANDEMICWhile Avinash was arrested, absconding motorcycle driver Vinod Kumar, 22, of Railway Quarters was also booked under Sections 307 and 379-B of Indian Penal Code.Avinash, who already has seven criminal cases against him, was released on bail from the local jail in July to prevent overcrowding amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The first case against him was registered in 2016. This is the fifth case of snatching against him. Vinod Kumar faces four cases, including three snatchings. He was also released from jail two months ago. Both the accused became friends in the jail. Vinod’s family members are also on run since he was booked in this case. Police sources said he took to crime to make easy money after the death of his father a few years ago.Both the accused belong to poverty-stricken families.POLITICIANS MAKE A BEELINEMeanwhile, Kusum is getting free treatment at a private hospital in Jalandhar and people, including local politicians, are making a beeline to meet the gritty girl.The local administration has given her Rs 51,000 as a reward and is recommending her name for state and national bravery awards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gritty-girl-of-jalandhar-who-took-on-phone-snatchers-says-her-only-fear-was-missing-online-classes/story-4Ppob6v0ZMIuX4MAB3JLJI.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||‘Can’t call it a 2nd wave, infection never left Delhi’: Satyendar Jain on rise in Covid-19 cases in national capital||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the recent rise in Delhi’s coronavirus cases is not a part of a second wave of the virus, as the infection never left the national capital.“You can’t say it is a second wave. We could have called it a second wave if there were no positive cases for one or two months and then cases would’ve started coming again. The virus is still there in Delhi,” he said.The national capital recorded 2,509 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike in nearly two months, on Wednesday. As many as 1,79,569 people have been infected in the city, while 19 fresh deaths took the toll to 4,481 on Wednesday.Speaking to reporters, Jain said people “should not stress about numbers”. The government was increasing the testing for Covid-19, he added. “We are increasing (the number of) tests. We are emphasising on testing and working aggressively on it. Yesterday, the number was around 30,000 and today the number of tests will be around 35,000,” he said.Delhi’s case-fatality ratio was 0.75 per cent on Wednesday, the minister said, adding that it was a ‘good sign’. “Overall, it is 2.5 per cent. Yesterday, it was less than one per cent, which is a good sign. At one time, it was 3.5 per cent,” the minister said.When asked about city’s preparation for resumption of Delhi Metro services, he said that government was forming protocols to be followed. “Protocols are being formulated. Dry run is also being done so that it can be ensured that social distancing is maintained, people wear mask and clean their hands - that they follow a Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he said.The Delhi Metro will resume services in three stages between September 7 and 12, according to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. Trains will run from 7am-11am and 4pm-8pm, it said. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/can-t-call-it-a-second-wave-satyendar-jain-on-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-delhi/story-EY6kdcKZJKhkV12WNy87tM.html
03-09-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand man rides around 1100 km on two-wheeler to fulfil his wife’s dream||A Jharkhand man rode close to a 1100 km with his pregnant wife on a two-wheeler in three days to reach Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh so that she could appear in an examination to fulfil her dream of becoming a school teacher.The resident of Godda city, Dhananjay Kumar, 26, who is a class 10 pass out, works as a cook, while his wife, Soni Hembram, 24, is a second-year student enrolled in a diploma course in elementary education with MP board of secondary education, said Kumar.Though the distance between Godda city and Gwalior is more than 1,100 kilometres, Kumar said he used certain specific short routes using the google map which helped him travel a few kilometers less .Kumar said, “Soni took admission in the course in MP in the year 2019 as the fee for the course here is much less than in Jharkhand.” Kumar said he had to ride a two wheeler to the examination centre since most of the trains were cancelled. “We didn’t find any train. Soni’s teacher from Godda, who had helped her fill up the form to get admission in the MP, said a car was being arranged for students from Godda and we had to pay Rs 30,000 for it.”Soni said Kumar had been jobless for the last 4 months and it was not possible to hire a car. “I got disheartened and said to my husband that I wouldn’t be able to write the exam,” said Soni. Also Read: Jharkhand high court rejects bail plea of man accused of duping Punjab CM’s wifeHowever, on the night of August 27, Soni says Kumar decided to take her to Gwalior on his two-wheeler.“He borrowed Rs 10,000 from a relative for expenses on fuel and other expenses,” she added. The couple travelled via Muzaffarpur in Bihar and Lucknow to finally reach Gwalior on the evening of August 30, according to Kumar. Also Read: Missing minor girl’s mutilated body recovered in Jamshedpur; stepfather detainedThey rented a room for Rs 1,500 in DD Nagar area in Gwalior to stay. Kumar said, “We have already spent Rs 7,000 and now are left with only Rs 3,000. We are going through trauma as my wife, who is six months pregnant, has gotten ill. Now, I am trying to arrange more money to go back.” Soni said, “I am lucky to have a husband who is putting in all the efforts to fulfil my dream.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-man-rides-around-1000-km-on-two-wheeler-to-fulfill-his-wife-s-dream/story-lvwgygtvpirFPBalntJoZO.html
03-09-2020||Patna||Yashwant Sinha’s UDA, Kejriwal’s AAP to add zing to Bihar assembly polls||While the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Grand Alliance (GA) are the major formations face to face in the forthcoming Bihar assembly election 2020, efforts to give shape to a third front has also quietly picked up momentum adding some zing to the election, otherwise seen as a direct NDA vs GA fight. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the United Democratic Alliance and some other political parties are aiming to provide an alternative to voters in Bihar. UDA, headed by former finance minister Yashwant Sinha, is reportedly in talks with AAP. Last year AAP had offered Sinha a seat to contest Lok Sabha elections from New Delhi but it did not materialize then. However, Sinha’s proximity with AAP is well known. In May this year, Sinha, who has been consistently critical of the Narendra Modi government, had sat on joint dharna at Rajghat in New Delhi with AAP leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, demanding proper arrangements for migrant workers to get back home. They were later detained. Defying his 80-plus age, Sinha has been criss-crossing the state for the last few weeks after announcing his return to active politics in June. He says he is in the Bihar assembly elections fray to change the “stage-managed narrative of 15 years versus 15 years” and provide an “alternative that people could believe in”, despite being aware that it will take no less than a miracle to create any room considering the present caste-based poll arithmetic in the state. “We have formed UDA, which includes 16 smaller parties and senior leaders bound by a common ideology, to give Bihar an alternative it is yearning for. I have covered almost two-thirds of the state and the remaining one-third will be completed soon. Everyone knows what we are here for. Even AAP knows it,” said Sinha, adding UDA would keep away from anyone with corruption and criminal taint. Also Read: With hundreds of Oximeter centres, AAP gets ‘closer’ to people in BiharUDA includes former Jehanabad MP Arun Kumar, five-time MP from Jhanjharpur Devendra Prasad Yadav, former union minister Nagmani, former Bihar ministers Narendra Singh and Renu Kushwaha and several others.“The moment ticket distribution starts, we know many more will be interested in joining us after getting discarded by their own parties, but we have our benchmark,” said a senior leader of the new alliance. Sources in the UDA said that Sinha and AAP getting closer was a possibility considering their compatibility. However, they ruled out any truck with former MP Pappu Yadav’s party. Bihar AAP chief Sushil Singh said that the party’s Bihar incharge Sanjay Singh might be talking to Sinha. “It is all up to the senior leaders. AAP, in the meanwhile, is working on the ground to ascertain its poll strategy and decide the number of seats it should contest. Good people are always welcome,” he added. Also Read:NDA gets a boost in poll-bound Bihar as Jitan Manjhi’s party joins it A senior AAP leader said that even Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) could join the emerging third front if the GA did not treat it properly during seat sharing. “We can see the discomfort Upendra Kushwaha is in. If he wants, he can join our fight. We are open to people with a clean image,” he added. RLSP principal general secretary Madhav Anand said talks for seat sharing were underway within the GA. “At present, there is no move to leave GA, as we hope things will work out during the talks. A normal seat sharing formula could be arrived on the basis of Lok Sabha seats contested. We had contested five seats and that converts into around 30 assembly seats. With new allies joining the GA, we know all constituents will be required to make some adjustments, but it has to be reasonable and proportionate. We hope the GA will decide it amicably,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/yashwant-sinha-s-uda-kejriwal-s-aap-to-add-zing-to-bihar-assembly-polls/story-xx8zmNgmt2bDRBI6AHbfYK.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||In Photos: How Delhi Metro is preparing to resume operations after 5 months||The Delhi Metro will resume services from September 7 in a graded manner after nearly five months of remaining suspended due to the Covid-19 situation. The metro trains will begin operating in three stages in Unlock 4. In the first phase, i.e from September 7 till September 10, the Yellow Line and the Gurugram Rapid Metro will be open for passengers from 7am to 11am, and then from 4pm to 8pm. This will be followed by the Blue Line and the Pink Line on September 9. From September 10, the metro will also resume services for the Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal), Green Line and Violet Line.In stage two that starts on September 11, the truncated hours will be increased from 7am to 1pm and 4pm to 10pm and the Magenta and Grey lines will also be made operational.In the third stage that commences on September 12, Delhi Metro operations are expected to return to its full-functionality. Service hours will go back to their pre-lockdown schedule — from 6am to 11pm. At the same time, Airport Express Line (Dwarka sector-21-New Delhi Railway Station) services will also be thrown open to passengers.With closed token counters, limited entry and exit points, thermal scanner cum sanitiser dispenser before the entry points at stations, social distancing sign boards/stickers at the stations and inside the trains, staff wearing masks and face shields and kiosks outside stations to purchase masks, a lot has changed for the Delhi Metro to avoid crowding in times of Covid-19.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has stepped up preparations as it is set to open doors to commuters in four days from now. Here’s a look at pictures from the metro stations prepping to resume services amid the coronavirus pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-all-set-to-ply-from-september-7-check-out-new-look/story-Nr4ayK5hxDdQ0G5R8FW3iJ.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||424 Maharashtra policemen contract Covid-19 in 24 hours, highest recorded spike||Maharashtra Police, which has been at the forefront in battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country’s worst-affected state as far as the viral outbreak is concerned, has reported 424 fresh cases in the past 24 hours.This is the highest single-day spike in the state police department since the lockdown restrictions were imposed from end-March in a bid to contain the spread of the contagion. Earlier on August 24, 351 Maharashtra Police personnel had tested Covid-19 positive.“So far, 16,015 Maharashtra Police personnel, including 1,736 officers, has been found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Fortunately, 13,014 police personnel has recovered from their viral infection and many have already resumed their duties,” said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), Maharashtra Police.The Covid-19-related death toll among Maharashtra Police personnel has risen to 163, including five fresh fatalities between Monday and Wednesday. So far, 15 police officers have died of Covid-19.Wardha, Nanded, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur Rural and Thane City police authorities reported a death each due to the viral infection. In Wardha, Vilas S Balpandey (46), a head constable, died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was posted at Dahigaon police station and was admitted to Kasturba Hospital in Sevagram on August 27 after he had tested Covid-19 positive. Karbhari Rambhau Khade (52), a head constable posted at Mumbra police station in Thane city, also died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment at Saffire Hospital. He had tested Covid-19 positive on August 23. Balaji Tukaram Denge, a head constable, died of the contagion in Nanded district on Tuesday. He was posted at the district police headquarters in Denge and was being treated at the government-run hospital in Wajirabad. Ganesh Shankarrao Surpam (47), a head constable, died at Nagpur Medical College & Hospital, where he was admitted since August 26 after he had tested Covid-19 positive. While Suresh Shona Mhatre, an assistant sub-inspector posted at Kalamboli police station, died at DY Patil Hospital in Navi Mumbai. He was undergoing treatment since August 20. So far, Mumbai Police has reported over 4,800 Covid-19 cases and 69 deaths because of the viral infection -- the highest in the state police department. An internal study conducted by the state police department has found that most of the deceased police personnel were aged above 50 years and had comorbidities such as blood pressure and diabetes..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/424-maharashtra-policemen-contract-covid-19-in-24-hours-highest-recorded-spike/story-h3dOldYORrqiMsJ5eVkcwO.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Raj Thackeray’s letter to Uddhav for reopening temples carries a warning||Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has now joined the ranks of other opposition leaders demanding the reopening of temples saying people will forcibly reopen temples if this demand is neglected. Raj wrote a letter to his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressing disappointment over government’s refusal to accede to the demands.“I do wonder if the government is in a trance or daze and has turned a deaf ear to the reverent sentiments of Hindus,” MNS chief’s letter says.Also Read: Opposition corners Sena-led Maharashtra goverment over reopening temples He further stated that “The citizens need solace and pray to God to save them from this catastrophe. I firmly believe that the government should not be an obstacle between God and its devotees.”He expressed confidence saying Hindus will abide by all the regulations set by the government. “However, if the government ignores the pleas of the people in this respect, we will then have to put aside the restrictions and march ahead to see our God,” said Raj in his letter.Also Read: Covid-19: Metro services to remain shut in MaharashtraThe opposition parties like the BJP, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) have all agitated for the reopening of temples. On Monday, Prakash Ambedkar also led a protest outside the Pandharpur temple at Solapur. Ambedkar was allowed to enter the temple for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/raj-thackeray-s-letter-to-uddhav-for-reopening-temples-carries-a-warning/story-PAyo7bRCaOddPxpCcwJWJJ.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana school board seeks state government’s nod to conduct pending exams from September 22||The Board of School Education in Haryana (BSEH) has written to the state government, seeking permission to conduct pending exams of junior basic training students, board exams for students enrolled under open schooling and compartment exams of students of Classes 10 and 12 of the regular mode. Board chairman Jagbir Singh said he had written to the education department last week, seeking permission to conduct the pending exams. “Nearly 1.25 lakh students from various classes are awaiting their exams. We are ready to conduct the exams in both online and offline modes. We want to hold the exams from September 22 by adhering to safety guidelines so that the academic year can be saved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-school-board-seeks-state-government-s-nod-to-conduct-pending-exams-from-september-22/story-Kuq16p1ba0pDXTlozE9fLO.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||What you need to know about travelling in Delhi Metro from Monday||The Delhi Metro will resume services in the national Capital from September 7 after a hiatus of 169 days. However, travelling in the Metro will not be the same as before. With Covid-19 infections still on the rise, passengers will only be allowed with masks on after a thorough screening. Social distancing will be mandatory inside stations and trains. Here’s a look at the new rules that passengers will need to follow from September 7.1. Masks will be mandatory for entry into all Metro stations and passengers will have to wear one inside stations and in trains at all times. Kiosks will be set up outside stations where masks will be available for purchase. Also Read: Delhi Metro to resume services in phased manner from Sept 7, stations to be closely monitored: SOP2. Entry and exit from Metro stations will be restricted. Depending on the size and footfall at a station, one or two gates in each station will initially remain open for passenger movement. Stations in containment zones will remain closed and trains will not halt there.3. All passengers entering the station will be thermally scanned. It is at the discretion of the security agency, the CISF, to stop any passenger who is found to be symptomatic. Passengers are also advised to carry smaller luggage, so that screening can be quick and there is no crowding at station gates. Also Read: Commuters caught in two minds over Delhi Metro reopening plan4. Tokens will not be allowed as they could be carriers of the virus. Passengers with smart cards will also have to use digital options for top-ups.5. The Delhi Metro has marked spots across the station and platform premises where passengers will be allowed to stand. Inside the trains, alternate seats can be occupied. 6. All stations will be monitored through a centralised control room using CCTV cameras. If any passenger is found to violate social distancing rules, drivers will be directed to skip the said station. DMRC can also stop people from entering a station at any time if the crowd inside grows over the deemed capacity of the station.7. Only three passengers will be allowed inside lifts and on escalators. Also Read: Masks not enough, crowds a concern: Experts divided over Delhi Metro reopeningNearly 800 Delhi Metro officials will man operations at all times. The train and station premises will be sanitised regularly, because of which the frequency of trains could initially be affected. Trains will also stop for longer at stations so that passengers can take their time to board and deboard without crowding the train gates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/what-you-need-to-know-about-travelling-in-delhi-metro-from-monday/story-hH7Z1H1JondBMRMlO9xfiP.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 pandemic rings alarm bells for wedding card printers in Patiala||Patiala: It’s been five months since Rajesh Khanna has received an order to print wedding invites. It’s for the first time in 30 years in the business that he’s come across such a lean patch. He’s one of the wedding card printers in town who have been dealt a blow by the Covid-19 pandemic. With a restricted gathering of close relatives, invitation cards that were an integral part of the big fat Punjabi wedding and considered the first impression to the extravaganza, have become a thing of the past. Though the government has announced relaxations for weddings of late but card printers are still struggling for orders. “Three wedding seasons in April, July and August are over and I didn’t get a single printing order! Weddings are limited to family members due to the restriction on the number of guests. So people don’t find any need to get cards printed,” says Khanna. Kawaljeet Singh of JK Press admits, “I find it difficult to recall when we got our last order to print wedding cards. There has been a 90% decline in the business since the first lockdown in March. Before that, we used to receive an order to print 500 to 800 cards per wedding.” PRINTING AT A STANDSTILL Not only wedding cards, other services of the printing industry have also been hit by the pandemic. Printing work related to books, notebooks, government content and advertising material has come to a standstill. Parvesh Mangla, the president of Patiala Printing Association, says, “Schools are not open so orders for study-related content are not coming. Almost half of the government work is at a standstill. We’re not getting any printing order from the government. Besides, printing orders of advertising material such as pamphlets and brochures besides hoardings is awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-pandemic-rings-alarm-bells-for-wedding-card-printers-in-patiala/story-kJ9fSC1y48yBaHEwMDkXLJ.html
03-09-2020||Ranchi||Ranchi Rajdhani Express stranded at Daltonganj as tribals protest on tracks||The New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani special (02454) express train is stranded at Jharkhand’s Daltonganj railway station since early Thursday morning as the agitating Tana Bhagats, a tribal community following Gandhian principles, continue to sit on railway tracks near Tori railway station in state’s Latehar district.Daltonganj railway station is situated on the Coal India Chord (CIC) section of the Dhanbad rail division in the east central railway (ECR) zone. Hundreds of Tana Bhagats-- a tribal community that believes in the Gandhian principles of non-violence-- from Latehar, Palamu, Chatra and other districts had announced to meet at Chandwa in Latehar district on Wednesday. When the local administration did not let them hold the meeting, they sat on the railway tracks, late on Wednesday evening, in support of their demands for ensuring their rights on ancestral land.The Daltonganj railway station manager Anil Kumar Tiwary said, “The train arrived at 6.40 am in the morning. It has been stopped here as the Tana Bhagat community members have blocked railway track near Tori. The local administration is having a talk with them. Once the track is cleared, this train will leave from the station.”Also Read: Missing minor girl’s mutilated body recovered in Jamshedpur; stepfather detainedMore than 750 passengers were on board the train. Officials from district, civil and police administration also reached the station and ensured that the passengers were served breakfast.In a press release, the public relation officer of ECR, Rajesh Kumar, said, “We are keeping a tab on developments there.”Also Read: JEE Mains 2020: Day one of exam passes off peacefully in JharkhandMeanwhile, the authorities were mooting ways to send the stranded passengers to their destinations by buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ranchi-rajdhani-express-stranded-at-daltonganj-as-tribals-protest-on-tracks/story-fyd1uKCk2glXOBBw390HCP.html
03-09-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party state headquarters shut due to Covid-19||The Samajwadi Party (SP) has voluntarily sealed its Uttar Pradesh (UP) headquarters in Lucknow for six days after some people working at the office tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Wednesday.The party in a tweet on Wednesday night announced that the office would stay closed until Monday. “Some people working at the SP office indicated initial symptoms of Covid-19. Later, they tested Covid-19 positive. As a precautionary measure, the party office in Lucknow will remain closed until Monday. May all recover at the earliest,” said the tweet from the SP’s official handle.This is the first instance of any political party in Lucknow closing its office due to the viral outbreak. However, restricted entry was in place at the SP’s UP headquarters since end-March following the initial reports of the pandemic.The SP has also stopped all mass gatherings and public events because of the raging viral outbreak..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-state-headquarters-shut-due-to-covid-19/story-hrHoeJ06ubWNVIhHCV1KDL.html
03-09-2020||Real||UP RERA issues notice to Supertech over Supernova project in Noida||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) on Wednesday said it has issued a notice to realtor Supertech asking why its registration should not be revoked over failure to submit a revalidated map of its project Supernova in Noida.The Supertech group, however, said it did not receive the RERA’s notice issued in February and cited lockdown-related reasons for the delay in submission of the revalidated map of the premium project.The Authority said the show cause notice has been issued to the developer under section 7 of the RERA for revoking the registration of its project Supernova Phase – IV. The Authority said it had granted “conditional registration” to the project on assurance by Supertech chairperson R K Arora that a revalidated map would be submitted in six months.“He had submitted that his application for revalidation of the map of the project is pending with the NOIDA authority on account of pending dues, that matter will be resolved soon and he would submit the revalidated map,” a RERA statement signed by Secretary Abrar Ahmed stated. “However, the promoter did not submit the revalidated map in time. Therefore, the Authority issued a notice to the promoter in February 2020 to submit the revalidated map or else the registration of the project will be revoked,” the statement said.“The promoter has not replied to the notice of the Authority,” it added.The matter was reviewed by the Authority in its meeting dated August 28 and it decided to issue a show cause notice to the promoter under section 7 of the RERA Act to explain within 30 days as to why the registration of the Supernova Phase-IV project of the promoter not be revoked, according to the statement. However, it added that the final decision will be taken after going through the reply of the promoter. When contacted, Supertech group claimed it has not received any notice in the month of February. “However, the revalidation of map is submitted to (Noida) Authority and is under process but due to lockdown, the revalidation of map has not been released by the Authority. We are hopeful that the revalidated map will be received soon and will inform to RERA accordingly,” Arora said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/up-rera-issues-notice-to-supertech-over-supernova-project-in-noida/story-s7ktBmslneYav0GoIxv8lK.html
03-09-2020||Environment||Lucknow University begins survey of UP’s state bird sarus||The Lucknow University’s Institute of Wildlife Sciences on Wednesday began the first phase of a census of the state bird, Sarus, across Uttar Pradesh’s 75 districts in collaboration with the environment, forests, and climate change department, officials aware of the matter said.The second phase of the census will start on December 16 and the third on June 16 next year. The data collected through Global Positioning System for the exercise will be compiled to bring out a detailed ‘sarus atlas’ of Uttar Pradesh, mapping nesting, feeding, and breeding sites of the bird. The document thus developed will be very helpful in formulating a policy for its conservation, the officials said.The sarus is found mainly in Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah, Mainpuri and Shahjahanpur districts. But their population is on the decline due to the use of pesticides and the birds being preyed upon.Sarus (Grus antigone) is the tallest flying bird found in wet and agricultural lands in Asia. The officials said several surveys of the bird have been done in Uttar Pradesh but now a complete mapping of sarus habitats is being done for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/lucknow-university-begins-survey-of-up-s-state-bird-sarus/story-jaioHOve8WI4uMKC9IJjrJ.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to overcast skies, moderate rain likely today||Delhi woke up to overcast skies on Thursday with a possibility of moderate rainfall and thundershowers during the day, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials.IMD also predicted gusty winds across the national capital with a speed of up to 40 kilometres per hour (kmph), which is likely to keep the weather pleasant through the day. Also Read: Heavy rain warning for NW India todayDelhi had received moderate rainfall on August 28, and since then gusty winds have been blowing across the city. The winds have kept the city’s air quality index (AQI) in check.“The winds were mainly because of a cyclonic circulation in north-western Madhya Pradesh and north-eastern Rajasthan. It is likely to be windy on Thursday as well. Moderate rainfall is expected in parts of the city, as the monsoon trough has reached close to the Delhi-national capital region (NCR),” said a senior IMD scientist. IMD data showed that August reported the highest rainfall of the season. This August was also the second-wettest monsoon in 12 years. Also Read: Shorter hours, new rules to mark this monsoon session of ParliamentIMD has predicted plenty of rainfall for the remaining monsoon season that ends on September 30.“Plenty of rainfall is expected in September, especially in the first week,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/weather-copy/story-BPF2WsNGORyZRzEZ8VslFP.html
03-09-2020||Election:||HAM workers will work hard to make NDA victorious in Bihar: Jitan Ram Manjhi||The Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) has forged an alliance with Janata Dal (United) and become a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) while party chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has claimed that HAM workers will make all efforts to make NDA victorious in the upcoming elections in Bihar.“There has been no discussion about seat-sharing in the next Bihar Assembly elections. Our workers will be engaged in all of Bihar to win the elections and in the interest of the state, we will form the NDA government,” the HAM leader said.“We felt that there is nepotism and corruption in Lalu Prasad Yadav’s leadership in Mahagathbandhan,” he added.Manjhi was earlier part of the NDA but left the alliance to join ‘Mahagathbandhan’ (Grand Alliance) in 2018.HAM, which contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in coalition with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)- Congress alliance could not win even a single seat in Bihar and broke its ties with ‘Mahagathbandhan’ last month.Manjhi was a minister under the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar government. In the 2014 general election, Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) decided to leave NDA and contested polls but lost badly.Later, Manjhi replaced Kumar after the latter resigned taking moral responsibility for his party’s defeat.After a dramatic episode, Manjhi resigned from the post which paved way for Nitish Kumar’s return at the helm. He later floated his own party, Hindustani Awam Morcha, and joined hands with BJP-led NDA to contest 2015 Assembly polls. However, ‘Mahagathbandhan’ emerged victorious and Kumar returned as Chief Minister.Due to some differences, JDU severed ties with ‘Mahagathbandhan’ in 2017 but later secured support from BJP to run the state government. In 2018, Manjhi left the NDA to join the ‘Mahagathbandhan’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/ham-workers-will-work-hard-to-make-nda-victorious-in-bihar-jitan-ram-manjhi/story-GJO2xF7CKvsYExP9SpIkNN.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Jharkhand high court rejects bail plea of man accused of duping Punjab CM’s wife||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court has rejected the bail plea of the man accused of duping Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur in a cyber fraud case last year. The Congress MP was duped of Rs 23 lakh. After hearing the arguments on Wednesday, Justice Rongon Mukhopadhyay rejected the bail plea of the accused, Afsar Ali. Public prosecutor Shailendra Tiwari told the court that the accused was an inter-state cyber criminal, who has been involved in several such incidents. Therefore, his bail plea be rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jharkhand-high-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-man-accused-of-duping-punjab-cm-s-wife/story-I9cMpcc1DdDyL4xMdeNDpM.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: When nobody had a mobile number||Until a year ago, this place was a professional bawarchi’s (cook’s) kitchen. You would see tubs full of onion rings. On some evenings, the street outside would be lined with degs (vessels) containing shorbas and biryanis.And today the same place is crammed with.... well, let’s start with the old rotary dial landline telephone. The black beauty is lying atop a dusty radio, which is from the days when radios used to be as hefty as CRT TVs. A narrow ledge on the wall is supporting a loud speaker, a broken clock, a cassette player (whatever that is!) and even an exhaust fan, one of those tiny ones that are installed in the kitchen.“This is my antique shop,” says shopkeeper Atik Rehman. The dimly lit establishment in Old Delhi’s Galli Chooriwallan looks like a cave, and most of it is piled up with a mound of indecipherable objects—some of which might be considered antique.Mr Rehman, a resident of nearby Matia Mahal Bazar, has been in the business of old things for about two decades, but he took up this shop space on rent only some months ago.This morning he is on his own in the shop, sitting behind his desk, by the telephone and the radio. His left arm is plopped up beside what looks like one of those cute-looking speakers of old desktop computers, that were in vogue at the turn of the century. Now, this thing might not be antique but it sure is something you no longer see.The pull of this place is in its bizarreness. You might be repelled by the gloomy darkness of the place and exit it immediately—or, you might happily spend an entire day here, sorting through objects, some of which you will find totally useless and some with possibilities of archival beauty. Mr Rehman doesn’t go about the city to collect these items. “Kabadiwallas who gather rejects from across the city come to me, and I pick up the things I want from their pheris (carts).”One of the charms of this place is that it has a great amount of utilities that were in everyday use just two or three decades ago, and have now completely disappeared. Their sight starkly jolts you—how quickly we have moved on, leaving behind the memories of stuff that until recently were an integral part of our living. (For instance, there’s even an iPod in the litter, one of the early ones, that looked like a slim long box you could hang around your neck.)If you came of age in the 90s, come here to find the souvenirs of your teenage years. If you are a millennial, step in to see how life was in the time of your fuddy-duddy cousins.The shop opens daily from 8am to 8pm. The telephone is for ₹5,000, and the radio is for twice that amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-when-nobody-had-a-mobile-number/story-UxfZLbsqlBtMJguJHrsxaK.html
03-09-2020||City||THE World Rankings: IIT Ropar second best in India||IIT Ropar has ranked second in the country after IISc, Bengaluru, in the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings released on Wednesday. It was placed in the 350-400 bracket globally.IIT Ropar director Sarit K Das said, “I am delighted that IIT Ropar, which is just a 12-year-old institute, has become known worldwide for its global competitiveness. This ranking is important because IIT Ropar has particularly identified its formal vision statement as ‘to be a trendsetter among the technology universities born in this millennium’.” “This is largely due to our hard-working faculty, students and staff. The consistent performance in various rankings is testament to the institute’s continued success at fostering a collaborative and supportive research culture. IIT Ropar has introduced a range of targeted strategic initiatives, including seed funding to facilitate high-impact research and recently DST has approved Rs 110 crore for setting up a Food, Water and Agriculture Technology Hub,” he said. “IIT Ropar has risen in the overall Times Higher Education World Rankings as well as Asia University Rankings with 47th rank. We’ve also improved our position in NIRF, coming out as the best institute in the region of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh,” Das added.He said, “These outstanding results reflect IIT Ropar’s growing international reputation and the significance of government policy continuing to support our mission to contribute to the cause of the nation.”In coming years, Das said, IIT Ropar was expected to move even higher up the ladder of rankings. The institute will continuously concentrate its efforts in promoting quality in teaching and attract best of the talents from the country and abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/the-world-rankings-iit-ropar-second-best-in-india/story-c0fAkkw7v8Y2DKJ5oYLYGI.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Bar writes to sessions judge to resume work related to traffic challans||The District Bar Association has submitted a letter to the district and sessions judge requesting them to resume work related to traffic challans in the courts.The association wrote: “According to MHA guidelines on Unlock 4, most essential services will be made functional. It is requested that work related to traffic challans that were stopped on March 16 be allowed to resume.”They added that in the last five months, no traffic challan case had been entertained in the courts due to which most of the challan-related payment was pending and “clients are suffering”.“Most of the advocates of the Bar were earning their livelihood from traffic challans alone, but due to non-disposal of these challans in courts, advocates haven’t earned a single penny in many months. The sessions judge should consider the request and allow the work related to traffic challans and impounded vehicles to be resumed,” the Bar mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-bar-writes-to-sessions-judge-to-resume-work-related-to-traffic-challans/story-IgYlrOGQ5oq7RMskC9SL3I.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area logs over 500 Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day||The number of Covid-19 cases in the tricity crossed the 500 mark for the second consecutive day with 534 new infections on Wednesday. As many as six people also succumbed to the virus – four in Mohali and two in Chandigarh. Among the fresh infections, Chandigarh led with 239, followed by Mohali with 160 and Panchkula with 135 cases.The total number of confirmed cases in the three cities has climbed to 11,426, of which 4,869 remain active, while the death toll stands at 171.239 TEST POSITIVE, TWO DEAD IN UTWith 239 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the active cases in Chandigarh crossed the 2,000 mark for the first time. The day also witnessed two Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 59. The case tally now stands at 4,789, of which 2,670 patients have recovered and 2,060 cases remain active.Among the deceased was a 27-year-old man from Sector 44. A patient of diabetic ketoacidosis, he died at GMCH, Sector 32.A 75-year-old man, resident of Sector 23, who had a history of hypertension, also died at GMCH, Sector 32, following respiratory failure.Manimajra largest Covid hotspotManimajra has emerged as the largest Covid hotspot in the city with 170 active cases, followed by Hallomajra with 74 cases and Ram Darbar with 69 cases. There are 360 confirmed cases in Manimajra, which is the highest in Chandigarh. The total cases at Manimajra have also surpassed Bapu Dham Colony’s cumulative number of infections – 304. Bapu Dham Colony that was once the largest Covid hotspot has only 13 active infections now.MOHALI’S CASES SURPASS 4,000 MARK, TOLL RISES TO 89 WITH FOUR DEATHSThe district’s Covid-19 tally breached the 4,000 mark on Wednesday with 160 new cases.Its Covid toll also rose to 89 with the virus claiming the lives of four residents. The deceased include a 20-year-old woman, who was suffering from high fever and vomiting, and admitted at GMCH, Sector 32, and a 49-year-old man from Dera Bassi. He was suffering from a kidney ailment and admitted at PGIMER, Chandigarh.A 45-year-old woman, suffering from cancer, and a 58-year-old Phase-10 woman, who had hypertension and diabetes, died at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said while three patients had comorbidities, the 20-year-old woman had high fever for a week. Their cremation was done as per protocol, he said. Among the 160 fresh cases, 55 are from Mohali city, 33 from Dhakoli, 31 from Gharuan, 29 from Kharar, six from Dera Bassi, five from Boothgarh, which includes Kurali, and one from Lalru.Mohali now has 4,093 cases, including 1,822 active cases and 2,182 recoveries. As many as 43 patients were discharged on Wednesday. 135 FOUND INFECTED IN PANCHKULAPanchkula As many 135 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the district count to 2,544.Most of the new infections were reported from Pinjore, Raipur Rani, Kalka, Mansa Devi Complex-4 and Morni. Badhour, Bagwali, Chandikotla, Devi Nagar, Garhi Kotaha, Hangola, Indira Colony, Manakpur, Nanakpur, Morni, Rattatibbi, Surajpur and various sectors of Panchkula city also added new cases to the tally.Among the total cases, Panchkula has 990 active cases, with 1,531 people being discharged and 23 succumbing to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-over-500-covid-19-cases-for-the-second-consecutive-day/story-y1q63vo6pP4hlsDpSlSkpI.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||THE World Rankings: Panjab University ranks fourth among Indian varsities||Panjab University has improved by 12 notches to rank fourth among the Indian universities in the latest Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings released on Wednesday. Last year, PU was ranked 16. On the global level, it continues to be a ranking bracket of 601-800 like last year. Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru; Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Ropar and IIT Indore won the Top 3 positions among 63 Indian universities.The University of Oxford retains the top spot in the ranking based on the assessment of over 1,500 universities’ quality of teaching, research, citations, industry income and international outlook.PU has shown improvement in its overall score, which is now in the bracket of 30.2 to 36.3, up from last year’s bracket of 28.3-35.2.“The increase in scores is mainly due to higher appraisal in teaching and research criteria. However, PU has lost significantly in citations. There is a marginal decrease in industry income and international outlook scores as well,” the university said in a statement.But, it added, that there was a reason to cheer as PU was ranked at the top after three institutes.University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar expressed his pleasure over PU’s performance in the rankings and gave credit to the faculty, students and other stakeholders in the university.“PU is now making rapid strides towards excellence. Recently in ARIIA ranking we were ranked 2 in the country and now in Times ranking, we are ranked 4. This has been primarily due to the infusion of innovation and start-up culture in the university over the last two years,” Kumar said.“The results are on expected lines, as we did in-depth survey of the data parameters this time. With the innovation buzz at the university, our research output has increased. Our faculty deserves all credit for being productive and ensuring that they walk the talk with students,” said Dr Ashish Jain, director of PU’s internal quality assurance cell.Dr Jain said they were working on the grey spots as well to make a mark globally. “I am confident, with the present pace, that should happen soon,” he added.SOCIAL CARDI am aware that to compete at a global scale, we have to also focus on our industry income and international outlook. We have been receiving tremendous interest from overseas students and in due course of time we shall improve in these parameters too.Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor, Panjab University||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/the-world-rankings-panjab-university-ranks-fourth-among-indian-varsities/story-M6AFCXPnTyHsv7LO4eettK.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PG fire tragedy: Accused building owner withdraws plea||The accused building owner in the Sector-32 PG fire incident reported in February withdrew his plea from the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday.In February this year, three girl students had died and two others had sustained injuries in a fire that had broken out at a paying guest accommodation in Sector 32. The house owner, Gaurav Aneja, and two others were booked under Sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code in view of the widespread public outrage over the incident.The fire had gutted the illegal PG accommodation, owned by Aneja, who had further rented it out to Nitish Bansal and Nitish Popli, other two accused running the PG since August 2018, allegedly without registration with the UT estate office.Aneja had approached the high court for bail on July 3 arguing that he being the owner of the premises in question was not liable for prosecution as he had only rented out the place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pg-fire-tragedy-accused-building-owner-withdraws-plea/story-0BXdhEG0Xh8KFWSn06RAAJ.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Scholarship scam: Youth Akali Dal holds protest against social justice minister in Mohali||The members of All India Youth Akali Dal on Wednesday held a protest outside the District Administrative Complex, Sector 76, seeking the dismissal of social justice minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over the alleged scholarship scam.The protestors burnt the effigy of the minister and raised slogans against the government. Parambans Singh Bunty Romana, president of the youth offshoot of Shiromani Akali Dal, said the scam had brought out the true picture of the Congress government.Parminder Singh Sohana, district president, questioned the chief minister on his “compulsion or helplessness” that was preventing the ruling Congress party from taking action against a corrupt minister. Unless Dharamsot resigned, a fair probe was impossible, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/scholarship-scam-youth-akali-dal-holds-protest-against-social-justice-minister-in-mohali/story-8TOJ1hGtYZ8DrioXLPybGP.html
03-09-2020||City||Mahendergarh shocker: Mason axes wife, three children to death||A mason allegedly hacked his 26-year-old wife and three children to death at their temporary shelter on Singhania road in Mahendergarh’s Narnaul town on Tuesday night, police said. The victims are his wife Aarti, two sons aged seven and six, and a four-year-old daughter.The accused, identified as Tulsidas of Chhatarpur district in Madhya Pradesh, used an axe to commit the crime before fleeing the spot, the police said, adding that the motive behind the murder would be ascertained after his arrest. Narnaul City station house officer (SHO) Manoj Kumar said the incident came to light when one of their neighbours noticed no activity at their hut by Wednesday noon.“They broke open the main gate and found four members of Tulsidas’ family dead. We reached the spot and sent the bodies to civil hospital for autopsy,” he added. The SHO said they have registered a case of murder against the mason , who is at large. “We have started an investigation and launched a manhunt to nab the accused,” he added. “Kin of the woman have been informed about the incident. They will reach Narnaul tomorrow to collect the bodies,” the SHO said. The police have reportedly recovered the axe used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mahendergarh-shocker-mason-axes-wife-three-children-to-death/story-qREHJINXPPpbebNonL3NmN.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Airports to test international passengers for Covid-19 on pilot basis||To allow international passengers to take domestic flights after landing at an Indian airport without institutional quarantine, the aviation ministry on Wednesday allowed entry airports to conduct the RT-PCR tests on passengers who have not undergone Covid-19 tests at least 96 hours before their departure from the foreign country.According to the ministry, this will be done on pilot basis. A passenger will be allowed to take the onward domestic flight only if he/she tests negative. The result will be given within eight hours and until then, the airport operator will make sure that passengers are made to sit in a place with basic facilities, including Wi-Fi, food and washrooms. Sources said that both Mumbai and Delhi have prepared the awaiting lounge (area) in order to commence this facility.HT tried to clarify from ministry of civil aviation if pilot basis meant that the facility would, as of now, be restricted to handful airports, however, a reply from the ministry was awaited till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/airports-to-test-international-passengers-for-covid-19-on-pilot-basis/story-WL0QMBp334OEg8ZH2HNMAL.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Day 2 of JEE (Main): Chandigarh students find chemistry easy, most scoring||The first two shifts of the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main were successfully conducted on Wednesday and students claimed that the paper was on the easier side, with chemistry being the easiest and most scoring part.Around 500 students took the exam at the five centres set up in Chandigarh and Mohali organised by the National testing Agency (NTA). Chirag Bhatia of Chandigarh said he was pretty confident about the inorganic chemistry part of the exam. “The delay worked out in my favour as I got extra time to revise the syllabus and was able to read more reference books.” Avneet Kaur of Mohali added, “Both physics and math were a little tougher, but chemistry was high-scoring.” Tanish Kohli of Chandigarh discussed how the sample papers of the NTA were tougher than the exam on Wednesday, but Harsh Nagar said his January attempt had gone much better. Arshdeep from Kharar said the paper wasn’t too long and he was able to finish it before time with sufficient time to revise.All students said that the protocols to maintain social distancing and hygiene were followed meticulously. Students were frisked without touching and markings were made for them to line up. They were given a three-ply mask to wear during the paper and the centers were thoroughly sanitised between the two shifts. Even parents were impressed. SP Singh, a Chandigarh-based banker whose son took the exam, said the organisers had done a professional job and the police didn’t let any crowds in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/day-2-of-jee-main-chandigarh-students-find-chemistry-easy-most-scoring/story-oMGpbxYC4rVDNBSUNQY0JO.html
03-09-2020||City||GMADA to auction 65 properties in Mohai by September end||Trying its luck amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will hold an e-auction of 65 residential and commercial properties by the end of September after slashing the reserve price by 10%. The last auction was held in February when the authority had decreased the reserve price by 20% and managed to sell 32 of the 67 properties. Thereafter, GMADA planned another auction from July 21, but postponed it amid the rising Covid-19 cases.“We have not decided the date yet, but will be holding the auction in September itself. The reserve prices will be finalised soon after 10% reduction. We are hopeful of getting a good response this time,” said Sanjeev Kumar, estate officer of GMADA.The 65 proprieties on offer include 16 residential properties, with plots ranging between 100 and 500 square yards. These are located in Eco City-1, Sector 64, 61 and 56. As many as 25 booths to be auctioned are in Sectors 59, 60, 61, 63 and 65. Six SCO/SCF/SSS are located in Sectors 61, 53, 56 and 64. Seven IT Industrial plots are in Sectors 83 and 101. Besides this, a hotel site in Sector 66-B, one school site in Eco City-1, three group housing sites — one in Sector 66 and two in Medicity, will also be on offer.“Due to recession, we had been demanding slashing of the reserve price. Though the 10% reduction in prices will evoke good response, GMADA should go for an open auction instead of e-auction for a healthy competition,” said Shailander Anand, former president, Mohali Property Consultants Association (MPCA).What GMADA sold in February? In the auction held in February this year, a 352 square metre plot in Sector 65 had gone for the highest price of Rs 1.93 crore against a reserve price of Rs 1.85 crore.An SCO of 100 square metres went for Rs 4.33 crore against the reserve price of Rs 3.60 crore. Besides, an industrial plot of 20,882 square metres was sold for Rs 32 crore against the reserve price of Rs 28 crore. GMADA had also auctioned three hotel sites in Sector 66-B. Two of them sized at 8,134 square metres each were sold for Rs 25.8 crore. They had a reserve price of Rs 25.53 crore each. The third one, at 16,228 square metres, was auctioned for Rs 51 crore against a reserve price Rs 50.94 crore.A booth in Sector 68 measuring 18.96 square metres was sold for Rs 1 crore against the reserve price of Rs 83 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-to-auction-65-properties-in-mohai-by-september-end/story-i9eCYHmQM8uyYjtt6KizMP.html
03-09-2020||City||Karnal incident: FIR against 12 for attacking imam, hurting religious sentiments||At least twelve unidentified people have been booked for allegedly attacking an imam in Alipur Khalsa village of Karnal’s Gharaunda subdivision, police said on Wednesday. The victim, Mohammad Ehsan of Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat, is undergoing treatment at Kalpana Chawla medical college, where his condition is stated to be stable.The victim told the police that the incident took place late on Monday when he was offering prayers in a mosque. “At least 12 people turned up and attacked me with sharp-edged weapons, rods and sticks,” he added. Acting on his statement, the police registered an FIR under sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 452 (trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 148 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and launched an investigation.Gharaunda police station incharge Kanwar Singh said a probe was on, but no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-incident-fir-against-12-for-attacking-imam-hurting-religious-sentiments/story-okmxST32vaB8yiDn7pYUkL.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Academic session of undergraduate classes to start from October 6 in Haryana||The higher education department of Haryana on Wednesday said the new academic session 2020-21 of undergraduate classes in all colleges will start from October 6. The higher education department will start online admission process for the 2020-21 academic session from September 7 and the first merit list will be released on September 26. An official spokesperson said the department of higher education has decided to conduct ‘Centralized Online Admission’ for undergraduate classes this time for the next academic session. Under this, online admissions for all government, aided and self-financed colleges in the state will commence from September 7 and continue till September 21. From September 22 to September 25, a merit list will be prepared after examining the applications and documents. After this, the first merit list will be released on September 26 for which fee can be deposited by September 29. The second merit list will be released on September 30.Meanwhile, Chaudhary Charan Singh Agricultural University (CCSAU), Hisar, has announced the examination dates for admission to postgraduate and PhD courses. An official spokesperson of the university said that in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the examination will be held on September 6, 9, 12 and 16. He said that admission to the courses will be through online mode only. There will be no physical reporting this year. After checking documents uploaded by the candidates, if there is any deficiency, they will be informed on their mobile number and email id. If a candidate does not provide the information within the stipulated time, he/she will not be allotted the seat in the first counselling. The dates for the second counselling will be issued separately. The spokesperson said that there will be no change in the terms and conditions related to admission and reservation in the university brochure. He said all applicants should visit the university website admissions.hau.ac.in and hau.ac.in for the latest information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/academic-session-of-undergraduate-classes-to-start-from-october-6-in-haryana/story-MsnggB1UbZRzBBQSmZ72RM.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man buys Mercedes SUV for ₹52 lakh, finds out its mortgaged||A Sector-10 resident was duped of Rs 52 lakh by some Vishakhapatnam residents, who sold a mortgaged Mercedes car to him. Himmat Jakhar told the police that in August last year, he had come in contact with one Punyamanthula Navya Radhakrishan, who wanted to sell a Mercedes GLS 400 through a website. He bought the vehicle for Rs 52 lakh, but on verification, found that a loan was outstanding against it. But, Radhakrishan assured him that the loan was cleared and an NOC was awaited from the bank. He later also submitted an NOC to Jakhar, who found out that it was fake and the loan was still outstanding.When Jakhar confronted Radhakrishan, he agreed to refund the money, but failed to keep his promise, following which the former filed a police complaint. The vehicle was originally registered in the name of Radhakrishan’s father. After he passed away, the car was transferred in the name of their relative, Chinta Shankar Rao. Therefore, Radhakrishan and Rao have been booked under Section 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector-3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-eyeing-mercedes-duped-of-52-lakh/story-E6QsKhwS5CiUAJxZz9kQNL.html
03-09-2020||City||Karnal extortion case: Woman granted bail||A Karnal court on Wednesday granted bail to the woman arrested for allegedly extorting money in order to withdraw the rape complaint she had filed against the owner of a local school and a senior government official.The bail was granted two days after the court sent her to one-day police remand for the recovery of ₹6 lakh she had allegedly taken from the assistants of the school owner. The police failed to recover the money, but her voice samples were sent for further probe by the special investigation team.Her advocate Rahul Bali said the court granted her bail to her as well as her husband as the police failed to furnish any evidence against them.The couple was arrested on August 21 from outside the Karnal district court while allegedly taking ₹7.25 lakh from the school owner’s men. The police had claimed to have recovered the money from her possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-extortion-case-woman-granted-bail/story-W1rtE0IX9ATOaqvTot6OwM.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||No let-up in surge as Haryana logs record Covid cases||Haryana on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day spike yet with 1,792 fresh cases of Covid-19 that also claimed 15 lives, pushing the death toll to 721, the health bulletin said.In Fatehabad, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Panipat districts, two patients each succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. One patient each in Faridabad, Ambala, Rohtak, Hisar and Sirsa districts died of the infection that has been spreading at an alarming rate across the state.The total number of people that have been tested positive until Wednesday has reached 68,218.On August 1, the total Covid-19 cases were 35,758, which reached 64,732 on August 31 with the addition of 28,974 more cases in just a month.Most cases in Panchkula district Panchkula district reported 216 new cases, the highest in the state on Wednesday, a day after the district recorded near 100 cases. Ambala reported 96 cases, Yamunanagar 95, Kurukshetra 126 and Karnal 130 cases. Thus, 663 fresh cases out of the 1,792 were detected in five northern districts of the state.As per the bulletin, Gurugram logged 184 new infections, Faridabad 152, Sonepat 27, Rewari 61, Rohtak 90, Panipat 142, Hisar 114, Palwal 23, Mahendergarh 36, Jhajjar 39, Bhiwani 89, Nuh 11, Sirsa 43, Fatehabad 27, Kaithal 89, and Charkhi Dadri 2. No case was reported in Jind on Wednesday.2 deaths, 126 infections in Kurukshetra Two people succumbed to Covid-19 in Kurukshetra on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 37 in the district. As per the health department, the deceased included a 60-year-old man from Ladwa, who had tested positive on August 31 and a 69-year-old man from Shahbad town. Both had been suffering from other ailments too.Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said 126 new cases in the district have taken the number of infected persons to 1,971. There are 763 active cases at present and 1,171 people have been cured and discharged, he added.1,040 cured in state The state saw 1,040 recoveries in the last 24 hours, which took the number of those cured of Covid to 54,875.Even as patients have been recovering from the infection and recovery rate has hovered above 80% for quite some time now, the number of active cases has been increasing. There were 6,396 active cases on August 2 and the number rose to a staggering 11,371 on August 31. The number of active Covid-19 cases was 12,622 on Wednesday, up from 11,885 on Tuesday.Infected MLA hospitalised Two days after BJP’s Jind MLA Krishan Middha tested positive for the virus, he has been admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Wednesday.The senior medical officer said the MLA has mild symptoms, but as a precautionary measure, he was shifted to the hospital, where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and other senior leaders are undergoing treatment.Karnal declares KCGMCH Covid hospital Karnal district administration has declared Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital (KCGMCH) a dedicated Covid-19 hospital.Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said from now KCGMCH will treat Covid patients and that 150 had already been admitted.On Wednesday, 61 new infections were reported in Karnal and 75 patients got discharged. The number of infected persons in the district has reached 3,188 and there are 1,029 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-let-up-in-surge-as-haryana-logs-record-covid-cases/story-kes3b9AsM9WLygPLnKgnhL.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Roll back toll rate hike: Surjewala||Condemning the increase of toll rates on highways in Haryana, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Wednesday urged the government to roll back the hike immediately. In a statement, Surjewala said the toll rates have been increased by the government for the second time during the coronavirus pandemic, which showed their “insensitivity”. “When people are facing economic recession, the government is rubbing salt into their wounds by issuing such orders,” he added. Surjewala reminded that a heavy tax in the form of road tax was levied by the state government on the purchase of new vehicles and “it is also a matter of record that the Khattar-Chautala government of the state has been repeatedly increasing VAT on petrol and diesel for the last six years”. He said there are 32 national highways and three national expressways with a total length of 3,531km in Haryana. “Often, one has to use NH to go from one district to the other. In such a situation, the toll rate hike would increase inflation and directly affect transporters and a large number of people using private vehicles,” Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roll-back-toll-rate-hike-surjewala/story-EYjSaCXFKzg5cSmfVElSOI.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||ATM containing ₹9 lakh stolen in Ambala||Thieves decamped with an ATM containing over Rs 9 lakh from an Indian Bank kiosk in Ambala’s Shahpur village near National Highway 44 on Tuesday night.“The case balance after loading the machine at 4.30pm on September 1 was Rs 10.68 lakh, and when the theft occurred, it had an approximate balance of Rs 9.13 lakh,” bank manager Priyanshu Tank told the police. The theft was discovered by the security guard around 6am on Wednesday, following which he sounded the police.Police said CCTV cameras had captured two masked men leaving with the ATM.Station in-charge Parao police station said an FIR under Sections 380 (theft) and 457 (lurking house-trespass by night, or house-breaking by night, in order to the committing of any offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/atm-containing-9-lakh-stolen-in-ambala/story-4OJQVzDfzS2I0CvGHM9hHO.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Third accused nabbed in Manimajra firing case||Police have arrested the third accused involved in the February firing near RIMT World School in Manimajra.A team, led by inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO, Manimajra police station, nabbed the accused, Azad Hassan, resident of Smadhi Gate, Manimajra. The accused was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody. Police have already arrested two of his accomplices – Ausaf Ahmad, alias Sappa, 30, of New Indira Colony, Manimajra, and Balwinder Singh, alias Bachi, of Mauli Complex. Police had registered a case on the complaint of Randeep Singh, who had reported that on February 12, unknown persons were having arguments near RIMT School, during which one person fired two gunshots after which all persons escaped from the spot in an SUV. A case under the Arms Act and Sections 336, 147, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Manimajra police station back then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/third-accused-nabbed-in-manimajra-firing-case/story-uPqde2n4KjZl5e4dcmPgMP.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Meham MLA urges Haryana governor to withhold assent to bill validating de-licensing||Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu on Wednesday urged Haryana governor Satyadev Narayan Arya to withhold his assent to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment and Validation) Bill passed by the state assembly on Wednesday.The amendment Bill was passed by the state assembly in its one-day monsoon session last week. The amendment and validation bill, if assented to by the governor, would come as a relief to the developers of Gurugram-based Ambience Mall besides several similar cases involving de-licensing of land.Kundu who submitted a memorandum to the Governor said that he has requested him to send the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (second amendment and validation) Bill, 2020 back to the state assembly as it required discussion.Congress MLA from Faridabad NIT, Neeraj Sharma has also urged the Governor to withhold his assent to the Bill. Sharma said that insertion of a new clause section 3 (a) in the Act which would give power to de-license land parcel has been done to favour well heeled influential people including developers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meham-mla-urges-haryana-governor-to-withhold-assent-to-bill-validating-de-licensing/story-B9auXMqzHRRgPNHWdDg9bK.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Meham MLA urges governor to withhold assent to bill validating de-licensing||Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu on Wednesday urged Haryana governor Satyadev Narayan Arya to withhold his assent to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment and Validation) Bill passed by the state assembly on Wednesday.The amendment Bill was passed by the state assembly in its one-day monsoon session last week. The amendment and validation bill, if assented to by the governor, would come as a relief to the developers of Gurugram-based Ambience Mall besides several similar cases involving de-licensing of land.Kundu who submitted a memorandum to the Governor said that he has requested him to send the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (second amendment and validation) Bill, 2020 back to the state assembly as it required discussion. Congress MLA from Faridabad NIT, Neeraj Sharma has also urged the Governor to withhold his assent to the Bill. Sharma said that insertion of a new clause section 3 (a) in the Act which would give power to de-license land parcel has been done to favour well heeled influential people including developers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/meham-mla-urges-governor-to-withhold-assent-to-bill-validating-de-licensing/story-dtRFJa9oC6YMglQ7P8Tk3O.html
03-09-2020||City||Liquor contractor shot dead, three injured in Fatehabad||A 26-year-old liquor contractor was shot dead allegedly by a group of at least 15 people outside a vend in Fatehabad’s Daiyar village, police said on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep Kaswan of the same village. His three partners — Dinesh, Anil and Jasbir — have also sustained injuries in the attack. In his complaint, Dinesh said all four of them were sitting at a liquor shop on Tuesday evening. “Led by Daiyar sarpanch’s husband Jaibir, the assailants, including, Meva Singh, Sahil, Lilu Ram, Ramesh and 11 others, came in three vehicles there around 8.30pm and opened fire on us. Sandeep died on the spot, while we three got injured. Anil and Jasbir are undergoing treatment at a private medical facility in Hisar,” Dinesh, who has been discharged from the hospital, added. He claimed that the assailants also threatened them with dire consequences.Ongoing conflict between sarpanch’s husband, victimFatehabad DSP Ajayab Singh said Sandeep and sarpanch’s husband Jaibir were at loggerheads over several issues, primary of which was the sale of liquor.“The complainant told us that Jaibir and his aides had been smuggling liquor for past many years. The victim, along with his partners, had secured the tender to run a liquor vend at Daiyar village. We suspect that the assailants were from a rival group and they had an old enmity over sale of liquor in the area,” he added.The DSP said they have started an investigation and launched a manhunt to nab the accused. The police have booked the accused under sections 302, 120-B, 148, 149, 323, 380, 427 and 452 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 25 of the Arms Act.Third such incident in last two monthsThis is the third such incident in the last two months in the region where a rival group has attacked a contractor. Last month, Meham police had booked 11 people belonging to rival group for allegedly firing at a liquor trader’s house in Behlamba village. Similarly, two liquor contractors were shot dead at Sirsa’s Chautala village in July. The accused, after their arrest, had confessed that the Lawrence Bishnoi gang was behind the murders.It’s pertinent to mention here that in November 2015, Haryana minister Anil Vij had left the meeting of district grievances and public relations committee after a spat with Sangeeta Kalia, the then Fatehabad superintendent of police. She had reportedly refused to obey his order to leave the venue following heated exchanges over the alleged illegal liquor trade in Fatehabad. Vij had justified his stand, saying that he was getting complaints of drug and liquor mafias being active in the area, but the police had failed to put a check.However, the officer had refused to leave the meeting and even objected to the minister’s mannerism. Vij had then left the meeting himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-contractor-shot-dead-three-injured-in-fatehabad/story-QI4sv2pHzZMGpXY9CjbvTJ.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Upgrading sewage treatment plants: Chandigarh MC finally issues commencement letters to three firms||The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has finally allotted work contracts to three companies for upgrading the five sewage treatment plants (STP) in the city.The ₹280-crore project of revamping the STP at Diggian in Mohali has been allotted to Larsen & Toubro, which was one of the four companies in the fray. Of the seven firms that applied for upgrading the STPs at Raipur Kalan and Raipur Khurd, the CSCL has chosen GSJ Environment Limited at ₹123 crore. For the Dhanas and 3BRD plants, the ₹74-crore contract has been given to Passavant Environment Private Limited.“The CSCL has issued the commencement letters. The projects are estimated to be completed within two years,” said NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL.The CSCL will bear the principal cost of upgrading the five STPs, and the municipal corporation will operate and maintain these STPs for the next 15 years.After failing to get any response on its previous tenders, the CSCL had divided the five-plant project into three different tenders. In October last year, CSCL had floated a ₹700-crore tender to hire a single agency to upgrade all the five plants. However, the MC General House in November had not endorsed the proposal. Settling the matter, the UT administration in its letter to CSCL and MC had asked to cancel the existing tender and split it into three parts.The National Green Tribunal (NGT), too, had directed the MC to upgrade the plants or face penalty. The effluent discharge from four of civic body’s five STPs into Ghaggar tributaries has much higher biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) level than the latest permissible level of 10mg/litre. A low BOD is an indicator of good quality water, while a high BOD indicates polluted water.None of the STPs in Chandigarh has the requisite machinery to deal with faecal coliform, a major water pollutant after BOD level, the most probable number (MPN) value for which needs to be contained below 230 MPN/100.Apart from polluting the Ghaggar, higher BOD level is affecting the quality of treated water MC is releasing from these STPs for the irrigation of public and private parks. Due to this, treated water stinks due to which private households use it less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/upgrading-sewage-treatment-plants-chandigarh-mc-finally-issues-commencement-letters-to-three-firms/story-SkX4vHYHv3JKMZl4DAKafM.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram land release case: Supreme Court not to monitor CBI probe anymore||The Supreme Court has decided not to monitor the CBI investigations it ordered into the acquisition of 1,407 acres and subsequent release of about 95% land in Gurugram during the Congress rule in 2009.Disposing of two miscellaneous applications on August 25, the apex court bench of Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said that after perusing the report filed by the CBI, they are satisfied that substantial investigation has been done.“Let CBI take appropriate steps which may be required, in accordance with law, in view of its final conclusion. No further monitoring is required in this case. The applications for intervention/ impleadment stand disposed of accordingly. No further monitoring is called for. The miscellaneous applications stand disposed of accordingly,” reads the August 25 apex court order.The CBI had in January 2019 registered a criminal case against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, an official and 15 real estate developers in the land matter.Apex court’s displeasure over probeThe apex court on December 2, 2019, however, had expressed its displeasure over the manner in which the central agency had investigated the case. “We are not happy with the way in which the CBI has investigated the matter. Let the CBI director look into the same. We expect a fair, independent and impartial investigation to be made in the matter, which is being supervised by this court,” the apex court had said.Earlier also, after the CBI had filed the final report on April 27, 2019, the SC had expressed its dissatisfaction since the investigating agency had failed to come up with a deadline to complete the probe and submit a chargesheet in the court.‘Handover possession of property to buyer’The apex court in its August 25 order also directed the builders to handover the possession of properties to the applicants as expeditiously as possible. “Prayer has been made in these applications to direct the builder to handover the possession. Haryana’s senior additional advocate general said there is no objection in handing over the possession by the builder to the buyers. Accordingly, we direct the builder to handover the possession in accordance with law to the applicants as expeditiously as possible. The judgment and order passed by this court will not come in the way of the applicants,” the SC said.The apex court though said that as stated by Haryana’s additional advocate general, the conveyance deed be subject to ultimate outcome of the CBI investigation and appropriate order to be passed thereupon by the court concerned.“It is further stated by the additional advocate general that occupation certificate is also being issued. Let the occupation certificate be issued as expeditiously as possible,” the SC said.The case being probedThe Congress government had in June 2009 issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act to acquire 1,407 acres for developing residential sectors 58-63 and commercial sectors 65-67 in Gurugram by the HUDA.The land sought to be acquired was spread across eight villages — Badshapur, Behrampur, Nangli Umarpura, Tigra, Ullahwas, Kadarpur, Ghatta and Medawas of Gurugram. However, while issuing the declaration under Section 6 on June 2, 2010, the total area was reduced to about 800 acres. Finally, the award dated May 29, 2012, was passed for 87 acres only. The CBI in its preliminary inquiry had prima facie established irregularities in the release of land from acquisition process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurugram-land-release-case-supreme-court-not-to-monitor-cbi-probe-anymore/story-A2drOXxo1nqKMLZUQfkieJ.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC writes to Haryana Pollution Control Board to check discharge of untreated sewage in Sukhna choe||Municipal commissioner KK Yadav has shot off a letter to the Haryana Pollution Control Board seeking immediate corrective action on the untreated sewage being discharged in a nullah that merges with the Sukhna choe.In the letter dated September 1, Yadav states, “Untreated sewer water is being disposed into a nullah (choe) passing through Sector 7 and other areas of Panchkula. This choe merges into the Sukhna choe and finally goes into Ghaggar river, polluting it.”The executive committee, constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), on August 16 had directed the MC to take immediate action to identify the area discharging the effluent in the choe. It had also asked the MC to take action against the defaulting agency under the provisions of the Water Act.Yadav had formed a team headed by the MC chief engineer to examine the issue. The team had visited the site and observed that the polluted water was being discharged from Panchkula side. The matter was again discussed in a meeting of the executive committee on August 19. Thereafter, Yadav sent the letter to HPCB.NGT DIRECTIONS ON POLLUTION OF GHAGGARThe NGT panel has long sought checking of pollution in Sukhna choe, which carries water to Ghaggar river and the N-choe. In August last year, taking suo motu cognizance of media reports on pollution in Ghaggar, the NGT had directed the chief secretaries of Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to constitute a special task force (STF) to clean the river.Directions to 100% treat sewage water or pay environmental compensation had been issued to the administration.On its part, MC claims that all the sewage outlet points into Sukhna choe have been closed and instead contends the untreated water is being discharged from the choe coming from Panchkula.BOTH SUKHNA CHOE AND N-CHOE POLLUTEDWater quality of both the Sukhna choe and N-choe as monitored by the Chandigarh Pollution Control Board indicates that the level of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) is much higher than the permissible limit of 10mg per litre. A low BOD is an indicator of good quality water, while a high BOD points at pollution.Sukhna choe and N-choe, which cross Chandigarh and merge with the Ghaggar, are among the river’s major pollutants. Even the quality of treated sewage that is discharged into these streams is poor because of outdated technology used in the MC–run treatment plants. These STPs are now being upgraded by the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-writes-to-haryana-pollution-control-board-to-check-discharge-of-untreated-sewage-in-sukhna-choe/story-UF9rRI2hKhJWpI4Fs6mDnK.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: JP Atray cricket tournament postponed to next year||The 26th edition of the All-India JP Atray Memorial cricket tournament, which was to be held from September, 2020, to next year (September, 2021), has been postponed amid the Covid–19 pandemic. The tournament has always been seen as an opener for the country’s domestic cricket season for the last 25 years. It has seen the participation of over 100 international players, starting from the legendary Kapil Dev to the latest sensation, Shubman Gill. “Players have always looked at this tournament as an opportunity to get into shape for the grueling domestic and international seasons. From the present lot of international cricketers, Indian skipper Virat Kohli, Shikhar Dhawan, Cheteshwar Pujara, Hardik Pandya, Ravinder Jadeja, Rishabh Pant, Jaspreet Bumrah and Shubhman Gill have successfully honed their skills in this tournament that has been played under the auspices of Punjab Cricket Association in the tricity,” said Sushil Kapoor, organising secretary of the tournament.The tournament, that has been played in the 50-over format, has been won the maximum number of times by Punjab (five times), while ONGC qualified for the finals nine times, winning it four times.“We are hopeful that the tournament will be organised next year with renewed vigour and better playing conditions with PCA’s new international stadium at Mullanpur likely to be operational by that time,” said Vivek Atray, convener of the tournament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jp-atray-cricket-tournament-postponed-to-next-year/story-4M6L2XZSvP3CJaxVCdZm3O.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||9,090 fined in Panchkula for not wearing masks||Till date, 9,090 people have been fined in Panchkula for not wearing masks in public places and ₹45.45 lakh has been collected.Those found violating orders can face legal action under Epidemic Disease Act, 1987, as per which a person can be punished under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.As per a press statement issued by Panchkula police, “The administration has been appealing to the public to wear masks and maintain social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19. Those not wearing masks or not wearing them properly will be fined Rs 500. If they do not pay, they will be booked under Section 188 of IPC.” A similar drive is on in villages like Raipur Rani, Kalka and Pinjore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/9-090-fined-in-panchkula-for-not-wearing-masks/story-EqACV4mf3RYUYvXgUqrxxH.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Final notification issued for delimitation wards in Ambala||The urban local bodies department issued the final notification for delimitation of wards to the Ambala municipal corporation on Monday.The notification comes almost two weeks after the draft notification was issued on August 13. Objections and suggestions were invited from the general public for the next ten days.As per sources, Congress leaders and other locals submitted their objections to additional deputy commissioner Preeti, who later submitted the report on August 27. Speaking on the notification, deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “It has to be checked whether there are changes in the final notification or not.”However, Hemant Kumar, advocate at the Punjab and Haryana high court, said size and boundaries of all 20 wards has been kept exactly as shown in the draft. “Generally, the time period between the proposal and final notification is more than a month. But here, the whole process, which has been pending for more than a year was done within a month,” Kumar said.As per information, the total number of wards was fixed at 20 in July, of which seven were reserved for women, including two for Scheduled Caste (SC) women, five for SCs, two for Backward Classes (BC) and six for the general category. Kumar said wards that have to be reserved and ones that not, will be done as per the procedure that will be later notified in the Gazette. “After this, the process of conducting elections will be started by the state election commission in consultation with the Haryana government. This will start with amendment of the local voter lists,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/final-notification-issued-for-delimitation-wards-in-ambala/story-g2XS1JF0y3FbaRmlpilvFM.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-serviceman held for raping IAS aspirant in Chandigarh||An ex-serviceman was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a 27-year-old civil services aspirant hailing from Delhi in 2018. The accused has been identified as Sarabjit, 40, a resident of Hassanpur village in Mohali district. He had retired from the army as a jawan. He will be produced in court on Thursday. The victim has got her statement recorded before a magistrate. She said that she was taking civil services coaching from an institute in Sector 15, Chandigarh, in 2018, when she came in contact with the accused through a social networking website. The complainant said that she had asked Sarabjit to lend her some money, for which he asked her to meet him at the Sector 17 bus stand, from where he took her to a hotel on pretext of handing over the money. She said that the accused then gave her a drink laced with sedatives and raped her in the hotel and also took objectionable pictures of her. She added that the accused sexually exploited her after that by blackmailing to share the pictures with her fiancée. She alleged that in March 2018, Sarabjit and his friend had raped her in a hotel in Manimjara and then in July 2018 in a hotel in Amritsar. The complainant said she stopped talking to accused after he sent the pictures to her fiancée in July 2020 and their engagement was called off. The 27-year-old said she is lodging the complaint now as the accused threatened to put up the pictures on the internet. The woman had lodged the complaint with Delhi police, who on August 20 lodged a zero FIR, and later forwarded it to Chandigarh police. Now, a case has been registered under Sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 417 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-serviceman-held-for-raping-ias-aspirant-in-chandigarh/story-CRSxtSerfEt4PUezxXzelJ.html
03-09-2020||City||Five arrested in Navi Mumbai for reselling used gloves||The Navi Mumbai crime branch’s unit I arrested five accused and seized over 48 tonnes of used gloves worth ₹50.10 lakh, which were being washed and resold. The accused had already distributed these gloves to over 107 distributors.Police arrested four people in the case between August 18 and 23, while the fifth accused was arrested on August 28. The main accused in the entire racket is still absconding. Police first arrested Prashant Surve, 48 with four tonnes of disposable gloves from Belapur. Later they arrested Vipul Shah, 52, a resident of Malad; Nazeem Khan, 30, from Bhiwandi, and Afroz Shaikh, 36, from Malegaon. Around 15 lakh pairs of used gloves weighing 15 tonnes were seized from a Bhiwandi godown, while 19 lakh pairs weighing around 19 tonnes were seized from an Aurangabad godown. On August 28, police arrested Tarun Rammani, 40, who was hiding in Delhi. He was the prime distributor in Mumbai. The prime suppliers of the racket are based in Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Deputy police commissioner, crime, Vinod Chavhan said, “We have sent our teams to Bengaluru, raided a godown according to information provided by the arrested accused, and found 10 tonnes of gloves worth ₹10 lakh. The owner of the godown, Imran Siddiqui, fled from the place and our team is searching for him. Surve used to purchase the used gloves from Shah, Khan and Shaikh at ₹300 per kg. After washing and drying them, Surve sold the gloves at ₹15 per pair to Rammani.”Chavhan said that the used gloves were collected from different hospitals. “After interrogating Afroz Shaikh, we found that he collected gloves from a man from Andhra Pradesh name Kishor, who in turn collected them from a hospital of Cochin. Surve has distributed these used gloves to around 107 distributors in the country,” said Chavhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-arrested-in-navi-mumbai-for-reselling-used-gloves/story-uX8mPe7qLc3qWG0WmVFAdI.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Aarey Colony gets one-fifth of its area marked as reserve forest||In a significant decision, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday declared around one-fifth of the 3,166-acre Aarey Milk Colony as a “reserve forest”. However, proposed infrastructure projects, including the Mumbai Metro car depot, in Aarey — one of the last remaining green spaces in Mumbai — are not in the 600 acres and therefore, will continue to be executed. Several activists and citizen groups had staged protests opposing construction of the car shed. The state used sections under the Indian Forest Act, 1927, which gives powers to the state, to notify 600 acres near the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) as a reserve forest. The decision was taken after a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The state urban development department will invite suggestions and objections from people, giving them 45 days, following which it shall issue a notification in the official gazette.State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray confirmed to HT that the Metro car shed will not be a part of this plan. He said that the 600 acres would only include open land in Aarey. He said: “[The] final survey will be undertaken soon. This [the plan] wouldn’t hold adivasi [tribal] lands and slums. [The] rehab plan is separate.”“After hearing suggestions and objections, the area to be excluded from the forest will be decided. But, the rights of the tribal community and others concerned will be protected while declaring it as forest,” said Thackeray in a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office. The statement added, “Roads, slums, tribal hamlets and other government structures will be exempted.” The state forest department also plans the rehabilitation of tribals within the 600 acres in phase one of the plan. A senior bureaucrat said, “The state will rehabilitate adivasis who have settled in the area now being made a reserve forest. The department will survey the total number of tribals and look for a suitable location for their rehabilitation.” The senior official added that there is also a plan to develop tourism on Aarey land, but that would be taken up after tribals are relocated. “A survey will be conducted of the remaining Aarey land for activities such as night safari or nature tourism,” he said requesting anonymity.Aaditya Thackeray further said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and urban development minister Eknath Shinde had a separate meeting on the car shed. HT had reported that chief minister Thackeray had recently chaired a meeting with all state officials to look at possible options for the Metro-3 car shed. One of the options being considered, officials said, was a plot in Pahadi Goregaon. With no appropriate decision on the car shed yet, the 33.5-km Metro-3 corridor is facing massive delays.Following the meeting, Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “Forest& Environment Depts has decided to apply Section 4 of IFA to approximately 600 acres in Aarey land near SGNP. This implies that it will be declared a reserve forest after a hearing for suggestion/ objections. Approx 600 acres of open land being declared as forest while all rights of Adivasi communities will stand protected. Rehabilitation of slums within the area would be expedited. This wld be phase 1 for which the Forest Dept will move a proposal. Phase 2 survey for additional open/ forest land in Aarey, post Phase 1 will begin soon. This would help the State protect the flora & fauna existent in SGNP and Aarey, (sic).”Meanwhile, forest minister Sanjay Rathod said there were plans to protect remaining areas of Aarey apart from the 600 acres too. “A detailed proposal had been submitted before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, showing 600 acres to be declared as protected forests. Some additional areas have also been identified contiguous to SGNP and home to a large biodiversity that needs protection. The area identified falls outside the proposed development of the state. Once approved, a detailed mapping of the proposed zone will be done before proposing the draft notification,” he said.Environmentalists welcomed the state’s decision. “This is a step in the right direction and we would like to see this protective cover extended across all of Aarey. The value of Mumbai’s natural heritage has been recognised. It comes as a breather for wildlife after a six-year-battle for this recognition,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.The Shiv Sena had backed environmentalists and locals who opposed the construction of a Metro car depot in Aarey Milk Colony and had rejected a proposal for the axing of over 2,000 trees for the car shed construction in the tree authority of the Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The party in its manifesto ahead of the state elections in 2019 had promised to declare Aarey as ‘forest’ when they come to power. After coming to power, chief minister Thackeray had stayed work on Metro car depot construction and later appointed a panel to study if any alternative location is feasible for the car depot for the Colaba-Bandra-Seepz metro 3 corridor.(with inputs from Badri Chatterjee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-aarey-colony-gets-one-fifth-of-its-area-marked-as-reserve-forest/story-Q7lNtdRsQa0co4BvPrtKUJ.html
03-09-2020||City||Kalyan patient’s kin complains of overcharging for plasma at blood bank||The relative of a 22-year-old Covid-19 patient from Kalyan has alleged that the blood bank at a Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC) hospital had charged them excessively for plasma required for the patient’s treatment. Pradip Misar, uncle of the patient, has submitted a letter to the civic body chief Vijay Suryavanshi claiming that his family was charged ₹ 11,000 for plasma worth ₹7,000.“My nephew, who is a constable with Thane Police, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Thane since August 31. As his health condition is severe, we decided to begin plasma treatment for him as per the doctor’s suggestions. We looked for donors by reaching out to many people including the local politicos,” said Misar. The family managed to get a donor and the donation was done at a private blood bank in a civic hospital in Kalyan. However, Misar alleged that the bill they gave was of ₹12,000. “The actual cost is ₹7,000; when we questioned them about the overcharge, they reduced the bill by ₹1,000. I have raised a complaint with the civic body,” added Misar. Epidemic officer of KDMC, Pratibha Panpatil said, “It is a private blood bank being operated at our civic hospital. We will inquire about the complaint from the patient’s relative and then take action if there is any overcharging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-patient-s-kin-complains-of-overcharging-for-plasma-at-blood-bank/story-yR6xAwNL7HUKIAHD1cBiEJ.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government transfers 50 IPS officers; Deven Bharati moved out as ATS chief||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred 50 senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officers, with a couple of more rounds expected to happen in the next few days. Among the key transfers, additional director general (ADG) Deven Bharti has been moved out as the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) chief and ADG Vinay Kargaonkar has been transferred from the traffic department. Both officers have not been assigned new postings. Bharati has previously served as deputy commissioner of police (CP) and additional CP in Mumbai crime branch, and joint CP (law and order) and EOW in Mumbai Police. “The orders issued on Wednesday were for the officers of the ranks of director general (DG), additional director general (ADG), special inspector general (SIG) and deputy inspector general (DIG). The list was finalised in a police establishment board (PEB) meeting and was later approved by the home minister and chief minister. The transfer orders of the officers of the ranks of superintendent of police (SP) and the one who are in waiting after the reshuffle will be issued in the next few days,” said additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte.The PEB, chaired by Kunte, was attended by director general of police (DGP) Subodh Jaiswal, director general (DG) of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Bipin Kumar Singh, Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and additional director Kulwant Sarangal, member secretary of the board. State Intelligence Department (SID) commissioner Rashmi Shukla was promoted and given charge as DG (Citizens Protection), a newly created post in addition to the already existing eight DG posts in the state police department. ADG (law and order) Rajnish Seth, too, has been promoted to the post of state’s ACB chief. Mumbai’s ADG (law and order) Vinoy Kumar Choubey has been transferred to ACB. ADG Railways Jay Jeet Singh has been sent to ACB too. ADGs Bipin Kumar Singh and Sadanand Date have been made police commissioners of Navi Mumbai, Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar, respectively. Former Navi Mumbai commissioner Sanjay Kumar has been transferred to the office of ADG (training and special squads). ADG (special operations) Rajendra Singh has now been entrusted with responsibility of ADG (law and order).Ashutosh Dumbre has been appointed as the state’s Intelligence Department’s commissioner. Amitesh Kumar has now been given the responsibility of Nagpur’s police commissioner, while Bhushan Upadhyay has been transferred to the office of ADG (traffic) in the DG office.In the IG ranks transfers, IG Vishawas Nangre Patil and Milind Bharambhe have been named joint commissioner of police (law and order) and joint commissioner of police (crime) in Mumbai, respectively. Yashasvi Yadav and Rajkumar Vhatkar have been posted as new joint commissioners of traffic and administration in Mumbai. IG Deepak Pandey has been made the new Nashik police commissioner.Mumbai has also got five new additional commissioners – Sanjay Darade, Viresh Prabhu, Satya Narayan, Gyaneshvar Chavan and Sandeep Karnik have been given postings of east region, crime branch, south region, central region and west region, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-transfers-50-ips-officers-deven-bharati-moved-out-as-ats-chief/story-otaAAmHZYgFCrEpSomhqjP.html
03-09-2020||City||25-year-old redeveloped building in Nallasopara collapses, 22 residents escape||A 25-year-old redeveloped residential building in Nallasopara (East) collapsed in the early hours of Wednesday. The building’s 22 residents were able to evacuate in time, and no one was injured. The four-storeyed Safalya Sangali building at Majithia Park in Achole Road collapsed at 1.15am on Wednesday. The building had been redeveloped in 2009, but in 2018, major cracks had developed in parts of the structure.The Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) had declared the building dangerous and unfit for residents due to safety issues and had issued evacuation notices to the flat owners two years ago. Around 15 families had moved out, but five families, consisting of 22 residents continued to reside in the building. The building also housed 10 commercial shops which were shut after receiving the VVMC notices.“We could not afford the huge rent in other buildings, and we were fighting a court case against Abhay Naik, the builder as he had done a shoddy job using bad quality building materials. He had also constructed some illegal structures without approval from the VVMC. However, when it went for redevelopment, the building was legal, and the Vasai civic body had also given approval,” said a resident of Safalya Sangali, on condition of anonymity.A few of the residents had held a meeting on Tuesday evening after they noticed a large amount of fallen debris near the main gate, and they had decided to approach and complain to the Vasai civic body on Wednesday.Around 11.15pm, the residents heard some sounds of falling rubble and thought a mild tremor had occurred. They found that some portions of the structure had fallen, and more deep cracks were visible. The panicked residents left their flats and stood inside the building compound.Around 1am, one couple, Dayanandand Seema Deorukhkar, went to their fourth-floor flat to pick some petty cash and lock the apartment. Soon after they vacated the building and reached the gate of the compound at 1.15am, the structure collapsed. The Vasai civic fire brigade arrived at the spot and started clearing the debris. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) may be called in for further help if required. “A first information report (FIR) will be registered after the Vasai civic body informs us as it is the lookout of the civic authority,” said Vijaykant Sagar, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Vasai.“Despite warning the residents to shift out of the ramshackle building, five families continued to stay while the other 15 flat owners moved out. We are clearing the debris, and in a day or two we will submit a report to the Tulinj police to register an FIR against the guilty persons, and no one will be spared,” said a Vasai civic body official.The incident in Nallasopara comes just nine days after a five-storey building in Mahad, Raigad, collapsed, killing 16 people and injuring nine others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-redeveloped-building-in-nallasopara-collapses-22-residents-escape/story-0ox3ciOJmFrbVHJTLEZalM.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government’s extension on price cap for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals unrealistic: Medical associations||A day after the state health department extended the price cap on private hospitals for Covid-19 treatments for the next three months, medical associations on Tuesday called the decision unrealistic since it will further affect the economic stability of smaller hospitals. In April, the state government had mandated private hospitals to allocate 20% beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 80% beds were to be regulated by the civic body. On Monday, the health department issued a circular extending the duration of the price cap until November 30. The circular also stated that private hospitals can begin charging regular rates on 50% beds reserved for non-Covid patients, even as the government rates will apply to the remaining 50% beds meant for Covid-19 patients. In response, the Indian Medical Association (IMA)- Maharashtra in an open letter on Tuesday said such low rates will lead to the closure of smaller hospitals across the state. “The government agreed to hold a separate meeting on the issues. Unfortunately, the government unilaterally announced hospital rates without any discussion with IMA. Compliance with these rates is simply impossible. Small hospitals cannot sustain at these rates as they are already catering to affordable healthcare unlike big multi-bedded corporate hospitals,” reads the letter. State health minister Rajesh Tope didn’t respond to HT’s call or messages. The association has also criticised the government for not taking action against those who assaulted doctors involved in treating Covid-19 patients. “Many doctors have lost their lives while working on Covid-19 duty but they have not received any insurance or assistance from the government. If hospitals are compelled by such unilateral, impractical, anti-democratic, autocratic decisions, then IMA with its doctors will be compelled to think of alternative steps,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president IMA, Maharashtra. The Association of Medical Consultants (AMC) stated that the state government, in violation of the disaster management act, is not reimbursing private hospitals for the loss they are sustaining. “The government should reimburse the hospital for the vacant beds under the 80% scheme. The rates are unrealistic especially where multiple doctors are required,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of AMC. He also said the state government can’t decide on Covid-19 charges as the matter is under consideration in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-s-extension-on-price-cap-for-covid-19-treatment-at-private-hospitals-unrealistic-medical-associations/story-6jJbvUibk1tAxBcaDSDA0H.html
03-09-2020||City||Spike in Covid-19 cases among Thane cops due to increased patrolling duty during Ganesh||There has been a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases within the Thane police commissionerate, with around 149 personnel testing positive in the last 15 days. Officers claimed that opening of shops and markets during the festive season has led to the increase, as more cops were deputed on patrolling duty. Till Wednesday, 1,236 officers from the commissionerate had tested positive for Covid, of which 1,125 have recovered. So far, 16 Thane police personnel have died due to Covid. In early August, five to six cases were reported daily, however, the numbers have increased to 15 to 18 cases since mid-August. On Wednesday, 17 cops tested positive in Thane commissionarate, of which, 15 are from the Kalyan-Dombivli jurisdiction, and the remaining three are from Thane city. “Many shops and markets have started before the festive season. This led to crowding in the markets in most cities, for which more manpower from the police department was deployed. Most of them were standing for hours in heavy rain. All these factors led to an increase in cases in the last two weeks,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spike-in-covid-19-cases-among-thane-cops-due-to-increased-patrolling-duty-during-ganesh/story-0mwf0kQJ3vfDph94FutRLI.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||With all eyes on Covid-19, malaria cases in Mumbai rose in August: BMC data||Even as civic officials are struggling to control the spread of Covid-19 cases, mosquito-borne malaria is now posing another challenge, with a rise in the number of cases to 1,137 in August, compared to 824 in August 2019. Most cases are being reported from G-South (Worli, Lower Parel, Prabhadevi), G-North (Dharavi, Dadar), M-East (Chembur) and E (Byculla) wards, which have also reported a large number of Covid-19 cases. Last month, for the first time since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recorded two deaths, where the duo was suffering from a combination of malaria and the coronavirus infection. These two deaths – from G-North and M-East civic wards, which were once hot spots for Covid-19 infection – broke the city’s decade-long record of zero fatalities due to malaria. Civic officials said fogging in these areas, which also comprise the biggest slums of Mumbai (G-North and M-East), is turning out to be problematic because many have locked their homes and left the city. Rajan Naringrekar, chief of the insecticide department, said, “In slums, people often store water in buckets and tanks. Now, as they have left, the unused water has become breeding grounds for mosquitoes. We can’t break open and fog their houses.” Due to the lockdown, most people have restricted their movements outside the house, making them an easy prey for mosquitoes from neighbouring breeding grounds. “As the work has come to a halt, the under-construction sites, too, aren’t getting cleaned,” he said. To prevent an outbreak of malaria, BMC has started a ‘construction drive’ where all construction workers will be examined and sites that are closed down will be inspected. “We have increased door-to-door surveillance in high-risk areas. Also, if anyone tests positive for malaria, we immediately conduct the rapid antigen test to find out if the person has Covid-19,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer. Meanwhile, cases of dengue have decreased to 10 from 134 last August. Civic officials expect dengue and leptospirosis cases to surge this month owing to monsoon flooding. In August, 45 leptospirosis, 53 gastroenteritis and 10 hepatitis cases were recorded in Mumbai. BMC has advised people to take a prophylactic medicine, Doxycycline, for leptospirosis, if they have waded through rainwater. As per BMC, three rounds of surveillance have been conducted in areas that witnessed flooding recently. A total of 671,663 houses have been surveyed and 35,021 adults have been given Doxycycline. However, activists have criticised the civic body for delaying monsoon preparations due to Covid-19. Jitendra Tandel from non-profit Rugna Kalyan Seva Samajik Sanstha said, “Every year, a large chunk of malaria cases are reported from slums like Dharavi and Govandi. Despite this, BMC didn’t fog these areas this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-all-eyes-on-covid-19-malaria-cases-in-mumbai-rose-in-august-bmc-data/story-MorLGEE1rOFN2GAXa7JkuM.html
03-09-2020||City||18 police personnel on Ganesh bandobast duty test positive in Vasai||Eighteen personnel of a 35-member platoon, including a police sub-inspector (PSI) from the Riot Control Police (RCP) who were on bandobast duty in Vasai taluka during Muharram (August 29) and Anant Chaturdashi (September 1), tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. They have been admitted to Covid care centres at Golden Park, Vasai and at Posheri, said PSI Sachin Navadkar, spokesperson for Palghar police.The policemen on bandobast duty underwent antigen testing, and those whose report came negative were instructed to go for the RC-PTR test immediately, said Navadkar. There are two platoons of the RCP in the district with each platoon comprising of 35 personnel.So far, four policemen in Palghar district have succumbed to Covid-19. Three of them were from Valiv police station in Vasai (East), and one was from Tuling police station in Nallasopara (East).As of Wednesday, 354 police personnel have tested positive for the virus, of which 55 cases are active, and 295 patients have been discharged.As of Tuesday evening, the district reported 24,725 cases in total, with 16,753 in the Vasai-Virar region alone. Over 1.41 lakh swab samples have been tested across the district. According to Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) data, 511 deaths due to Covid have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-police-personnel-on-ganesh-bandobast-duty-test-positive-in-vasai/story-4AMzyOvZNmJ7QKrPatXcnK.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid in Maharashtra: State sees record 1-day spike of 17,433 Covid cases; tally is 825,739||A day after crossing the grim mark of 800,000 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day spike of 17,433 infections (first in excess of 17,000), taking the count up to 825,739. The daily Covid-19 caseload is constantly rising in the state, which in turn has also led to a rise in active cases, crossing the 200,000 mark to 201,703. This is 24.42% of the total cases reported so far.It took the state 51 days to complete 2 lakh active cases after crossing the 1 lakh mark on July 12, 126 days from the first infection on March 9.The state also crossed the 25,000-mark for Covid-19 casualties after 292 deaths were reported. Of them, 201 were in the past 48 hours, another 55 deaths were from last week, while the rest 36 deaths were from the period before that, health officials said. The death toll stood at 25,195. Along with fresh infections, the number of casualties continues to be highest across states in the country.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 3.5% on Wednesday, slightly less than Gujarat, which has the highest CFR in the country. On Tuesday, Gujarat’s CFR was 3.11% with 3,034 deaths (97,629 cases), according to statistics shared by the state medical education department.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that they are working to bring down CFR to less than one percent. “Of the total patients, 80% are asymptomatic, 15% have mild symptoms and only 5% are in serious condition. We have brought down CFR to 3.5% and are working to reduce it to less than 1%,” he said at Doordarshan’s Sahyadri channel on Wednesday.The surge in cases is likely to increase further as fresh round of relaxations has come into effect from September 2. The state has allowed inter-district travel by removing a mandatory condition of e-pass required for travelling and allowed private passenger buses, mini buses to operate. It has allowed to increase the workforce in government and private offices between 30% to 50%. It has further allowed hotel, lodges and guesthouses to operate at their full strength.“The fresh relaxations simply mean withdrawing most of the restrictions. This will allow more people to step out of their homes and expose themselves to the virus and get infected, which is our only concern,” said a senior official from state health department. “The decision to continue curbs in 19 municipal corporations declared as red zones is fair as they still contribute most of the cases,” he added.Dr Pradeep Vyas, health secretary, said that the situation of the state is improving on all parameters. “Situation is continuously improving on all parameters. For instance, our recovery rate that was 56.3% at end of July has improved to 72.6%; week-on-week new case growth rate has now declined to 1.93%. The case doubling rate also improved to 36.3 days, which was 26.1 days in July,” he said.On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,622 cases, much higher than the daily number of cases seen in August, which ranged between 900 and 1,400. Its tally reached 148,569. Of them, active cases are 20,810.On June 27, Mumbai has reported its highest single-day spike of 2,077 cases.City toll stands at 7,727 after 34 deathswere reported on Wednesday. Its case fatality rate (CFR) is 5.2% and discharge rate is 80.5%.Pune city continued to contribute maximum infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,706 cases on Wednesday, taking its tally to 104,555. Nagpur becames third highest contributor with 1,184 cases, pushing its count to 23,595. Pimpri-Chinchwad, satellite city in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), also recorded 1,006 cases and its tally went up to 49,794.Apart from them, Pune district, Jalgaon district, Satara district, Nashik city and Kalyan-Dombivli of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continued to record high number of cases. They have recorded 902, 762, 683, 631 and 508 cases respectively.On Wednesday, the state conducted 72,248 tests and total number of tests conducted till date are 4,284,000.On the other side, the total number of infected patients recovered also inched close to 6-lakh after 13,959 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours. Its tally stood at 598,496 recoveries.The recovery rate improved to 72.48%, against the national average of 76.98%. Currently, 36,785 people have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities and 1,404,213 people are home quarantine across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-in-maharashtra-state-sees-record-1-day-spike-of-17-433-covid-cases-tally-is-825-739/story-Q71pRGtLWTNFLlO69GGaqK.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||State Election Commission may conduct polls for five civic bodies in Maharashtra together||The first set of local polls for five civic corporations that have completed their five-year term may be held simultaneously by the end of this year or early next year. The State Election Commission (SEC) on Tuesday held a review meeting to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and tap the possibility of conducting polls for local bodies that are completing their tenures by the year-end.The commission is expected to hold elections for five municipal corporations – Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Aurangabad, Kalyan-Dombivli and Kolhapur, together. The polls of the first three civic bodies were postponed after their terms ended between April and June. The SEC has now asked Kalyan-Dombivili and Kolhapur civic bodies to complete their pre-election process of ward delimitation and voter updation. The five-year terms of these two corporations will end in November.Besides the five municipal corporations, around 12,500 gram panchayats are on the verge of completion of their five-year term and are due for elections by year-end. After the review of the Covid-19 spread in five corporations, the SEC has reportedly decided that the elections to the civic bodies could not be held anytime soon.“In the given conditions, congregations of people in the wake of elections cannot be allowed and hence, it is not possible to hold the elections immediately. We have asked the local bodies to start pre-poll preparations, including delimitation of wards, finalisation of boundaries, hearing on suggestions/objections and finalisation of electoral rolls,’’ said Kiran Kurundkar, secretary, SEC.“In Navi Mumbai and Aurangabad, the pre-poll preparation has been completed while in Vasai-Virar it is in the final leg. The Election Commission of India is expected to hand us the updated electoral rolls by September-end, after which we will publish the list of voters, ward and polling stations wise,” he added.Since the state government has excluded 18 villages from the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), the civic body is expected to have a reshuffle in its wards before the elections. The corporation has been asked to begin this process.Kurundkar said that the decision about holding the elections in these local bodies will be taken at the appropriate time after consultation with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-election-commission-may-conduct-polls-for-five-civic-bodies-in-maharashtra-together/story-2vC0jgNYsUv2m6cy70IlNP.html
03-09-2020||City||Former MLA, former corporator from Bhayandar booked for trespass||Former MLA of Mira-Bhayandar Narendra Mehta and former corporator Prashant Keluskar along with 40 unidentified people have been booked by Bhayandar police for trespassing on Tuesday evening. The complainant, Shyamsunder Agrawal, in his complaint said that he had entered an agreement with M/s Salasar Balaji Reality; M/s Seven Eleven Construction Private Limited which is owned by Mehta; and Salasar Balaji Infra Pvt Ltd in September 2018 for the sale of five properties measuring around 27,170 square metre in Bhayandar (West). However, as he did not receive any payment for the same within the stipulated time, Agrawal terminated the contract and sent notices to the proposed purchasers. Agrawal alleged that on Tuesday evening, Mehta along with Keluskar with around 40 men barged into the said properties and threatened the security guard. They allegedly also destroyed signboards.“We have registered cases under sections 147 (rioting), 143 (unlawful assembly), 149 (offence committed by a member of unlawful assembly), 447 (criminal trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. No arrest has been made yet,” said senior inspector Chandrakant Jadhav, Bhayander police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-mla-former-corporator-from-bhayandar-booked-for-trespass/story-yN6uE7lhlMnJsxfo0Ejb0I.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||All CETs from October 1-15, schedule to be out soon: Maharashtra minister Uday Samant||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday declared that it will be conducting the state’s common entrance test (CET) from the first week of October. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said the CET exams for all courses will be conducted between October 1 and 15. He said that the decision on final dates, schedule, and how exams can be conducted, will be taken in the coming days.The state is also likely to decide on final-year examinations in the next two days. Samant said that Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari wants to know the views of the vice-chancellors of the University of Mumbai (MU) over conducting the examinations and hence, called a meeting with them on Thursday. After this, the state will take its decision by calling a state disaster management authority meeting. “The state will be holding CET exams for all courses between October 1 and 15. We are likely to conduct MHT-CET for engineering, pharmacy and agriculture courses in the first week and then the rest will be held,” said the minister.“The state government is currently busy resolving the issue of final-year examinations for professional and non-professional courses. The decision is likely to be taken in the next two days, after which, a decision on CET will be taken. I have a received a proposal from the CET commissioner,” Samant added.The state CET exam was first scheduled in April. Later, it was postponed to July and then deferred till further notice. The state government had postponed the exams due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.On Wednesday, Samant met the Governor and briefed him about their plans for final-year examinations. The Governor was also of the view that the exams should be conducted in a way that it will not bring students under stress, Samant said. “The Governor also wants to review the issue in detail and asked for the views of the vice-chancellors before any decision is taken by the state. The report by the vice-chancellors will also be discussed in the meeting. After this, a proposal for a final decision will be placed before the state disaster management authority headed by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said Samant.On August 31, Samant had declared to allow students to appear for final-year exams for professional and non-professional courses from home. He also said that the exams are likely to start from the first week of October and the state can seek an extension up to November 10 from the University Grants Commission (UGC) to complete the examination process. The Supreme Court (SC) last week said that students cannot be promoted without writing the final-year exams, and also upheld a July-6 directive of the UGC to hold exams by September 30. However, it has given liberty to the states to approach UGC if they wish to postpone holding the examinations beyond the September-30 deadline given the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-cets-from-october-1-15-schedule-to-be-out-soon-maharashtra-minister-uday-samant/story-2f2sq3eKkxuX1hDrpHs4gP.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI questions Rhea Chakraborty’s father for the second day||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s father Indrajit was questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for the second day at Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guest house in Santacruz (East) in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Indrajit arrived at the guest house at 10.25am and left around 8.45pm. Apart from that, CBI has also been questioning Sushant’s house help and cook Niraj Singh and Keshav Bachner as well as Rajput’s roommate Siddharth Pithani. On Tuesday, Indrajit and his wife Sandhya were questioned for around nine hours face-to-face with Singh, Bachner, Pithani, Rajput’s former business manager Shruti Modi and house manager Samuel Miranda.CBI has been investigating Rajput’s death based on a first information report (FIR) filed by his father KK Singh. The actor was found dead in his Bandra house on June 14.Meanwhile, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) questioned two Bandra residents for alleged drug peddling in the Bollywood circle and their suspected connection with Rajput death case.NCB has started their interrogation after the enforcement Directorate (ED) shared certain chats and communications found on phones of some persons interrogated in connection with the actor’s death. The chats related to drugs consumption, procurement, usage and transportation. NCB registered a case against Chakraborty and others and launched investigation in the matter.During search, NCB officials have also found Indian as well as foreign currency from one of the peddlers from Bandra who admitted that the money was proceeds of drug peddling. On August 28, in a separate incident, NCB registered a case based on specific input and raids were conducted in Mumbai following which two persons — Abbas Lakhani and Karn Arora — were arrested and curated marijuana was seized from their possession. During questioning and detailed network analysis, NCB found a link to two persons, both residents of Bandra, and further inquiry is going on, said an NCB official. ED is also investigating a case of money laundering in connection with Rajput’s death against Chakraborty and others. The probing agency called Goa hotelier Gaurav Arya and questioned him for two days on August 1 and 2. Gaurav’s name popped up in a group chat with Chakraborty and others.ED also questioned Rajput’s former business partner Varun Mathur on Wednesday regarding the company which he formed along with Saurabh Mishra and Rajput in 2018. Mathur came to the ED office along with his lawyer around 11am. The company in question, Innsaei Ventures Private Limited, only had Mathur and Saurabh Mishra as directors when it was launched and Rajput joined a month later as the third director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-questions-rhea-chakraborty-s-father-for-the-second-day/story-GFlmvbP9t9gdtwzij6XxeO.html
03-09-2020||Gurugram||Cases on rises, but Gurugram manages to keep Covid-19 deaths under check||The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district might have witnessed an uptick since mid-August, but Gurugram’s mortality rate has been kept well within check, if health officials are to be believed.Compared to July, when 27 Covid-19 deaths had been reported in a month, only nine deaths were reported in the month of August. The overall deaths in the district due to Covid-19 stands at 133, the second highest in Haryana after Faridabad, which has reported 173 deaths so far.On Wednesday, 184 new cases were reported in the district, taking the total Covid-19 tally to 12,297. Of these, 1,145 are active cases, while 11,019 have recovered. On August 29, one Covid-19 death was reported taking the death toll to 133. The current fatality rate is 1.13%, less than 1.35% reported in July.According to the district health bulletin data, till June 6, only four Covid-19 deaths were reported in Gurugram. By the end of the month, the number had shot up to 83. During the period, Gurugram’s positivity rate was 47% and the number of cases had increased from 1,692 to 5,006. By July 3, the Covid-19 death toll increased to 96, with another 27 deaths being reported in the next 27 days, taking the death count to 123.Health officials said they have been holding meetings with private hospitals to check the mortality of Covid-19 patients. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Since Covid-19 cases are rising — with nearly 180-196 new cases being confirmed every day — we have asked hospitals to gear up and prepare facilities once again. Presently, 148 patients are hospitalised in Gurugram. These are mostly symptomatic patients with co-morbid conditions. In preventing fatality, we are trying to ensure timely hospitalisation of patients.”There has been only one Covid-19 death under home isolation, he added.Across the state, however, deaths due to the virus were increasing. The state in August was reporting an average 10-12 deaths a day. On September 1 (Tuesday), Haryana witnessed 17 deaths in a day. On Wednesday, the state again witnessed 15 deaths. The deaths have been reported from districts like Ambala, Panipat , Karnal, Hisar, Kurukhsetra, Rewari and Yamuna Nagar.At least 31% Covid-19 deaths in the state are due to multiple co-morbidities, mainly hypertension, diabetes and heart disease, according to the data by the Haryana health department.Till August 30, when 682 deaths were reported in the state, nearly 29% had succumbed to the illness without having any previous health issues. They had no co-morbid issues. Most of these deaths have been reported in the age group 55-64 years, followed by 65-74 years and then 45-54 years. Based on the overall toll, the mortality rate of Haryana is 1.06%.Data shows that there has been a rise in deaths due to diabetes, which is almost 10%. It is higher compared to hypertension (5%), heart disease (4%), respiratory disease (5%), cancer (3%), kidney disease (3%), among others.A senior health official, privy to the matter, said, “In most of the small towns and districts, there is a need to streamline the process of getting admitted to a hospital. Patients are reaching late to the hospitals, and hence they are not getting timely treatment at the preliminary stages of the infection. Some patients have also died under home isolation, though their number is less. Shuffling between hospitals is also a contributing factor. The focus should now be on controlling mortality in small towns, with timely access to healthcare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cases-on-rises-but-gurugram-manages-to-keep-covid-19-deaths-under-check/story-mirhJfvXPfP7gYSf7H0RiK.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||BMC extends deadline for admissions under 25% RTE quota due to rising Covid cases in Mumbai||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city and the ensuing lockdown, the education department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now given an extension to students who wish to secure admissions through the 25% Right to Education (RTE) quota in city schools. According to a circular issued on Tuesday, admission for students, who have been selected in the online lottery conducted by the department, can take place until September 15. This year, a total of 14,135 applications were received for the 7,069 available seats under the quota in the city. Of the selected students, 2,522 students have confirmed their admissions. “Several students, who have migrated to their hometowns due to the Covid-19 situation, may not have been able to make it to the city to confirm their seats,” said an official from the education department. The circular states that parents, who are not able to physically visit schools to confirm provisional admissions, can send relevant documents to the school through email or social messaging applications. Such admissions would be confirmed provisionally and parents can submit the original documents to the school later. After the deadline for admission ends, students whose names appear on the waiting list will be eligible to claim seats against vacancies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-extends-deadline-for-admissions-under-25-rte-quota-due-to-rising-covid-cases-in-mumbai/story-YKF1eHSUxBapvfbwcawmJI.html
03-09-2020||City||33 inmates test positive in Bhondsi Jail in two days, contact tracing on||Gurugram: A total of 33 inmates of Bhondsi Jail have tested positive for Covid-19 since Tuesday. They will be housed at an isolation ward at the government PG medical college in Sector 9, where they will be under observation until they test negative, jail authorities said on Wednesday. The authorities said RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) chain tests were conducted on inmates displaying symptoms of Covid-19 since Sunday. “We received their reports on Tuesday. Out of 56 inmates, 15 tested positive for Covid. We conducted a second round of rapid antigen tests on 171 patients who were in their close contact and found 18 other inmates infected on Wednesday,” said assistant jail superintendent, Sanjay Kumar. All positive patients were from two barracks.The authorities said the 15 inmates were shifted to the government college in sector 9 on Tuesday. Arrangements were being made to shift the 18 who tested positive on Wednesday to the same college. Asked about the source of the infection, Kumar attributed it to routine movement of prisoners outside jail premises for trial proceedings in Sohna, Nuh and Gurugram courts. “The undertrials and convicts also undergo medical examinations for which they are sent to Civil Hospital. Someone could have contracted the virus either while travelling for court proceedings or for a medical examination. Contact tracing to identify more cases is underway,” he added. Kumar said that a separate isolation barrack has been created in the jail to quarantine prisoners who have ventured out. “If they show symptoms, then we test them. But if they don’t show symptoms for two weeks, then we move them back to their barracks,” Kumar explained. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Through contact tracing, we were able to trace the outbreak to two prisoners, who were found to be positive earlier this week. We are conducting more tests and tracing their contacts.”At present, at least 2,100 prisoners are lodged in the Bhondsi Jail. Earlier in April, the head warder of the jail had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/33-inmates-test-positive-in-bhondsi-jail-in-two-days-contact-tracing-on/story-6mUJkARGk7bJXvaNYT8qLM.html
03-09-2020||Gurugram||Rapid Metro to resume service in a graded manner from Sep 7||The service of Rapid Metro in Gurugram will resume from September 7 along with Yellow line operational from Samaipur Badli to HUDA city centre in the first phase of resuming metro operations in Delhi NCR, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Wednesday. The operation will start in a graded manner and the trains will operate in two shifts first from 7am to 11am and second from 4pm to 8pm, said DMRC chief Mangu Singh. The Rapid Metro has an 11.6 km network from Cyber Hub to sector 56 along the Golf Course road. It has 11 stations on the network and its operation was taken over by the DMRC last year. “On September 7 we will start with the Yellow line which is a major line and Rapid Metro which is a smaller line in a graded manner with hours of operation curtailed and these lines will operate during peak hours in morning and evening,” said Dr Mangu Singh, DMRC chief, addressing a press conference in Delhi. He further said that operation on these lines in phase one will be reviewed and based on that remaining lines will be opened. The passengers will have to wear masks mandatorily and follow all norms prescribed for preventing the spread of Covid 19, he added. Singh also said that only selected gates will be allowed for entry at metro stations and a separate gate would be allowed for exit. Only use of smart cards and cashless transactions will allowed for travel, he said. A DMRC spokesperson said that all preparations for resuming rapid metro service have been made and a plan based on SOPs released by the union government will be made operational September 7 onwards. When asked about who will look after the security of the Rapid Metro in Gurugram, he said the matter pertained to Haryana government. VS Kundu, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, when asked about the matter said that though this decision has to be taken by the authority concerned, which is Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation (HMRTC), but it is likely that this job will be done by Haryana police. “The cost of deploying CISF is very high and it is likely that Haryana police will be given the task to ensure security of Rapid Metro. The state police can follow the SOPs prescribed by CISF and approval has been sought in this regard,” he said. Nadim Akhtar, advisor, planning, HMRTC did not reply to phone call and messages by HT for a comment on this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rapid-metro-to-resume-service-in-a-graded-manner-from-sep-7/story-Ebg7A4DQ4vBCKoQqMxAl1N.html
03-09-2020||Gurugram||Two snatch gold chain of woman in Sector 45, probe launched||Two unidentified men allegedly snatched the gold chain from a woman and escaped in Sector 45 on Tuesday morning. Police said they are yet to nab the suspects. As per investigators, the incident took place around 7.30 am when the woman was taking a stroll in a service lane near her house. Police said one of the suspects walked up to her, lunged and grabbed her gold chain and fled with it even as she raised the alarm . The man then met up with the second suspect, who had parked his motorcycle a little distance away, and they both fled. A police official, privy to the investigation, said, “The victim was caught by surprise and started yelling. The suspects sped away on a motorcycle. They had covered their faces with masks and were wearing helmets. The victim could not note down the registration number of the motorcycle.”Police said they were checking CCTVs in the vicinity of the crime spot to identify the suspects. A case was registered under section 379 A (snatching) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 40 police station. This is the third incident in the city in the past three weeks where snatchers had used similar modus operandi, police said. On August 11, two unidentified motorcyclists had snatched the gold chain of a man near Sector 12 bus stand . The victim, a resident of Gopal Nagar, had gone near the bus stand to for some work and was leaning on his scooter when the snatchers had targeted him. He had chased them on his scooter for a few metres, but they had managed to escape. The same day, in Sector 3, two motorcyclists had snatched the gold chain of a man when he was drinking coconut water after completing his workout in a gym.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-snatch-gold-chain-of-woman-in-sector-45-probe-launched/story-mYqZ0PDGqbaXccxRjNrk3J.html
03-09-2020||Mumbai||Opposition corners Sena-led Maharashtra goverment over reopening temples||Although the Shiv Sena has reiterated that it has not given up its Hindutva ideology, the party is being cornered by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and other Opposition parties over reopening temples in the state. In the past five days, the BJP, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi’s Prakash Ambedkar and All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) MP Imtiaz Jaleel held agitations in different parts of the state demanding temples, mosques and other places of worship be reopened. Last week, BJP led a ‘Ghantanaad andolan’ (tolling of bells in protest), demanding opening of temples in the state. On Monday, Ambedkar led a protest in Pandharpur, demanding reopening of the Vithhal temple, and Jaleel came face-to-face with Sena leader Chandrakant Khaire in Aurangabad on Tuesday, after the former demanded opening of Khadkeshwar temple in the city. Sena leaders, however, have dismissed any pressure on the party to prove its Hindutva credentials. Shiv Sena MP and former Union minister Arvind Sawant said, “The present situation is such that the [Covid-19] numbers have gone up. The unlock process is on and everybody should support it. India is a country of several religions, but the government has to think seriously without any discrimination. Under a pandemic situation, what Prakash Ambedkar did is not correct. Gathering during a pandemic for political gain is wrong. It has become a compulsion for the BJP to politicise all issues.” Political analysts say the BJP is trying hard to corner its former ally, but such issues will not have an impact on the Sena, both politically and in the government. Pratap Asbe, political analyst, said the agitation did not have any backing from people. Surendra Jondhale, another political analyst, said the political opponents of the Sena are trying to “make a quick political buck”. “It is the pet issue of the BJP and they will project themselves as protectors of Hindus. BJP, by this agitation and demand, is catering to their specific political constituency. But it doesn’t seem that the constituency is interested in going to temples at the moment. The demand is not coming from the devotees,” Jondhale said. “The issue is not just faith. Several people’s livelihoods are dependent on these religious places. We also want the temples to reopen. The government is working on it,” said Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/opposition-corners-sena-led-goverment-over-reopening-temples-in-maharashtra/story-ub4T3Wb4sjIt6V1DJFrtRJ.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: No admission in class 6 in Delhi govt’s 22 RPVV schools this year||After ruling out the possibility of conducting an entrance exam for admissions to its 22 Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalayas (RPVVs), amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi government on Wednesday announced that there will be no admissions in class 6 in RPVVs for the academic year 2020-21. RPPVs are high-end resource-rich schools run by the Delhi government that enrol students only in classes 6 and 11, through competitive entrance exams. While the government has decided to make merit-based admissions in class 11 this year, it will skip enrolments in class 6.In a notification issued on Wednesday, the Directorate of Education’s (DoE) RPVV branch said, “On account of the Covid-19 pandemic, all government/government-aided schools of the Directorate of Education, GNCTD, MCDs/NDMC, and Delhi Cantt board schools are closed for students. The entrance test for admission in class 6 for session 2020-21 in RPVVs cannot be conducted due to the pandemic. In these circumstances, it’s been decided that there will be no admission in class 6 in all 22 RPVVs for the academic session 2020-21.”The government has also decided to conduct admissions in classes 6 and 7 in all RPVVs next year through the entrance exam. A senior official of the education department, on condition of anonymity, said, “All those students who were looking forward to gaining an admission in class 6 in the exclusive RPVVs this year will get a chance only next year.”The official further said, “It was easier to have merit-based admissions in class 11 since students have their board exam results and can be enrolled on the basis of those. But in class 5, there is no such exam. So, it will not be possible to have merit-based admissions in class 6.”The RPVVs offer education from class 6 to class 12. With Wednesday’s notification, the 22 exclusive schools of the Delhi government will not have a class 6 this year. An English teacher of class 6 at one of the RPVVs said, “This year, we won’t have one class. All these RPVVs have at least three sections of class 6. The move will now decrease the requirement of teachers this year.”A principal of another RPPV said schools are already closed in view of the pandemic and classes will continue to be held online for another few months. “RPVVs are academically the best-performing schools run by the Delhi government. Twenty of 22 RPPVs have crossed the average quality index of 400 in class 12 board exams this year. So, it will not be justified to enrol students without proper screening,” the principal said.The All India Parents Association (AIPA) criticised the move and said it will reduce opportunities for many students this year. Ashok Agarwal, president of AIPA, said, “If the government cannot conduct entrance exams this year, it can come up with an alternative way to carry out the admissions. It can invite applications and conduct a draw of lots to select students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-no-admission-in-class-6-in-delhi-govt-s-22-rpvv-schools-this-year/story-wH9GHlaQaNgZCpbyXuhGqM.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro to resume services in phased manner from Sept 7, stations to be closely monitored: SOP||The Delhi Metro is all set to resume operations on September 7, after more than five months shut. Services will be resumed in phases, and all corridors will be operational by September 12, according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) announced by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) on Wednesday. Upon its restart, operations will be monitored in real-time, and officials will be tasked with ensuring distancing and minimising crowds. For instance, senior officials said, trains will be allowed to skip a station if crowds are deemed too large. Further, no further passengers will be allowed entry into a station if officials consider it to have hit peak capacity.The Delhi Metro, before it shut on March 22 — when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a ‘Janta Curfew’, serviced around over 2.7 million people a day. But come September 7 — when it will be 169 days since it was closed, it is expected to cater to far fewer, to ensure social distancing at stations and inside Metro trains.Announcing the protocol for reopening Metro services under the Unlock 4 plan, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the Delhi Metro, which runs across 10 lines and comprises 389km of the 678km of Metro lines in the country, will be monitored closely initially, and reviewed after a week. “We will closely monitor crowd control measures and operations, and will review the arrangements. Initially, the frequency of service and entry and exit inside stations will be regulated, but full functionality will be resumed by September 12,” Puri said on Wednesday. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will reopen its doors to passengers in three stages. In the first stage, the Metro will function for truncated periods — from 7am to 11am, and then from 4pm to 8pm. In this stage, Metro lines will also be opened in phases starting with the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre) and the Gurugram Rapid Metro, which will be open for passengers from September 7. This will be followed by the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector-21 to Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) and the Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) on September 9. From September 10, the Metro will also resume services for the Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal), Green Line (Inderlok to Brigadier Hoshiyar Singh Marg/Kirti Nagar) and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh). Operational hours will be increased in the second stage, which will commence from September 11. Trains will continue to ply over two shifts, each of which will be extended — 7am to 1pm. and 4pm to 10pm. In this stage, the Magenta (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden) and Grey (Najafgarh-Dwarka) lines will also be made operational. In the third stage, from September 12, when Delhi Metro operations are expected to return to its full-functionality, service hours will go return to their pre-lockdown schedule — from 6am to 11pm. At the same time, Airport Express Line (Dwarka sector-21-New Delhi Railway Station) services will also be thrown open to passengers. Mangu Singh, managing director, DMRC, said all arrangements necessary have been made at stations and inside trains to ensure social distancing is maintained at all times. All stations will be monitored from a control room using CCTV cameras to ensure there are no crowds and that commuters follow all required norms. Arrangements have also been made to spot passengers flouting guidelines and train drivers, through a real-time communication system, will be directed to not stop trains at such stations. Singh also said the footfall inside Metro stations would be monitored regularly, and entries stopped if the station is deemed full. “We have a comprehensive plan in place, where everything will be monitored on a real-time basis,” Singh said. The agency will focus on the regular sanitisation of station premises and inside trains and trains will stop at stations for a longer duration to allow passengers to board and de-board with ease, without having to crowd the train gates. This might affect the frequency of the trains and increase the journey time in the initial days, but the Delhi Metro will try to maintain its frequency at 5-7 minutes, he said. “In the initial period, we have decided that all the gates of stations will not be opened for entry and exit. For each of the station, depending on the footfall and the size, we have released a list of one or two gates that will be used for entering and exiting the station,” said Singh. He added, “Since the use of tokens is risky now, because they could be carriers of the virus, we will only allow smart cards for trips. Top-up options will also be restricted to cashless modes for the time being.” Stations located in containment zones will stay closed and trains will not stop at these stations, the DMRC guidelines read. The SOP also specified that masks will be mandatory for all passengers entering the station, and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to travel. Masks will be available for purchase at kiosks in stations. Passengers will be screened before entry and hand sanitisers placed across the station. Singh also said that with schools and colleges yet to open and several private companies encouraging employees to work from home, the footfall in the network will be lower, making crowds more manageable. Union housing affairs secretary Durga Shankar Mishra said, “We will closely monitor the operations of the Metro through our control room, and if there is any instance of crowding observed, we will review the measures. We request the passengers to cooperate. Stand only where there are markings and follow the guidelines. Rules such as naming and shaming erring passengers, and not letting trains stop even if one passenger ignores the rules will encourage passengers to be more careful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-metro-to-resume-services-in-phased-manner-from-sept-7-stations-to-be-closely-monitored-sop/story-Zds8A8f1iDiN7wUw6eASiM.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Commuters caught in two minds over Delhi Metro reopening plan||The news of Delhi Metro resuming services after a hiatus of five months was met with mixed reactions from commuters on Wednesday.c The Capital recorded 2,509 new cases of the infection on Wednesday — the highest single-day spike in nearly two months.Sujeev Singh Panna, a resident of northwest Delhi’s Rohini, said his office called all staffers back from August 1. However, with the Delhi Metro closed for passengers, he said travelling was proving to be a tedious task. “I work in central Delhi, and travelling has become extremely difficult. Public buses are also not running to its full capacity, and the area where I live is not very well connected by the bus service. In such times when everyone is wary of maintaining social distancing, how do you even ask a colleague to give you a lift? The opening of the Metro will be a boon, especially when most offices have started calling employees back,” Panna said. Social media was also abuzz with people lauding the service’s phased opening plan. “Graded opening would help assess and manage the crowd. We finally know that Delhi is nothing without the Delhi Metro,” tweeted P Sulekha. Many, however, were sceptical of the timings of the opening, and said resuming a mass-transit mode such as the Metro could increase the already growing number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Radhika Arya, who lives in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar and works at a private company in Noida, said closed spaces, especially the underground stations, could be spaces where infections spread rapidly. “No one is questioning the preparations of the Delhi Metro or the government, but how much can you monitor crowds inside stations? What happens if someone is asymptomatic? Inside trains, we don’t even know who has touched holding bars and who was sitting in the seat before you. Sure, the trains will get sanitised at terminals, but you would have already contracted the infection by then,” Arya said. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) on Wednesday released a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) for the resumption of Metro services across the country. The Delhi Metro will resume operations from September 7 in phases, where operations will be opened line-wise and for restricted hours initially. From September 12, after reviewing operations, the Metro services will be completely resumed, the guidelines said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commuters-caught-in-two-minds-over-delhi-metro-reopening-plan/story-v8czsliZjGM8psBMAP21LP.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Masks not enough, crowds a concern: Experts divided over Delhi metro reopening||Experts are divided over the Centre’s decision to resume metro services in Delhi at a time when coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are on a gradual rise. Delhi on Wednesday recorded 2,509 new cases, the highest since the beginning of July. Medical experts say the decision is not based on epidemiological data but driven by economic considerations, with some saying it will only increase the chances of transmission of the contagious pathogen.But transport experts say while the concerns are partly valid, they argue that there are no studies or data to show that public transport is a hot spot for transmission.On Wednesday, Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be adopted by metro rail corporations to ensure social distancing at stations and trains. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced it would open train lines in a staggered manner and that wearing masks would be mandatory. But epidemiologists say that just a mask is not enough. Their concern is about crowd management, especially if the services are allowed to operate inter-city.As the Metro connects Delhi with Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad, experts say this will result in crowding at stations. “How will social distancing be ensured at stations? Just wearing a mask will not be enough. At a time when Covid cases are steadily increasing, the opening could have been delayed,” Dr PK Sharma, epidemiologist and former medical health officer with the New Delhi Municipal Council, said. “Presently, a lot of people from neighbouring areas are not able to come to Delhi as Metro operations are closed. Starting it would only allow the movement of more people and increase chances of infection,” Sharma said.Transport experts say medical experts have a valid concern, but there is no data available to prove that public transport modes are Covid hot spots.Shreya Gadepalli, who leads the South Asia Programme of Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), said, “Some studies have found the virus can spread when people interact with each other for extended duration within enclosed air-conditioned spaces. However, studies worldwide have not found public transport to be a hot spot for the spread of Covid-19.”A section of the medical fraternity welcomed the decision to resume metro services. “Cases will increase as more and more people will get exposed to the infection and we don’t have a vaccine yet. But we can’t stop these activities, as people are stepping out for livelihood. Public transport is essential to help people commute to their workplaces. All we need to do is ensure people follow proper social distancing measures,” said Dr Puneet Misra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.With nearly six million passenger journeys every day, the Delhi Metro is the transport lifeline of Delhi and other National Capital Region cities. As a majority of commercial activities have been allowed in the city, people are facing a lot of problems while commuting due to inadequate public transport and the restriction on the number of passengers who can travel at a given point of time. Anuj Malhotra, Knowledge Partner to the high-powered committee, Union ministry of home affairs, said, “Opening Metro services is a welcome step. Public transport services should not cease to function in any city as they are the lifelines for the health of citizens, not just for the city’s economy. Closing services shall only mean rapid deterioration of the city’s air and longer jams. At the same time, public transport travel etiquette for Covid has to be ensured by the travellers so that it remains a safe way to travel and they can avail services for a longer time. Metro should also come up with penalties for people who do not respect safety”. Transport experts say metro services are operational in cities such as Hong Kong, London and Singapore. “Many cities such as Singapore, Tokyo, and others in Europe, have resumed public transport services. They have relaxed physical distancing rules but require the use of masks at all times. Passengers are instructed to not speak since the virus can spread through air,” Gadepalli said.The decision, epidemiologists say, is not based on epidemiological data but largely on economic considerations. Ideally, they say, such services should open when the positivity rate is 5% or below for a couple of weeks. “As per the second sero survey report, nearly two-thirds of the population is still unexposed. The positivity rate is already on a rise and if you create opportunities for people to mingle, then it will increase the chances of transmission. Though metro service is important, ideally these should open up when the positivity rate is 5% or below for a couple of weeks. But we have to keep in mind the economic considerations also,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/experts-divided-over-delhi-metro-reopening/story-GqLRicS6IThTzNPUxf8fQL.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi conducts a record 28,835 tests in a day||Delhi conducted 28,835 tests for Covid-19 on Wednesday — the highest ever so far. The peak in capital’s testing comes a week after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that testing would be doubled to 40,000 a day in the capital. With Wednesday’s record number of testings, Delhi beat its previous record of having tested 24,592 samples on August 8. On Tuesday (September 1), 24,198 samples had been tested.On Wednesday, India crossed the 1-million tests a day mark for the second consecutive days. Health ministry data shows that Delhi conducts the second highest tests per million in the country, after Goa. Wednesday’s data also showed that just over one in three of the 28,835 tests (around 9,612 samples) conducted were using the gold-standard RT-PCR test. The rest were using the faster and cheaper rapid antigen test method, which is not as sensitive and sometimes throws up false negatives. The surge in the number of tests has led to a decline in the positivity rate – the proportion of people who test positive among those who are tested. The positivity rate recorded on Wednesday’s daily bulletin was 8.7%, a decline from 9.55% the day before. As on Wednesday, Delhi’s seven-day average positivity rate stood at 9.01%, up from 7.78% the week before. The lowest single-day positivity rate ever reported from Delhi was 5.1% recorded on August 7. “The higher positivity rate is indicative of increased ongoing transmission. This means, we need to focus not only on treating people but also controlling the spread of the infection, which means testing and isolating positive cases. Scaling up of tests will definitely help in that. If you ask me whether 40,000 tests are enough, I will say I do not know. There is no estimate for what the correct number of tests are. We have to maintain a positivity rate of 5% for at least a couple of weeks to say that the transmission rate has stabilised in the city,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research. He, however, suggests that merely increasing the number of tests was not enough. “Merely increasing testing is not the point. Which form of testing is being increased is also significant. Ideally, rapid antigen tests should be conducted only in hospitals, containment zones and on special surveillance groups and high risk groups, such as senior citizens. The primary form of testing ideally should be RT-PCR in the city,” he said. With the increased number of tests, the number of new tests in Delhi on Wednesday crossed the 2,500 mark. Delhi added 2,509 Covid positive cases in 24-hours, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government. This is the highest number of cases recorded in a single day since July 3. After reaching a peak in mid-June, the number of daily cases had witnessed a slow downward dip and dropped to below 2,000 in mid-July. The cases started increasing again in the third week of August. The numbers are likely to decline again in Delhi soon, experts believed. “There are several models that suggest that about 40 to 60% of the population needs to have had exposure to the infection to develop herd immunity. And, this time in the serological surveillance data, we might see whether we have reached that level. However, the decline in the number of cases in the country will take some time as different places will reach their peaks at different times,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, centre for infectious disease at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Delhi also reported 19 deaths due to Covid-19 in Wednesday’s health bulletin, taking the city’s total toll to 4,481. Even as the number of cases is on the rise, the case fatality ratio – fraction of people who succumb to the virus among those who test positive – has been on the decline since mid-June. The highest CFR of 4.1% was recorded on June 16, when Delhi reconciled its death data, adding 437 deaths due to the infection in a single day. The current CFR in Delhi is 2.5%. This is still higher than the national average of 1.7%, much lower than the global average of 3.34% and that of countries like United Kingdom where 12.4% of those diagnosed with the infection have died and Mexico where 10.7% of those with the disease have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-conducts-a-record-28-835-tests-in-a-day/story-VlTJicka4KMeB7hID1jteO.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||AIIMS suspends routine surgeries for 15 days for want of beds||An increase in the number of emergency patients has forced the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to stop admitting patients for routine surgeries and procedures, two months after it gradually started resuming routine services in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The services will remain suspended for 15 days after which the situation will be reviewed and a call taken. During this period, the out-patient clinics will continue as usual. All emergency or semi-emergency surgeries will also be performed, the hospital informed. “In view of the need to optimise usage of available inpatient beds for hospitalisation of seriously ill emergency/ semi-emergency patients, it has been decided to temporarily stop routine out-patient department admissions to general wards as well as private wards at the AIIMS hospital and all centres with immediate effect for a period of two weeks. The situation will be reviewed after that,” said a letter from the hospital medical superintendent to all heads of departments. “There has been an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases reporting to the trauma centre, which means that we have to continue managing all trauma cases at the old OPD building on the main campus. The number of road accidents that we attend to has also gone up since the lockdown restrictions were eased. This has resulted in a shortage of beds at the hospital. We cannot stop treating the emergency patients,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS. The hospital had closed its out-patient units as well as all routine services in March-end when the nationwide lockdown was announced. The 250-bed AIIMS Trauma Centre on the Ring Road was converted into a stand-alone centre for treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. All accident and trauma cases were being managed by the main campus in the old-OPD block. The hospitals routine services had resumed in July after putting in place adequate protective measures against Covid-19. The number of patients that was allowed to visit each out-patient department was restricted to 15 to maintain social distancing. The hospital, before the lockdown, used to get about 13,000 patients in its OPD every day. Wednesday’s move will result in higher pendency of routine surgeries and procedures, doctors said. As it is, the premiere medical institute usually has a waiting period of up to a year for surgeries in certain departments. The services had remained suspended for at least three months during the lockdown, as a result of which many surgeries were postponed indefinitely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-suspends-routine-surgeries-for-15-days-for-want-of-beds/story-grxv0VcdLevnD7YtbxnQGM.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Incentives for finding missing kids pays off||Daily recovery and rescue of missing children in Delhi almost tripled between August 6 and 28, compared to the rest of the year, after the Delhi Police announced quick promotions to constables and head constables for finding at least 50 missing children aged below 14 in a year.According to data provided by the Delhi Police, recoveries per day between January 1 and August 6 was six, which went up to 17, between August 7 and 28. The promotion order was issued on August 6. A crime branch officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “There is a competition among the men and women in our force to find missing children now. It has suddenly become a top priority for them. Even we did not expect such quick results.”According to a report by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) released last year, 17 children go missing every day in Delhi and at least two of them remain untraced. As per police statistics, at least 6,366 children went missing in 2019 from across the city, of whom police traced 4,311. In order to reverse the trend, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava ordered that any constable or head constable who finds at least 50 missing children aged below 14 (of whom at least 15 children younger must be eight-years-old) in a year would be eligible for an out-of-turn promotion. Usually, constables are eligible for promotion after five years in service, that too only if they clear a test. If the person does not take the test, it takes around 10 years to become a head constable. Special stress was laid on finding children aged 14 or below since many of them fall prey to traffickers, said police officers. 2473 children were reported missing till August 28 this year, of whom 1752 have been found/rescued. In the last month, police rescued missing children from roads, outside temples, gurdwaras, hospitals and railway station. The police have also solved cases of children who were trafficked from places such as Assam, Agra and Noida in Uttar Pradesh.Explaining the success of the initiative, another senior officer, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said personnel posted in police control room van duty, who are otherwise not duty-bound to probe missing cases and are only the first responders to distress calls on the roads, found at least 20 missing children and reunited them with their families.Explaining how constables and head constables are finding missing children, a constable from the crime branch’s anti-human trafficking unit, said, “I was part of a case in which a 14-year-old boy was reported missing in Jaitpur, south-east Delhi. A kidnapping case was registered but all these years there was no clue. We reopened the case, took out the boy’s photographs and showed it to people at railway stations, hospitals and night shelters. We found him on the evening of August 22 outside the Bangla Saheb Gurdwara. He had been kidnapped by a local drug dealer and was forced to sell drugs. The child has been reunited with his family.”Another officer, who is part of the police control room van unit, said they have started using loudspeakers to make announcements, the minute we receive the report about a missing child. “On August 27, our men in PCR van found a 3-year-old child crying near the Gandhi Nagar market in east Delhi. Now that our focus is on finding such children, we used the van loudspeaker to announce details of the child. Other police personnel in PCR vans, who heard us also started doing this in their areas. Within a few hours, a woman in Seelampur heard the announcement made from one such PCR van and told them about her missing daughter. The girl was then reunited with her family.”Retired Delhi police officer Amod Kanth, who also runs Prayas — an NGO for children, said, “ I am glad the police are focusing on finding missing children. Incentives always work. This is an issue that needed to be tackled seriously long ago. The results indicate that police are also digging old files and tracing those children. I am sure that the results will improve with each passing month. “Kanth was earlier the chairperson of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights and also worked as director general of Arunachal Pradesh police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/incentives-for-finding-missing-kids-pays-off/story-IhyZ3aZvOiD87a48OmNWPN.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Coming in Delhi: Testing camps at construction sites, ISBTs; test-on-demand policy||To ramp up testing in Delhi amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) on Wednesday decided to open testing camps at construction sites, all inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs) and railway stations, senior government officials said. While these camps will be set up in a week, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal directed officials to simultaneously draft a policy to introduce a ‘test-on-demand’ programme, wherein people could call at a helpline and fix an appointment at the nearest Covid testing centre without having to wait in a queue. The decision was taken in a meeting of the DDMA chaired by Baijal in the presence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is vice-chairperson of the authority, Dr VK Paul, member of NIti Aayog, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bhargava and other ministers and top officials of the state government. A testing centre is already functioning at the Anand Vihar ISBT since August 13 to screen migrants heading back to the Capital, where as many as 3,381 people have undergone rapid antigen tests till Wednesday, of which 19 have been diagnosed Covid-19 positive, government officials said. A senior official of the DDMA said the rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi was discussed at length during the meeting. Delhi on Wednesday recorded 2,509 new cases, the highest since the beginning of July. “Principal secretary (health and family welfare) Vikram Dev Dutt informed DDMA about some probable reasons for the increase in positivity rate Delhi. The possible reasons included the lack of adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour; impact of festivals in the month of August; late testing by Covid suspects; cross-infection; return of migrants and unlock measures,” the DDMA official said.In a statement issued late evening, the DDMA said the L-G advised that besides the entry points to the city (ISBTs and railway stations), large-scale construction sites should be covered through special camps for targeted testing.This is in line with the Delhi high court’s directions issued on Monday to ramp up testing in Delhi. After becoming the first major region to register a sustained fall in cases, Delhi has seen an uptick since mid-August, prompting Kejriwal to hold an emergency meeting on August 26 where it was decided that the rate of testing will be doubled to nearly 40,000 a day in the next week. Accordingly, the government increased its daily numbers from Monday when 24,198 tests were conducted. In the past 24 hours, the government conducted 28,835 tests -- the highest in Delhi a single day so far. “Ramping up testing facilities and augmenting hospital infrastructure keeping in view the changing scenario were discussed. The LG directed that home isolation cases need to be regularly reviewed and technology needs to be leveraged more effectively to ensure compliance. He directed the government to focus on rural areas separately,” the DDMA’s statement read. Health department data showed the spike in Covid-19 cases was noticed from the last two weeks of August. “There was around 35% increase in the positive cases in the fourth week of August over the third week of August. Also, 30-40% of the daily new cases are originating from the same family. Besides, increasing incidence of Covid-19 cases has been observed in migrant habitations,” a health official said.During the meeting, Dr Paul advised that the Capital needs to re-strategise its Covid-19 management by enhancing testing, intensifying tracking and augmenting available medical infrastructure with a focus on hot spots, containment zones and the use of technology to improve contact tracing, quarantine, isolation and containment zone planning, the DDMA said.While the LG’s office did not comment on the matter, Delhi government officials said that activities under the Centre’s unlock 4 guidelines were only briefly discussed in the meeting. “Since the Centre has already allowed the resumption of metro services, it was decided that the finer details of the operation of Delhi Metro would be discussed in a day or two once the SOPs are issued by the Centre. The same was for the decisions on allowing inter-state buses and opening of gyms,” a second DDMA official said. Anand Vihar testingA senior official, citing records maintained by the Shahdara revenue district, said, “All 19 people who tested Covid-19 positive in Anand Vihar had arrived from Uttar Pradesh. Two of them were women. All 19 were symptomatic and sent to Covid care centres.” Anand Vihar is in the jurisdiction of Shahdara district.The Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the positive cases reported at Anand Vihar.The Centre government has allowed inter-state road transport under its Covid-19 unlock plan but Delhi is yet to take a final call on allowing buses to enter the city. However, the Anand Vihar ISBT, which is right next to the Delhi-UP border, has witnessed large footfalls .Most migrants coming back from various districts in UP step down at another bus terminal in Kaushambi on the Ghaziabad side, bang opposite the Anand Vihar ISBT. From there, they would walk to Anand Vihar and then take local buses in Delhi to reach their destination, said another district official.The official cited above said heath officers deployed at the centre roughly test one out of three persons – which essentially means around 10,000 people have arrived in Delhi after August 13 via Anand Vihar in working hours. The centre operates from 7 am to 7 pm.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “The objective of the tests play a crucial role in this case. Since, the government is isolating positive cases, they should ideally test all individuals. RT-PCR should be a preferred mode in this case.”Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests are considered to be more accurate.T Jacob John, former professor of virology at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said using RT-PCR tests in these centres, where migrants are tested, would help the government in accurately detecting more Covid-19 positive cases but the process may have its own challenges.John said, “Conducting RT-PCR tests on all individuals arriving in the city would require the capacity of laboratories to be increased immensely. So, instead of that, the government can first reduce the numbers by a round of rapid antibody tests and relieve people who are found to have contracted the virus and recovered. The second round should be rapid antigen tests and those found positive should be isolated immediately. Both tests show results within 30 minutes and the kits are cheap. On the remaining population, RT-PCR tests can be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coming-in-delhi-testing-camps-at-construction-sites-isbts-test-on-demand-policy/story-3S3c8JwlQ3JXXRXhjAQpuO.html
03-09-2020||Delhi||Check on 24 old trees in Old Delhi, ensure their health and safeguard them, HC orders Delhi govt, north civic body||The Delhi High Court Wednesday directed the Delhi government’s tree officer to check on 24 old trees in Chandni Chowk area and, together with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, formulate a plan to restore them and save them from further damage of any kind.The corporation Wednesday submitted an affidavit listing the old trees in Dariba Kalan, Urdu Bazaar, Jama Masjid and Jagat Cinema areas on the court’s earlier directions, issued while hearing a plea to restore an approximately 300-year-old tree in Nai Sadak area of Chandni Chowk.On August 6, Nai Sadak resident Nitin Gupta had filed a plea, through advocate RK Kapoor, about the unauthorised construction taking place in the area that was hampering the tree. While hearing his petition, justice Najmi Waziri had said it cannot be denied that in the Walled City, especially in the densely populated and heavily built-up area of Chandni Chowk, there are hardly any trees. Therefore, each tree in that neighbourhood is valuable and would need protection, he said.He had then asked the tree officer and the north corporation to jointly carry out a tree census in the Walled City.On Wednesday, the civic body in its affidavit said that it has identified the trees and work has started to remove the concrete from around their trunk base. Advocate Ajay Arora, the standing counsel of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said in some places, the work to remove the concrete could not be carried out because of lack of space and, in one case, the danger posed to a house as the tree is abutting the foundation of that house. He also informed the court that at six places, people have constructed temples near the base of the tree and so the matter has been referred to the religious committee of the Delhi government for necessary action. He also said some of the trees fall in the jurisdiction of the public works department(PWD) and the PWD has already completed the concrete removal work.Following this, Waziri directed that the tree officer visit each tree and guide the corporation on the measures needed to restore and safeguard each tree.Waziri also pulled up the Delhi government for its failure to protect the 300-year-old banyan tree in Nai Sadak, which has been damaged due to the illegal construction. The Delhi government then detailed the action taken to remove cement and girders from around the tree, which is believed to have been standing since before the British rule in India. Advocate Gautam Narayan, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, said a large number of its roots have been damaged and, perhaps, are now dead for want of oxygen and moisture. But due to a high regenerative potential of the root system, the tree could develop new roots once the concrete around its base is removed and replaced with good alluvial soil or sandy loam. To prevent the attack of termites, due to presence of dead and decaying roots, and also to prevent the onset of pests (root borer) and pathogens (soil-borne fungi and bacteria), 1% neem cake will be added to the roots.However, the court was unhappy that the upper girders, which were stifling the tree branches, are yet to be removed. The judge said action should be taken against the outgoing tree officer for not acting on the complaint given by area resident Kushmakar Rastogi in January.“We are talking about a treasure, a living creature. How can you not act on the complaint given by Rastogi in January, rather you had given him a date in August,” Waziri said while adding, “Take action against the officer. You can’t keep on cutting trees because of the incompetence of officers.”Advocate Narayan told the court that the current tree officer had taken charge only recently and is trying to learn the ropes. He ensured the court that the remaining girders will be removed forthwith. Following this, the court asked the tree officer to visit the tree and see that there is no further construction happening around it.The matter would be now heard on September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/check-on-24-old-trees-in-old-delhi-ensure-their-health-and-safeguard-them-hc-orders-delhi-govt-north-civic-body/story-Nt3MwawLZ27QHnKd42DpVO.html
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||No odd-even in Chandigarh markets from September 4||The odd-even system in markets to prevent overcrowding due to the Covid-19 outbreak will end on September 4, almost a month after it was imposed on August 7.Orders issued on August 24, extending the plan to allow odd and even numbered shops to open on alternate days for 10 days, will be in force up to September 3.The decision to end the restrictions was taken on Wednesday at the war room review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore. The administration has put the onus of maintaining social distancing and wearing masks on shop owners.“Market closure further will not help. People have to take precautions and behave responsibly. Restrictions on trade cannot continue indefinitely,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Odd-even rules are in place at the Electronics Market in Sector 18, the Sector 8 internal market, Patel Market in Sector 15, Palika Bazar and Sadar Market in Sector 19, Azad Market and Palace Market in Sector 20, Booth Market in Sector 21, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janta Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and at places near the old PNB Bank/Bihari Garment Shop and Burail Chowk. Basements of seven shops in the mobile market, however, will remain closed while the Sector 43 market will be closed on Sundays.Local traders have demanded opening of all shops as it had impacted small businesses in the city.MORE RELAXATIONS IN THE OFFINGThe weekend shutdown of Sukhna Lake to prevent overcrowding on weekends is also set to be withdrawn from September 5. A final call on the matter, however, will be taken on Friday.Inter-state bus operations are expected to restart from September 15.Services were earlier suspended in July after a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases.For starting bus operations from Sector 17, the administration has decided to move the vegetable and fruit mandi currently open there back to Sector 26 before September 15. Apni Mandis, meanwhile, will not operate till further orders but organic markets can function with precautions near Nagar Van. The chief conservator of forests will ensure social distancing and sanitisation.A decision will be taken soon on the typing test being conducted by Panjab University to select employees for UT administration, which had earlier been suspended due to Covid-19. UNLOCK CHECKLIST What’s openAll markets, religious places, restaurants, hotels, pubs, clubs, tricity bus services, taxis, government and private offices;What’s closedSukhna Lake (on weekends), apni mandis, educational institutions,Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places.What’s aheadSocial, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons will be permitted from September 21.A maximum limit of 50 guests at weddings and 20 mourners at funeral will be in place up to September 20, after which 100 persons will be allowed.Open air theatres are likely to open from September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-odd-even-in-chandigarh-markets-from-tomorrow/story-G6F0lby2Yn7ndS0ZTWRR3M.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Satara Police arrest man for murder of 4 from same family||The Satara Police have arrested a man for murdering four members of a family and dumping the corpses in the Marli ghat area of the district, officials said on Wednesday.The accused, identified as Yogesh Nikam (38), was arrested by a team of Satara police on Monday for killing two brothers and their parents.According to the police, Nikam injected the victims with poison, and then assaulted them with iron rods.Anand Sable, assistant police inspector (API) and investigating officer in the case said, “The villagers and relatives identified the bodies of the parents. We were informed that the parents had gone to Mumbai to meet their two sons who had been promised a job with a security agency. This was a month ago and they had not returned. Hence, a missing complaint was filed.”“During his interrogation, he (Nikam) confessed that he promised security jobs to the two brothers, identified as Tushar and Vishal, and took Rs 40,000 from them. While taking them to Mumbai, he injected them with poison, attacked them with iron rods and dumped their bodies in the Mali ghat section. Later, when his parents contacted him for their whereabouts, he asked them to come to Satara and promised to take them to Mumbai. On their arrival, he injected them with poison, attacked them with iron rods on their heads as he did with the previous two murders and dumped their bodies in the ghat,” said Sable.The police began the investigation on a missing persons’ complaint from Bamnoli village, which comes under Kupwad MIDC police station of Sangli police.According to police, a hand-written note found near the female corpse on August 29 led to the arrest of the accused. The gruesome murders are a reminder of another murderer, Santosh Gulabrao Pol (41) a resident of Dhom village in Wai taluka of Satara district. In 2016, he paraded himself before the locals as a doctor and anti-corruption activist and murdered six persons between May 2003 and August 2016. Pol used to administer anaesthesia to his patients and then murder them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/satara-police-arrest-man-for-murder-of-4-from-same-family/story-6xQFWjvhkjPx61LP4i3HBO.html
03-09-2020||Pune||Pune district has highest Covid-19 case count in India||Pune district is now the district in the country with the highest number of progressive positive, and active, Covid-19 cases. Pune has overtaken Delhi on the Covid count, which, until now, had the most number of cases in the country. On September 2, the district reported 3,614 new cases - Pune rural at 902, Pune municipal corporation (PMC) with 1,706 and 1,006 from the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) - which puts the progressive positive count at 1,82,212 cases. As of September 2, Delhi state reported 1,79,569 progressive cases, of which 1,58,586 have been declared cured and discharged. The Delhi death toll is at 4,481 with an active case count of 16,502. Mumbai has reported 1,48,569 progressive cases, of which 1,19,702 have recovered, with the death toll at 8,057 and the total number of active cases at 20,810. Pune is also the only district in the country which has crossed the 50,000 mark in terms of active cases. The district now has 54,760 active cases with 1,23,292 declared recovered. Progressive cases include the total number of cases reported till date, including deaths, recovered and active cases; whereas active cases are those undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in hospitals, or are being isolated at home. A total of 39 Covid-19 related deaths were reported on Wednesday, which puts the death toll in the district at 4,160. State director of health services Dr Archana Patil said, “There could be a possible data discrepancy, because the state health department forms its reports based on the data which is uploaded on the portal. Pune district may have not uploaded its discharges which is why the number of active cases is above 50,000. The portal is updated by the local government authorities, in Pune it is updated by the PMC, PCMC and the Zilla Parishad. The update is done as per the names so every discharge has to be done by identifying the person who has been discharged, which is not happening in case of Pune. There needs to be better contact tracing in the district and also better management of containment zones. However, it is also true that Pune is doing maximum testing in the country and so more cases are being identified.” The BJP MLA from the from Shivajinagar constituency, Siddharth Shirole said, “After multiple demands to ramp up health infrastructure, we got two jumbo centres at COEP and Baner for Pune city, after which, we felt that the healthcare needs of critical care patients would be taken care of. However, as soon as the centres started multiple complaints from patients have started coming up. We have spent Rs 200 crore, which is public money, to develop these centres. I have written to the CM to intervene in this situation.” The district’s health infrastructure is still struggling to cope with bed availability despite 1,200 beds added for critical care last week. As of Wednesday, the district has 6,950 total vacant beds for Covid-19 patients, including 5,726 beds for isolation without oxygen; 1,002 isolation beds with oxygen; 162 ICU beds without ventilators; and 60 beds with ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-has-highest-covid-19-case-count-in-india/story-AsQjyoqyhJ4aKLGx7qwdoI.html
03-09-2020||Education||Calcutta University to conduct final semester exams online from October 1||Calcutta University will conduct final semester exams online from October 1 to 18, Vice- Chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee said on Wednesday.Students of under graduate and post graduate level will take the exams during the period and the results will be published by October 31, she said.“Questions will be sent to those who cannot appear for online exams via email and WhatsApp and have to submit the answers in hard copy to his/her respective institution after 24 hours,” Chakraborty said.For UG students, the answer sheets will be evaluated by teachers of the same institute, unlike the previous practice of external evaluation, the change necessitated in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.The West Bengal government had recently said the final semester exams will have to be conducted by universities between October 1 and 18 and the results will have to be published by October 31.“The earlier decision of the university senate (the highest decision-making body) for evaluation based on 80-20 ratio (previous semester performance and internal assessment) will not be valid any more,” the V-C added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/calcutta-university-to-conduct-final-semester-exams-online-from-october-1/story-VlbJ0S2U2q6gwdmlxex4uO.html
03-09-2020||Patna||Ahead of Bihar polls, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s party to join NDA||Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S) will join the NDA ahead of the Bihar elections, a party spokesperson said on Wednesday.The official announcement in this regard will be made by Manjhi on Thursday, said spokesperson Danish Rizwan.The Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) will not merge with any party, rather it will be a part of the NDA in the Bihar elections that is due in October-November, he asserted.HAM(S) national president Jitan Ram Manjhi will formally announce the party becoming a part of the NDA in Bihar on September 3, Rizwan said.The number of seats the party will get to contest in the upcoming elections was never an issue for it as the HAM(S) will join the NDA for the states development, he said.Watch l Bihar polls: Amid JDU & LJP rift, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM to return to NDA The party is firmly standing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar for their development works, he added.Manjhi had on August 20 severed ties with the Grand Alliance after spending two-and-a-half years in the opposition coalition, comprising of RJD, Congress, RLSP and Bollywood set designer-turned-politician Mukesh Sahni’s Vikasshil Insaan Party (VIP).The HAM(S) chief had also postponed a meeting scheduled on Wednesday with some non-NDA and non-Grand Alliance parties, including the Jan Adhikar Party of former MP Pappu Yadav, to discuss the strategy for the elections.Manjhi met the chief minister last Thursday and believed to have held talks on seat sharing.The HAM(S) wants to contest 15-20 seats, mostly in the Magadh region to which Manjhi belongs. But the JD(U) is willing to leave for it 10-12 seats, according to reports.Manjhi is the lone member of his party in the assembly. But, his induction would help the NDA’s outreach to Dalits, particularly other than Paswans which is the support base of the LJP.Dalits in Bihar are over 16 per cent of the electorate and about 40 seats in the 243-member house are reserved for them.Manjhi had quit the JD(U) in 2015 after being forced to step down as the chief minister to make way for the return of Kumar.Later, he formed the HAM(S) and contested 21 seats in the 2015 Bihar assembly elections as an NDA constituent. With the return of Kumar to the NDA in July 2017, he walked out of it to join hands with the opposition grouping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ahead-of-bihar-polls-jitan-ram-manjhi-s-party-says-it-will-join-nda/story-yvRzRlfgnGn3QZwPrrg6iO.html
