04-09-2020||City||Greater Noida: Cop arrested for firing shots in air||Greater Noida: A 48-year-old policeman was arrested on Friday for allegedly firing two shots in the air from his licensed revolver at his house in Janta Flats in the Ecotech 3 area. Local people panicked and informed the police about the matter, a senior official said. The suspect, Jitendra Kumar, was attached to the office of deputy commissioner of police (Central Noida) in Surajpur. The incident took place at 11.30pm on Thursday. Harish Chander, DCP, Central Noida, said that a team from Sector Ecotech 3 police station was immediately sent to the spot. “Some local people had gathered there after hearing the shots. The police team detained Kumar, who was drunk at that time. The police recovered his licenced revolver from his possession,” he said. During interrogation, Kumar told the police that he was testing if the revolver was working, said Chander. Kumar’s family lives in the police lines while he had gone to his flat in the society in Greater Noida. The police took suo motu cognizance of the matter and registered an FIR against the suspect under sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) and 30 (misusing a firearm) of the Arms Act. “The constable was suspended with immediate effect. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We are also sending a report to get his arms licence cancelled,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-cop-arrested-for-firing-shots-in-air/story-PcC1XAoR0bDExR950OD5aN.html
04-09-2020||Noida||Pet shop owner arrested in Noida for selling protected bird, turtle species||The district forest department on Friday confiscated several species of wildlife animals, whose sale is prohibited under the Wildlife Protection Act, from a pet shop in Noida’s Sector 93. The department has registered a police complaint and the seller, 45-year-old Prashant Kumar, was arrested. Among the animals rescued were a turtle species native to India, four parakeets and 10 scaly-breasted munia, also known spice finch, a species native to tropical Asia. “We had received a complaint about the illegal pet shop and aquarium in Sector 93 selling some Indian species of turtle and birds. Upon inspection, we found this to be true. An FIR was lodged and the shop owner was arrested,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Under the Wildlife Protection Act (1972), trade of about 1,800 Indian species and their derivatives is prohibited. However the act is not applicable on certain foreign species kept as exotic pets, the official said.“ Prashant Kumar, the owner of Angel Fish Home, was held from the shop for keeping prohibited birds and turtles with the intent to sell them,” a statement from the Noida police said.An FIR has been lodged against the accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and he has also been booked under the Wildlife Protection Act, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pet-shop-owner-arrested-in-noida-for-selling-protected-bird-turtle-species/story-4VSJimH6z4zf9sIL7EyHlI.html
04-09-2020||City||Noida student, who got critically injured for resisting car robbery, dies||Noida: A 24-year-old Noida student died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 62 on Friday night, two days after he was critically wounded for resisting a car robbery. The victim, Akshay Kalra, a resident of Stellar Park, Noida Sector 62, had completed B.Tech in Computer Science from a Noida-based private university this year.Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police (law and order) Gautam Budh Nagar said that the victim died on Friday night. “He had received critical injuries and was admitted to Fortis Hospital on Wednesday 12:22am. On Friday night, we received information from the hospital that he has expired. We have formed ten teams and launched an extensive search for the suspects,” he said. Kumar said that the teams are working on multiple angles but they are yet to get a concrete clue in this case.On Thursday morning, Akshay’s father Gulshan Kalra filed a complaint in Sector 58 police station after he was informed about the incident. A chief engineer in LIC in Kanpur, Gulshan Kalra reached Noida on Thursday morning.In the complaint he alleged , “My son left house in his white Hyundai Creta at 10:30 pm. At 12:45am, the police informed me that my son is admitted to Fortis Hospital as he was perhaps critically injured for resisting car robbery. His purse is also missing from the spot. He was found near Varun Apartments,” he said.Sector 58 police station registered a case against unnamed suspects under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery). Kumar said as the victim has died, sections of dacoity with murder will be added in the FIR. Police said that Akshay was found unconscious. “He was not in a position to share any information. Police are probing from all possible angles,” Kumar said. Pradeep Mishra, president, Stellar Park RWA, said the victim’s family received information that Akshay expired at 9:10pm. “This has sent a shockwave in the society. We have come to the hospital after getting the information,” he said.Fortis Hospital did not share a comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-student-who-got-critically-injured-for-resisting-car-robbery-dies/story-ggLkyP7UziPtEaS5FzxOOO.html
04-09-2020||City||Noida: Rainfall to weaken as mercury set to rise, says IMD||Noida: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted light rain in certain areas of Noida and Ghaziabad over next two days – Saturday and Sunday. According to the IMD, the mercury will start rising above 35 degrees Celsius after September 6 as the monsoon weakens. Officials said that while the region was supposed to see moderate rainfall this week, unfavourable weather conditions prevented this. “For the next few days, the region will only see light to very light rainfall. The monsoon line of trough is currently to the south of Delhi and is moving northwards. Also there is lack of moisture in the region because there is no moisture convergence through the winds of Arabian Sea. After September 6, even the light rainfall is likely to stop and there is likely to be a clear sky,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He however added that the lack in rainfall is not the withdrawal of monsoon. “Due to the clear sky supposedly after September 6, the mercury is set to rise above 35 degrees Celsius and the humidity will drop below 70 percent,” he added. So far Noida has seen an average of 66 mm rainfall since the beginning of the rainy season, and suffered a 85 percent deficit rainfall. On Friday, the maximum temperature hovered around 35 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier, which is a degree above the season’s average. The humidity oscillated between 77 and 69 per cent. The Air quality index (AQI) on a scale of 0 to 500 for Noida was 79, considered ‘satisfactory’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-rainfall-to-weaken-as-mercury-set-to-rise-says-imd/story-2E6LXwVsepqyA2Si1Bk21N.html
04-09-2020||City||Karnal extortion case: Woman accuses Nilokheri MLA’s son of helping police in ‘framing’ her||The Karnal woman, who was arrested for allegedly extorting money to withdraw the rape complaint she had filed against the owner of a local school and a senior government official, has now accused son of Nilokheri MLA of helping the police to ‘frame’ her. Her accusation came two days after she was granted bail. In an interaction with mediapersons on Friday, she also presented the recording of her telephonic conversation with the MLA’s son.As per the woman, the man “took her in confidence and called her for a meeting in Sector 12 in Karnal on August 21” where the police arrested her and her husband for allegedly taking Rs 7.25 lakh to settle her complaint.The woman also accused cops of harassing and torturing her after the arrest, allegations which have already been rebuffed by the police. The MLA’s son also termed the allegations baseless and said that “the purported audio clip being circulated on social media platforms has been manipulated and she should have provided the entire clip”. “I was not there when she was arrested for extortion,” he said, claiming that her father had approached him so that the issue could be resolved mutually. “I did not talk to her after August 10. We tried to sort the matter out, but later we came to know that she was arrested for extortion,” he added. He said that the issue was being politicised, but the truth will prevail as the matter is pending in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-extortion-case-woman-accuses-nilokheri-mla-s-son-of-helping-police-in-framing-her/story-xpqIKCr75OX6pHE69N09JN.html
04-09-2020||City||Noida: Langur in captivity rescued from high-rise||Noida: The forest department and an animal welfare NGO on Friday rescued a Langur from a Noida high-rise in Sector 134 which was allegedly kept in captivity.Officials said the rescue was made with the help of People for Animals (PFA) and a case had been registered against the management of the high-rise. The alleged handler of the animal fled after forest officials reached the high-rise.A schedule-2 species under Wildlife Protection Act 1972, Langur (Presbytis entellus), according to the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, cannot be owned, traded or hired, and violation of the same invites three years of jail, fine or both. According to the Gautam Budh Nagar forest department, the animal was allegedly hired to scare away monkeys (Rhesus Macaque) which are in abundance in the area, including Sector 134.“The animal was rescued with the help of the NGO and is currently under our custody. We have kept it at the Surajpur reserve forest and soon a decision on its safe rehabilitation will be taken. A case under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 has been registered against three members of the high-rise’s management. The inquiry is going on and appropriate action will be taken. It is illegal to hire or keep a langur under captivity and action will be taken against anyone found in violation of rules,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.According to the PFA, the animal was allegedly tied to an under-construction apartment of the high-rise. The complaint was made by a resident, who wants to stay anonymous.“The animal had been tied and was under captivity in the high-rise for quite some time. The forest department was helpful in acting swiftly and providing us protection as our volunteers rescued the animal. There are a number of such langurs in the city which are kept under captivity to scare off the monkeys and several industries and high rises continue to take their services,” said Kaveri Rana, director, PFA, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-langur-in-captivity-rescued-from-high-rise/story-2ZiKlxLT3Z1acVGPIPRg3L.html
04-09-2020||City||Greater Noida to decentralise waste collection for 50 sectors, villages||Greater Noida: Aiming to decentralise solid waste collection for about 50 sectors and villages, the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has decided to hire an agency to recycle the waste at five clusters. The processed compost will be used in sectors while the inert waste will be sent to a solid landfill site.The Authority has issued an expression of interest to hire an agency and the last date of application is September 18, 2020.Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Authority, said Greater Noida has a mix of waste generator categories including urban residential, villages, commercial, industrial and institutional. “In order to holistically cover the region under effective waste management strategy, GNIDA has planned to adopt a hybrid model for managing municipal solid waste. This shall involve decentralised waste management in select 50 urban pockets, and centralised waste management in rest of the urban pockets,” he said.He added that sustainable waste management can be achieved through decentralised waste management strategy. “The new approach aims on waste reduction at source and also provides jobs to people,” he said.The Authority has divided the 50 sectors and villages into five clusters where solid waste will be decentralised. A cluster – also called Materials Recovery Facility (MRF) - will be developed in Sector Alpha 2 for collection of waste from sectors Alpha I, Beta I, Gamma I, Alpha II, Beta II, Gamma II, Rampur Jagir and Nawada village. Similarly, Sector Delta III MRF site will be used for waste collection from sectors Delta I, Delta II, Delta III, Eta I, Zeta I, KP 4, among others. The other three MRFs are in Xu I, Omicron I and Sigma II sectors.The Authority will allot land for setting up these clusters. It will also undertake civil works such as levelling, boundary fencing, construction of shed, utilities and other basic infrastructure such as water and power, and transport the inert waste from MRF to the solid landfill facility (SLF). The vendor/agency will be responsible to make door-to-door waste collection, carry out dry and wet waste processing, collect the user charges from people, etc.Greater Noida, spread over 380 square kilometres, is developed as an integrated industrial town. It comprises 100 sectors and 124 villages divided into eight work circles. The estimated population is five-six lakh and the town generates approximately 300-500 tons of waste every day. Presently, the solid waste management model in Greater Noida is centralised with no processing of the waste locally. A few bulk generators have started processing waste in Greater Noida west recently.Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha 1, said decentralised waste collection appears to be a good idea. “But GNIDA should ensure its enforcement in a good manner. The collection site should be away from residential areas and the waste should be timely recycled and processed. It should not become a dump yard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-to-decentralise-waste-collection-for-50-sectors-villages/story-CE1GTR5FMpgksQ7vrgebfN.html
04-09-2020||City||Noida: Govt hospital in Sector 39 to get 200 more Covid beds||Noida: The new Covid-dedicated government hospital in Sector 39 will soon get 200 additional beds, authorities of the hospital said on Friday. Renu Agarwal, medical superintendent of the hospital, said, “The hospital has 160-bed for Covid patients. As the number of patients is increasing, the hospital has decided to increase the number of beds.” The hospital, which will function as the district hospital after the pandemic gets over, was inaugurated on August 8 by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “In the last one month, we successfully treated 100 patients, while as many others are undergoing treatment in the hospital. The admitted patients are in good health and we hope they will be discharged soon,” Agarwal said.The Sector 39 facility has come up in association with the Tata Trusts and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The hospital having a capacity of 400 beds has ground plus eight floors and three basement floors. “At present, the ground floor is used for administrative work while first, fifth and sixth floors are used for Covid treatment. The additional 200 beds will be set up on third and fourth floors,” the medical superintendent said. The hospital, at present, has 130 beds with oxygen, 20 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, and 10 high dependency unit (HDU) beds which come under the L-2 category. However, the additional beds will be under L-1 category, the officials said. Agarwal said that Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health), had recently visited the hospital for inspection and decided to improve the infrastructure. “The government has written to Tata Trusts and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for the 200 additional beds in two weeks,” she said.Abdul Bari, a Noida resident, said that he was tested positive for the virus on August 26. “I was worried. I was admitted to the Sector 39 hospital where I received good medical treatment. One week later, I recovered and was discharged,” he said. On Friday, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 148 new cases while 123 patients were discharged after being cured. The district has so far recorded 8,481 positive cases. Of which, 7,242 people were discharged, 46 died, while 1,188 are undergoing treatment. At present in the district, Greater Noida’s Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Sharda Hospital and Noida’s Child PGI and District Hospital have government-run Covid-19 care facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-govt-hospital-in-sector-39-to-get-200-more-covid-beds/story-Zb5c0CuGOEVDnSBvaKPTUJ.html
04-09-2020||City||Sero survey begins in Ghaziabad, sample collection falls short of day’s target||The first sero-survey study in Ghaziabad started on Friday and the health department was able to collect the required number of samples only from eight of 10 identified locations. The officials said the sample collection from the remaining two locations, which they refused to identify, will be taken up again during the course of the survey, which is spread over a period five days. The sero study is being taken up in Ghaziabad and other 10 districts of Uttar Pardesh to check the prevalence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among the larger population. The identification of an immune response against the SARS-CoV 2 virus, in the form of antibodies in the blood of a random sample of the population, can help establish how far the disease had spread and how many people fought off the virus without showing the symptoms. The other districts included in the survey are Kanpur City, Varanasi, Agra, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Lucknow and BaghpatOfficials said overall, 1,440 samples will be collected from 45 locations in Ghaziabad. On Friday, 10 locations were assigned to as many teams but the number of valid samples sent to Lucknow at the end of the day was only 256, from eight locations. “We sent 256 samples, collected from eight locations, to Lucknow for testing. Likewise, all collected samples will be sent to Lucknow on a daily basis. At two locations, the sample collection did not meet the target and the re-sampling will be done in due course,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. A few of the health department officers HT spoke to said teams from outside the district were deputed for the sero-survey in Ghaziabad. “This led to lower collection of samples as locals could not be mobilised and encouraged to come to the collection centre. Had the local doctors and staff been roped in, the response from the local pupulation would have been higher,” said an official, who requested not to be named. Further, the teams which went for sample collection said the locals were wary of coming to the sample collection centre and required a lot of counselling and word of mouth publicity to get them to give samples. “We collected 32 samples, which were assigned to us, and these included 12 adult men, 12 adult women and eight children aged between five and 17 years. The area we went for sample collection was a containment zone in the initial months of the pandemic. So, the locals were suspicious of us and wary of giving samples. After counselling and encouragement, they agreed,” said Dr Manisha Srivastava, whose team collected samples from Masuri. During the initial announcement of the sero survey study, the government had mentioned the sample age group as 18-59 years. Later additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said the age group from 5-18 years will also be included.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sero-survey-begins-in-ghaziabad-sample-collection-falls-short-of-day-s-target/story-6y6qqB0CB8HTWmjPFpfyFK.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Teachers to be honoured with 9 state awards, 5 commendation certificates today||On the occasion of Teachers’ Day, the education department will award nine state awards and five commendation certificates to teachers for their services during the pandemic on Saturday. The state awardees include Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 8, principal Ranjana Srivastava; Government Model High School (GMHS), Sector 36, headmistress Shakuntala; GMSSS, Sector 35 , English lecturer Manjeet Kaur Gill,GMSSS, Sector-16, chemistry lecturer Neeru Sofat; Government High School (GHS), Dadumajra, trained graduate teacher (TGT) for social studies Bharat Bhushan; GMSSS, Sector 35, director physical education Gurpreet Singh; GHS, Maloya, TGT for science Ravi Jaswal, GMSSS, Sector 26, physical education lecturer Raman Prashar; and Government Model Primary School, Sector 49D, junior basic teacher (JBT) Ritu Kalra.Commendation certificates will be awarded to Government Girls Model Senior Secondary School (GGMSS), Sector 18, psychology lecturer Pushpanjali; GGMSSS, Sector 20B, TGT for social sciences Parveen Kumari, GMSSS, Sector 15, lecturer Manpreet Kaur; GGMSSS, Sector 20B, TGT Sunita Sheoran; and GHS, Sector 38B, JBT Neetu. Teachers of different categories such as principals, heads, lecturers, masters, mistress’, teachers employed as guest faculty, on contract, under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and on deputation were considered for the award. Director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “This year we have ensured that each category of teachers is awarded.” He also said that unlike previous years, no function will be held to honour the teachers on Teachers’ Day. State awardees will be given a medal, a certificate and ₹21,000 while commendation certificate awardees will be given ₹5,100 each with a certificate. The medals and citations would be conferred on the awardees at a function that will be held once schools open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teachers-to-be-honoured-with-9-state-awards-5-commendation-certificates-today/story-IPXJx13PBsg8FOZt1ypUYN.html
04-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Bars and pubs likely to open in a week||Noida: Bars and pubs in Gautam Budh Nagar, which have been closed for the past six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, are likely to reopen in a week, officials of the district excise department said on Friday. However, the officials said that these establishments will have to follow Covid-19 guidelines to be issued by the Uttar Pradesh government. “The state government is planning to reopen bars and pubs in the region in a week, as the country is in unlock mode. The government will soon issue a standard operating procedure for these outlets to function. These guidelines will be strictly followed,” said RB Singh, district excise official, GB Nagar. The development comes a day after the Delhi government approved the reopening of bars and pubs from September 9. As per the Delhi’s plan, only asymptomatic staff and customers will be allowed entry and such establishments can’t use more than 50% of their seating capacities.In GB Nagar, there are 77 licensed establishments, including hotels, pubs and bars, which serve liquor, Singh said. He further said that customers need to compulsorily wear mask, use hand sanitizers and maintain social distancing in the bars and pubs once they open. Noida hoteliers and bar owners said that the government should give relaxations in the licence fee as more then six months have passed since the outlets were closed. Akhilesh Sakhuja, owner of The Patiala Kkitchen -- a restaurant-cum-bar in Noida Sector 18, said that he has planned to open the restaurant on Monday. “Initially, we will open for food only. The beverages (wine/beer) will be served once we get permission from the district administration,” he said. Sakhuja said that the coronavirus pandemic has badly affected the hotel and restaurant industry. “We pay ₹10 lakh as annual licence fee to serve liquor in the restaurant. But for the past six months, the restaurant is closed and there is no business. The government should relax the licence fee norms,” he said.The managing director of a leading hotel said that pubs and bars should be opened, but with all necessary precautions. “The hotels and restaurants have opened, but they are not getting the traction they used to get in the pre-lockdown times. The industry’s revival will depend on the number of footfalls in coming days. Opening pubs and bars is a good step, but the government and the operators must observe complete safety measures,” he said, requesting anonymity. According to the excise officials, the coronavirus has also affected the sale of liquor in the district. “In the current financial year, from April to August, the GB Nagar excise department has recorded the sale of 28.66 lakh Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) bottles and 71 lakh beer bottles this year. However, during the same period last year, 33 lakh IMFL bottles and 1.25 crore beer bottles were sold. In the first five months of financial year 2019-20, the department had collected ₹337 crore as revenue against this year’s ₹322 crore. The annual target of the district excise department is ₹1,240 crore,” Singh said. The government had closed all liquor shops in the district since the lockdown began on March 23. The liquor shops were reopened after 40 days, on May 4, when chaotic scenes were seen at different places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-bars-and-pubs-likely-to-open-in-a-week/story-UEMYzgFowETDBJEg8F0aOM.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||NHAI transfers Gurugram project director||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Friday transferred the project director for Gurugram, Ashok Sharma, and repatriated him to its parent body, the Union surface transport ministry, said officials privy to the matter. The decision comes a day after the contractor for Sohna elevated road project was debarred from participating in all future NHAI bids, following the collapse of a section of the under-construction flyover near Vipul Greens condominium on Sohna Road on August 22. At least two people were injured, although no casualties were reported from the site. The work at the site remains halted and a probe by a committee of experts is presently underway.Sharma has spent almost nine years as the project director of the project implementation unit of Gurugram. He has also overseen the construction of several key projects in the city such as underpasses and flyovers on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at Iffco Chowk, Signature Tower crossing, Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk. When asked about the development, Sharma confirmed his transfer and said that the NHAI has the right to repatriate an official to the parent department. “I have served in Gurugram for almost nine years and would be working with the parent department from now onwards,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nhai-transfers-gurugram-project-director/story-YiM9bDOpVp7f40Uz4PN0hL.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Teachers embrace technology for new-age learning||Sonia Jain has been in the teaching profession for over 25 years. After all these years, the 53-year-old found herself relearning many new teaching practices when lessons went online necessitated by the sudden imposition of a countrywide lockdown in March. Like most others from the teaching community, she was caught off-guard by the rapidly evolving Covid-19 situation. Five months down the line, however, the initial disbelief has been replaced with a zeal to adapt and educate in newer tech-friendly ways. “When schools were asked to shut down in March, we were all enveloped by a feeling of disbelief. At our age, it is a little difficult to handle technology all of a sudden. Children today are born with technology whereas teachers like me are akin to dinosaurs when it comes to our familiarity with new-age technology. Despite these apprehensions, we got going and managed to learn the ropes,” said Jain, who teaches English to students of classes 11 and 12 in a private school.With schools shutting down in view of the coronavirus pandemic, teachers, along with students, were compelled to switch to online classes almost overnight. While students found hand-holding support from parents, teachers also had to rise up to the occasion and pivot towards newer forms of dissemination of lessons. From struggling with technology to embracing it and learning from students, the past five months, teachers say, have been a cycle of learning and unlearning for them. Starting out as a novice, Jain faced some glitches initially but soon started experimenting with different video platforms and other options, ranging from Youtube to Jamboard to quizzes. She even took her students on a virtual tour of a museum for a class. “After the initial apprehension, I was learning something new every day along with the children. If I get stuck anywhere, children also pitch in with inputs. We are also learning from students as far as technology is concerned. At my age, I have become quite adept at handling so many platforms and feel proud of myself,” said Jain. Manju Bala Bhardwaj, an English teacher at a government school, started recording her lectures on a mobile phone after schools were closed in view of the pandemic. Bhardwaj took help from her sons in the first few months of the lockdown but gradually learned to record and upload the lessons to her YouTube channel. The recorded lectures are shared with students via WhatsApp groups and are also telecast via the state government’s EDUSAT channel. “The past five months have been a roller-coaster ride for me. In the first few weeks of the lockdown, even recording a single video seemed a challenging process. Everything from YouTube uploads to video compression was new to me. But now, I have become adept at handling almost all tasks myself and have an active YouTube channel. What started as a small initiative for children of my school is now being used to engage with students across the state,” said Bhardwaj, who juggles multiple responsibilities at once. Her day starts early in the morning when she visits the school for paperwork, holds lessons via WhatsApp, calls students for feedback, and returns back in the evening only to record videos for the next lecture. “A lot of multitasking is involved. As government employees, we have certain responsibilities. These need to be handled together with lessons and household chores. While there is a growing sense of familiarity with technology, we are constantly evolving and putting in extra effort,” she said. Her sentiments were echoed by other teachers. Most teachers said that they were always on the lookout for newer resources that would give a fillip to their teaching methods. “There is so much more that goes into online classes since one is unable to meet physically. We work within an endless loop of meetings, webinars, assignments, and assessments while making an effort to adapt to the latest technologies,” said Deepika Chauhan, a private school teacher. School administrators say that while coronavirus had caused a big change in the ways of teaching, the teaching community had risen to the occasion and coped despite all the challenges. Sapna Dhawan, dean (student welfare), DPS, Sector 45, said that teacher across the country did not let technological challenges stall the teaching process. “Teachers continued with the lessons despite the tough circumstances. They are working hard to engage with students by learning different tools and platforms. Every teacher who is still connected with students needs to be applauded for not losing faith in these unusual times,” said Dhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-teachers-embrace-technology-for-new-age-learning/story-m16r0346EWW8hmF9ksrmNO.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||GMDA starts supplying water to 15 developing sectors||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has recently started supplying water to 15 developing sectors, from sectors 81 to 95, bringing much relief to the residents who were dependent on water tankers till now.Officials said two pipelines, spread over 80 km, have been laid down to supply water to the two sectors after the project had been delayed several times. “Water is being supplied from Chandu Budhera water treatment plant to these sectors and new pipelines, 1500 mm and 1600 mm in diameter, have been laid down for the purpose,” said SPS Rana, a consultant to GMDA.The residents of new developing sectors were completely dependent on water tankers and not getting canal water.Yashesh Yadav, a resident of Vatika India Next, a residential society in Sector 83, said that they were dependent on water tankers. “The quality of water was very poor and was not fit for consumption, but we were helpless. The water supplied by the tankers was a big safety hazard for the residents. With the GMDA water supply, we are at least getting quality water at home,” he said.Vikshit Sharma, a Sector 82 resident, said many people in these sectors have spent a huge amount of money on water tankers even though the supply was irregular. “We had to wait for days to get water sometimes, and if anyone wanted urgently, they used to charge us extra ₹300,” he said.Water supply in these 15 developing sectors was promised in March 2019, but the project missed several deadlines due to land acquisition issues and other hurdles. The deadline was first extended to March 2020 and then to July, 2010, but the supply was started only a few days ago, said officials.Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer GMDA, said the demand for water supply could not be met earlier due to delay in the construction of railway culverts necessary for the pipelines to cross. “Now the Indian Railways has completed the work on the culverts and the two pipelines have been laid down, ” he said. “Our prime objective was to provide water to the residents, and to reduce their dependency on water tankers which was the only option for them,” he added.Rana said that currently, the consumption in these 15 sectors is nearly 20 million liters daily (MLD), and it will be increased when needed.GMDA officials said they have reached out to the developers in the sectors to take new water connections by applying on the GMDA website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-starts-supplying-water-to-15-developing-sectors/story-Eq1xNpTywl5NfMDnlcA3vJ.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||Urban areas lead virus spread as Ggm records 10.8% in Haryana sero survey||Of the 844 people in Gurugram who were tested for antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, 10.8% showed a positive result, higher than the Haryana average of close to 8%.The Haryana government on Friday announced the results of the serological survey, conducted between August 19-21, that checked for antibodies in the blood among a randomly chosen sample population of over 18,000 people from across the state. In Gurugram, twice as many women surveyed tested positive (at 14%) for antibodies (seropositivity) than males. Urban areas (at 18.5%) showed more positive results as against rural clusters (5.7%). Officials and experts said this was along expected lines and barring a few districts, the state too followed a similar trajectory -- 9.6% in urban areas, and 6.9% in rural areas. Haryana health minister Anil Vij, speaking via video conference from his residence where he is currently in isolation after coming in contact with a person who tested positive for Covid-19 recently, said, “The findings are very encouraging compared to similar exercises in Delhi (29% seropositivity), Tamil Nadu (21%) and Gujarat (23%). The numbers indicate that measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 have been successful, be it through lockdowns, enforcement of social distancing, or public health interventions like effective testing, surveillance and containment.”Serological surveys , or sero surveys, have been conducted in many places across the world to estimate how prevalent the virus actually is in a community. They also capture asymptomatic individuals who may not have reported infections. “The exercise indicates that more than 7% of all infections in Haryana have been asymptomatic, and did not even appear on our radar. No testing or treatment was needed to manage them,” said Vij. Haryana’s additional chief secretary for health, Rajeev Arora, said the undertaking has helped to “determine the burden of Covid-19 at the community level”. The sero surveys will be held monthly in the state to test these levels again. NCR suffers mostThe study also shows the state’s national capital region (NCR) districts [Faridabad, Gurgaon, Mewat, Rohtak, Sonepat, Rewari, Jhajjhar, Panipat, Palwal, Bhiwani (including Charkhi Dadri), Mahendragarh, Jind and Karnal] to be more severely affected, with all of them exceeding the state average by a large margin. Faridabad (25%) and Nuh (20.3%) showed the highest seroprevalence, while Gurugram, despite having one of the state’s largest urban agglomerations, came in sixth at 10.8%.Speaking of the discrepancy between Gurugram and Faridabad, which share boundaries with each other and Delhi, Dr. Rajib Dasgupta, epidemiologist and professor of community medicine at Jawaharlal Nehru University, said, “It is not surprising at all. Faridabad is more populated, and more densely populated at that. Housing in Gurugram is more planned and segregated.” Vij and multiple other health department officials also attributed it to frequent daily movement with neighbouring Delhi.Dasgupta pointed out that Gurugram and Faridabad have shown less seropositivity than other, larger metropolitan cities such and Mumbai, Ahmedabad or Pune. “This suggests a slower, more prolonged battle with Covid-19 for Gurugram,” he said. HOLES IN SURVEY?However, unlike sero surveys in some other states, Haryana’s does not arrive at the infection fatality rate (IFR) of Covid-19, a more accurate yardstick of the disease’s deadliness than case fatality rate (CFR). While IFR gives the number of deaths of all infected persons and not just known case, CFR gives it only for known cases.Rajeev Arora responded, “This is hard to quantify. For the purpose of the study, the department of community medicine and the school of public health at PGIMER, Chandigarh, have used 2011 census data when identifying the clusters for sampling, but there are no official estimates on population growth since then. So you can use 2011 data to arrive at a number, but the real IFR will still be lower than what you get.” The survey also did not segregate data based on age of the test subject.A senior doctor at PGIMER, who has been closely involved in planning the study but requested anonymity as they were not authorised to speak to the media, said, “The authorities’ claims are completely in agreement with the outcome. However, interpreting the data should come with two important caveats: One, the blood samples have all been tested by a state lab. In a classical study one would typically have an external quality control component for lab testing, which is lacking here. The second is that ELISA antibody kits are not 100% specific or sensitive, and can indeed return the odd false result. This needs to be factored in to get an even more accurate picture of prevalence.” In the study’s executive summary, Dr. Arun K Aggarwal, professor of community medicine at PGIMER, wrote, “One district had started the sampling before the official launch of the project, (it) raises question on the representativeness (sic) of the survey in that district”. When contacted, Aggarwal declined to comment on which district he referred to, as did other officials in the health department. ‘Many still at risk’Experts said that while it is plausible to suggest that mitigation measures in Haryana (and Gurugram) have been more effective than in other states/cities, the survey shows a large chunk of the population remains susceptible. “(With 8% developing antibodies), it means that the rest 92% of Haryana is still at risk. It means that the state and districts have a much bigger challenge ahead of them in preventing a surge of cases. This will require immense public health vigilance over an extended period of time. It will be strenuous and exhausting for all those involved,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, an epidemiologist and former head of the community medicine department at PGIMER Chandigarh. District level officials, including chief medical officer Dr. Virender Yadav and district surveillance officer Dr. Jai Prakash Sharma, declined to comment on the survey’s findings. “It is entirely a state exercise. All the clusters, targeting and analysis of samples has been done by the state health department. We have only provided some support in field work. We cannot comment on the findings,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/urban-areas-lead-virus-spread-as-ggm-records-10-8-in-haryana-sero-survey/story-q7y6yBScUL0R4FYkI1TS3L.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||BJP to form state- and district-level executive bodies in Haryana||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday said that executive bodies at the state- and district-levels will be formed in Haryana this month. This was announced by newly appointed state BJP president OP Dhankar, who added that a series of programmes, based on the themes of service to people and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, would be organised in the state between September 17 and October 2. “The executive bodies at the state- and the district levels would be formed in September after discussion and deliberation,” he said, while addressing a press conference at the PWD rest house in the city on Friday. Referring to the programmes planned for the month, Dhankar said that a blood and plasma donation camp will be held in each district of the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will also hold eye-testing camps in all districts and distribute free spectacles to the needy,” he said. The programmes will start on September 17 to mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Dhankar also said that BJP government’s decision to allow farmers to sell their agricultural produce directly would empower them financially. He added that minimum support price promised to the farmer and procurement of crops by the government remain unchanged. Referring to the Aravallis, he said that steps are being taken to save the forests, and action is being taken against violations. Illegal mining has been stopped in many areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bjp-to-form-state-and-district-level-executive-bodies-in-haryana/story-UuBmM1n869I190ETGyTzAN.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police to hold dress rehearsal on Sunday with DMRC, CISF before resuming Metro services||In the run-up to resuming metro services in the city after more than five months, the Gurugram police will hold a rehearsal on Sunday with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to gear up for running the Rapid Metro and Delhi Metro in the city from Monday.The Gurugram police said it will be responsible for enforcing measures to management crowd and control traffic movement outside the Metro stations.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police, said a number of meetings have been held with DMRC and CISF officials wherein measures to be taken up for resuming Metro and Rapid Metro services were discussed at length. “A rehearsal will be held in collaboration with DMRC and CISF on Sunday to fine-tune the steps for resuming the Rapid Metro and Metro services in the city. The Gurugram police will provide all assistance to ensure Metro services operate in a safe and sound manner,” he said.More police personnel would be deployed outside all Metro stations to ensure smooth traffic movement and to prevent overcrowding, said police officers. The police will also ensure that people not wearing masks are penalised, they added.Goyal said that the movement of auto-rickshaws and other vehicles outside metro stations will be regulated by the police to ensure commuters can move in a safe and secure manner and follow all Covid-19 safeguards.Earlier, on Thursday, the Gurugram district administration had said that supervisors would be appointed for the five Delhi Metro stations in the city—stations — Guru Dronacharya, Sikanderpur, MG Road, Iffco Chowk, Huda City Centre — to coordinate with local DMRC officials regarding crowd control, smooth movement of commuters and other steps needed to be put in place for preventing the spread of Covid-19.The Rapid Metro has a 11.6-km network in the city stretching from Cyber Hub to Sector 56 along the Golf Course road and has 11 Metro stations. The Yellow Line of Delhi Metro and the Rapid Metro line will operate from September 7 in a graded manner, the DMRC has said.On Thursday, Rishab Singh, a DMRC official during a meeting with district administration had said that measures to check the temperature of commuters, markings for standing on the platforms, and for sitting inside the trains and cashless travel would be implemented.Both the district administration and DMRC officials stressed that focus would be on ensuring safe travels. Commuters will have compulsorily wear masks and if anyone is found having flu-like symptoms, then (s)he will be directed to the nearest health centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-to-hold-dress-rehearsal-on-sunday-with-dmrc-cisf-before-resuming-metro-services/story-C530Wc2FkTf5uj1Kzap6pM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||13-year-old boy dies of electrocution in Mohali vegetable shop, owner held||A 13-year-old boy died after he came in contact with some naked electric wires at a vegetable shop near Pine Homes in Dhakoli late on Thursday. The accused, Dinesh Kumar, who owns the shop was arrested and was later released on bail. The minor victim used to work at the shop. The victim’s family hails from Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh.Sub-inspector Jashan Preet Singh said the victim’s father alleged that there were naked wires in the shops and Dinesh had been told to repair them on many occasions but to no avail. On Thursday, the victim came in contact with the wires and died on the spot. We have registered a case under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the investigating officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/13-year-old-boy-dies-of-electrocution-in-mohali-vegetable-shop-owner-held/story-I9WNPAb4GRu6Oph8yLoMUL.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Despite administrator’s directions, Chandigarh has no plans to conduct serosurvey||Even though UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had directed to conduct serosurvey to check the penetration and transmission trends of Covid-19 pandemic, the Chandigarh administration has no plans to follow through.Earlier, a report by experts on the outbreak of Covid-19 in Bapu Dham Colony had also suggested a similar exercise after seeking permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The recommendation has not been implemented so far.Even the ICMR had asked states and Union territories to conduct a survey of high-risk or vulnerable populations (health-care workers, frontline workers, immune-compromised individuals, security staff, prisoners) to know who was infected in the past and has now recovered.In this type of test, the blood samples are analysed for antibodies to detect and quantify antibodies in the blood that will determine a past infection due to the virus.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said, “There is no plan of conducting serosurvey in Chandigarh for now.”Requesting anonymity senior health officials said that since the pandemic is on the upswing and the health-care workers are busy dealing with Covid-19 patients, it is not suitable for them to divert more workforce towards the survey.“If the survey is conducted and a certain percentage of people already have antibodies, what change will it bring in our mitigation strategy? It will serve no purpose,” a senior health official said.Mohali (in containment zones) and Panchkula are among other districts where serosurveys have been conducted by the governments of Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-administrator-s-directions-chandigarh-has-no-plans-to-conduct-serosurvey/story-kTqTQtBEeW5fJu9phMwFJL.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||33% Delhi beds occupied by patients from other states||People from states other than Delhi currently account for around 33% of occupied beds in all hospitals and 70% of occupied ICU beds in private hospitals of Delhi, a senior official said on Friday, citing a report prepared by the Delhi government. The government official, added, “As on Thursday, there were around 14,000 Covid-19 beds in Delhi hospitals – private and public. Of these, at least 4,500 beds were occupied. Of these 4,500 beds , around 1,500, which is 33%, were allotted to patients from other states.” “In private hospitals, there are a total of 1,200 ICU beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients – including both with and without ventilators. Of these 1,200 ICU beds, 870 were occupied. Of these 870 occupied ICU beds, around 70% were allotted to patients from other states,” said the official. The Delhi government spokesperson refused to share any further information . In June, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that private and Delhi government hospitals in the city should be reserved for residents of the city till the Covid-19 situation subsided. However, the decision was struck down by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/33-delhi-beds-occupied-by-patients-from-other-states/story-4IHdbvDigglvSFjnuzxQxI.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University announces 5% fee waiver||Partially accepting students’ demand for fee exemption in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Panjab University on Friday announced a 5% fee waiver for all students, including those enrolled at regional centres.The university, in a statement, said, “Vice-chancellor (V-C)professor Raj Kumar has approved a 5% fee exemption across all courses for all students of Panjab University, Chandigarh, and its regional centres for the current semester, keeping in view the difficulties faced due to the Covid-19 pandemic.”A panel had earlier recommended the same to the V-C. The decision comes after students staged a series of protests against the university administration, demanding a full waiver.Can submit fee in 4 instalmentsStudents also have the option of depositing the fee in four equal instalments, instead of two instalments. For students who have already paid the fee, the amount will be adjusted over the next instalments.The university has also granted 100% fee concession to physically challenged students and economically weaker section (EWS) concession has been extended to students taking traditional courses.The concessions offered are over and above the different concessions, scholarships and schemes already being offered by the university.Though student associations have suspended protests, they said they had been expecting more measures from the university to help students.Will keep pressing for concessions, say student bodiesPanjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) president Chetan Chaudhary president said they had accepted the university’s proposal but were pressing for more concessions.“Our 21-day chain hunger strike has been ended on a partial note. The university has taken advantage of the absence of students on campus or we would have ensured all our demands were fulfilled,” the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) said in a statement.SFS general secretary Sandeep Kumar said, “This is ridiculous. The university must have asked for a special grant from the Centre, we will keep pressing for more concessions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-announces-5-fee-waiver/story-cZBAMWlyYmWCp5DoFT2o3O.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||CBSE compartment exams from September 22||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday announced that it will conduct compartment examinations for classes 10 and 12 from September 22 to 29. The board will also conduct re-examinations for those candidates who have failed in practical tests. In a statement issued on Friday, CBSE Controller examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said that all candidates will follow physical distancing norms at the examination centers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “All the candidates will carry their own hand sanitizer in a transparent bottle and water bottle. All the candidates will cover their mouth and nose with a mask or cloth,” the statement read. “In addition to theory examination given above, there will also be practical examination in respect of those candidates who have failed in a subject involving practical... Practical examination for regular candidates in all the subjects will be held at each school for their own candidates,” it added. Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court issued notice to CBSE on petitions filed by Class 10 and 12 students, who are seeking cancellation of compartment exams, to be conducted for those who have failed or are seeking improvement in subjects they appeared in, in view of the covid-19 pandemic. The Court directed CBSE to file its response by September 7 and posted the matter for hearing on September 10. Around 150,000 students of Class 10 and around 87,000 students of Class 12 will appear in these exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cbse-compartment-exams-from-september-22/story-CR7AExtzXS8mqHJGvI3Q3J.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Festivities to mark Teacher’s Day go digital as students plan online plays, musicals||From online musical and dance performances to an online play based on the role of the teaching community during the time of Covid-19 pandemic, celebrations to mark the Teacher’s Day on Saturday are taking a digital form this time. Class 12 student Ryan Suri and the eight-member student organising committee of The Indian School have been planning the festivities since July. “We had to think of online modes of celebrations since we knew that there would be Covid-related restrictions even in September. So far, we have lined up performances by students and even a drama based on the role of teachers in the time of the pandemic,” said Suri, who is also the head boy. Suri and his team wrote three drafts of the script for the online drama. Since in-person meetings were not possible, the students recorded videos of them rendering the dialogues and compiled those into a single video. “It took a lot of effort. But our teachers kept us going without compromising on our learning. We wanted to create something around that (online classes) with funny references that the teachers would enjoy,” he said. Principal Tania Joshi said, “Apart from the students’ programmes, we too have planned an online event wherein teachers will get together, play games, and enjoy performances by professional singers. Teachers have worked as corona warriors during these uncertain times.They have risen to the occasion and we are proud of them.” Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also praised government school teachers for their work. He said teachers had “worked above and beyond the call of duty during the Covid-19 pandemic”. The education minister said teachers have been sharing stories of how they connected with students in the absence of smart phones and internet connectivity. For instance, Sarita Rani Bhardwaj, a government school teacher in Paschim Vihar, used ration delivery and courier service personnel to trace every single student of her class and kept in touch with them through WhatsApp and phone calls. Sisodia also thanked teachers for their services towards Covid relief work at hunger centres and ration distribution centres. Alok Kumar Mishra, a government school teacher who was deputed at the Narela quarantine centre, said teachers were given multiple roles during the ongoing pandemic. “From working at hunger relief centres and ration distribution centres to preparing online lesson plans accessible to government school students, teachers have overcome a number of challenges over the past few months,” he said. Delhi schools also have a tradition of making higher secondary students don the hat of teachers for younger classes for the day, in a symbolic expression of their gratitude towards teachers. This time, such classes will be conducted online. Isha Jain, a class 12 student at Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, who will be one of the “teachers” on Saturday, said, “We will have interactive activities which will help them become aware of the challenges that teachers face every day. This might help the younger children realise the effort that goes into taking online classes and prompt them to do more to make the process smoother.” Principal Jyoti Arora said it was important to celebrate the Teacher’s Day, especially during the times of Covid-19. “The way teachers have discharged their duties during the pandemic needs graceful recognition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/festivities-to-mark-teacher-s-day-go-digital-as-students-plan-online-plays-musicals/story-u73zhLMRYlUSkZut97gNWO.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||GMDA installs meters in six sectors in Gurugram to keep an eye on water theft||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has begun a pilot project to track real-time water supply from the Basai water treatment plant to six sectors in the city. As part of this project, the authority is planning to link at least 38 connections in these sectors to the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) of the GMDA in Sector 44 using a GIS-based surveillance system, said officials on Friday. As per GMDA officials, the areas covered in the project include sectors 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and Palam Vihar. Last week, the authority also installed electromagnetic flow meters, level indicators and actuators — devices used to monitor and control water flow — at all the 38 points covered under the project. With these devices, GMDA aims to curb water theft in the city that leads to heavy revenue losses for the authority, said the officials. Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer GMDA, said that the main purpose behind installing these new flow meters was to keep a check on water theft and to closely monitor the water supply in these areas. “We also receive false complaints from consumers about not receiving enough water supply. There have been cases where consumers have made false complaints to avoid paying the water bills. We can now monitor the exact flow of water, consumption, and storage,” he said. GMDA officials also said that all the 38 connections will shortly be connected to the ICCC and will be monitored regularly to understand the consumption pattern of water by the consumer. Last year, a tender, worth ₹16 crore, was floated to connect 546 connections across the city. Out of these 38 connections are a part of the pilot project, the cost of which is₹1.5 crore. SPS Rana, consultant to GMDA, said the entire process of installing the electromagnetic flow meters, keeping a track of their readings, and sending the live feed to the ICCC will be monitored for three months. Once the pilot project is successful, it will be implemented across the city and all the 546 connections will be linked to the ICCC.Rana also said that a survey was carried out in these sectors to check the water flow, storage and consumption patterns, based on which the water connections linked to the ICCC will become operational. “The survey team checked the underground water capacity, how the flow meters would work, and how would they be connected to the ICCC. A ground report was prepared and submitted to the GMDA before the installation of these devices. The pilot project will be completed within three months. The project has been outsourced to a private company,” he said. The electromagnetic flow meter will be monitored by officials through the ICCC dashboard. The meter will send the reading after every five minutes and the flow will be calculated based on the live feed. The level indicator will give information on the depth of the water at underground tanks, said officials. Rana also said officials can watch all the connections from ICCC and anyone complaining about disruption in water supply can be tracked via a screen. Officials said the new system will resolve issues related to inflated water bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-installs-meters-in-six-sectors-in-gurugram-to-keep-an-eye-on-water-theft/story-OxMaIjyIT0vT3qFWTo5svK.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Slight chance of drizzle over weekend in Chandigarh: Weatherman||With showers eluding the UT on Friday, the weather will remain dry with chances of up to 20mm rain over the weekend, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said on Friday. The weather is likely to remain dry from Monday.Officials said, “The monsoon trough has shifted and at present monsoon is concentrated in peninsular India. Only a drizzle or light showers can be expected.”The maximum temperature went up from 32°C to 34.3C on Friday, while the minimum temperature fell down from 28°C on Thursday to 25.9°C. Over the next three days the maximum temperature will remain between 32°C and 34°C while minimum temperature will remain between 25°C and 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/slight-chance-of-drizzle-over-weekend-in-chandigarh-weatherman/story-4Z0tAMZsCLdbAlLzWZiKbL.html
04-09-2020||City||SDMC opens 14 centres in south Delhi to test for dengue, chikungunya||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday said they had opened 14 centres to intensify testing of vector-borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya. According to SDMC officials, a free facility for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test for dengue platelet count will be provided to detect infection by vector-borne disease at these 14 centres. These centres are SDMC polyclinics located in Mehrauli, Lajpat Nagar, Badarpur, Jangpura, Masjid Moth, Munirka, Gummenhera, Uttam Nagar, Purnima Sethi Super speciality hospital, polyclinic and maternity centre in Tuglakabad, primary care centre in Fatehpur Beri, School Health scheme in Najafgarh, Chest Clinic in Bijwasan and Tilak Nagar Hospital.A senior official of SDMC’s health department said the tests will be free of cost. “We will spend Rs 248 per patient while conducting the test. But no money will be charged from the visitors,” an official said.This year, according to civic records, 78 cases of dengue, 34 cases of chikungunya and 74 cases of malaria have been reported till August 31. No deaths have been recorded yet.Anamika Mithilesh, mayor SDMC, said anyone having fever symptoms could approach these centres for the test. “We have hired a private company to properly implement the project. The testing facilities will help extend facilities to the common public to get the disease detected as soon as they develop symptoms. It will help in marking locations where the problem is grave,” Mithilesh said.The mayor said if required, exercises such as fumigation, spraying of insecticides to curb the breeding of mosquitoes in identified areas will also be increased. She said awareness campaigns will simultaneously be conducted to persuade residents to check breeding of mosquitoes on their terrace, coolers among other potential breeding places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-opens-14-centres-in-south-delhi-to-test-for-dengue-chikungunya/story-UQ8BFmCgPTtn8i436GVToI.html
04-09-2020||City||Contractor booked for raping minor in Zirakpur||A man was booked for raping a minor girl at a construction site in Zirakpur, police said on Friday. The minor works as domestic help. The incident took place on August 28, when the accused, who works as a contractor, asked the minor girl to come at a construction site on the pretext of work. When the minor reached the spot the accused raped her and threatened her not to reveal the incident to anyone. On Thursday, she narrated the incident to her mother after which a complaint was given to the police. Station house officer (SHO) of Zirakpur police station said, “We have booked the accused who will be arrested soon. A case under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the IPC and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual offence Act 2012 has been registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contractor-booked-for-raping-minor-in-zirakpur/story-kBboW6pTmxBJrTe81yi8qK.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||BJP chief writes to Kejriwal, urges him to rehabilitate slum dwellers displaced by SC order||Days after the Supreme Court ordered the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings, situated along railway tracks in Delhi, within three months, the BJP has urged the Delhi government to rehabilitate the displaced people in the vacant housing available at the government’s disposal. The Supreme Court on Monday, while hearing a plea filed in the MC Mehta case relating to Delhi pollution, issued the directions after the Indian Railways informed the court that despite a special task force constituted to remove encroachments, political interference was stopping the removal of slums. To ensure compliance of its order, the apex court has also stopped any other court from putting a stay on the demolition. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta has written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal requesting that the displaced slum inhabitants be provided housing at the government housing. Gupta said, “We request the CM to allot the available and vacant Rajiv Awas Yojana flats with the Delhi government to these residents on humanitarian grounds. As per our information, there are close to 50,000 flats lying vacant with the government.” Addressing a press conference on Friday, Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary said the Congress government under the late Sheila Dikshit had established the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) in 2010 with a clear mandate to provide safe housing to residents of slum clusters. “In the past few years, the state and centre have done nothing,” Chaudhary said. A Delhi government spokesperson said, “It is inhuman that the BJP favours the demolition of slums during a pandemic. The Delhi government is exploring all options on how to help them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-chief-writes-to-kejriwal-urges-him-to-rehabilitate-slum-dwellers-displaced-by-sc-order/story-0c25Wy5dFrmr7VBhGNIp3H.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||Three of gang arrested in IMT Manesar||The police have arrested three persons accused of being involved in over a dozen criminal cases including loot, theft, snatching, vehicle theft, ATM robbery and attempt to murder, in Gurugram, Rewari, and Mahendragarh. The police said the three suspects had escaped after an alleged confrontation with a crime branch team in Pataudi last week. On Thursday, they were arrested by the same crime branch team from village Bhangrola in IMT Manesar.The three suspects, Indravesh, 19, Dharmendra, 18, and Narender alias Soldier, 23,—all identified by their first names by the police— had allegedly robbed an SUV from Aliyar Chowk in IMT Manesar area on August 24 around 8.30 pm. According to the police, two of the suspects had got into the SUV, while the third suspect had followed them on his motorcycle to Pataudi. After the incident came to light, a crime branch team from Manesar had traced the location of the stolen car to Faridpur Karola road in Pataudi around 11 pm, the police had said.According to the police, when the crime branch team had reached the spot, Narender and Indravesh had rammed the stolen SUV into the police vehicle, dragging it for some 20 metres before pushing it off the road. The police team had fired two gunshots in retaliation, and one bullet had hit the bonnet of the SUV. As the doors of the police car had jammed due to the collision, the two suspects had escaped on foot into cotton and millet fields.While Dharmendra and Narender hail from Mahendragarh, Indravesh is from Charkhi Dadri. The police said Narender was recently released from jail after spending 17 months for allegedly uprooting an ATM in Mahendragarh.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “ Our probe revealed that after escaping, the two suspects had contacted their third aide (Dharmendra) and all three had fled on a motorcycle. Their plan was to sell the stolen SUV and buy a motorcycle with the cash, but it was foiled after their location was traced that night. Several FIRs have been registered against them in Gurugram, Mahendragarh, and Rewari. So far, we have traced at least ten cases against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-of-gang-arrested-in-imt-manesar/story-G1u5GG4ltoB2MADhsqsa8O.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Teachers’ Association elections to be held on September 25||Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Friday announced that it will hold elections on September 25. Returning officer and former Panjab University department of laws chairperson professor Vijay Nagpal said, “Nomination papers for PUTA elections will be received virtually but polling will take place in person. All safety protocols will be observed. The modalities will be fixed in the coming days. We are planning on providing slots and extending the timing of polling.” The votes will be counted on September 26. The returning officer’s proposals regarding the election were unanimously endorsed by the teachers’ body. In view of the pandemic, annual subscription fee will not be taken from existing PUTA members. However, retired faculty will cease to be members of PUTA.Teachers who could not enrol last year will be given a chance to become PUTA members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-association-elections-to-be-held-on-september-25/story-EhjGTFmuDhiKXKQ57gOU5J.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two snatching cases reported from Chandigarh||Two separate cases of mobile phone snatching were reported in Chandigarh, police said on Friday.In the first incident, two bike-borne men targeted Vijay Kumar, a resident of Sector 9, who works as domestic help. He told the police that on Thursday evening he was going back home on a cycle and when he reached near Sectors 7-26 roundabout, two men on a scooter snatched his phone and sped away. A complaint was lodged at Sector 26 police station.The police are scanning CCTVs installed in the area. Another snatching was reported from near a liquor shop on Sectors 19-27 road. The police said that Pushpinder landed into an argument with an unidentified person who snatched his phone. However, the police have recovered the phone from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-snatching-cases-reported-from-chandigarh/story-QnbQqtanPhky8DqUa90f3J.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||ASI imposes restrictions on export of heritage furniture of Chandigarh||The director (antiquity), Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), has asked the commissioner of customs, All Customs Exit Channel (air and seaports), to restrict the export of heritage furniture of Chandigarh.The letter was shared by the Archaeological Survey of India with Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell.“Since the Archaeological Survey of India has refused to act in the matter on the pretext that these items are not antiques, our furniture was being smuggled regularly to other countries and where millions were earned by smugglers and auction houses,” Jagga said.“As such, the communication of the director (antiquity), Archaeological Survey of India, has restored our hopes for complete protection of our heritage. Finally, the efforts to prohibit the smuggling of our furniture have yielded results,” he said.The city’s heritage furniture had been finding way in auction houses of various countries in the past many years and being auctioned running in crores of rupees.The furniture and other items like manholes were designed by Le Corbusier and Piere Jeanneret.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asi-imposes-restrictions-on-export-of-heritage-furniture-of-chandigarh/story-UFvlfr4W1pCUNhsdCfTmfO.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||No vehicles, staff crunch: Mohali’s stray sterilisation programme goes to the dogs||After a three-month hiatus due to the lockdown, the dog sterilisation programme had taken off in Mohali on June 22. However, in the absence of dog-catching vans and staff, the programme has remained toothless so far, with 2,690 dog bite cases reported over the last eight months. The stray dog population in Mohali has increased by approximately 1,000 over the last year. In June 2019, there were around 9,000 stray canines in Mohali, now there are approximately 10,000 dogs in the area, as per a rough estimate.Some of the worst affected areas where the strays reign the streets are Sectors 76 to 80, Phases 3-B1, 3B2, 4,5, 9 and 10. Such is the dog menace in these areas that residents are scared to step out of their homes. Dr Dinesh Chaudhary, who has been given the contract for the sterilisation programme says, the vehicle used to carry out the drive is being repaired. “The project is going at a slow pace as we are taking precaution in the wake of the pandemic,” Chaudhary says. Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg says, “We do not have enough staff to carry out dog and cattle sterilisation programmes due to Covid-19. However, I will direct the agency to speed up work as the number of stray dogs has gone up in Mohali.” Dummy operations In October 2019, the then chairperson of the stray dogs sterilisation committee Kuljeet Singh Bedi in a report had said the sterilisation programme only existed on paper. “Over the past two years it has been observed that the company tasked with the programme had been carrying out dummy operations,” the report had found.CL Garg, president, Confederation of Greater Mohali RWAs, the apex body of 65 RWAs, said, the civic body was not taking the stray dog menace seriously. “Officials do come to take the dogs but they hardly catch any and are often here only as a formality.” Civil Hospital Phase-6 nodal officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur Brar said, “Dog bite patients experience tremendous physical pain. Sometimes the bites can cause rabies, which can cause patients to become hydrophobic to the extent that even injecting a glucose drip becomes difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-vehicles-staff-crunch-mohali-s-stray-sterilisation-programme-goes-to-the-dogs/story-CYjE7KPWLncHCRGILtpNsJ.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER orders rollback of mandatory registration under National Digital Health Mission||Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has revisited its order asking its staffers to mandatorily get their health IDs created under the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM).The PGIMER administration in its order on August 28 had said that it is mandatory to get registered through the specific portals for the generation of health IDs. It is learned that after opposition from several quarters, the directive has been rolled back and the exercise has been made voluntarily. “The registration for generating health IDs is mandatory for all citizens of our country and Chandigarh administration has also initiated the registration process on the link shared by the Centre and directed to: get the facility registered, all the doctors registered and all others and their family members to get registered on this application mandatorily,” the order read.It added that all the staff members of this Institute are accordingly requested to get themselves registered under NDHM. However, the institute on Friday in another order said that the exercise is purely voluntary.Officials said that the order was rolled back after the NDHM authorities took up the matter with the PGIMER authorities stating that there has been some miscommunication.The government has said that the generation of health IDs will have the option of storing health records and it is a voluntary exercise.“As per NDHM policy, the objective of the mission is to create a system of digital personal and medical health records which is easily accessible to individuals and health service providers and is voluntary in nature. The registration for generation health IDs is a purely voluntary exercise,” the authorities said in a fresh order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-orders-rollback-of-mandatory-registration-under-national-digital-health-mission/story-aYrN2pObxOGXOC6laM7dsO.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn forms single-member Police Reforms Commission||With an aim to reform the overall police structure and its functioning in the Union territory, the Chandigarh administration has constituted a single-member Police Reforms Commission.Kanwar Bahadur Singh (retired IPS), who was IGP-cum-ADC to Governor of Punjab has been appointed as member of Police Reforms Commission. He retired on August 31.Significantly, the decision came in pursuance of the, “broad mandate of the Supreme Court in its September 22, 2006, judgment titled ‘Prakash Singh and Others versus Union of India,” stated the order issued by the UT home secretary Arun Gupta.On the mandate of the commission, the order reads, “The commission will suggest measures to improve police infrastructure, upgrade police functioning, that is, investigation, prosecution, forensic, intelligence, training etc in Chandigarh. It will identify shortage of manpower, if any, and recommend necessary manpower required in terms of police-public ratio.”The commission will give suggestions in the recruitment system, training and skill enhancement techniques and to develop a mechanism to deal with public grievances in respect of the police department. It will further recommend upgradation of police telecommunication network, improvement of intelligence gathering techniques, provision of police housing facilities and other welfare measures, stated the order.“The single-member Police Reforms Commission will be paid an honorarium of ₹1 lakh to be charged from police’s sanctioned budget,” the order reads.The commission will submit its report within a period of three months from the date of notification of its constitution. The Director General of Police will provide the necessary secretariat assistance office etc. to the commission, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-forms-single-member-police-reforms-commission/story-K6A3TbdsdFSMKnnT2zZaqO.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||No challan for not wearing mask while driving alone in Chandigarh||The UT administration has instructed the police not to issue challan to a person for not wearing a mask while driving a car and travelling alone.UT adviser Manoj Parida on Friday tweeted that instructions for the same have been issued to the Chandigarh Police. However, he clarified this won’t apply to two-wheeler riders. Officiating senior superintendent of police (traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena said, “Traffic cops have been instructed not to stop car drivers for this infraction from now on.”The Union Health Ministry had clarified that it is not mandatory for a person driving a car and travelling alone to wear a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-challan-for-not-wearing-mask-while-driving-alone-in-chandigarh/story-czcVZ5zo79uH934N7KctMJ.html
04-09-2020||Noida||Noida: 3 held for duping people on pretext of life insurance||Three men have been arrested for duping people of money on the pretext of providing them life insurance policies in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida, police said on Friday.The accused were held on Thursday near Sector 37 roundabout by a joint team of Sector 39 police station and the Cyber Cell, the police said.They have been identified as Durgesh alias Faizan, a resident of Delhi, Rahul and Padam Saini, both from Ghaziabad, a police spokesperson said.The accused had duped several people on the pretext of providing them life insurance policies. They would ask gullible people to transfer money into their account in lieu of the policy and then vanish,” the spokesperson said.“Recently, they had duped a man of Rs 90,000 similarly. The man who was cheated approached the police after which the trio was traced and arrested,” the official said.An FIR has been lodged against the accused men at the Sector 39 police station under Indian Penal Code section 420 (fraud) and the Information Technology (IT) Act, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-3-held-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-life-insurance/story-D4lkyg6T9dlpkNd4mc8SSM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nodal officers to be appointed at village level to combat stubble burning||Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Friday directed the deputy commissioners to appoint nodal officers at village-level to monitor and immediately report any incidents of stubble burning. A unique mobile app has also been developed this time to get real-time updates on burning incidents across the state, underlining the state government’s commitment to implementing the directions of the Supreme Court in true spirit to stop the menace of stubble burning. Presiding over a high-level multi stakeholder virtual review meeting, the chief secretary took stock of the actions taken so far by the departments concerned to ensure zero incidence of stubble burning. The virtual meeting was attended by representative of farmers, Punjab Agricultural University, ICAR, NGOs state government departments, and other stakeholders. The chief secretary said that nodal officers will be appointed especially in hotspot districts, namely Sangrur, Barnala, Patiala, Bathinda, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Mansa, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur. She also directed all DCs to make elaborate arrangements for the storage of paddy straw in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nodal-officers-to-be-appointed-at-village-level-to-combat-stubble-burning/story-ninHWwS9nUGNeturQVH6hK.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||By scrapping post-matric scholarship scheme, Modi govt deprived weaker sections: Jakhar||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Sunil Jakhar on Friday said the dual role of Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party stands exposed on the issue of scholarships to students with both parties protesting again. In a statement issued here, Jakhar said the Modi government had scrapped the scheme in 2017 and deprived the SC students of Rs 800 crore worth of assistance that was being disbursed every year but the SAD and BJP were playing politics on the issue now to cover up the failure of the NDA government. Assuring that the Punjab government will soon complete the ongoing inquiry into the controversy over distribution of scholarships, he said that by politicising the issue and shutting down the scheme, the non-Congress parties were trying to deprive the weaker sections of their right to education. The state Congress chief said that action will be taken against anyone found guilty but none can deny that the scholarship dispute was inherited from the previous government. The Post Matric Scholarship Scheme was started in 2006-07 by the then Congress Prime Minister Manmohan Singh-led government to provide higher education opportunities to the children of weaker sections. “But in 2017, the Modi government arbitrarily scrapped the scheme. Those who were taking to the streets today should raise their voice with the Central government for resumption of the scheme,” he said Referring to 2016, Jakhar said that even during the tenure of SAD-BJP government, the state government had admitted in the Vidhan Sabha that there was a big mess in the scheme and the then deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal had assured a vigilance inquiry. “During the tenure of the present government, only the scholarships of the previous government for the year 2016-17 were distributed and no new grant was received from the Government of India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/by-scrapping-post-matric-scholarship-scheme-modi-govt-deprived-weaker-sections-jakhar/story-R3VaejZlWBa9FEHlnAnSMN.html
04-09-2020||City||HC seeks reply from Himachal govt regarding financial aid for kin of covid victims||The Himachal Pradesh high court, on Friday, issued a notice to the state government and directed them to file a reply within three weeks in a matter related to providing financial help to families of those who died due to Covid-19.A division bench of chief justice L Narayana Swamy and justice Anoop Chitkara passed the order on a petition filed by advocate Tarun Pathak, who has alleged that Covid-19 has not only been declared as a pandemic but has also been notified as a disaster by the central government. So, for all purposes the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 should be applicable in case of this disease.He alleged that in March 2020, after declaring covid a disaster, the Centre provided that in case of death due to the virus, ex-gratia relief of Rs 4 lakh will be provided to kin of the deceased, but later, the said clause was withdrawn.He added that Bihar is providing ex gratia compensation to families of covid victims.He suggested that relief can be provided from the State Disaster Response Fund maintained under the said Act or from the chief minister’s relief fund. Keeping in view the minimal number of deaths due to Covid-19 in state, it will not put much financial burden on the state to pay the ex-gratia compensation to families of covid victims.The petitioner asked the court to direct the state to devise a plan to provide financial help to the families of those who die due to Covid-19 and to provide ex-gratia or other immediate financial aid to families of those who died due to covid after the same was declared a disaster, as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The Court posted the matter for October 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-seeks-reply-from-himachal-govt-regarding-financial-aid-for-kin-of-covid-victims/story-mPp2vqCOa4CPoVpchLldgI.html
04-09-2020||City||Chandigarh tricity logs 600 Covid cases for 1st time||Chandigarh/Mohali/Panchkula The number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 600 mark for the first time in the tricity, with 603 people testing positive for the virus while nine others succumbed to it on Friday.Mohali, too, recorded its steepest surge with 272 cases. Chandigarh and Panchkula reported 203 and 127 infections, respectively.The tricity had recorded the previous biggest spike on September 1 with 546 cases.The total number of infections has now risen to 12,542 of which 5,204 (42%) are active. Meanwhile, nine people died, taking the toll to 187.Five deaths in ChandigarhChandigarh on Friday recorded five deaths linked to Covid-19, while 203 more cases came to the fore pushing the Covid-19 tally to 5,268.District education officer (DEO) Harbir Singh Anand is among those who tested positive. Seven staffers from the accounts branch of the DEO office have also tested positive. The number of active cases stands at 2,092, while the toll has reached 67. Around 1,000 people await their test results.Among those who died four are men and three above the age of 70. They include an 80-year-old man from Sector 19, who had kidney and heart ailments besides diabetes and hypertension, and a 72-year-old man from Sector 52, who had similar complications.A 36-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony died due to “refractory shock sepsis and viral pneumonia” and a 72-year-old man from Raipur Khurd, who had a history of hypertension, also succumbed. A 51-year-old woman from Sector 32, who had diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism, also died on Friday. Meanwhile, 222 patients were discharged on Friday, including those who were asymptomatic and completed 10-day home isolation, the number of those recovered to 3,105.Mohali records its steepest spikeThree Covid-19 patients died taking Mohali’s toll to 94 as 272 people also tested positive for the virus in the district’s steepest single-day spike on Friday. The last biggest surge of 240 cases was reported on August 30. The total now stands at 4,495, with 2,058 cases still active.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said those who died had comorbidities and were hospitalised for more than a week. They include a 58-year-old man from Baltana who was also suffering from hypertension and a 52-year-old woman from Shahimajra who had both diabetes and hypertension. Both were undergoing treatment at the PGIMER, Chandigarh. A 63-year-old woman from Sector 114 is the third fatality. She was suffering from diabetes and died at a private hospital in Mohali. Among the fresh cases, 93 are from Mohali city, 59 from Gharuan, 56 from Dhakoli, 34 from Kharar, 18 from Dera Bassi and the remaining from other parts of the district. Meanwhile, 82 patients were also discharged on Friday, taking the number of those cured to 2,343.90-yr-old woman dies in Panchkula Three residents and a driver of an old age home managed by Red Cross Society in Sector 15, Panchkula, are among 127 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday.Also, a 90-year-old woman from Sector 21, who was suffering from diabetes as well, succumbed, taking the toll to 25. Maximum cases were reported from Pinjore, including that of a 16-month-old boy. While 13 each surfaced in Kalka and Raipurani, 15 people tested positive in Panchkula’s Sector 15 alone. The three senior citizens were symptomatic and thus were tested for Covid-19. The health authorities have sanitised the old age home and shifted the three to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. The remaining 18 residents have tested negative. They will be tested again in a week to rule out the spread of infection, said a health official.The total number of cases in the district has reached 2,799, of which 1,054 are active while 1,720 patients have been cured and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-logs-600-covid-cases-for-1st-time/story-ugMuI4tUqJqEUGT9lEKZDM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking to resume interstate buses from Sept 16||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses will start plying on interstate routes from September 16. The UT administration on Friday also allowed state transport buses from elsewhere to ply on interstate routes to and from Chandigarh.The UT transport department has issued letters to Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, informing them about the decision. Along with ordinary buses, air-conditioned ones have also been allowed.The decision was taken in the Friday’s war room review meeting chaired by UT administrator VPS Badnore. It comes following the central government’s Unlock 4 guidelines rolled out from September 1.The interstate bus service will restart after more than five months. It was resumed during Unlock 1 in June as well but was discontinued after two days seeing a sudden surge in cases. There are 153 CTU buses plying on the various interstate routes.“We are planning to resume bus service first only on main interstate routes. These are yet to be finalised,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport. “While planning the roll out, we will have to incorporate lockdown measures adopted in different states. For instance, night restrictions on movement in Punjab will determine timings of buses going to the state.”Safety firstThe buses will be operated in compliance with Covid-19 guidelines and precautions issued by the government from time to time. The UT transport department has also issued standard operating procedure for interstate buses.Tickets will be issued either in the bus or through online booking. No counters will be opened. Boarding and deboarding will be allowed only at the ISBTs in Sectors 17 and 43.Bus crew will have to ensure passengers wear mask during the journey and maintain social distancing. No passenger will be allowed to deboard without wearing a mask.Buses will operate only at 50% of their seating capacity and buses will be sanitised after the journey. Although, Aarogya Setu app is not mandatory, passengers will be encouraged to use it.Mandi to be shifted back to Sector 26For restarting the bus service from ISBT, Sector 17, the administration has directed the market committee to shift the vegetable and fruit market back to the Sector 26.The mandi was shifted to the ISBT after the Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, was declared a containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-undertaking-to-resume-interstate-buses-from-sept-16/story-gJgCjos7CXSX6V9TSshOWP.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, Centre asks Chandigarh admn to pull up socks||Expressing concern over the sharp surge in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh in the last one month, the Centre has directed the UT administration to create more quarantine centres, it is learnt.The administration in turn has sought a team of medical experts from the Centre to guide it in containing the spread of the disease in the city. The request was made in the review meeting on Covid-19 pandemic held with secretaries of Union health ministry and home ministry through video-conferencing on Friday.Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “I made a request for a team of medical experts to help us decide on the strategy to handle the situation. The team will also guide us in how to contain the spread.”Of particular concern for senior central government officials was the sudden surge in the number of cases after relatively low rate of spread in comparison to the country for initial four months.“The central government officials asked the UT to create more quarantine centres in the city. We have also been asked to keep a stricter vigil on the self-quarantined people, and better facilitate their shift to hospitals or quarantine facilities as and when required,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.The Union officials also inquired about requirements of doctors, beds or any other equipment for containing the spread of the virus.“While stating that adequate beds are currently available in the city, the administration requested the Centre to ask the PGIMER to allocate more beds exclusively to the city. Currently, the PGIMER total bed capacity is being shared with Punjab, Haryana and other states too,” said the official.The UT also requested for the supply of 40 more ventilators from the Centre. Of these, 20 will be allocated to the PGIMER and 20 to GMCH, Sector 32. “As of now, the requirement is being met. The request has been made to meet any contingency. The 20 ventilators for GMCH will be shared with the Sector 48 civil hosptial,” the official said.ALARM BELLS RINGINGAugust proved to be the worst month for Chandigarh with 3,300 positive cases and 41 deaths being reported. This means that 75% of the total cases (from March 18 to August 31) were reported in August alone while more than 73% deaths were also registered the same month.The surge has continued in the first four days of September, with Chandigarh consistently reporting more than 200 new cases each day. As many as 922 cases have surfaced in this period, which is 17.5% of the total 5,268 cases. Also, almost 40% of the UT’s cases are still active.The city’s cumulative test positivity rate (TPA) is 15.6%. Positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive – is a crucial metric which suggests spread of infection in the community.“Apart from this, Chandigarh recorded 6% average growth rate of infections. The average growth rate essentially means the speed at which Covid-19 infections increases. The city’s fatality rate on Friday stood at 1.29%, while the recovery rate was 58.9% against the national average is 77.15%,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-covid-surge-centre-asks-chandigarh-admn-to-pull-up-socks/story-uO5bbtRrZycRdbVw2IsE9H.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Trouble mounts for ex-DGP Saini as SIT gets more time to arrest him||With a second judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court recusing himself from hearing the anticipatory bail plea of ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a 32-year-old case of the disappearance of Mohali resident Balwinder Singh Multani, the retired top cop is facing the biggest challenge of his life. The Special Investigating Team (SIT) is also making fresh efforts to arrest him. Over the past few days, the SIT has conducted raids across different states, including Saini’s ancestral farm house in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh. He has evaded arrest and the SIT is clueless about his movements. The high court is yet to fix the next date of hearing for his anticipatory bail, but it has given more time to SIT to nab Saini. The SIT has consistently maintained that his custodial interrogation in the case is a must. A senior police functionary, monitoring the case, said special teams have been sent to at least ten locations to arrest Saini, including Delhi. “There is immense pressure on the SIT to arrest Saini,” admitted the police functionary.Uneasy calm outside Saini’s residence Holding Z-plus security, Saini has been underground for days, with an uneasy calm prevailing outside his private house in Sector 20. An HT team found a jammer vehicle stationed outside the house, with CRPF personnel standing guard. A few Punjab Police personnel, in civvies, were also found guarding the gate, but they refused to come on record. The entire Saini family is said to have gone underground for over the past two weeks at least. On Thursday, however, Saini’s wife had written a letter to the Punjab DGP and the chief secretary claiming that the security of her husband had been withdrawn. The government, however, denied the charges immediately and termed it as a tactic of the Saini family to divert attention from the case, as the high court was to listen to the ex-DGP’s bail plea on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trouble-mounts-for-ex-dgp-saini-as-sit-gets-more-time-to-arrest-him/story-Qq6nOjSiej98ihE52I5t2M.html
04-09-2020||City||SBS Nagar woman held for murdering lover||A 45-year-old woman has been arrested for allegedly murdering her lover by administering him an overdose of drugs in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. The accused has been identified as Pinki, a resident of Railmajra village. The victim, Sandeep Kumar, 28, of the same village, had reportedly been in an illicit relationship with Pinki for the last four years.His brother, Sanjiv Kumar, told the police that their third brother Sunny was informed by villagers that Sandeep was lying dead at Pinki’s house. “We immediately rushed to the spot and on seeing him dead, informed the police,” he said.Investigating officer, inspector Bharat Masih said that Pinki was involved in illegal liquor smuggling and is already facing two or three cases under the Excise Act.Now, a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. She was produced in the court on Friday and sent to four days’ police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sbs-nagar-woman-held-for-murdering-lover/story-91d4O2vV9Q02lnVTdW0jfK.html
04-09-2020||City||BSF recovers 9kg heroin from int’l border in Amritsar||The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered around 9kg heroin along the India-Pakistan International border in Amritsar on Friday. As per a press release issued here by public relations office, BSF (Punjab Frontier), nine packets of heroin were recovered from the area during a search. “Vigilant troops of the BSF once again thwarted the attempt of anti-national elements to push the consignment of contraband items into India,” said the BSF officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-recovers-9kg-heroin-from-int-l-border-in-amritsar/story-zWiH1eF5kxOWwPfOMySqSN.html
04-09-2020||City||80% of patients detected at ‘early stage’, helps prevent deaths: Punjab govt||Early identification of Covid-19 infection through timely testing has played a pivotal role in Punjab’s strategy to fight the pandemic, the state government has claimed. “Over 80% of coronavirus patients in Punjab were detected during a median period of 2–6 days after the infection, when people had just started exhibiting initial symptoms. Timely testing and contract tracing helped. In addition, 18% of patients came out positive, when they had already reached level-2, with difficulty in breathing. Most of these patients had low oxygen levels, but many of them recovered. The rest 2% of cases were detected at level-3,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19.Till September 3, Punjab has reported 58,515 cases of Covid-19, of which 41,271 have recovered. The fatality rate is the third-worst in the country with 1,690 succumbing to Covid-19. At present, 68 patients are critical and are on ventilator support, while 470 are on oxygen support.Dr Bhaskar added, “At level-3, an hyper-activated immune system may cause injury to the heart, kidneys, and other organs. Most people, who have died due to the virus in the state, were in level 2 and 3. The rapid antigen test (RAT) is also helping us detect the virus at an early stage. Fatality rate will be controlled soon. Early diagnosis, quarantine, and supportive treatments are essential.”“People should not ignore common symptoms like cough, cold and fever. Patients who came to hospitals at later stages succumbed to Covid-19 without getting any treatment. Many patients could have been saved, had they come to the hospital on time. We are trying to trace all contacts of each patient, before they get symptoms. People should not hide initial symptoms from the health department,” said Dr Amarjit Singh, assistant civil surgeon, Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-of-patients-detected-at-early-stage-helps-prevent-deaths-punjab-govt/story-67ymnfRosYI2UF8WKLe5dI.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala division to run 18 special trains for NDA exam candidates||Eighteen special trains will run for candidates in different parts of the region who are appearing for the exam for admission to National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy (NA), to ferry them to Chandigarh, where the exam is scheduled on Sunday. The Ambala division will be running 18 special trains to bring candidates from Pathankot, Delhi, Gurdaspur, Faridkot, Fazilka, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Saharanpur and Una to Chandigarh and then ferry them back.As per railway officials, seven special trains will start on Saturday night from stations including Pathankot, Delhi, Gurdaspur, Faridkot, Fazilka, Bhiwani and Sirsa to transport students, while two trains from Saharanpur and Una will start on Sunday morning.Speaking about this, divisional railway manager (DRM) Ambala, Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “The trains will have stoppages to facilitate the travel of as many students as possible. As of now, we don’t have information on how many students will board the trains.”Ambala division senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Hari Mohan said that all ticket counters will be open on the railway station so students can buy tickets while maintaining social distancing. “Tickets can be booked online from Saturday morning. Each train can ferry around 1,500 students who will have to show their admit card while purchasing tickets.”The NDA examination is scheduled to be held in various government schools in the city on Sunday. It consists of a mathematics exam to be from 10 am to 12:30 pm and a general ability exam from 2 pm to 4:30 pm. There are no examination centres in Punjab and Haryana so students from both states are expected to come to Chandigarh to take the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-division-to-run-18-special-trains-for-nda-exam-candidates/story-kjYkdUdoJQq18ZMAQR7WBP.html
04-09-2020||City||Religious places to reopen in Himachal from September 10||Religious places, including temples, will reopen in Himachal Pradesh from September 10, the state cabinet decided in a meeting held here on Friday.The meeting was presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.The language, art and culture department will issue the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for opening the temples and measures to be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Temples in Himachal were shut for public on March 17 in wake of the pandemic. There has been a demand from the public to reopen temples. The state has some major shrines including Naina Devi, Baba Balak Nath, Chamunda, Bajreshwari Devi, Jwalamukhi, Baijnath and Chintpurni.Registration for people entering state to continue The cabinet has also decided to continue with the registration process for people entering the state till September 15. The registration system was put in place for monitoring and contact tracing of Covid-19 cases.It also decided to reduce the quarantine period for people coming from other states from 14 days to 10 days. The district administration will strictly enforce the use of masks and social distancing.The cabinet also decided to provide wheat flour and rice to the income tax payee Above Poverty Line (APL) Consumers under the Public Distribution System as earlier. Pulses, edible oil, salt and sugar will also be given on actual rates.To achieve the vision of ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ by creating a sustainable ecosystem of affordable rental housing solutions for urban migrants/poor and to achieve overall objective of ‘Housing for All’, the state cabinet has decided to request the ministry of housing and urban affairs to sign a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) related to Affordable Rental Housing Complexes Scheme with the state government.The cabinet also gave approval to open a sub-treasury at Nagrota Bagwan in Kangra district along with creation of five posts of different categories to manage it.A consent was given to open a sub-tehsil at Bagachanogi in Thunag of Mandi district and creation of 12 posts of different categories. The newly created sub-tehsil will have six patwar circles including Shawa, Kalhani, Kalipar, Shilhibagi and Jainshla.Approval was also given to open patwar circle Jainshla under Thunag tehsil of Mandi district keeping in view the tough geographic conditions of the area.The cabinet also decided to fill up 10 posts of Class IV employees in Panchayati Raj Department and approved transfer of gram panchayat Kot from police station Shimla East (Chhota Shimla) to police station west (Boileauganj) to facilitate people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/religious-places-to-reopen-in-himachal-from-september-10/story-t9Nq7naAXIqeZ2MCNwVMUI.html
04-09-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 discharge rate in West Bengal rises to 84.48%, 58 fresh deaths reported||The Covid-19 discharge rate in West Bengal rose to 84.48 per cent on Friday, after 3,305 more people recovered from the disease, the health department said.The death toll due to the infection mounted to 3,452 with 58 fresh fatalities, the department said in its bulletin.At least 2,978 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state, which pushed the tally to 1,74,659, the bulletin said.The number of active cases currently stands at 23,654.As many as 45,620 samples have been tested for Covid- 19 in the state in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-discharge-rate-in-bengal-rises-to-84-48-58-more-deaths-reported/story-tll2SOpJBofvk9XX4bqJDN.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||BCI asks Delhi Bar Council to examine Prashant Bhushan’s contempt case||The Bar Council of India (BCI) has asked Bar Council of Delhi to examine the conviction and fine of Re one imposed on activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan by the Supreme Court in a contempt case and take a legally-mandated decision with regard to his rights as a lawyer.The Bar Council of a state grants license to a person to practice as a lawyer and has wide powers such as suspending or taking away the right of its members in certain situations to practice under the Advocates Act.“The General Council of the Bar Council of India has unanimously resolved to direct the Bar Council of Delhi, where Prashant Bhushan is enrolled as an Advocate, to examine the matter and proceed as per law and rules to decide the same as expeditiously as possible,” the BCI said in its resolution.  Bhushan on Monday was fined one rupee as punishment in the contempt case.A bench headed by Justice Aruna Mishra (since retired) had convicted Bhushan for his two tweets against the judiciary. As a punishment he was directed to deposit the fine with the Supreme Court registry by September 15, failing which he would have to undergo three-month jail term and debarment from law practice for three years.The apex bar body said it deliberated upon the the apex court judgment in its general council meeting held on September 3 and held that the tweets and statements made by Bhushan and the SC judgment need thorough study and examination “in the light of the statutory duties, powers and functions conferred on it under the Advocates’ Act and the rules framed thereunder”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bci-asks-delhi-bar-council-to-examine-prashant-bhushan-s-contempt-case/story-5XHiHtKqB92qqMlKoFPoEI.html
04-09-2020||City||Kapurthala jail authorities foil escape bid by 4 inmates||Authorities managed to foil an escape bid by four prisoners of the Kapurthala Modern jail and also recovered two mobile phones from their possession.The inmates have been identified as Vishal alias Sonu of Jalandhar, Baljinder Singh of Madhya Pradesh, Sarabjit Singh of Neel Mahal in Jalandhar and Manmeet Singh of Rama Mandi in Jalandhar.The inmates had broken the ventilation window of their barrack with some bricks and were planning to escape. However, a team led by assistant jail superintendent Paramjit Singh found it during a surprise check and also recovered two mobiles, a SIM card and a memory card from them.A case under Sections 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension), 511 (attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 54 of the Prisons Act and 543 (10) of the Jail Manuals Act has been registered against them.Inmate attempts suicide after authorities recover phone from himAnother jail inmate, gangster Taranjot Singh of Gurdaspur, attempted suicide after jail authorities found a phone in his possession. Authorities said that to put pressure on the jail staff, he cut himself. Jail superintendent Baljit Singh Ghuman said the inmate had been admitted to the civil hospital for treatment and a case would be recommended against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kapurthala-jail-authorities-foil-escape-bid-by-4-inmates/story-hHRMPeXpuHp8ws7zGDtdZI.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||AAP only interested in furthering political agenda, says Amarinder||Chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday trashed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s claims of successful Covid management by Delhi government and expressed shock that the party’s leaders had chosen to put their petty political interests above the state’s security. “On one hand, they talk of working together to fight the unprecedented crisis, and on the other, they are shamelessly ignoring the persistent attempts by Pakistan to foment fresh trouble in our state by spreading false propaganda,” he said. Reacting to the statements of some AAP leaders, the CM said they seemed more focused on launching a personal attack on him rather than on condemning the Covid disinformation being spread in the state’s villages. Amarinder said the Delhi CM’s announcement on AAP workers going around Punjab villages with Oxymeters “further exposed their desperation to woo the people in a state, where they have no political standing left”. He said unlike the Kejriwal government, which had to beg for help from the Centre when cases peaked in the national capital, Punjab was fully prepared to handle the crisis. He added that while 10,000 Pulse Oxymeters had already been distributed, a tender had also been placed for another 50,000 to support the frontline health workers, home isolation patients etc. AAP slams CaptPatiala: AAP slammed the Punjab CM for calling Delhi CM Kejriwal, a traitor, post his announcement to distribute oximeters in Punjab. Addressing a joint press conference in Patiala on Friday, AAP’s state unit president Bhagwant Mann and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said, “Instead of thanking Kejriwal for helping the people of Punjab, the CM’s has made ridiculous comments against the Delhi CM.” Referring to Amarinder’s personal associations, the AAP leaders added, “The people of Punjab are well aware of who is the actual traitor is.” Mann went on to say the panchayats across the state have lost faith and confidence on Captain Amarinder and his government which is why they are reluctant to give samples for Covid testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aap-only-interested-in-furthering-political-agenda-says-amarinder/story-dbEis4rwjDVsQD74eKYeeJ.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi logs highest ever single-day spike of nearly 3,000 Covid-19 cases in last 69 days; tally over 185,000||Authorities on Friday said that Delhi registered 2,914 coronavirus (Covid-19) cases, the highest ever in last 69 days, which pushed the overall tally to over 185,220. The total cases include 18,842 active cases, over 4,513 deaths and over 160,000 recoveries. This is the fourth consecutive day when over 2,000 cases have been recorded in the national capital in a period of 24 hours, which has triggered fears of a second wave of Covid-19. On Thursday, 2,737 cases were reported while 2,312 and 2,509 cases were added on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. Also read: More than 6.15 lakh fined for violating Covid-19 norms in RajasthanEarlier, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the current rise in cases “cannot be called a second wave” of Covid-19. “You can’t say it is a second wave. We could have called it a second wave if there were no positive cases for one or two months and then cases would’ve started coming again. The virus is still there in Delhi,” Jain added.Delhi on Thursday conducted record 32,834 daily tests to detect Covid-19. This surge comes after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that testing in Delhi would be doubled to 40,000 tests per day.Meanwhile, India reported more than 83,000 Covid-19 cases for the second successive day, taking the overall tally to over 3.93 million, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard on Friday. The active cases have climbed to 831,124 while recoveries are over 3 million.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-logs-highest-ever-single-day-spike-of-nearly-3-000-covid-19-cases-in-last-69-days-tally-over-185-000/story-VVXMkeItdThRVra9uD8jeK.html
04-09-2020||City||Himachal sees biggest single-day spike with 215 fresh Covid-19 infections||The Covid-19 caseload in Himachal Pradesh mounted to 6,830 on Friday as the state witnessed biggest single-day spike of 215 fresh infections. Of the new cases, 37 were reported in Kangra, 35 in Solan, 33 each in Chamba and Sirmaur, 32 in Mandi, 20 in Una, 8 in Shimla, 7 each in Hamirpur and Bilaspur and three in Kullu. Active cases climbed to 1,815 while 4,920 people have recovered so far. Chamba chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Rajesh Guleri said 17 workers of a power project in Bharmour sub-division were among 33 people who tested positive in the district. The patients were in home quarantine since their arrival from Hazaribag, Jharkhand over a week ago. Nine people have tested positive in Mangla village near Chamba town. They are primary contacts of Covid patients. Three people in Chowari and one in Kihar, who came in direct contact with Covid-19 patients, have also contracted the infection. Besides, two health workers have tested positive in Chowari and Bathri. Kangra and Sirmaur’s tally crossed the 1,000-mark with 37 and 33 cases respectively. With 1,568 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Sirmaur where 1,013 cases have been reported till date. Kangra has 1003 cases, Hamirpur 618, Una 553, Chamba 475, Mandi 435, Shimla 384, Bilaspur 381, Kullu 290 and 102 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported eight Covid-19 cases till date. Virus claims two more lives A 72-year-old woman died due to the virus in Sirmaur late on Thursday. The deceased was not keeping well for past few days. She was undergoing treatment at YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan. Her condition deteriorated on Thursday and she breathed her last late evening. One death was reported in Kangra. The death toll in Himachal has mounted to 48. Solan has registered maximum 13 deaths, Kangra 9, Mandi 7, Hamirpur 5, Chamba and Shimla 4 each and Una and Sirmaur two each. Former BJP chief in home isolation Himachal finance commission chairman and former state BJP president Satpal Singh Satti went into home isolation on Friday after coming into direct contact with some party workers who have tested positive for Covid-19. “I am fit and praying for wellbeing of all. I have been attending some public function for last few days and came in direct contact with some fellow party workers who have tested positive for the virus. So, I am home isolating and will not be available for next few days,” Satti wrote on his Facebook page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/90-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-tally-reaches-6-705/story-hDLgOY1Og31v8YlrkmEATO.html
04-09-2020||City||Tibetans cheer for security forces in Shimla as they leave for China border||Members of the Tibetan community in Shimla cheered for security personnel on Friday as they left for deployment along the Indo-China border in Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts. The Tibetans staying in the Panthaghati settlement gathered along the highway in Shimla to with the personnel of the special frontier force luck and honoured them with the khata, the Buddhist prayer scarf. The Special Tibetan Frontier Force comprises a large number of Tibetan exiles. Convoys of military vehicles carrying the personnel are headed to the border areas in Himachal Pradesh from their base in Sugar Sector amid the standoff with China. The members of the Tibetan community wished for a free Tibet in future with the efforts of India. “This force plays an important role during such standoffs. It is the duty of the Tibetan community-in-exile to support and boost the morale of the forces,” a member of the gathering said. Other residents of Shimla also expressed solidarity with the forces. “It’s a privilege and proud moment for us to honour the bravehearts of the country,” said Rakesh Sharma, a former deputy mayor of the Shimla municipal corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tibetans-cheer-for-security-forces-in-shimla-as-they-leave-for-china-border/story-RjveH3vLGr4Ga6Ue2g9U2K.html
04-09-2020||City||₹1.12-crore project to plant 90K bamboo sampling in Kangra this year||The Himachal Pradesh government is promoting bamboo cultivation in arid and semi-arid areas of Kangra district under the National Bamboo Mission to ensure sustainable income to farmers.Deputy director, agriculture at Palampur, PD Saini said this season, the department is distributing 15,000 bamboo saplings among farmers of four development blocks in Kangra district. “Forty bamboo plants can be planted on one kanal land,” he said. Saini said the demand for bamboo remains high throughout the year in Himachal. “Therefore, the department has prepared an action plan worth ₹1.12 crore for 2020-21, under which there is a proposal to plant 90,000 saplings in 90-hectare area under the Prime Minister National Bamboo Mission Scheme,” he said.There is a provision of 50% subsidy or a maximum amount of ₹25,000 for planting 1,000 saplings in 25 kanals on an individual land. He said there is also a proposal to provide training and financial assistance to unemployed youth for setting up bamboo-related industries under the scheme.“The plan has been submitted to the Centre. If approved, it will help in providing sustainable income to people, especially weaker sections in rural areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-12-crore-project-to-plant-90k-bamboo-sampling-in-kangra-this-year/story-V7EFaqExZ4AnunKXIOL9FL.html
04-09-2020||City||Congress asks Himachal govt to access losses due to heavy rains||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Friday demanded that the state government should provide relief to farmers and orchardists by assessing the loss caused by heavy rainfall and landslides in the state in recent days.Rathore also demanded the clearance of closed link roads, especially, in rural areas. In a statement issued here, Rathore said the state government should immediately send officials of the revenue department to all districts in order to assess the losses.He said financial aid should be provided to farmers and orchardists whose crops have been damaged due to the rains.Expressing concern over poor conditions of roads, Rathore said roads in rural areas of Shimla district are in poor conditions and as a result accidents of apple-laden trucks are also being reported daily.“The state government needs to clear the link roads which have been closed due to landslides as the apple season is in its peak,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-asks-himachal-govt-to-access-losses-due-to-heavy-rains/story-xDTi4Ma5Ug1M8m5dOneAnJ.html
04-09-2020||City||Explore avenues of forest-based industry in Himachal: Minister to officials||Himachal Pradesh forest minister Rakesh Pathania on Friday presided over a meeting of the department to explore avenues for setting up of forest-based industry in the state.He said multifarious activities need to be set up in the state to generate revenues and provide employment opportunities to the locals. He emphasised on establishing an industry for promotion of forest-based flower, fruits, dry fruits and herbs. He also stressed on the need for setting up of pine unit in the state.A policy and guidelines for collection and removal of Chil Pine needles was also discussed. During the meeting, it was informed that a provision of investment subsidy of 50% of the capital cost for establishing pine needle based industry was being provided by the department.As per the amendments in HP Forest Produce Transit Rules 1978, the pine needles are treated in the list of minor forest produce and export permit fee has been fixed for Rs 5 per quintal.Pathania said industries and stakeholders such as panchayats, mahila mandals, yuvak mandals, NGOs and village forest management societies will be encouraged to involve in removal of chil pine needles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/explore-avenues-of-forest-based-industry-in-himachal-minister-to-officials/story-lf2Z5rJ8alvjm0LA7kjgmL.html
04-09-2020||City||Mohali reports biggest single-day surge as 272 people test positive for Covid-19||Three Covid-19 patients died taking Mohali’s toll to 94 as 272 people also tested positive for the virus in the district’s steepest single-day spike on Friday. The last biggest surge of 240 cases was reported on August 30. The total now stands at 4,495, with 2,058 cases still active.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said those who died had comorbidities and were hospitalised for more than a week. They include a 58-year-old man from Baltana who was also suffering from hypertension and a 52-year-old woman from Shahimajra who had both diabetes and hypertension. Both were undergoing treatment at the PGIMER, Chandigarh. A 63-year-old woman from Sector 114 is the third fatality. She was suffering from diabetes and died at a private hospital in Mohali. Among the fresh cases, 93 are from Mohali city, 59 from Gharuan, 56 from Dhakoli, 34 from Kharar, 18 from Dera Bassi and the remaining from other parts of the district. Meanwhile, 82 patients were also discharged on Friday, taking the number of those cured to 2,343.90-yr-old woman dies in PanchkulaThree residents and a driver of an old age home managed by Red Cross Society in Sector 15, Panchkula, are among 127 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Friday.Also, a 90-year-old woman from Sector 21, who was suffering from diabetes as well, succumbed, taking the toll to 25. Maximum cases were reported from Pinjore, including that of a 16-month-old boy. While 13 each surfaced in Kalka and Raipurani, 15 people tested positive in Panchkula’s Sector 15 alone. The three senior citizens were symptomatic and thus were tested for Covid-19. The health authorities have sanitised the old age home and shifted the three to the isolation ward of the civil hospital. The remaining 18 residents have tested negative. They will be tested again in a week to rule out the spread of infection, said a health official.The total number of cases in the district has reached 2,799, of which 1,054 are active while 1,720 patients have been cured and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-reports-biggest-single-day-surge-as-272-people-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Y7rsc8w13RAHB7v2IRXwXM.html
04-09-2020||Jaipur||More than 6.15 lakh fined for violating Covid-19 norms in Rajasthan||Over 6.5 lakh people in Rajasthan have been fined so far for violating guidelines which have been imposed to combat the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing when outdoors. Director General of Police (Crime) M L Lather said that the fines were collected under the Rajasthan Epidemic Ordinance. The fines collected by the state government amount to over nine crore Rupees. According to the Rajasthan Epidemic Ordinance, the state government has powers to undertake special measures or regulations which have to be followed by the members of the public in case of an outbreak of any epidemic disease. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSome of these measures include sealing of borders, restriction on public gatherings and movement of people, restricting functioning of offices- government and private along with educational institutions across the state. Rajasthan on Friday registered 738 cases and seven fatalities due to Covid-19. The state’s tally has now mounted to 86,965 which include 70,189 discharges, 1,102 deaths and over 13,000 active cases. Meanwhile, The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Thursday said it has collected Rs 27.48 lakh as fine from nearly 2,800 people in Mumbai who were penalised for not wearing a mask while outdoors between April 9 and August 31. Andheri (West), Kandivli, Marine Lines, Pydhonie and Kalbadevi saw the highest number of violaters, as per officials. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/more-than-6-15-lakh-fined-for-violating-covid-19-norms-in-rajasthan/story-pLLhvoX9AsKKKOKkS8lBHL.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal assures trade, industry of relief in fixed power charges||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has assured representatives of trade and industry associations that the government will provide relief regarding the fixed power charges that commercial and industrial units are obliged to pay despite economic losses due to Covid-19.According to an official release, CM Kejriwal met the traders and industrial associations over the last few days, and assured them that adequate steps will be taken to provide relief, vis-a-vis the fixed power charges.Over the last few days, many trader associations and industrial associations have requested CM Kejriwal to intervene in this regard and provide relief to them. Over the last few days, the Delhi CM also met several associations, clarifying that the revenue situation of the Delhi government has taken a hit owing to the complete shutdown of businesses and the economy due to coronavirus.He said that while the decision to impose a complete lockdown then was essential, Delhi has now decided to lift the lockdown and it will take time to cover the economic shortfall now that businesses and industries have resumed. A few days back, Kejriwal had announced that the revenue has fallen from Rs3,500 crore in April of the previous years to Rs300 crore this year. He assured the representatives of the traders and industrial associations that steps to provide ease for fixed power charges, to owners of commercial and industrial units will be taken by the Delhi government as soon as possible.Various stakeholders and representatives of these units have been meeting the CM and requesting his intervention, as most of the units have remained closed due to Covid-19 lockdown. Following the Unlock guidelines of the Centre, the Delhi government has allowed several economic activities in the national capital. At several stages, CM Kejriwal has announced various measures to revive the economy of Delhi.Recently, the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission had announced no power tariff hike for the 6th year in a row, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-assures-trade-industry-of-relief-in-fixed-power-charges/story-RNKLUH5hR9xLv4eS9vwGEJ.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Three, including doctor arrested for forging Covid-19 reports: Police||Three persons including a doctor were arrested for forging Covid-19 test reports of patients after a complaint by a reputed lab, the police said on Friday.Speaking to reporters, the police said that some patients had approached the lab asking it whether the Covid-19 reports were true, upon which it was found that those were forged, following which the three were arrested.“We got a complaint from a reputed lab that some people enquired from them whether the results shown to them were authentic. However, after going through reports it found that all test reports were forged. After this, the lab complaint at Hauz Khas Police station,” Atul Thakur, DCP, Delhi Police, told reporters.Giving further details about the case, he added, “After questioning doctor Atul Parashar, he agreed to his crime. He had acquaintances namely Amit Singh and Sonu. The latter used to visit Covid-19 patients after wearing PPE kits at their residences and took samples from them. Amit then used to make forged reports, which the doctor then used to share with clients. After this, the trio used to destroy samples.”“While the three have been arrested, more arrests will be made in the case,” he said further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-including-doctor-arrested-for-forging-covid-19-reports-police/story-XMEf1WS4TKr739ZWDf4GgL.html
04-09-2020||Kolkata||3 more West Bengal varsities to hold final semester exams virtually in October||Three more state universities on Thursday said they would be conducting the final semester examination in virtual mode in October and publish the results by end of that month.The varsities are North Bengal University, Vidyasagar University and Raiganj University.The Vice-Chancellor of North Bengal University Subiresh Bhattacharya told PTI, “we will be conducting final semester exams from October 1 to 8 in virtual mode.” Bhattacharya said as per virtual mode, the university will be emailing questions to the colleges who will in turn email it to students at the time of exams.Also read: University free to hold exams for 1st, 2nd year students: SCThe students can write the papers digitally or download the question for writing on paper and submitting the same to the collection centre set up by the university within 24 hours.“The results will be out by October 31,” he said.Vice-Chancellor of Vidyasagar University Prof Ranjan Chakraborty said, “we will withdraw the final semester evaluation results soon.” He said Vidyasagar University will upload the questions only for candidates and concerned faculty during the exams on its portal from where it will be downloaded and replied Further modalities were being chalked out, he said.Officials of the Raiganj University also said that the final semester examination will be held in virtual mode in October and the results will be published by the end of October.Also read: JEE Mains 2020: 75% candidates in Bengal could not write exams on Tuesday due to Covid-19 situation, says MamataEarlier Calcutta University Vice-Chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Banerjee on Wednesday had announced that the varsity will conduct the final semester exams online from October 1 to 18 and the results will be published by October 31.Repeated attempts to contact Jadavpur University Vice-Chancellor Prof Suranjan Das elicited no response.Another top JU source said the varsity was weighing pros and cons of holding virtual exams as it did not want any digital divide among candidates - not depriving those having no smartphone or poor net connectivity.Arts Faculty Students’ Union Chairperson Teerna Bhattacharya said the JU authorities told them a decision will be held about future steps with regard to the state government’s decision for conducting final semester exams by October.“None can play with the career of students. Many of our friends on the basis of the results of the evaluation process in July in arts and science faculties have already appeared for interviews with CVs. Now if that evaluation process is declared invalid, what will happen to those friends of ours.“Again if JU authorities talk about following digital mode in exams, the issue of many students not in possession of smartphones will come up. Let’s see what the authorities decide. If the interest of students are ignored we will launch movement after discussion with general students,” she said.ABVP National Secretary Saptarshi Sarkar said, “we had always been against mass promotion of students. We had always talked about proper evaluation based on which the students’ results will be decided. We are happy that after SC verdict the state government has also asked universities to conduct tests by October. Whether in online or offline mode exams need to be held. This is necessary for the career of students.” West Bengal higher education department recently asked universities to conduct final semester exams in online or offline mode between October 1 - 18 and publish results by October 31 in the wake of Supreme Court upholding a UGC advisory for wrapping up final semester exams process in colleges and universities by September 30.The SC allowed any state to individually approach the UGC for holding the exams in its higher educational institutions on a later date but said tests should be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/3-more-west-bengal-varsities-to-hold-final-semester-exams-virtually-in-october/story-J5cEqNyLhkBwrY2OBe9JIP.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Antibodies found in 8% of Haryana’s population, says health minister||Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij on Friday said that antibodies against the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease were found in eight per cent of the state’s population after a sero-prevalence survey was carried out. A sero-survey involves testing blood serum of a group of individuals for the presence of antibodies against the infection to know who had been infected in the past and has recovered now.Overall, 18,905 samples were collected and the sero-prevalence study showed that the sero-positivity of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is eight per cent in the state, Vij said pointing out that the urban population was affected more than the rural population. “The sero-positivity observed that in urban areas the rate is 9.59 per cent and in rural areas it is 6.9 per cent,” the health minister said while addressing a virtual press conference. A total of 850 samples each were collected from 22 districts in both urban and rural areas of Haryana. As per the survey carried out, National Capital Region (NCR) districts of Faridabad and Gurugram had high sero-positivity rates.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (Health) emphasized that although sero-positivity rate is higher in NCR districts as compared to non-NCR districts, the reason for the same could be high density of population due to urban slums, high rises and daily movement of large population in the NCR region.Urban Faridabad had the highest positivity rate at 31.1 per cent and 22.2 per cent in rural areas, while the positivity rate in urban and rural sections of Gurugram was at 18.5 per cent and 5.7 per cent respectively. Districts such as Nuh and Sonipat too recorded positivity rate in double digits. In June, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had advised states to conduct sero survey to assess the proportion of population, including asymptomatic patients, exposed to Covid-19. Panipat (7.4 per cent), Palwal (7.4 per cent), Panchkula (6.5 per cent), and Jhajjar (5.9 per cent) were some of the districts which had lower sero-positivity than the state’s average. Meanwhile, according to the union ministry of health, Haryana’s has registered over 70,000 Covid-19 cases so far. The total cases include 13470 active cases, nearly 56,000 recoveries and 740 deaths. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-antibodies-found-in-8-of-haryana-s-population-says-health-minister/story-cWLu8EqMiwEWQsx9grim7I.html
04-09-2020||City||Rajasthan mulls quota for locals in government jobs||The Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government appears to have taken a cue from the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh’s dispensation and wants to give priority to local youths in public sector jobs.The government would bring a proposal to this effect before the state cabinet soon, said a minister. Also read: Assured of safe stay by Priyanka Gandhi, Kafeel Khan arrives in RajasthanUnlike MP, which has announced reservation for local youths in government jobs, Rajasthan is still exploring the legal options.“An amendment to the law will be brought before the cabinet soon. Chief Minister Gehlot has given directions regarding this to the officials,” said the minister, who is familiar with the development, requesting anonymity.The CM has asked the departments of personnel, administrative reforms and law to examine and explore the possibilities of reserving government jobs for the state’s youths in a bid to give the latter maximum employment opportunities. The minister said Gehlot issued directions in this regard during a recent education department review meeting.He hoped the new model is likely to be introduced during the upcoming Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET). The desert state plans to hire 31,000 grade-III teachers. In mid-August, MP CM Chouhan had announced that government jobs in the state would be reserved for local youths and necessary legal provisions would be made for their safeguard. In July 2019, the Andhra Pradesh (AP) government had passed a law making it mandatory for the private sector to hire 75% of local youths. Similarly, the Maharashtra and Haryana governments had also proposed to reserve up to 70% of private sector jobs for local youths.The Rajasthan government had started an exercise last year to introduce a law to reserve 75% of private sector jobs for local youths. The state government had also sought feedback from the Rajasthan Skill and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC); the labour and industry department, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), the Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (FORTI), the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) etc on its proposal. Shiv Kumar Sharma, a former judge of the Rajasthan high court (HC), said reservation in jobs on the basis of region is unconstitutional.“No reservation can be based on region. Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution states that reservation cannot be based on caste, sect and region. If some states don’t give jobs to candidates from other states, the move can be challenged in a court of law,” he said. He suggested that if the state wants to encourage locals, then it is at liberty to adopt other measures such as holding examinations or conducting interviews related to Rajasthan, but reserving jobs for local youths is unconstitutional. Sharma cited Article 15 of the Constitution that prohibits discrimination on the ground of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth (region). While Article 16 prescribes for equal opportunity for all citizens in the matter of public employment. Political analyst Narayan Bareth said many states have started reserving jobs for local youths in the past five-odd years. “When political parties do not have a development model they take refuge in the name of caste, region etc. Many states are reserving jobs for local youths as part of their political agenda,” he said. Mukesh Pareek, a spokesperson for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state unit, said the Gehlot government should come up with viable alternatives for the state’s unemployed youths. “If other states are giving priority to local youths, then Rajasthan should also follow suit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajasthan-mulls-quota-for-locals-in-government-jobs/story-ju658wEy4tQHttStXxetCL.html
04-09-2020||City||Booked for provocative post, Bengal BJP MP alleges attack on house||Arjun Singh (58), the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Lok Sabha member from Barrackpore constituency in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district, alleged on Friday that bombs were hurled at his house as well as an adjacent temple the previous night.Singh lives in the district’s Bhatpara area.The incident occurred two days after West Bengal Police registered a case against Singh for his September 1 tweet in which he had alleged that arson led to the destruction of an idol at a temple in another district in Bengal.However, the police released a letter written by the priest and caretaker of the shrine who stated that the idol caught fire accidentally from an oil lamp and there was no communal violence angle as alleged by Singh.“Legal action is being taken. Please don’t get carried away by misleading, provocative and mischievous post,” the West Bengal Police tweeted while attaching a screenshot of Singh’s post.On Friday, Singh released on social media a video purportedly showing two bombs going off near his home and on top of a roadside temple, emitting a lot of smoke.“The temple was not damaged and nobody was injured. The goons are backed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC),” said Singh.Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma was not available for comment.“We are looking into the allegation that Singh has made,” an officer of the local police station said on condition of anonymity.On August 19, the police had searched Singh’s residence in connection with financial irregularities to the tune of Rs 11 crore involving the Bhatpara municipality and a local cooperative bank.Singh was the chairman of the Bhatpara municipality from 2010 to 2019 and also headed the bank’s board when the alleged scam took place. He had left the TMC and joined the BJP in March 2019.Singh, who was present at home during the search operation, alleged that he was being targeted by the ruling TMC.Considered to be a heavyweight leader, Singh was a four-time legislator of the TMC from Bhatpara before he joined the BJP and defeated TMC’s sitting Barrackpore Member of Parliament (MP) Dinesh Trivedi in the last parliamentary election.The election was marked by violence which continues intermittently on Singh’s home turf.Singh’s son and brother-in-law are also sitting BJP legislators in the Bengal assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/booked-for-provocative-post-bengal-bjp-mp-alleges-attack-on-house/story-99Bml46rC1FSd1uC43yY7K.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||No more affixing posters at entrance of Covid home isolation patients in Punjab||Covid patients in home isolation in Punjab will no longer have to suffer the fear and stigma of social isolation resulting from posters affixed at the entrance of their homes. In a major step towards mitigating the stigma attached to the pandemic, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday rescinded his government’s earlier decision of putting posters outside the houses of Covid patients under home isolation or quarantine. Posters where already affixed may be removed, he directed. The move is aimed at minimising the stigma resulting from the affixing of such posters at the doors of such patients, thus also negating the fear of testing, the chief minister, appealing to people to come out for early testing, diagnosis and treatment of Covid. The psychological trauma which patients were seen suffering as a result of these posters, which were meant to protect neighbours and others of such patients, was defeating the purpose, he said, adding that these posters were actually found scaring people away from testing. The undesirable and unintended consequences of these posters included social isolation and stigma, leading to anxiety and prejudices against the patients. People would refrain from getting tested to avoid this stigma instead of extending support and community to the patients and their families, which had prompted a rethink on the decision of affixing posters, Captain Amarinder Singh said. Continue taking precautions, says CM The chief minister urged people to continue taking necessary precautions and follow all applicable guidelines for home isolation/quarantine notwithstanding the removal of the posters. Violation of these guidelines is a punishable offence under Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and IPC, he said. The chief minister said his government was committed to ensuring the health and well-being of every person, and the community had an important role to play in this fight. They can do so by providing support, motivating and encouraging behavioural change that can help avoid the transmission of the disease and in preventing any rumours about the disease or its treatment, he said, calling for a collective fight against the pandemic. The Punjab government had recently allowed home isolation for asymptomatic/ mildly symptomatic Covid patients, who did not suffer from any co-morbidities, as per the protocol of the ministry of health and family welfare and recommendations of ICMR. In fact, as the number of cases in the state continued to rise, home isolation for these patients was actively advocated and facilitated, with constant monitoring by local health authorities. The monitoring was aimed at ensuring the best possible care for such patients in terms of environment and diet. To make the community aware and act as a check on possible violation by the patient of the home isolation guidelines, posters indicating that a positive patient was under home isolation were being affixed on the front door of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-more-affixing-posters-at-entrance-of-covid-home-isolation-patients-in-punjab/story-MMKKYV1QySGzzAivDfKO2K.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi to get back into high spirits: Restaurateurs elated to serve, foodies eager to order liquor||The news that Delhiites will now again be able to indulge in a glass of aged wine, or a sparkling mojito has made both the foodies and restauranteurs quite high! Hotels, restaurants and clubs in the national capital have been permitted to serve liquor from September 9, on a trial basis. “I feel this is a really good decision since liquor has already been available at retail shops, and people have been coming out to dine at restaurants where they do miss later. As long as people are sensible and keep safety in mind, I think we can all start getting back to a normal life,” says Abhiram Bidwai, owner, La Cantine Kitchen and Bar, Vasant Kunj, adding, “Liquor service for restaurants is necessary in more ways than one. It not only forms a major chunk of sales but also makes for a complete meal experience.”Restauranteur Priyank Sukhija, who owns Lord Of The Drinks and Tamasha, welcomes the move adding, it “should have happened sooner.” He feels, “It’s easier to serve beer, than make a mocktail! Opening up liquor services will save a lot of restaurants from shutting down, and will incentivise those who have shut shop, to reopen. For four months we had zero sales. In the last month, since we opened, we have been running on 7-10% of our pre-covid revenues. With alcohol, we expect the number to go up to 30-40%.”Delhiites who love alcohol are on cloud nine since this announcement. “For some of us, drinking at home isn’t really an option, so I’m glad that alcohol will now be served at my favourite restaurants. I can finally meet my friends over a pitcher of beer. And safe dining is entirely possible since most places have taken adequate precautions,” says Nivea Jain, a resident of Vasant Kunj. And Delhi-based food blogger Sonika Pandey, adds that the move will finally allow her to have a wholesome dining experience! “I am a foodie, and many of the restaurants that I frequented before the lockdown have closed down due to lack of revenue. When people out to have a meal, they do need a drink along even if not partying full on. So apart from being able to serve what thei patrons demands, restaurants will now be able to stay afloat at a time when there isn’t much income,” adds Pandey. The SOPs issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) state that no more than 50% of the approved seating capacity will be allowed inside the restaurant, hotel or club, so that social distancing norms are maintained. Restaurateur Zorawar Kalra of Massive Restaurants Pvt Ltd, says, this move is “a lifeline for a beleaguered industry that has been one of the hardest hit by the pandemic”. He adds, “The industry will serve responsibly and ensure all guidelines are followed. Most importantly this will allow a lot more restaurants to open up thereby significantly increasing employment. This will also help in driving more consumers to restaurants and bars and hopefully lead to a much needed increase in revenues.”Author tweets @Bhagat_MallikaFollow more on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-back-into-high-spirits-restaurateurs-elated-to-serve-foodies-eager-to-order-liquor/story-cfICYA5uPHaPpPbrBx3huN.html
04-09-2020||Election:||Bihar assembly elections, 65 by-polls due in states to be held at same time: ECI||All 65 bye-elections due in various states and the Bihar assembly elections will be held around the same time, a press release issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday read.Also read: Yashwant Sinha’s UDA, Kejriwal’s AAP to add zing to Bihar assembly pollsECI reviewed the suggestions made by chief electoral officers of states concerned that bye-elections be deferred in view of the coronavirus pandemic and various other reasons such as heavy rainfall and flood-like conditions in several places. “Considering that Bihar assembly elections are also due and required to be completed before 29th November 2020, Commission has decided to conduct all the 65 bye-elections and the General Assembly Elections of Bihar around the same time,” the press release read.Also read: For Bihar elections, BJP maps its digital outreach in stateHolding these elections around the same time would mean a relative ease of movement of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and other forces responsible for maintaining law and order during elections.“Announcement of the schedule of Bihar assembly elections as well as these bye-elections will be done by the Commission at an appropriate time,” the ECI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-elections-65-by-polls-due-in-other-states-to-be-held-simultaneously-eci/story-qsNXKCBdhtJBtBKA8buDdO.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Boy jumps off 4th floor house in Delhi’s Chirag Dilli after failing to pay for neighbour’s damaged iPhone||A 16-year-old boy suffered multiple injuries when he jumped off his fourth-floor house in New Delhi’s Chirag Dilli on Thursday a day he and his father were allegedly humiliated and tortured for being unable to pay for the damage the former caused to an iPhone of a neighbour, police said on Friday. The neighbour, Honey Singh, allegedly confined the father and son wrongfully and also asked the teenager to work as a “servant” to compensate for the damage.Also read: Lucknow man sets himself on fire at home, triggers blast“The man who tortured and humiliated the teenager, forcing him to attempt the extreme step, is absconding. Our teams are looking for him,” said deputy police commissioner of Atul Kumar Thakur. He added the police received a call at 3.49 pm on Thursday from a hospital regarding the boy who jumped off. “A police team...met the boy [in a hospital] and recorded his statement.”Thakur said they have registered a case against Singh under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to voluntarily causing hurt, wrongful restrain, and cruelty and under the Juvenile Justice Act. “A daily diary entry has also been lodged under Section 309 of IPC for the suicide attempt. The injured teenager is undergoing treatment at the hospital.”The teenager was going to his father’s shop on a bicycle with his friend when he lost balance and hit a police bike and Singh. Singh’s phone fell and was damaged as a result of the collision, said a police officer, who did not want to be named, quoting the teenager’s statement.“After the police personnel left, Honey verbally abused and slapped the teenager and asked him to call his father to pay for the damage. The teenager’s father arrived and asked Honey how much money was needed to repair the damaged phone. When Honey said that Rs 6,000 will be charged for the repair, the teenager’s father agreed to get it repaired and returned to his shop,” the officer said.The father went to a mobile repair shop on Thursday where he got a Rs 2,000-2,200 estimate for its repair but Singh insisted that the iPhone be repaired at an authorised service centre that would cost Rs 62,000. Singh settled for Rs 30,000 when the father expressed his inability to pay the amount.The second officer cited the teenager’s statement and said when the father went to arrange the money, Honey wrongfully confined, tortured him mentally and physically. “Honey humiliated the boy by telling him his father has agreed to have him work... as a domestic help at his home. The teenager could not bear the torture and humiliation. He left for his home after assuring Honey that he would return after having food. The boy went to the fourth-floor terrace of his home and jumped down from there,” the officer added, quoting the teenager’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/boy-jumps-off-4th-floor-house-in-delhi-s-chirag-dilli-after-failing-to-pay-for-neighbour-s-damaged-iphone/story-5BCFp4X5xo1tMmlyzheJgM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||8% of Haryana’s population is infected with coronavirus; urban population more affected than rural||About 8% of the population in Haryana has been found infected with coronavirus. The findings were made on the basis of first round of a serological survey conducted by the health department. The survey conducted in collaboration with PGIMER, Chandigarh, measured the proportion of population exposed to coronavirus infection, including asymptomatic individuals. Health minister Anil Vij said that 18,905 blood samples from all 22 districts were put to immunoglobulin-ELISA test in August to determine how many people have developed Covid-19 antibodies. The health authorities took samples from 850 people, including 500 from rural areas of each district. Vij said the urban population was found to be more affected than the rural. “Seropositivity in urban areas was 9.6%, while it was 6.9% in the rural areas,” he said. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, said that national capital region (NCR) districts have high seropositivity. “It is 25.8% (31.1% in urban and 22.2% in rural) in Faridabad, 13.3% (18% in urban and 10% in rural) in Sonepat and 10.8% (18.5% in urban and 5.7% in rural) in Gurugram,” Arora said. The ACS said the reason behind higher seropositivity in NCR districts as compared to non-NCR districts could be high density of population due to urban slums, multi-storeyed buildings and daily movement of people. Higher seropositivity than the state average of 8% was also noticed in some other districts like Karnal (12.2%), Jind (11%), Kurukshetra (8.7%), Charkhi Dadri (8.3%) and Yamunanagar (8.3%). Districts having lower seropositivity than the state average were Panipat and Palwal (7.4% each), Panchkula (6.5%), Jhajjar (5.9%), Ambala (5.2%), Rewari (4.9%), Sirsa (3.6%), Hisar (3.4%), Fatehabad (3.3%), Bhiwani (3.2%), Mahendergarh (2.8%) and Kaithal (1.7%). ‘Low prevalence means majority population vulnerable’ The ACS said that since 8% population of Haryana has developed antibodies, the low prevalence can be attributed to the proactive efforts taken by the government to prevent the spread of infection, including prompt lockdown, effective testing strategies, containment and surveillance measures such as contact tracing. Director health services, IDSP, Dr Usha Gupta said low prevalence also meant that majority of population is still vulnerable to the virus. “Thus, containment measures need to be enforced with the same rigor. Non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing, use of masks, hand hygiene, cough etiquettes and avoidance of crowded places must also be followed strictly,” she added. Health officials said immunoglobulin antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection and last for several months. “We wanted to know how many people have already suffered from this virus, including asymptomatic individuals. Many people get infected but do not have any symptoms like fever, cough, and cold. In several cases, the symptoms are so mild that they go unnoticed. The immunoglobulin-ELISA blood test tells us if they got this infection in the recent past,” the ACS said. Based on the results, public health interventions can be planned and implemented for the prevention and control of the disease. Dr Gupta said a stratified multistage random sampling technique was used. Sixteen clusters — 12 rural and four urban — were randomly selected for the collection of samples. HOW THE TEST IS DONE Immunoglobulin ELISA test for sero survey Five millilitre blood is taken for the sample from willing individuals. The test is not diagnostic. It would tell if there is already developed immunity against coronavirus. Positive result would entail consultation with doctor for interpretation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-of-haryana-s-population-is-infected-with-coronavirus-urban-population-more-affected-than-rural/story-0QOUSRLrDwwRfzDwyuqhSI.html
04-09-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow man sets himself on fire at home, triggers blast||A man (35) allegedly immolated himself inside his house, leading to the compressor of his refrigerator exploding at Rajni Khand locality under the jurisdiction of Ashiana police station in Lucknow, police said. The incident took place early on Friday.Police said no other person was injured in the blast. Locals said the incident had triggered panic in their neighbourhood. They said the blast also damaged the window panes of adjoining houses.The blaze was contained after two fire tenders reached the spot, police added. A preliminary investigation has revealed that the man set himself ablaze in his kitchen by lighting cooking gas, but the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder there was found intact, said Beenu Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), cantonment, Lucknow. The deceased has left behind a note, blaming his family for his death by suicide.“The preliminary probe suggested multiple reasons behind his death by suicide. His wife had taken her life on July 27. The man, who was in the real estate business, was also going through an acute financial crisis,” the ACP said.“His parents had disowned him in 2010 for marrying against their wishes. He had been staying separately since then,” the ACP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-man-sets-himself-on-fire-at-home-triggers-blast/story-nko7yFQmvOLQeyT4HDUmfP.html
04-09-2020||City||Chhattisgarh seeks seven battalions of CRPF for south Bastar districts||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking deployment of seven battalions of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in the state’s Left-wing insurgency-hit districts and installation of mobile towers there.“The Union Home Ministry had allocated seven additional CRPF battalions for Chhattisgarh in 2018. It was decided to deploy these forces in the worst Maoist [insurgency] hit south Bastar district of Sukma and Bijapur for effective implementation of anti-naxal operations and developmental projects. In the selected locations, [money]...has been disbursed for setting up battalion headquarters and work has also been completed at most of the locations. I have learnt that 10 CRPF battalions have been removed from Jammu and Kashmir. In this case, providing the 7 allocated battalions to Chhattisgarh immediately will help in effective implementation of anti-naxal drive,” Baghel wrote in his letter to Shah.Baghel said the state government has adopted a three-dimensional programme involving trust, development, and security to win over the people of the Maoist insurgency affected regions. He added they were taking forward the development work to create a safe environment there and that the efforts have shown positive results.Baghel said 1,028 mobile towers were sanctioned for expanding the telecom connectivity in the region. He added a list of locations selected for them has been sent to the Union home ministry. Baghel said the towers should be established soon for the benefit of common people as well as security forces.Baghel requested Shah to organise a special army recruitment rally in Bastar and to form ‘Bastaria Battalion’ of the Central Armed Police Forces.In August, Baghel wrote to Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar seeking Rs 1,100 crores for construction of steel bridges to ensure rural connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-seeks-seven-battalions-of-crpf-for-south-bastar-districts/story-3AuHTQtghKcu3LMPQQjI5I.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Misbehaviour with couple over stopping from drinking: Delhi Police arrests two, vehicle seized||A video purportedly showing two men in a car _ at least one of whom is seen with a glass of liquor in his hand _ abusing and threatening a couple in west Delhi’s Paschim Vihar was widely shared on social media, prompting the police to arrest the two suspects and seize their vehicle.Also read: Delhi man creates fake social media profiles of a woman to harass her; arrestedThe widely-circulated video also led Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday afternoon to direct the state excise department to crack down on cases of consumption of liquor in public places.Delhi Police is yet to share the circumstances of the incident or the details of the arrested suspects. But a 45-second video shot by the victim couple and shared on social media showed one of the men holding a plastic glass with liquor in his hand on the passenger’s seat of the car, while the other man is at the wheel. The incident had occurred at around 11.15pm on Wednesday.The couple can be seen referring to their perpetrators’ drunk-driving and trying to record the car’s number, while the man holding the liquor glass is hurling abuses at them.The video showed one of the men getting out of their car and banging on the window of the victims’ vehicle. Later, one of the victims posted the small clip on social media with a caption that described how the duo was drinking openly on the road and itching to pick a fight.Delhi Police has identified the arrested accused as Karan Chopra (36) and Satpreet Singh (35), who live in Paschim Vihar.“We contacted one of the victims over the phone, recorded his statement and registered a case of wrongful restraint, criminal intimidation and making gestures and using words to outrage the modesty of a woman under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said a statement from the Delhi Police.Later, A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (outer district), Delhi Police, tweeted to one of the victims that a first information report (FIR) was registered and the suspects were arrested. “Thanks for bringing it to our knowledge ... committed to keeping Delhi safe,” the DCP further tweeted.However, the DCP did not respond to calls by HT. On Friday morning, Sisodia tweeted: “Open consumption of liquor is a crime in Delhi. I have directed the excise commissioner to take strict and exemplary action. Hope Delhi Police will also take strict action. Let’s establish that ‘car-o-bar’ can result in ‘behind bars’ ”.The state government’s excise department has enforcement teams to crack down on such violations. The violation can attract a penalty of up to Rs10,000 under the Delhi Excise Act, 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-arrested-for-harassing-couple-in-delhi-s-paschim-vihar/story-Nlb5Wr81dbTczKEZeRih2H.html
04-09-2020||City||3-year-old girl raped, murdered in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, third such incident in 20 days||The post-mortem of a three-year-old girl has confirmed she was raped before her murder in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district, a police officer said on Friday. The girl’s body was found on Thursday in a sugarcane field near her village and police initially suspected the murder to be linked to enmity between two families.Also read: Ex-serviceman held for raping IAS aspirant in ChandigarhLakhimpur Kheri police superintendent Satendra Kumar said a panel of three doctors, who conducted the post-mortem, has confirmed sexual assault. He added the Indian Penal Code’s sections related to rape and charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act have been added in the First Information Report (FIR) filed in the case based on the post-mortem report.Kumar said the girl’s family had earlier alleged she was kidnapped and murdered due to old enmity and named one person from their village in the FIR.Another police officer, who has been involved in the investigation, said the girl went missing on Wednesday and her body was found with multiple injury marks on Thursday. He added the post-mortem report findings confirmed that the girl was strangled using some cloth after being raped.The second officer said a suspect was last spotted in the sugarcane field and disappeared after sensing trouble. He added the region is full of sugarcane fields, where the suspect is apparently hiding. The second officer said four teams were conducting a combing operation in the fields to arrest the suspect.Three minor girls have been raped and murdered in Lakhimpur Kheri since August 14, when the first such case involving a 13-year-old girl was reported. Two men were arrested in connection with the first case. A 17-year-old Dalit girl was found dead with her throat slit in a pond outside her village on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-3-year-old-girl-raped-murdered-in-lakhimpur-kheri-third-such-incident-in-20-days/story-BfZObS3JUpJyAuiXr6IA9O.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Doctor held for issuing fake Covid-19 certificates||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak appears to have led to the alleged misuse of Hippocrates’ oath until the law caught up with a south Delhi-based doctor (34) and his aide. The duo would collect swab samples from suspected coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients or those seeking the viral infection tests for employment or travel reasons, dump their samples in dustbin and then issue them fake test results in the names of at least three diagnostic laboratories, the Delhi Police said on Friday.Both the accused are in police custody. The doctor and his aide have issued at least 75 such fake test results and charged Rs 2,400 from each of the recipients, said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (south), Delhi Police.“They did not have specific criteria for issuing the Covid-19 test results. If someone had symptoms, then they would issue a Covid-19 positive result. The asymptomatic people were issued Covid-19 negative results,” said DCP Thakur.The accused have been identified as Dr Kush Parashar, a general physician who holds a postgraduate degree in medicine from Russia, and his aide, Amit Singh.“Their cover was blown, when one of the recipients of the test results found a mismatch in his name and contacted the diagnostic centre to learn that the latter didn’t issue any such result,” said the DCP.Similarly, two nurses, who were seeking jobs, needed to undergo Covid-19 tests. Their employer recommended them to get tested at Dr Parashar’s clinic. “However, one of the nurses found her name to be spelled wrongly in the report. She called up the diagnostic centre, which had purportedly conducted the test, and sought a fresh report with the correction in her name’s spelling. The laboratory authorities perused through their records and found that her name didn’t exist in their records,” said the DCP. An official from the diagnostic centre had a hunch about alleged wrongdoing and approached the Hauz Khas police station, where a case of cheating was registered.“The chain of events was traced to Dr Kush Parashar. It turned out that he and his aide Singh were preparing fake Covid-19 test reports on their laptops and then sharing PDF (portable document format) copies on WhatsApp with their ‘patients’. The modus operandi didn’t raise any suspicion about the authenticity of the reports,” the DCP said.Police said Dr Parashar would recommend Covid-19 tests to most of his patients, irrespective of their symptoms. “Dr Parashar would tell his patients that he would collect the swab samples from them on behalf of a diagnostic laboratory and then send them to the laboratory to conduct Covid-19 test. But as soon as a patient left his clinic, he would dump the swab samples in dustbin,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-doctor-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-certificates/story-BN8whgwXGcBLYdUfqglyrK.html
04-09-2020||City||26-year-old man abducted, hacked to death in Delhi hate crime||A 26-year-old man was abducted and hacked to death with a sword in outer Delhi’s Shahbad Dairy on Thursday. Police said they have arrested the two men who murdered Raj alias Dharmender over his alleged relationship with the sister of one of his attackers.Also read: Murder case registered 18 months after discovery of body in DadumajraThe man’s body, with its throat slit, was found near a water treatment plant on Prahladpur Road near Shahabad Dairy on Thursday afternoon.Police arrested Armaan (22) and Karan Singh (28) and claimed to have solved the case within five hours of finding the body.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Gaurav Sharma said that on Thursday at 4.56 pm, the police control room received a call regarding a man’s body in Prahladpur area. Responding to the call, a police team visited the spot and found an unidentified man’s body in the green belt area opposite the water treatment plant.“The throat was slit by a sharp weapon. No documents that could establish his identity were found on the person. We registered a case and took up the investigation,” said DCP Sharma.Investigators who did not want to be named said that through local enquiry, the dead man was identified as one Raj, a resident of Shahbad Dairy area. The police found the man’s father, Hardev, who confirmed that the body was that of his son, Dharmender, alias Raj.DCP Sharma said that on the basis of technical surveillance and local intelligence, the investigating team caught Armaan and Karan Singh, both friends and working in a nail polish manufacturing unit in Bawana. The two were interrogated during which they confessed to killing Dharmender.“The two disclosed that Dharmender was in a relationship with Armaan’s sister. He was reportedly boasting about it among his friends, which Armaan did not like. They had also fought over this issue,” an investigating officer said. DCP Sharma said that Armaan confided in Karan who agreed to help him in executing the murder. As per their plan, the duo allegedly lured Dharmender to a secluded spot near the water treatment plant on a motorcycle and hacked him to death using a sword. After the murder, they left on the motorcycle, he said.“We have recovered the sword and the motorcycle used in the crime. The murder case was solved in five hours,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-year-old-man-abducted-hacked-to-death-in-delhi-hate-crime/story-xpczzOzeADmSmN3Q3imxaM.html
04-09-2020||City||Life of poor important than employment of doctors: HC||The lives of the poor are more important than the employment of doctors, the Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has ruled while rejecting a doctor’s review petition for his reinstatement after dismissal over dereliction of duty that allegedly caused an 11-year-old boy’s death in 2010.A bench of Justices TV Nalawade and Mangesh Patil on Monday dismissed Dnyaneshwar Borade’s review petition saying there was no arguable case for reviewing the earlier order upholding his dismissal.Borade was a doctor on duty at Shirdi’s Saibaba Hospital in June 2009 when the boy was brought to the charitable facility for treatment for snakebite. He transferred the boy to Sainath Hospital without administering an anti-venom injection. Sainath Hospital refused to admit the boy and sent him back, prompting Borade to refer him to a private hospital at Loni. But the child died on the way.Borade was dismissed from service in December 2010 after an inquiry. The court upheld his removal in January 2015. He approached the court last year seeking a review, primarily on the ground that he was acquitted of causing death by negligence in January 2019.In its order on Monday, the bench observed government-run and charitable hospitals are basically meant for the poor. “[But] these days, the approach of some doctors working in the government hospitals and Trust hospitals is such that they do not care for the life of poor persons,” it added. The bench said such negligent doctors “cannot be spared as the life of poor persons is more important than the service of such persons.” Unless a firm stand is taken by their employers and also by the court, the conduct of the doctors will not improve, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/life-of-poor-important-than-employment-of-doctors-hc/story-FTMT1dFq09ZGONNmbwXo8L.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Minor fire in Thane residential complex, no injuries or casualties||A minor fire broke out in a small flat in a residential building in Thane city on Friday morning. However, no injuries or casualties were reported, as the fire brigade personnel managed to douse the blaze and cooling operation is in progress.The fire broke out in the small flat on the fourth floor of Sidheshwar building at Patilwadi near Panchpakhadi in Thane city. “The lamp lit in a small temple in the flat appears to have led to the fire. The fire brigade personnel doused the blaze quickly. The occupants of the flat have escaped unhurt,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).Fire department authorities said that the flat did not have enough ventillation for the billowing smoke to escape, and as a result, the cooling operation is taking time..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/minor-fire-in-thane-residential-complex-no-injuries-or-casualities/story-zyQrJRIHA3u9MnKSn6E8dM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Multani disappearance case: HC judge recuses from hearing Saini’s anticipatory bail plea||A Punjab and Haryana high court judge on Friday recused from hearing the anticipatory bail plea of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case. The case was listed for hearing before the bench of justice Suvir Sehgal, which without recording any reason for recusal referred the matter to the chief justice for listing it before another bench. On September 2, another judge, justice Amol Rattan Singh, had recused from hearing the second petition of Saini seeking either quashing or transfer of the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). That plea filed in August 19, is now listed for hearing for September 7. It is immediately not clear when bail plea of Saini will now be taken up by the high court.“Right to hearing to an accused, which is a fundamental right, has been denied to an accused by successive recusals. Also other side (state) is appearing without any notice to them and interfering in the proceedings,” said senior advocate APS Deol, who is appearing for Saini hinting at ‘over anxiety’ from the state.In both the petitions, the Punjab government has roped in two Supreme Court senior advocates, Sidharth Luthra and Harin Rawal, besides law officers from the advocate general office. Sartej Singh Narula, the special public prosecutor in the case before the Mohali court, too is appearing.The additional district and sessions judge of Mohali had on Tuesday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of the former DGP. It is against this order that Saini had approached the high court.Saini was booked in May this year in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO). Multani, a resident of Mohali, had been picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991. Punjab Police on August 28 had conducted raids at Saini’s Chandigarh house and other locations but he could not be found. However, hours later on the same day, the Mohali court had extended Saini’s interim bail till the final orders on his anticipatory bail plea, subsequently dismissed on September 1. Saini faces arrest as the court had on August 21 allowed Punjab Police to add the murder charge against him in this case after two former Chandigarh Police personnel, who were also co-accused in the case, turned approver. The police had claimed that Multani escaped from custody at Qadian in Gurdaspur district. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Multani’s brother, Palwinder Singh, who is a resident of Jalandhar. Initially, the case was registered against them under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali. In his plea, Saini says the first information report (FIR) is the result of mala fide act against him for launching probes against Congress leaders and their relatives to unearth scams due to which he had become an eyesore for political parties. He is demanding that the FIR be quashed or probe be transferred to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-court-judge-recuses-from-hearing-bail-plea-of-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini/story-U2H1BErA1BPd3Ao84fHo5O.html
04-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP MLA writes to JP Nadda, expresses anguish over lack of development works in his area||A ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker, Umesh Sharma Kau, from Uttarakhand has written to party president JP Nadda about his constituency being neglected as far as development work is concerned. The letter follows a similar complaint made by another party legislator and former Uttarakhand BJP chief Bishan Singh Chuphal, who had alleged that the bureaucrats were disregarding the elected lawmakers and also met Nadda on Wednesday to seek redressal for his grievances. Umesh Sharma Kau, who represents Raipur constituency in Dehradun district in the Uttarakhand legislative assembly, has written to Nadda, alleging that no development work has been carried out in his assembly segment in the past few years. He stated that the public has been sore with the state government for its apathy and drew the pitiable condition of roads in his assembly constituency to bolster his argument.Kau has sought an appointment with Nadda in a bid to apprise him in detail about the travails of his constituency and has also underlined that as an elected representative he is deeply hurt by Raipur’s neglect and the anguish of his party workers. He has blamed the bureaucrats, who, he alleged, refused to pay heed to repeated reminders from the ministers.However, Kau downplayed his “hurt” and tried to gloss over the contents of the letter with the media.“I have sent my letter to the national president (Nadda) through email. Yeh hamare parivar ka mamla hai (This is a matter of our family). I won’t talk about it in the media,” he said. Chuphal said he had discussed developmental issues with Nadda, especially regarding roads and mobile phone connectivity. “He gave me a patient hearing. In the end, he told me that all the (party) members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) have to work together to ensure the BJP’s victory in the 2022 Uttarakhand polls,” he said. He rubbished the insinuations that he was eyeing a berth in the Trivendra Singh Rawat-ruled state government. “If I wanted to be inducted in the cabinet, I would have raised my voice in 2017, when the government had come into power. Why should I want it now? I have contributed to the party in various capacities, including being the state president,” he said. He also refused to read into the timing of raising these allegations. “I just raised the issues in my constituency with the party’s national president. This should not be seen as that I am against the chief minister or I am mounting pressure to be inducted into the state cabinet,” he said. At present, three cabinet berths are lying vacant, which the CM hinted recently, would be filled soon. Another BJP MLA from Lohaghat in Champawat district, Puran Singh Fartyal, is also not happy with the government’s decision to re-allocate construction work of Tanakpur-Jauljibi (TJ) road to the same contractor, who was blacklisted after a probe in 2017. “The contractor has been given the contract again for the road project. Though he had won the case through arbitration, the government didn’t appeal against it. I also wrote about it to the national party president a few weeks ago. I’m not going to back down on this issue,” Fartyal said. Fartyal was served a show-cause notice for working against party discipline and was also summoned by BJP’s state president Bansidhar Bhagat on August 24. The rumblings within the lawmakers’ ranks come amid recent Bhagat’s call to action to the party legislators . He had urged them to work hard in their constituencies and not just bank on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s name for getting votes. BJP state leadership doesn’t want to read into a section of MLAs’ correspondence with Nadda. It insisted that “all is well in the party” and the media’s interpretation is all “wrong”. Devendra Bhasin, state vice-president, BJP, said there was no dissent among the MLAs and nobody was challenging Rawat’s leadership. “If some MLAs have met Nadda or written to him about some issues in their constituencies that should not be interpreted in other ways. The MLAs are at liberty to interact with the national party president. What’s wrong in that?” he asked. The main Opposition, the Congress, has jumped on the bandwagon and alleged that the state government not only failed in meeting the aspirations of the public but also of its own MLAs as well. Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Indira Hridayesh said these developments show that now it is also apparent to the BJP MLAs that development has been elusive in the hill state during CMRawat’s rule. “Several lawmakers are apprehensive that they may lose elections because assembly polls are only two years away. They have woken up from their slumber and are raising their voice against the state government’s apathy and callousness,” she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-writes-to-jp-nadda-expresses-anguish-over-lack-of-development-works-in-his-area/story-x5m0P8NP7iU6HzRLkMeVxH.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||While testing in Mumbai goes up, cases decline in August, but authorities expect further spike||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai’s governing civic body, anticipates a spike in Covid-19 cases because of relaxation in restrictions related to the pandemic and the Ganesh festival even as the number of infections has come down gradually with an increase in testing over the last three months. According to Maharashtra health department data, Mumbai reported over 36,000 cases in June, around 35,000 cases in July, and over 30,000 cases in August. The BMC has said the next week is crucial as the effect of festival season is likely to seen during the following seven days.Experts have advised caution saying the curve since last week of August has gone a bit upwards and added testing and tracing needs to be optimised. As many as 238,000 tests were conducted in August, 203,000 in July, 120,000 in May, and 132,000 in June, according to the BMC data.In May, around 3,872 tests were being conducted daily, 4,422 in July, and over 7,600 in August. The overall positivity rate came down to around 18% in August. As many as 792,000 tests have been conducted in Mumbai till date with a positivity rate of 18.74%.The BMC started screening people for Covid-19 on January 18 at the Mumbai Airport. It conducted the first test on February 3. The first positive case was reported on March 11.Mumbai had only around 7,000 cases until April 30. In May, it reported around 31,874 cases, 36,559 cases in June, 35,139 cases in July, and 30,474 cases in August.Mumbai has since August 26 been reporting between 1,100 to 1,800 cases daily.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 taskforce, said a small upward trend has been observed since the last week of August. “We have to ramp up the testing considering we are currently under testing and under tracing. We have to optimise the testing considering our capacity, which is not happening currently,” he said. “...we have liberalised testing where anyone can go and test, but if people are not coming out and testing, we will have to go to them and test them.”Madhav Sathe, a former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital, said he has been vocal about increasing the daily testing for two months now. “In September too, we are testing around 9,000 samples in Mumbai daily whereas we should be testing at least 15,000. We have given an option to citizens to get tested, but we should also enforce testing if that is required for increasing the testing numbers. Also, at least front-line staff or those who come in contact with multiple people daily should all be tested to control the spread.”Suresh Kakani, BMC’s additional commissioner, said the spike they expected will not be huge. “There will be a little spike in the number of cases being reported daily, and it is because we are having many relaxations... During the Ganesh festival, many went out and this might increase our tally,” he said. “The active cases in the city are around 20,000 and in the coming days, it will be anything above 17,000. ...our constant effort has been to increase the testing. Our capacity is to conduct around 1,4000 to 1,5000 tests daily and we are doing around 9,000 now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/while-testing-in-mumbai-goes-up-cases-decline-in-august-but-authorities-expect-further-spike/story-Njw8cOrgf5Ts5t44vZmu0K.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Water from artificial immersion sites, Plaster of Paris idols dumped directly into Thane creek by civic body||An environmental group has cited Thane Municipal Corporation’s practice of discharging water from artificial idol immersion sites and remnants of thousands of Plaster of Paris (PoP) Ganesh idols pushed into Thane creek as a result annually to highlight the damage it is causing to marine life and water quality.Muse Foundation, the group, first came to know about the practice in 2019 when it received a response under the Right to Information (RTI) Act from the corporation that they had been collecting Ganesh idols at 19 artificial ponds and dumping them at Thane Creek. The corporation cleaned the immersion sites using chemicals before releasing the treated water into the Thane creek.The group studied the situation during Ganeshotsav festival this year and found there was no change in the practice and filed complaints, including the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) on Thursday, saying it was being done a gross violation of preventive water pollution control measures.“PoP idols and associated lead-based paint are toxic for marine life and water quality. Remnants of these idols are disastrous for the marine biodiversity of this creek, which passes through a protected flamingo sanctuary and finally meets the Arabian Sea, polluting an entire ecosystem,” said Muse Foundation founder Nishant Bangera.Muse Foundation on Thursday identified one of the locations where a heap of broken idols and decorative material was found dumped.The corporation said 45,000 idols were immersed in 2016, 42,000 to 34,000 from 2017 to 2019, and 21,000 idols this year.The corporation also, under RTI Act, said it spent Rs 11 lakh to construct one of the ponds. “If on an average, the cost of the artificial immersion site is about 10 lakh each, with 19 such sites, the total amount runs into crores of rupees. Thus, the current practice renders artificial immersions as a futile exercise using public money since the disposal is finally happening in the Thane Creek itself,” said Muse Foundation member Sushank Tomar.The group has requested the Maharashtra government to intervene and direct an end to the practice. “Innovative methods at the city level can be used to eliminate PoP from entering the creek...,” said Bangera.Manisha Pradhan, who heads the corporation’s pollution control department, said there has been an increase in suspended solids coming from decorative materials with idols. “For this, our treatment practice is effective as KMNo4 [used for the cleaning] acts as an oxidising agent... alum is used to reduce the suspended particles and increase dissolved oxygen in the water. Once discharged into the Thane creek, it does not affect the water quality in any manner as the water easily dissolves and does not affect the biodiversity.” Pradhan added this was being done as per MPCB guidelines.PoP contains chemicals like sulphur, phosphorus and magnesium and idols made of it are the cheapest and cost between Rs 500-Rs 1,000.“The toxicity from heavy metals in colour used to paint idols is a problem. Lead-based paints used on these idols are poisonous for phytoplankton’s [underwater plants] and the poison is further transferred to fish and higher animals,” said E Vivekanandan, a marine biologist.Pradhan said they were encouraging citizens to use clay idols and added in the case of PoP ones, they request them to use ammonium bicarbonate. “[People in] areas like [Covid-19] containment zones or located away from immersion spots were asked to follow this process wherein idols would be dissolved on site. 100kg ammonium bicarbonate was purchased from us by citizens this year. However, this is not feasible on a large-scale level which requires interventions from the state or Centre to ban the use of PoP completely,” said Pradhan.The Central Pollution Control Board in May banned the use of PoP, thermocol, and single-use plastic for making idols and the use of creeks and natural water bodies for immersion. But on May 22, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar deferred the ban by a year to help artisans hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic.An MPCB official said they were unaware of the corporation’s practice. “We will check with our regional officer about the issue and based on his response, follow up directions will be issued to...”Forest officials said they would check whether water pollution was recorded post immersions at the 1,690 hectare Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary. “If we find remnants of any idols, we will take corrective action. The matter will be anyway highlighted to other state bodies to check the practice,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/water-from-artificial-immersion-sites-plaster-of-paris-idols-dumped-directly-into-thane-creek-by-civic-body/story-DUjEsltH5VUiItBVVnpFJO.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC concludes second serological survey, results expected by next weekend||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) concluded the second phase of a serological survey on Thursday, and results are expected by the end of next week. In the second comparative survey, the civic body collected blood samples of 5,840 individuals—3,700 from slums and 2,140 from non-slum areas—in the same three civic wards as the first serological survey. In a sero-survey, a group of individuals undergo blood tests to detect the presence of IgM antibodies. Immunoglobulin-G (IgM) antibodies are produced by the body’s immune system on being exposed to a foreign particle like a virus. The sero survey will help identify individuals who were previously infected with the virus and have now recovered due to the presence of antibodies. The civic body, along with NITI-Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), conducted the first serological survey in July among 6,936 people living in the three wards—M-West (Tilaknagar and Chembur), F-North (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R-North (Dahisar and Mandapeshwar). As many as 4,234 individuals were surveyed at random in slums, of which 56.5% were identified with Covid-19 antibodies. In non-slum areas, antibodies were prevalent in only 419 (15.5%) of 2,702 people examined. In order to gauge the spread of the virus among the population, BMC needed to conduct the second study in the same civic wards a month after the first sero survey. “We are expecting results of the survey within a week. The researchers will have to analyse and compare data of the first sero survey with the second one to check the change in infection rate. This will give us a clearer picture of the spread of the virus in the population and how many have remained asymptomatic,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. As HT reported earlier, only 20% persons in non-slum residential areas cooperated with the volunteers in collecting samples in the first study. However, in comparison to the previous study, volunteers witnessed lesser resistance from non-slums individuals in the ongoing second study. “Before starting collecting samples, we sensitized people in different societies and buildings in the same three wards so that they cooperated with us in providing their samples,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-bmc-concludes-second-serological-survey-results-expected-by-weekend/story-VlFno0XhwDfx5S7owjBqNO.html
04-09-2020||City||Ayodhya’s Ram ki Paidi set for major facelift by this Diwali||By Diwali in November, Ayodhya’s Ram ki Paidi, as the Saryu riverbank in the temple town is known, would be bigger, and better as the work on its extension is in its final stages and expected to be complete by this month or early October, officials aware of the matter said. The Uttar Pradesh tourism department is likely to market it as a major attraction to draw tourist to the town.The project is a part of the town’s makeover as the state government seeks to make its a major religious tourism hub over the next decade with the launch the Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya last month. The Supreme Court paved the way for the construction at the site of demolished Babri Masjid after years of litigation and bad blood.Officials said Ram ki Paidi is being extended at the cost of Rs 56 crore. “Post-revamp, Ram ki Paidi would have more ghats [from five to nine] and more space [as the length of the remodelled bank is being extended from 500 metres to a kilometre], to accommodate devotees who want to take a holy dip in the Saryu river during major festivals and fairs,” said irrigation department’s engineer-in-chief, VK Niranjan, who is associated with the remodelling project.The first phase of the makeover was completed in October barely eight months after it began.Officials said it impressed chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who visited the place twice and performed rituals and ordered that the Ram ki Paidi be further extended.The river discharge flow around Ram ki Paidi, where the water was mostly stagnated, was increased from 40 cusecs since 1988 to 240 cusecs to ensure a continuous, steady flow of water with the help of a pump house. “To ensure steady flow, we approached the Irrigation Research Institute at Roorkee for suggestions. On the basis of those, the department started the challenging task of ensuring smooth water flow,” said Niranjan.He added in 1988, the water from the Saryu would be pumped into the Ram ki Paidi from one side and pumped out from the other. “This two-stage pumping meant that there was no flow as it was designed more like a water tank and slowly it became full of silt and dirt. The irrigation department would carry out cleanliness drive but every 15 days, things would be back to square one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ayodhya-s-ram-ki-paidi-set-for-major-facelift-by-this-diwali/story-BBOYXqBEjC31ZxujuBDu2H.html
04-09-2020||City||UP tells its departments to ban bidders from ‘certain’ countries||The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered a ban on bidders from “certain countries” for public procurement” citing the Centre’s directions in this regard amid ongoing border tensions with China. No country has been named in the order aimed at bidders from the countries India shares borders with. The order does not cover the countries where India is engaged in development projects.Also read: In Uttar Pradesh, Kafeel Khan becomes hot property for political partiesIn an order dated August 26, joint secretary (finance) Sanjay Kumar Mishra asked all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries, to “take necessary action” regarding the matter.Mishra also circulated a copy of a letter dated July 23 from the Union government’s secretary (expenditure) TV Somanathan, citing India’s national security and defence. “The government of India’s general financial rules have been amended to provide for restrictions on procurement from bidders from a country or countries or class of countries on grounds of defence of India or matters directly or indirectly related thereto, including national security…. Keeping in view the circumstances, it is imperative for the defence of India and national security that the same restrictions be applied in respect of procurement by state governments and their public undertakings, as well as in public private partnership projects receiving financing from state governments,” said Somanathan.The Centre has asked the state government to set up a competent authority for prior registration of bidders.In another order, department of expenditure’s public procurement division joint secretary, Sanjay Prasad, clarified the ban order will not affect the bidders from neighbouring countries where India is engaged in development projects.“We have forwarded the Union government’s letter directly to the departments to avoid any confusion. We are not sure how many bidders will be affected by the decision,” said a state government official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-tells-its-departments-to-ban-bidders-from-certain-countries/story-d7SjzVECasX9dzdWruOwpJ.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi man creates fake social media profiles of a woman to harass her; arrested||Suspecting a 21-year-old woman to be behind the break-up of his friendship with her older sister who lives in south Delhi’s Neb Darai, a university student created multiple fake social media profiles in her name and began using them to share obscene messages, the Delhi Police said. They arrested the student on Wednesday.Since the woman’s photographs and mobile phone number were shared on these fake social media profiles, she was inundated with phone calls from strangers who would pass vulgar comments and seek sexual favours of her. Atul Kumar Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police (south), said that when the woman complained on Tuesday, they first proceeded to contact the two social media companies, Facebook and Instagram, to request them to take down the profiles. Meanwhile, the police registered a case of stalking, insulting the modesty of a woman and criminal intimidation at Neb Sarai police station. “We used technical surveillance on the phone numbers used to open these fake accounts and that helped us zero in on the suspect, Umesh Kumar, who lives in Sangam Vihar,” said the DCP. Kumar was arrested on Wednesday and the mobile phone allegedly used in the crime was recovered from him. According to the DCP, Kumar said that he was friends with the woman’s older sister until March 2020. “He suspected her younger sister of being the reason behind their break-up and decided to take revenge,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-creates-fake-social-media-profiles-of-a-woman-to-harass-her-arrested/story-vcuL3RAV0rx9ejGRz8CNSK.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||6 things to remember before making plans to visit a restopub or club in Delhi||Restaurants, bars, clubs and hotels in Delhi will be allowed to serve liquor on a trial basis between September 9 and 30, after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal cleared the Delhi government’s proposal to allow the sale of alcoholic beverages to dine-in customers on Thursday. The move came days after the central government, in its guidelines, allowed bars to open across the country.Thursday’s order comes with stringent safety protocols to be followed in all restaurants, pubs, clubs, bars and hotels. Here are six things one must keep in mind before making plans1. Wearing masks is compulsory for both customers and employees.2. It is better to get a reservation first because restaurants, bars, pubs and hotels will have to ensure that not more than 50% of their seats are occupied at any given point, which can lead to a long wait outside the premises.3. The dance floors will be missing and so will the bar stools – the idea is to ensure social distancing. Also, bars are not allowed to serve customers who are not allotted a proper table.4. All customers will be screened with thermal scanners and anyone with a body temperature above normal or with flu-like symptoms will be denied entry.5. Restaurants, bars, pubs and hotels will not be allowed to operate in containment zones. As of now Delhi has 922 sealed areas. 6. It is best to check the list of precautions on the Delhi government website before making plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/5-things-to-remember-before-making-plans-to-visit-a-restopub-or-club-in-delhi/story-zAVGF6Hm4PmqP0Nsc8Oo6K.html
04-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh weavers get Priyanka Gandhi and Akhilesh Yadav’s support over power tariffs||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav have accused the Uttar Pradesh government of ignoring weavers’ demand for restoration of power subsidy for power looms run by the community in the state and not helping them tide over the difficulties faced during the lockdown.“Weavers from all over Uttar Pradesh, including Varanasi are currently facing a terrible crisis. The government has neither heard them on the issue of electricity bills nor has it helped them to overcome the crisis that has arisen from the lockdown. Weavers, who illuminated UP’s name across the world through their skill and art, are forced to go on strike today. The government should listen to the demands of the weavers,” said Gandhi in a post on her Facebook account.The UP government, in January this year, ended the flat electricity rate regime for handlooms and directed them to pay according to power consumption.In protest, weavers in Varanasi launched a fortnightly strike on September 1 by stopping power looms to demand restoration of the fixed power tariff arrangement. The strike call was given by Uttar Pradesh Bunkar Mahasabha and Varanasi based organization Biradarana Tanzim. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted to extend his support to the community, “Weavers are upset, but the government is unaware.” About 5 lakh weavers are engaged in the making of famous Banarasi sarees, stoles and other clothes in the city and they claim the government move was burning a hole in their pocket. A weaver said that it was impossible to pay heft electricity bills amounting to Rs 2,500 or Rs 3,000 with an average monthly earning of Rs 8,000 while meeting expenses of one’s family.The striking weavers’ groups have decided to suspend work between September 1 and 15. The effect of the strike was visible everywhere with powerlooms in all localities remaining closed. The community has decided to form a human chain and stage demonstrations from Friday. Also Read: In UP, Kafeel Khan becomes hot property for political partiesTop members of the Tanzim, Maqbool Hasan and Ishrat Usmani said the stir would be intensified further if the government does not accept their demands. Weavers from across the state will collectively apply to get their electricity lines disconnected.Social worker and master weaver Mateen Kaifee said: “Under the flat rate scheme, Rs 145 each was fixed for every powerloom. But now weavers are made to pay per unit of consumed electricity every month. For example, if a powerloom consumes 300 units, the weaver will have to pay the bill for all 300 units.” Also Read: Sero survey begins in 11 UP districts todayHe added that in the new arrangement, on consumption of 120 units by a half to one horse power motor-operated powerloom, the weaver will get a monthly subsidy of Rs 350 and Rs 240 respectively. Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited director commerce, OP Dixit, confirmed that the metered electricity bill was launched in January following a government order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-weavers-get-priyanka-gandhi-and-akhilesh-yadav-s-support-over-power-tariffs/story-mZeM4Tq0j4E6mjhGrPTKYM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Two Murthal dhabas sealed after 75 workers test Covid-19 positive||Two dhabas in Haryana’s Murthal were sealed on Thursday after their 75 workers tested positive for Covid-19, a senior official said. According to Sonipat Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia, majority 65 workers tested positive at the Amrik-Sukhdev dhaba. Ten workers belonged to the other dhaba, he told PTI over the phone. Both dhabas are located in Sonipat’s Murthal and nearly 50 km away from Delhi. The DC said both dhabas have been sealed till further orders and efforts are on to trace as many contacts as possible of the positive cases. The DC said the district administration has ordered to sanitise the eateries. Murthal is famous for its eateries and is often thronged by people travelling on the Delhi-Ambala national highway. Many people from Delhi also visit Murthal as a getaway destination as the place has many famous dhabas. The DC said the Sonipat district administration has been running a special drive for the sampling of workers at the dhabas and it was during this process that these cases were detected. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, he said the district administration keeps carrying routine checks at dhabas to ensure that they follow all norms and guidelines, including those pertaining to social distancing. Haryana on Thursday reported its highest single-day spike of 1,881 coronavirus cases with 19 fatalities. Sonipat district reported 190 coronavirus cases, according to a state Health Department bulletin. As per the bulletin, Sonipat, which so far has reported 4,747 cases with 41 fatalities, is the third worst-hit district after Faridabad and Gurgaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-two-murthal-dhabas-sealed-after-75-workers-test-covid-19-positive/story-CdZ65A1vb5MbtR8j5nVdcL.html
04-09-2020||City||Light to moderate rainfall predicted for Delhi today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast light to moderate rain in some parts of the national capital through Friday. Rainfall will occur on Saturday as well, albeit intermittently and with less intensity, the IMD forecast said.“The winds were mainly because of a cyclonic circulation in north-western Madhya Pradesh (MP) and north-eastern Rajasthan. This led to the windy weather on Thursday. Moderate rainfall is expected in parts of the city, as the monsoon trough has reached close to the Delhi-national capital region (NCR),” said a senior IMD scientist.On Thursday, too, some parts of the city received rainfall.Delhi had received moderate rainfall on August 28, and since then gusty winds have been blowing across the city. The winds have kept the city’s air quality index (AQI) in check.“We are expected to receive rainfall on Saturday as well,” the scientist said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/light-to-moderate-rainfall-predicted-for-delhi-today/story-ZxWRARaytNl3CCKYopdxOM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana chief secretary sets target of ‘zero stubble burning’||Directing to ensure ‘zero stubble burning’ in the state during the upcoming paddy harvesting season, Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Thursday said reducing air pollution was imperative to contain spread of respiratory diseases in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The chief secretary held a meeting in compliance with the orders of the apex court with different stakeholders and directed all district officers to draw a comprehensive plan to achieve zero stubble burning target effectively. Asking officers of the agriculture department to focus on red zone areas in the districts having regular incidents of stubble burning, she said surveillance teams should be constituted and nodal officers be appointed. “To reduce the incidence of stubble burning, directions were also given to hold gram sabha meetings,” an official spokesperson said. Arora was apprised in the meeting of a decline of 68% in fire incidences of crop residues last year in comparison to previous years. She asked the officers concerned to identify the villages falling under red and yellow zones, which do not have custom hiring centres and are yet to apply for them. She further asked them to ensure that these villages move applications for it at the earliest. The chief secretary directed the office-bearers of panchayats to ensure utilisation of machinery provided at 851 custom hiring centres set up at panchayat-level to its full capacity while giving preference to small and marginal farmers. She further asserted that it is the responsibility of the state to prevent air pollution for which the villagers should be made aware and encouraged to play an instrumental role in preventing environmental pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-chief-secretary-sets-target-of-zero-stubble-burning/story-AuCyxAP7W2f3kR7tiI8UdM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nine districts account for 66% of new 1,818 infections in Haryana||Haryana on Thursday reported 1,818 new coronavirus infections with nine districts, each with more than 100 cases, accounting for 66% of the fresh cases.They are Gurugram (224), Sonepat (190), Faridabad (150), Panipat and Panchkula (128 each), Sirsa (115), Karnal (112), Hisar (111) and Kurukshetra (100). The fresh infections pushed the state’s patient tally to 70,099.As per a medical bulletin, 19 infected persons – three each from Karnal and Kurukshetra, two each from Gurugram, Ambala, Hisar, Yamunanagar and Jind and one each from Faridabad, Sirsa and Panchkula – succumbed to the virus on Thursday.The bulletin said that 1,014 recoveries were reported on Thursday, taking the total number of those recovered to 55,889. The number of active cases stood at 13,470. The recovery rate came down to about 79% and the fatality rate was 1.06%. The bulletin said there were 244 critically ill patients in the state, including 37 on ventilator support.Several other districts also reported substantial number of new infections. They are Rewari (94), Ambala and Yamunanagar (92 each), Mahendergarh (61), Jind (60) and Fatehabad (50).Among other districts, Kaithal reported 41 new infections followed by Rohtak (32), Jhajjar (28), Bhiwani (26), Palwal (22), Nuh (15) and Charkhi Dadri (10). Congress’ Sonepat MLA Surender Panwar’s son and his two staff members have also tested positive for the virus.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta discharged from hospitalHaryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram after being testing positive for Covid-19, was discharged on Thursday. He reached his Panchkula residence in the evening, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-districts-account-for-66-of-new-1-818-infections-in-haryana/story-wOuccOGyvc5vyUDehgI7zH.html
04-09-2020||City||‘Life threat’ to Kalayat SDM, FIR registered||Kalayat subdivisional magistrate Reagan Kumar claimed that he received a life threat for not issuing a driving licence to the son of a local BJP leader, police said on Thursday. On his complaint, the Kalayat police have registered an FIR under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.The SDM has demanded action against Mahipal Rana, BJP’s Kalayat block president.As per his complaint, Rana had come to his office on September 1 and used abusive language besides threatening him with dire consequences if he did not issue the driving licence to his son without passing the driving test.Kaithal superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said an FIR has been registered and a probe was on. However, no arrest has been made so far, he added.Meanwhile, Rana has refuted the allegations and said, “We had gone for a driving test of my son and the SDM asked us to bring all vehicles, including bike, car, jeep and tractor. We had a bike and we requested him to take the test with the available vehicle only, but he refused.”Rana said he did not use any abusive language and the allegations levelled against him were false.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/life-threat-to-kalayat-sdm-fir-registered/story-iNDfrf3a77cbI6BWqxia3O.html
04-09-2020||City||Father among two held for molesting 12-year-old girl in Rohtak||A man and his friend were arrested on Thursday for allegedly molesting his 12-year-old daughter, Rohtak police said. In her complaint, girl’s mother said her husband and his friend consumed liquor at their house on the night of September 1 and then they went to her daughter’s room where she was sleeping.“My husband and his friend molested my 12-year-old daughter,” she added. Rohtak City station house officer (SHO) Pramod Gautam said the accused were produced in a court on Thursday, which sent them to judicial custody. “The girl underwent a counselling. The accused have been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act ,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-among-two-held-for-molesting-12-year-old-girl-in-rohtak/story-anaDDpca7Wl8I4zHEbJHWM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Infections will go up till mid-Sept, priority to keep fatalities down’||The coronavirus infection spread from Haryana’s national capital region to the northern districts is likely to hit a peak by mid-September. There could be, however, a decline in the number of infections by September-end, additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora told HT on Thursday. Excerpts:Q: How do you see the virus trajectory shaping? Wherever there is an outbreak, the peak period having high number of cases accompanied by fatalities is for a month or so. Subsequently, there is a tendency to stabilise and then cases start declining. A lot also depends to what extent people adhere to safety protocols. Q: Case fatality rate has been rather low in Haryana. Is it plain luck? Testing more and isolating infected patients early has an impact on fatality ratio. Also, the strategy of strict surveillance and screening has paid us. During procurement season, we even tested drivers of harvesting combines, traders and commission agents.Q: The virus has started shifting to north and north-west. Majority of districts have over critical values of over 200 active cases or more than 15 cases per lakh population. What’s your strategy to counter fresh spread? There is so much movement of people. Our NCR district spike was connected with Capital cases. Once infection rate in Delhi stabilised, a similar trend was noticed in Gurgaon and Faridabad. Now the virus has moved northwards. We are hopeful that after mid-September, cases in the north will also get stabilised. Till September 15, we need to doubly ensure that fatalities are kept down.Q: Why is the sample positivity rate increasing? Haryana’s daily testing has increased substantially. The average per day testing in March was just 30. It was 880 in April, about 3,000 in May, about 5,000 in June, 11,300 in July, 17,500 in August and about 23,000 in September. On an average, the positivity rate has been about 5.65%. It meant that for every 100 cases tested, we get 5.6 positive cases. So, if you increase your per day testing by 6,000 between July and August and September, the per day increase of positive cases will be 375-400. Q: How has been the experience with rapid antigen testing (RAT)? RAT has been extremely useful in areas with a sudden spurt of cases including containment zones. It has helped us to immediately isolate infected persons in emerging hotspots. Antigen detection has also played a vital role in unlocking industrial clusters. Q: How would you explain the 3.7% positivity rate for rapid antigen test as compared to 6.4% for RT-PCR which is the gold standard test? The success rate for rapid antigen test is 75-80 %. But even with a lower positivity rate of 3.7%, it is effective in isolating cases very quickly. However, we are very careful in ensuring that testing ratio for RT-PCR and RAT is 60:40. RT-PCR remains our first preference. Q: Are we anywhere close to bending the curve? By September-end, the number of infections should see a decline in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infections-will-go-up-till-mid-sept-priority-to-keep-fatalities-down/story-uhEWwta1WCUFLKWIavjiaL.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: That M word||He has been living in the Capital since 1974, “so I’m definitely not a migrant,” says Muhammed Zafar, uttering the M word in English. But this is also true that his entire family—his wife and five of his six children—live in his native village in Bihar, and have never visited him here.“To tell you frankly, I feel like a migrant when I go to visit my people in the village,” he says in a dead serious tone, as if his solemn expressions would add credibility to his arguments.In his late 50s, Mr Zafar sells ladies and children footwear on a central Delhi pavement. This morning he is sitting in the middle of the sandal rack, filled up with small and big sandals of all kinds of glossy varieties. Mr Zafar is actually sitting at the very centre of the sloping stall, his figure surrounded by the merchandise he is selling. A small table fan is placed next to him. The roof is a plastic awning that protects him and the sandals from rain and sunshine.This isn’t his shop though, he clarifies. He works on behalf of the owner.After decades of being in the city, Mr Zafar does not have a street stall of his own — it doesn’t make him feel unsuccessful, he explains. “My accomplishment lies in being able to feed my family.” That was the reason he left his village all those years ago. Mr Zafar calls the city his “asli ghar (true home)”, but he has no illusions about the indifference it shows to its dwellers. He cites the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, when all the markets had to shut down, “and suddenly I was out of work, out of money... and nobody here came to my help.”He went back to his family in Darbangha district “and for the first time in many years I stayed there for four months straight.” Usually, Mr Zafar would visit the place annually for a month, in the winters.There, despite being among his wife and children, he just couldn’t feel at ease. “Only in Dilli I feel at home. I feel sukoon (calm).”When urged to explain this dichotomy, Mr Zafar thinks hard for a while. Speaking slowly, he says: When I’m in the village, I’m always full of tensions, for there are few opportunities to earn, and spending my days there means I’m losing out on the money I could have earned in the sheher (city).”Mr Zafar points out that his eldest son lives in the Delhi region too. “He works in a restaurant in a mall in Noida.” They rarely meet but the son also supports the family in the village.Anyhow, the moment the footwear seller says he feels most content is when sending money to his family through mobile phone. “And that is possible because of this place,” he says, implying Delhi.Although these days there are barely any shoppers, “I’m back at work,” and theatrically gesturing his arm about the sandals, he says, “and here is my life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-that-m-word/story-70nTBWwyAweYrmpyKXXXsK.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||As state eases lockdown restrictions, 14,600 travel on outstation trains in Maharashtra||Mumbai Around 14,600 passengers travelled within Maharashtra on outstation trains on Wednesday after the Central Railway and Western Railway permitted the trains to halt at stations within the state. Of these, 8,501 tickets were booked for services operated by the Central Railway.The decision to permit the outstation trains to operate was taken after the state government permitted inter-district movement as a part of its unlock guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-state-eases-lockdown-restrictions-14-600-travel-on-outstation-trains-in-maharashtra/story-tj2hBNpY7ROtV8ABlTI3TO.html
04-09-2020||City||Thane municipal commissioner attributes rise in Covid cases to increased testing||Covid-19 cases in Thane have been witnessing a surge from the past one week, after seeing a marked decline last month. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has attributed the rise to the increased number of tests each day. For over a week, the city has been conducting 3,500 antigen tests each day, said civic commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma. The civic body has been laying special emphasis on testing vendors and commuters. The volunteers at the immersion sites, too, were made to take antigen tests. “If the cases are increasing, so are the number of tests that are being conducted. On Wednesday alone, we tested 4,374 people. We had also set up detection centres at immersion ghats during Ganesh Chaturthi, which helped us reach out to the volunteers. Each ward has set up at least two testing camps and we are making optimum use of our manpower and antigen kits.” At the antigen testing camps, senior citizens, comorbid residents, differently-abled residents and pregnant women are given a priority. The city had witnessed a surge of infections in mid-July, when the Covid-19 cases witnessed a daily spike of 400-417. However, by mid-August, the figures hovered between 200 and 250 each day and this week, the numbers have again witnessed a surge. On Thursday, the city had recorded 348 cases, higher from Wednesday’s 301 cases. The total cases in the city have now crossed the 27,000-mark, while the death toll stands at 973. The situation at Uthalsar and Majiwada-Manpada wards has been causing a worry to officials as the areas have recorded a growth rate of 1.1% as against the growth rate between 0.3% and 0.9% witnessed in other wards. As per TMC’s report, on Thursday, the Majiwada-Manpada ward had recorded 71 cases, followed by 55 cases registered in Naupada Kopri and 52 in Kalwa wards. “Earlier, we used to conduct around 50 tests each day, which has increased to around 700 tests now. On Wednesday, we set up three testing camps within the Uthalsar ward, which has led to an increase in the number of positive cases. Forty four new cases were recorded from Uthalsar alone on Thursday due to extensive testing,” said SR Patole, assistant municipal commissioner, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-municipal-commissioner-attributes-rise-in-covid-cases-to-increased-testing/story-r0fDifVh1IF34bHQpXynOO.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||2 students arrested in cheating cases from Mumbai’s Andheri area test positive for Covid-19||Two of the five students, who were arrested by Oshiwara police in cheating cases last month, were tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. “The students are undergoing treatment at GT Hospital. Five police personnel who were a part of the investigations were also tested and their reports came negative,” said senior inspector Dayanand Bangar from Oshiwara police station. According to the police, on August 26, a paan stall owner from Lokhandwala Market approached them and filed a complaint against an unknown person. He said on July 10 and 11, a student purchased cigarettes worth ₹77,800, for which he made the payment online. The complainant said after the payment was made, he received a message stating that the amount was credited to his account. However, on visiting his bank in August, he discovered that the transaction never happened. He then approached the police, and based on his complaint, a first information report (FIR) was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 471 (using as genuine a forged [document or electronic record) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. On probing, the police discovered that the accused allegedly used a messaging platform to send a fake bank message to the paan stall owner, which stated that the money was credited. Further inquiry revealed that four more students were involved in the case and through two messaging platforms they had cheated several shop owners. The police wrote to the messaging platforms to ascertain how many total messages have the accused sent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-students-arrested-in-cheating-cases-from-mumbai-s-andheri-area-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-7ElEgeTdesHEfraO4eOOXK.html
04-09-2020||City||Scientists write to PMO, call for ‘immediate end to large-scale lockdowns’||Scientists from several scientific and research institutes across the country have called for an immediate end to large-scale lockdowns as an ongoing Covid-19 management strategy. The letter is expected to reach the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) soon. “Continuing restrictions on public transport, which impact economic activities, are cruel for the vast majority of the people, who do not have the financial reserves to sustain themselves through an extended period of economic inactivity,” stated the letter signed by 40 professors and scientists. The letter further stated that child malnutrition, which is already an immense problem in India, will worsen significantly owing to lengthy lockdown. “While Covid-19 is an important and a new health concern, we cannot afford to ignore other health concerns for so many months,” added the letter. All the signees have also collectively welcomed the Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on August 29, except for some restrictions, especially on public transport. “Public transportation, long distance as well as local trains and buses must be opened immediately, in a phased manner... opening private transportation is highly insufficient as a vast majority of Indians depend on public transportation for their livelihood,” added the letter. “Covid should be addressed as a public health concern, rather than a law and order problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scientists-write-to-pmo-call-for-immediate-end-to-large-scale-lockdowns/story-PqXScZwPPUQeK7wAL161vI.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Record 276 cases push Chandigarh’s tally beyond 5,000 mark||The number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh surpassed the 5,000 mark on Thursday with 276 people testing positive in the steepest single-day surge in cases.The day also witnessed four more fatalities, taking the city’s death count to 63. The Covid-19 tally now stands at 5,065, of which 2,116 cases are active and 2,883 patients have recovered.Among the latest fatalities is a 72-year-old man from Mauli Jagran. A patient of hypertension and cor pulmonale, he died at the Sector-48 government hospital on September 2.A 65-year-old man, resident of Sector 48, who had a history of hypertension and asthma, died at a private hospital in Mohali on August 29.The other two deceased – two females, aged 58 and 44, from Mauli Jagran and Manimajra, respectively – had hypertension and diabetes. They died at the Sector-48 hospital and GMCH, Sector 32, respectively, on September 2.TWO FATALITIES IN MOHALI, 130 TEST POSITIVEMohali As many as 130 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking Mohali’s tally to 4,223.The toll also rose to 91 with a 60-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man succumbing to the virus. A resident of Shahpur village, the woman was under treatment at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The male patient was the general secretary of the Phase 3B2 Market Association. He was suffering from diabetes and undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. Among the new cases, 55 are from Mohali city, 25 from Gharuan, 15 from Dhakoli, 14 from Dera Bassi, 10 from Kharar, six from Lalru, four from Boothgarh and one from Banur. Meanwhile, 70 patients were discharged after being cured, bringing down the active cases to 1,871. A total of 2,261 patients have recovered so far. CIVIL SURGEON’S ASSISTANT AMONG 128 NEW CASES IN PANCHKULAPanchkula The district’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 2,672 on Thursday with 128 new cases, even as one more patient died.Among the new cases is an assistant of the civil surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, who will also be tested, along with other staff. Most of the remaining cases on Thursday are from Sectors 20 and 21, and Pinjore.The latest fatality was a 41-year-old man from Pinjore. He was suffering from diabetes mellitus and renal failure.The virus has claimed 24 lives in Panchkula till date. There are 1,055 active cases, while 1,593 persons have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/record-276-cases-push-chandigarh-s-tally-beyond-5-000-mark/story-q41qZzKX3a8S99jHjyxCAM.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Focus on non-Covid work: Mumbai civic body tells its staffers||In a bid to complete its annual civic works as well as to meet the financial targets, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked its employees to focus on their parent department’s duties and continue with the Covid-19 relief work alongside. The civic body wants to ensure that crucial works related to roads, solid waste management, bridges, storm water drains and other departments are not hampered. Additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani said, “The monsoon period was expected to be a crucial time and the staff had to focus on Covid. Now the monsoon season is almost over and so the staff has been asked to prioritise work of their respective departments.” Every year, BMC takes up massive road repair and civic works across the city post-monsoon. Since the pandemic broke out, all the civic staffers were directed to focus on Covid-19 relief work. As the fifth month of the financial year ended in August, the BMC has little time left to meet its annual targets. Also, the civic body has gradually begun to close down several Covid-19 centres, as the number of daily Covid-19 declined to less than 1,000 last month. The staff working for the centres have also been redirected to focus on their designated department’s work. With around 70% Covid Care Centres (CCC) now empty, the BMC has been handing over the lodges, schools, auditoriums and hotels, which were converted as Covid-19 centres, back to their owners. Currently, Mumbai has 333 CCCs for high-risk contacts, which collectively have a bed capacity of more than 48,300. There are 176 CCCs for positive asymptomatic patients, with over 23,534 beds. Meanwhile, on Thursday, Mumbai recorded 1,562 Covid-19 cases, which took the city’s total count to 150,095. The city has been reporting more than 1,100 cases in the past nine days. Civic authorities had expected a surge in cases in the last week of August in the wake of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. There were also 37 deaths reported on Thursday, following which the total toll has risen to 7, 764, according to the Maharashtra health department data. As per BMC’s data, of the 37 people who died, 27 were above 60 years of age, while the other 10 were between 40 and 60 years old. The BMC data has further stated that 1, 859 patients were discharged after recovery on Thursday. A total of 120, 561 patients have been recovered in the city now and the city has reported 80% recovery rate. There are 21, 439 active Covid-19 cases in the city currently. Dharavi, India’s largest slum area, reported eight cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the area to 2,800. Until Wednesday, 7.92 lakh tests had been conducted in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/focus-on-non-covid-work-bmc-tells-staff/story-DwX1hAhpFnQk1QfoIUnROM.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor gives nod: Final-year students can write their exams from home||The schedule of final-year examinations for professional and non-professional courses is likely to be declared by early next week as Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday approved the state government’s plans to allow students to appear for final-year exams from home. He also approved vice-chancellors’ recommendation to seek time up to October 31 from the University Grants Commission (UGC) to complete the examination process. Koshyari also directed vice-chancellors to conduct practical examinations at the universities from mid-September. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said they are working to ensure that students can appear for practical exams from home.The vice-chancellors’ committee will submit its report on holding final-year exams to the state government on Friday. They will also be convening meetings of the Board of Examinations and Academic Council within the next two-three days to finalise exam schedule as directed by the Governor. A proposal will then be placed before the state disaster management authority, headed by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, by Tuesday for final approval.Samant said, “Allowing students to appear for exams physically will not be possible this year as there are chances of them getting infected with Covid-19. More importantly, the Governor has approved to allow students to appear from home.”He was interacting with media persons after his meeting with the Governor along with vice-chancellors of all universities in the state on Thursday. A statement issued by Raj Bhavan also stated that the Governor, in his capacity as the chancellor of universities, asked the vice-chancellors to consider conducting examinations using the best possible mechanism including multiple choice questions (MCQ), optical mark recognition (OMR) method and to think of conducting offline examinations only in exceptional cases. He also directed them to complete the entire process of examinations including declaration of results by October 31.“The Governor asked all universities to start practical examinations from September 15,” stated the release. “Students can appear for practical exams from home. We are working to ensure that they won’t have to step out of home for that as well,” Samant told reporters. He also added that the state will see that the students intending to go abroad for higher studies won’t have to face any difficulty.The Governor interacted with all vice-chancellors and reviewed their preparations. He is satisfied with the progress on the issue so far, the minister said.Considering the shortage of time available for setting question papers, Koshyari has also asked universities to coordinate with Savitribai Phule Pune University, University of Mumbai and other universities for preparing question banks, said the Raj Bhavan statement.On August 31, Samant declared that students will be allowed to appear for final-year examinations for professional and non-professional courses from home. He had also said that the exams were likely to start from first week of October and the state can seek extension up to November 10 from the UGC for completing the process.The Supreme Court had last week ruled out that students cannot be promoted without writing final-year exams and upheld a July 6 directive of UGC to hold exams by September 30. However, it has given liberty to the states to approach UGC if they wish to postpone holding the examinations beyond the September 30 deadline in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Following the apex court’s order, the state has formed a committee of vice-chancellors to suggest measures to safely complete the examinations process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-gives-nod-final-year-students-can-write-their-exams-from-home/story-TKQr4mS5iwHJsPAfnlC91M.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Police record highest daily spike, 424 personnel contract Covid-19||The Maharashtra Police, which has been at the forefront in battling Covid-19 in the country’s worst-affected state as far as the viral outbreak is concerned, has reported 424 fresh cases in the past 24 hours.This is the highest single-day spike in the state police department since the lockdown restrictions were imposed from end-March in a bid to contain the spread of the contagion.Earlier on August 24, 351 Maharashtra Police personnel had tested Covid-19 positive.“So far, 16,015 Maharashtra Police personnel, including 1,736 officers, have been found to have contracted Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Fortunately, 13,014 police personnel have recovered from their viral infection and many have already resumed their duties,” said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), Maharashtra Police.The Covid-19-related death toll among Maharashtra Police personnel has risen to 163, including five fresh fatalities between Monday and Wednesday. So far, 15 police officers have died of Covid-19.Wardha, Nanded, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur Rural and Thane City police authorities reported a death each due to the viral infection.In Wardha, Vilas S Balpandey (46), a head constable, died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was posted at Dahigaon police station and was admitted to Kasturba Hospital in Sevagram on August 27 after he tested positive.Karbhari Rambhau Khade (52), a head constable posted at Mumbra police station in Thane city, also died on Wednesday, two hours after he was discharged from hospital. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 23. He also had a history of blood pressure. “Khade was a hardworking policeman and had been entrusted with the work of intelligence gathering at the police station. He is survived by his wife and a son who has completed a masters course in engineering,” inspector GM Mujawar from Mumbra police station said.Balaji Tukaram Denge, a head constable, died of the contagion in Nanded district on Tuesday. He was posted at the district police headquarters in Denge and was being treated at the government-run hospital in Wajirabad.Ganesh Shankarrao Surpam (47), a head constable from Nagpur Gramin police, died at Nagpur Medical College & Hospital, where he was admitted since August 26 after he had tested positive. “Surpam had suffered paralysis before the infection and also had a history of diabetes and high blood pressure. He is the first personnel from the Nagpur Rural District police to succumb to the virus. He is survived by his wife and two minor daughters. Until now, around 100 personnel from the district police have contracted the virus and most of them have recovered,” said Rakesh Ola, superintendent, Nagpur Gramin police.While Suresh Shona Mhatre, an assistant sub-inspector posted at Kalamboli police station, died at DY Patil Hospital in Navi Mumbai. He was undergoing treatment since August 20. “Mhatre had a history of diabetes and hypertension. He was at home since March, as all personnel above 55 years of age were exempted from duty. However, in the first week of August, he resumed duty. On August 22, he was tested positive for Covid-19 at MGM Hospital and later shifted to DY Patil Hospital. On August 28, he was given ventilator support after he developed breathing problems. He died on on August 31,” said senior inspector Satish Gaikawad from Kalamboli police station.So far, Mumbai Police has reported over 4,800 Covid-19 cases and 69 deaths because of the viral infection -- the highest in the state police department.An internal study conducted by the state police department has found that most of the deceased police personnel were aged above 50 years and had comorbidities such as blood pressure and diabetes. (With inputs from Farhan Shaikh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/424-maharashtra-police-personnel-contract-covid-19-in-24-hours-highest-recorded-spike/story-rGyU4Fkpwa9ukGCp3EorDI.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM was against lifting lockdown curbs in Pune hastily: Sanjay Raut’s statement indicates differences between Shiv Sena-NCP||In an indication of the differences between state’s ruling allies Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut said that Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray was against the “hasty” decision to lift the lockdown in Pune district. Raut’s statement is seen as an indirect blame on the NCP for the rise in Covid-19 cases in Pune, which is now the most-affected district in the state with more than 54,000 active cases. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and his party hold sway in the Pune region. Thackeray has been advocating a cautious approach while lifting curbs to prevent a situation which would force the government to re-impose the lockdown across the state. After restrictions were eased in June, the district and civic authorities in Pune imposed a 10-day strict lockdown from July 14 to break the chain of transmission, as the region started witnessing an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. The city, rural areas as well as the Pimpri-Chinchwad region within the district have seen a spike in cases over the past 40-45 days and recorded 182,212 total Covid-19 cases. “Since the beginning, Uddhav saheb had maintained that more attention has to be given to [the Covid-19 situation in] Pune. CM had even opposed the hasty easing of lockdown restrictions in Pune. But now they are following the Mumbai pattern,” Raut told reporters. State minority affairs minister Nawab Malik, from the NCP, however, denied any differences between the two parties. “There is nothing like that. Decisions are not taken by an individual, but they are taken collectively as a government,” he responded to Raut. The Opposition has been targeting the state government over its alleged poor preparedness at Covid centres, built to tackle the rising number of cases. The Opposition parties have blamed the state government for the death of a Pune-based television journalist Pandurang Raikar who succumbed to the virus. Raikar’s family alleged that there were lapses from the end of the authorities in proving him timely treatment. Raut also claimed that the Covid centre in Pune, where Raikar was admitted, was recently commissioned by Ajit Pawar and it did not have complete facilities before it was open to people. He also added that the state government needs to pay attention to see if medical facilities are adequate in a city like Pune. “The Covid-19 centres constructed by the Maharashtra government are functioning properly. But as they are being built at a large-scale, some shortcomings might have remained. I saw that the Pune Covid-19 centre was built before all the facilities were ready... it is unfortunate that there was a delay in getting ambulance for Raikar. The government will have to take some measures if ambulances are not available in a city like Pune,” said Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-was-against-lifting-lockdown-curbs-in-pune-hastily-sanjay-raut-s-statement-indicates-differences-between-the-ruling-shiv-sena-and-ncp/story-3W7gz6ZTsCjCRbtqazBgmO.html
04-09-2020||City||Private Mohali hospitals to provide health updates to kin of Covid-19 patients twice daily||With the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Mohali administration has directed all private hospitals to facilitate frequent health updates of admitted Covid-19 positive patients.“In order to allay fears and apprehensions of family members, it is imperative that hospital authorities regularly inform them of the patient about the patient’s status,” said Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner-cum-chairperson, District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).“It is necessary to streamline the flow of information from hospital to patients’ families in order to check any inadvertent delay in communication,” he said.The medical superintendents of all private hospitals will issue a bulletin briefing about the health status of all positive patients twice a day—first at 12 noon and again at 6pm. The hospitals will also depute a nodal officer or a public relations officer to act as the point of contact for the families of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-mohali-hospitals-to-provide-health-updates-to-kin-of-covid-19-patients-twice-daily/story-spjb8pY6iVhCKr3iMTuinO.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||After letter from Mahatma Gandhi’s kin, Maharashtra govt to re-examine tree felling near Sevagram Ashram||The Maharashtra government will re-examine the feasibility of completion of a road-widening project from Wardha to Mahatma Gandhi’s Sevagram Ashram. As many as 70 trees have already been cut for the project, which requires felling of 168 trees.The decision comes after three generations of Mahatma Gandhi’s family wrote a detailed letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday, requesting that the project be called off to protect the green cover.On July 27, Wardha forest range officer issued an order for the felling of 168 trees along a nine-kilometre (km) stretch from Wardha to Sevagram based on a proposal by the state public works department (PWD) for widening the road from the existing 10 metre to 14 metre. The project was proposed to ease traffic and facilitate movement of tourists to the ashram ahead of Mahatma Gandhi’s 151st birth anniversary next month on October 2.PWD minister Ashok Chavan said, “Appropriate permissions had been taken to widen the road since a large number of people go to Sevagram every year. The idea was to accommodate high footfall and traffic. Now, we will have to re-examine the matter. It is my understanding that Wardha guardian minister Sunil Kedar is also supportive of the project. However, in consultation with him and considering the sentiments expressed by citizens, we will see to it that there is a way out of this.”The letter by six members of the Gandhi family led by Bapu’s great grandson Tushar Gandhi and his (Tushar’s) daughter and environmentalist Kasturi, highlighted that some of the trees slated to be felled were much older than the ashram itself. “We, the descendants of Kasturba and Mohandas Gandhi, write to you with folded hands to kindly use your good offices to order the stopping of tree felling on the road from Wardha to Sevagram,” the letter read adding, “These trees bore witness as history was made on a daily basis at Sevagram during the years running up to our freedom, unfortunately we have lost many of these historic heritage trees already, our plea to you is please no more.” Mahatma Gandhi had been invited to Wardha in 1934 by industrialist Jamnalal Bajaj. The ashram had been set up in village Segaon, which was later named Sevagram, based on Gandhi’s directions in 1936. “These particular trees were planted with a purpose that they would provide shade and shelter for visitors who arrived at Wardha and made the five mile trip to Sevagram by foot,” the letter read.Speaking to HT, Tushar said these trees were the only source of shelter when Bapu’s followers would walk miles to visit him at the ashram, and that on April 30, 1936, Gandhi and his followers walked to Sevagram in summer heat taking shelter at bamboo huts and Guava trees. “The state’s proposal to cut trees is an unnecessary requirement to increase tourism in the district. This is the first time that three generations of the family came together to appeal against this environmental disaster. Both my aunt and my father had spent many years with Bapu at Sevagram when these barren patches were converted into green zones by planting trees between 1932 and 1934. At the time, Wardha was in the water scarcity area, and all the children were actually given one paisa each to take responsibility for carrying water to each planted tree to ensure they survive,” said Gandhi.He added that some places need to be left in their pristine condition. “That itself is the charm. However, there is a lack of vision. On one hand, Wardha has been declared a ‘no industry zone’ due its ecological fragility that has led to a lot of discontent among the youth due to lack of employment. On the other, trees are being mercilessly hacked for widening of a road. It is absolutely illogical,” said Gandhi. Meanwhile, the district administration said they had held a public consultation and there was no opposition following the order. However, after 70 trees were felled by PWD, large protests by local citizens and environmental groups halted further tree felling since the second week of August. “The matter is seized with the government. We have had two meetings with the guardian minister on this issue and discussed the possibility of saving maximum trees. Altering the alignment by a few metres can help save many trees. We have informed the PWD about this, and they are examining it. We are awaiting their feasibility report. Till then no trees would be felled,” said Vivek Bhimanwar, district collector, Wardha.Three villages were involved in the public consultation and issuing of no-objection certificates (NOC), said Tushar. “While local authorities convinced the sarpanch of Sevagram village to give NOC, later the deputy sarpanch and gram sabha wrote to the collector objecting to it saying not all members were consulted. Remaining two villages refused to issue NOC,” said he adding that tree consultants appointed by PWD have also advised against cutting these trees.Apart from the 168 trees for the section till the ashram, another 100 trees are proposed to be felled for the entire Wardha-Samudrapur Road, a PWD official said.District guardian minister Sunil Kedar and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray did not comment on the matter.EXCERPTS FROM THE LETTER Mahatma Gandhi’s descendants include his granddaughter and former Member of Parliament in South Africa, Ela Gandhi; grandsons Rajmohan Gandhi (historian) and Arun Gandhi (socio-political activist based in the United States of America), and Gopal Krishna Gandhi, former governor of West Bengal. The letter was led by Bapu’s great grandson Tushar Gandhi and his (Tushar’s) daughter Kasturi.Following are messages from each one of them:Ela Gandhi: I am deeply concerned about environmental issues and particularly now when we, throughout the world, are facing the Covid-19 pandemic which has brought into sharp focus the need to conserve both our environment and water. Trees are a source of water and it is important to do everything in our power to conserve as many trees as we can.Arun Gandhi: When Bapu acquired the land from Jamnalalji it was not only barren but was almost a desert. It was the toil of the people who lived in the ashram under Bapuji’s supervision that Sevagram became verdant and a testament to preservation of the environment and ecology. Today the world is suffering the effects of years of abuse of the environment and ecology. Future generations will curse us for destroying their future by wanton abuse of the environment and ecology.Rajmohan Gandhi: I fully support Tushar Gandhi’s efforts to protect the trees that form a precious part of that sacred environment in and around Wardha from where Mahatma Gandhi strengthened the momentum for India’s freedom.Gopalkrishna Gandhi: On learning from Tushar Gandhi that hundreds of trees are to be felled on the road to Wardha, ostensibly to widen the paths to facilitate tourists to Sevagram, I am reminded of Gandhiji’s clear and uncompromising code about not harming trees ‘in the least’. When such was the priority he accorded to trees in the height of a major public struggle, we can well imagine what his reaction would be to the information that trees are to be felled to facilitate travel to Sevagram.Kasturi Gandhi: In the case of Wardha, and the larger issue of the expansion of the state highway, the total opposite has happened — where there was a need to increase green cover, there has been mindless hacking of historically and geographically significant trees; there is no damage mitigation plan for forest areas and tiger habitats that the project passes through; and no intention has been expressed to remedy the destruction that is being wrecked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-letter-from-gandhi-s-kin-maharashtra-govt-to-re-examine-tree-felling-near-sevagram-ashram/story-pXVlG5w6cYAKcSm6mIXctN.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Don’t hide Covid symptoms: 31% die in 24 hrs of admission, reveals Mumbai civic corporation data||Months after the Covid outbreak in the city, the fatality rate stands at 5.1%. Reason? According to the death audit committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), delay in hospitalisation is to blame as 31% of the deaths take place within 24 hours of admission. Last week, the death audit committee concluded the third analysis of 5,200 deaths in the city. Of them, 1,615 died within 24 hours, while 59% died within four days of hospitalisation. In Mumbai, since March, 148,569 people have been infected with Covid-19. Of them, 7,724 have succumbed till September 2. The city’s fatality rate is higher than the state, which stands at 3%. To reduce the fatality rate, the death audit committee has recommended earlier admission of suspected and confirmed patients, especially those with comorbidities and aged above 50 years. “There are two sets of people. First, who avoid symptoms considering it as a general seasonal flu and take medicines over the counter, which deteriorates their condition. Second are those who despite having underlying health issues try to hide the infection which delays the hospitalisation,” said Dr Avinash Supe, in-charge of the death audit committee. When HT spoke to health volunteers, they complained that often people hide information about their symptoms during inspection. Fearing quarantine, people also take fever-reducing medicines. “When we try to do door-to-door inspections, especially in buildings with infected patients, people even refuse to come out for thermal scanning. If they have aged people, they don’t even tell us. Then we have to check the voters’ list to find them,” said a health volunteer from R-North ward that covers Dahisar. Dr Supe laid emphasis on people’s cooperation. However, the death rate varies from ward to ward. For instance, L ward covering Kurla (west), Andheri Sakinaka and Powai has the highest mortality rate of 7.44%, followed by 7.37% at B ward (Dongri, Masjid Bunder), 7.21% at H (East) ward (Bandra, Khar and Santacruz) and 7% at M (West) ward (Chembur). G-South (Worli and Prabhadevi), F-North ward (Sion, Matunga, Wadala and Dadar-east), M (East) ward covering Chembur east, K (East) ward covering Marol and Andheri East, G (North) covering Dadar, Dharavi and Mahim, Parel, have all registered death rates ranging between 6-6.7%. R-Central (Borivli) and T (Mulund) wards have recorded 3% and 2.7% fatality rate, respectively. BMC has come up with three steps to control the fatality rate in Mumbai— timely admission, intensive supportive therapy and oxygenation. The civic body has instructed hospitals to take note of the onset of symptoms among patients, date of the test conducted and time taken for admission. “Patient-wise data is being collected for analysis of the death audit committee. We check if the patient was refused admission by other hospitals, or there was a delay in detection of the virus. This data is maintained ward-wise, which also helps us understand why certain wards report higher fatality rates,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. City doctors on Covid-19 duties also highlighted that often unavailability of essential drugs such as Tocilizumab and Remdesivir delays the treatment of patients. “Although the situation is better now in comparison to July, patients’ families are still struggling to arrange for life-saving drugs. This often takes away a lot of time,” said an epidemiologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-hide-covid-19-symptoms-31-die-in-24-hours-of-admission-reveals-mumbai-civic-corporation-data/story-t1hW3FK4q3Mt6HPznGPxpM.html
04-09-2020||City||Staffers of Mumbai civic corporation’s five departments to keep a tab on citizens’ health amid Covid-19 outbreak||In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has shortlisted five civic departments to act as its eyes and ears to help it keep a tab on the health of citizens. The five departments are solid waste management, insecticide, water, community health volunteers, and contractual employees carrying out routine maintenance work of roads or storm water drains. If these personnel come across any residents with Covid-19 symptoms, or senior citizens with comorbidity, they will report the house number to their supervisors, who will, in turn, inform BMC health officials.The BMC control room will then get in touch with these residents for more details, or to shift them to quarantine centres or offer medical help if needed. Currently, such door-to-door surveys are carried out by ward level staff and community health workers. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, who is in-charge of the health department, said, “I am examining how staff from these departments can be activated to carry out surveys. All they have to do is ask a resident – “Are you feeling okay?” or ‘Is anyone unwell in your home?” It can be a civic employee who regularly visits a locality, or lives in a nearby locality. This exercise will take time, as we will work out the logistics, and also train these employees. It is not necessary that each employee will have access to homes, so it will be a herculean task.” BMC will soon start training the staff. Senior citizens will be the first target group for such surveys, who are at a greater risk for a delay in detecting or reporting Covid-19. According to BMC’s Covid war room dashboard, the civic body has so far screened 17,405,181 citizens, of which 926,982 were senior citizens. Of these, 3,119 senior citizens were found with low oxygen saturation and were given medical help. This is part of the long-term plan to handle the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai, especially when non-Covid work will also take priority and civic staff from all non-health departments may not be able to focus on relief work. In the long run, staff from these departments will help in disaster relief. “A person who visits housing societies everyday to collect garbage, or do repair work can help BMC identify dilapidated building, or point out other hazards in a structure and report back,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staffers-of-mumbai-civic-corporation-s-five-departments-to-keep-a-tab-on-citizens-health-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-55aVQlWXcZwmmbk8huyZnN.html
04-09-2020||City||Unidentified body found near Kolshet creek in Thane||An unidentified body of a man was found near Kolshet Ganesh immersion ghat on Thursday afternoon. The body was handed over to Kapurbawdi police by the regional disaster management cell (RDMC) for further investigation. The police have not yet established the identity of the person. Santosh Kadam, chief, RDMC, said, “The body was found behind Taricha pada cemetery near Kolshet creek. We immediately handed it over to the Kapurbawdi police station.” “The body is decomposed and was sent for post mortem. We are awaiting the reports. We have filed an accidental death report for now,” said AV Deshmukh, senior police inspector, Kapurbawdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-body-found-near-kolshet-creek-in-thane/story-GpcLq6CssiETw3glhOiq3J.html
04-09-2020||City||Sadanand Date appointed chief of Mira Bhayandar Vasai Virar Commissionerate||Sadanand Date has been appointed the commissioner of the newly formed Mira Bhayandar Vasai Virar (MBVV) commissionerate by the state government on Wednesday.Date, a 1990 batch IPS officer, has been working without a posting after he returned to the state after a Central deputation in February.He was instrumental in controlling the terrorist attacks in November 2008. He had fired at terrorist Ajmal Kasab and his aide using a carbine from Malabar Hill police station. He was injured in the crossfire. Date was awarded the President’s Police Medal for bravery during the 26/11 attack. He is also the brain behind the state anti-terrorist squad and has worked as inspector general and additional director general of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) before being appointed as the joint secretary in the law and justice department. He has also served as deputy commissioner of police of zone 8 in Mumbai. He was later appointed as the additional commissioner by the Centre.Date has undergone special training with the GSG-9 (Grenzschutzgruppe-9), a special unit of the German Federal Police, and played a significant role in establishing the Mumbai Police’s elite commando unit Force One, which is dedicated to fighting terrorists, alongside senior officer S Jaganathan in 2009. Till the formation of MBVV comissionerate, Mira-Bhayandar fell under Thane (Rural) police district while Vasai-Virar under Palghar police district.The state government has sanctioned 4,708 posts for the new MBVV commissionerate. A total of 1,006 posts from Thane (Rural), 1,165 from Palghar and 317 from other areas will be transferred to the new commissionerate, said police sources adding that an additional 2,200 posts will be added to the region. The recruitment for the same will be done in two phases. In the first phase, the government will hire 1,022 personnel including 975 constables, and in the second 1,082 personnel will be recruited. The Home department has also allocated ₹174 crore for the MBVV commissionerate, which will include 13 police stations which are part of the two districts as well as seven new police stations. The cabinet has, in July 2019, approved ₹3.82 crore for the construction of the new police stations.Meanwhile, the new police commissioner of Navi Mumbai, Bipin Kumar Singh, took charge on Thursday morning. Singh said that his focus will be to interact and communicate more with the residents to maintain law and order in the city. Singh, a 1990 batch IPS officer, had held the post of additional director general of police, anti-corruption bureau, Mumbai before being transferred. (Inputs from G Mohiuddin Jeddy)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sadanand-date-appointed-chief-of-mira-bhayandar-vasai-virar-commissionerate/story-zmI8OjYWSB6xfa89WUoLsN.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC refuses to stay Panjab University’s decision on fee collection||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday refused to stay the decision of Panjab University (PU) on collecting full fee for the upcoming semester at the University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS). The petition against the varsity’s move was filed by Nikhil Thamman, a fifth-year student of UILS. “The notice has been issued for October 5. However, court refused to stay the impugned order,” university’s counsel Vijaypal said. The petitioner had challenged the August 8 order of UILS wide which students were told to pay full fee for the August-December semester. Students were told to deposit advance payment of Rs 51,000 and other charges by August 31. “This has been done even as fee deposited for the February-May semester was not utilised as after March 15, no classes were held,” the court was told, adding that the varsity be asked to adjust this fees towards the next semester.FINAL EXAMS OF LAST SEMESTER FROM SEPT 17Chandigarh PU has decided to conduct the final exams of the last semester of various courses from September 17. “Students will download the question paper, fill up the answers and submit the scanned copy of the answer sheet,” sources said. The decision was taken in a meeting of a panel constituted for conducting the exams under the chairmanship of PU vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-refuses-to-stay-panjab-university-s-decision-on-fee-collection/story-A7nv6VUSlJ2cfXq6txj19O.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||80% FYJC seats in SEBC, EWS quotas in Mumbai Metropolitan Region vacant||Over 80% of the seats reserved for socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are likely to go vacant this year in the first round of general admissions to first year junior colleges (FYJC). Seats that remain vacant can only be surrendered after the third round of general admissions. According to the education department, against 17,844 seats reserved for SEBC students in MMR this year, only 2923 (16%) students have applied for admission. For 14,688 seats reserved for students from economically weaker sections (EWS), only 168 (1%) have applied. In 2019, 30% and 6% seats were claimed from SEBC and EWS quotas respectively. In 2019, the Bombay high court (HC) allowed 12% reservation in education under the SEBC category. Earlier that year, the Centre had announced a 10% reservation in education and jobs under the EWS quota for those with annual incomes of less than Rs 8 lakh. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state education department has again allowed students to seek provisional admissions under these quotas and submit original documents at a later date. City principals said few had applied through the two quotas. “Some students still mark EWS as a category while filling forms but when they actually proceed for admissions, we realise they have marked it by mistake,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, VG Vaze College, Mulund. This year, students must also submit a non-creamy layer certificate in addition to the SEBC certificate for admission under the quota. However, the education department has not received any queries about the certificate. “It seems like the numbers are small because many students from the category might have filled their forms from the general category, fearing they might not get the necessary certificates. The government has, however, given students additional time to produce documents,” said Rajendra Ahire, deputy director, Mumbai region. The education department extended the deadline for confirming admissions under the first round of admission to 5pm today. The second round of admissions would begin on September 5 and the second merit list would be declared on September 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/80-fyjc-seats-in-sebc-ews-quotas-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-vacant/story-cYiBuLgQK9C8I1h0TSB6qO.html
04-09-2020||City||Two men arrested with ₹87.5K worth drugs in Navi Mumbai||The anti-narcotics cell of Navi Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested two Mumbai-based drug peddlers and seized methaqualone crystal powder worth ₹87,500, on Wednesday night. The two accused had allegedly started peddling drugs in Navi Mumbai recently. Based on a tip-off about the presence of peddlers, ANC officers had laid a trap near a public lavatory in CBD Belapur where the accused — Sarfaraz Shaikh, 36, a Bandra resident; and Khalid Khan, 47, a Santacruz resident — were supposed to arrive and nabbed them. “The duo travelled by a scooter and waited near the spot. After confirming their identity, we detained them and found 35 grams of drugs from their possession,” said senior inspector Ravindra Budhwant. AC officers have also seized their vehicle, ₹1,200 cash and phones for further investigation. The accused confessed that they intended to sell drugs in the area and were subsequently booked under sections of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The duo has been remanded in police custody till September 6. Police are probing to ascertain where the accused procure the drugs from.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-arrested-with-87-5k-worth-drugs-in-navi-mumbai/story-zesw84HoWQvkO4h1rlbsnI.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||27,000 residential, commercial property owners in Chandigarh yet to pay tax||The fund-starved municipal corporation has reported that nearly 27% of property taxpayers in the city have defaulted on their payments.Against last year’s collection of ₹53 crore, the MC has so far collected just ₹40 crore in property tax, which is a major source of revenue for the civic body. The MC will now charge 12% interest and a fine of 25% on the tax dues.This, when the MC had extended the deadline for payment of tax till July 31 in the wake of the pandemic. Several complaints of inflated property tax bills and bills outstanding for several years had been received by the civic body. Most of these complaints were received from commercial property owners.For recovering more than ₹8 crore in unpaid property tax bills, the MC has started issuing notices to the 27,000 defaulters. Of these, 15,000 are owners of residential properties and 12,000 of commercial properties.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said, “We had even arranged for disposal of such complaints by setting up a special desk at MC office. If tax is not paid till September 30, we will initiate the process of attaching properties of defaulters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27-000-residential-commercial-property-owners-in-chandigarh-yet-to-pay-tax/story-YHVC83oP7peMxaynTnFdTO.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-based conservation group appoints WII professor as director||Conservation research group Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) on Thursday appointed Bivash Pandav, currently professor at the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in Dehradun, as the new director. Pandav will replace Deepak Apte whose term ended on July 31. However, Apte was appointed as interim director till the latest announcement was made.With 30 years of experience, Pandav is involved in teaching herpetology, mangrove and wetland ecology to post-graduate students and is a wildlife management specialist. His efforts contributed to the discovery of sea turtle mass-nesting along Odisha beaches as early as 1994.Pandav was appointed by an interview panel consisting of BNHS office-bearers under the governing council (GC) president Bittu Sahgal and external panel of wildlife biologists. “We are happy to get a dynamic and outstanding scientist on board who will be able to strengthen BNHS’s research and conservation activities both in the corridors of power and on ground,” said Debi Goenka, secretary, BNHS.Some governing council members said they were surprised with the decision. “Some of us were not aware of who the current BNHS office-bearers were. We were surprised that a new director was appointed immediately after the lockdown. There was a notice for the new director’s post on the website but we were informed that it was only procedural,” a lifetime member said.Pandav will take charge on January 1, 2021. Till then naturalist and GC member Isaac Kehimkar would be the interim director. “It is appalling for an organisation where an elected GC member is made an interim director with executive powers,” said another member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-based-conservation-group-appoints-wii-professor-as-director/story-viDWwBqWAlTdJECXZwNdGI.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||China encircling India from all sides, government must keep close watch: NCP chief Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has expressed concern over ongoing Indo-China border dispute and China’s intentions to halt the growth of Indian economy. Stating that the Chinese are surreptitiously encircling the Indian subcontinent from all directions, he said the Central government needs to keep a close watch on affairs of neighbouring countries such as Sri Lanka and Nepal.In the wake of the recent Indo-China border dispute, the former defence minister had invited Bhushan Gokhale, former Air Marshal of the Indian Air Force; Vijay Gokhale, former foreign secretary; and an expert on Indo-China relations to discuss the issue in detail on Thursday.After expressing his experiences of his visits to China in the early 90s as the then defence minister, Pawar said he is concerned over a larger strategic and political thinking of China that aims to halt economic growth in India.“I highlighted the fact that the Chinese are surreptitiously encircling the Indian Sub-Continent from all directions and also expressed my concern over their presence in the South China Sea,” the NCP chief said in a series of tweets. “I hinted at the need to keep a close watch on affairs of Sri Lanka and Nepal and also the Chinese interventions in general,” he added.Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale emphasised that the country must ponder over the new era of parallel warfare that include cyber, information, perception creations and the war on economic fronts. Gokhale also explained the history of Indo-China relationship, especially the border disputes, and shared his views on the current face-off at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and skirmishes on the border in the past few months.NCP Members of Parliament Praful Patel, Supriya Sule, Vandana Chavan and Dr Amol Kolhe were also present in the meeting.Earlier in June during his interaction with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, Pawar had pointed out that the high ground occupied by the Chinese army in Galwan Valley in East Ladakh may force closure of Darbuk–Shyok-DBO Road on the Indian side which may prove catastrophic to military operations of the Indian defence forces near LAC.He had suggested that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) must be evacuated by holding compulsory measures and also advised the Central government to strategise things using diplomatic channels to diffuse tension on the border and to make China see reason.Pawar was one of the leaders invited by the PM to discuss the issue following aggression and intrusion by the Chinese army at Galwan Valley.Explaining the significance of Darbuk–Shyok-DBO Road, he said that the road connecting Darbuk to DBO is entirely on the Indian side of LAC. It is crucial for India, as DBO is an advanced landing ground and provides an airfield for the Air Force to quickly respond to any emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/china-encircling-india-from-all-sides-govt-must-kee-close-watch-sharad-pawar/story-b6MAb3SJQ5UHceJ3CymX1L.html
04-09-2020||City||Cargo ship travelling from Gujarat towards JNPT collides with anchored Uttan trawler, 12 crew members safe||An unidentified cargo ship travelling from Gujarat travelling towards the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) in Nhava Sheva port, collided with a fishing trawler in the early hours of August 31, while the boat was anchored 80 nautical miles (roughly 144km) off the Uttan coast in Bhayander. The 12 crew members on board ‘Abraham’ – the vessel, were unharmed in the collision but the boat’s bow broke.The fishing boat, owned by Dennis Francis Munis of Uttan, had left from Uttan on August 28. The crew had caught a good quantity of fish and was set to return soon. On August 31, the boat dropped anchor, and most of the crew went to sleep, while two members were on night vigil. Around 1am, an unidentified cargo ship collided with the trawler and no horns were blown by the ship as a warning, said Bernard D’mello, a fisherman from Dongri-Chowk village in Uttan, who was alerted by the pilot of the trawler.“We immediately alerted nearby trawlers, and they reached out to the boat which had a damaged bow. Water was into the vessel and it was tilting to one side,” said D’mello.The boat was towed back to Uttan on September 1 evening, and the owner has suffered nearly ₹4 lakh in damages, said D’mello. The Dongri-Chowk Fishermen’s Sarvodaya Sahkari Society, Uttan, have written to the state fisheries department for ₹4 lakh as compensation for the damages suffered.The owner of the vessel approached the Uttan police station to file a complaint and was directed to Yellow Gate police station. “We received a complaint from the owner and we have directed him to complain to Yellow Gate police station as all incidents beyond 12 nautical miles come under their purview,” said assistant inspector Satish Nikam of Uttan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cargo-ship-travelling-from-gujarat-towards-jnpt-collides-with-anchored-uttan-trawler-12-crew-members-safe/story-E8O5by01tS3iOxIStDrfgK.html
04-09-2020||City||Four arrested for stealing truck with ₹6-lakh groceries from Navi Mumbai||Rabale MIDC police recently arrested four men involved in the theft of a truck loaded with ₹6 lakh worth items meant for a retail store in Pune, and the sale of the stolen items. Police have seized a total of ₹18 lakh worth items, including the cargo vehicle and a car used in the crime. The incident took place on August 12 when the truck was heading from a Bhiwandi warehouse to a supermarket in Pune. At night, the truck driver parked the vehicle at Diva Junction in Navi Mumbai and went home to rest. Three accused, Champalal Chaudhari, 30; Prakash Chaudhari, 20, and Nasim Pathan, 20, arrived at the junction in a car, looking for trucks to steal. Champalal, who used to run a rationing shop previously, and was also previously arrested in a forged currency case, hatched the plan with another accomplice, currently at large.“The men had planned to steal trucks randomly. Pathan, a keymaker, made a duplicate key for the truck and drove off with the vehicle. They unloaded half of the goods at Champalal’s Borivli house, while the rest was stored in Ghatkopar at the house of the fourth arrested accused Naresh Bhanusali, 37,” said Sagar Gawsane, assistant inspector at Rabale MIDC police station. According to police, Bhanusali, then rented a godown in Ghatkopar and sold the stolen goods at a discounted rate. Officers said the men were allegedly looking for any loaded trucks in-transit which may have goods in them. After emptying the stolen goods, the men dumped the truck worth ₹10 lakh, at a creek in Navi Mumbai, from where it was eventually recovered. During the probe, police recovered ₹3 lakh worth stolen goods stored at Borivli. They also seized the car that the men used to arrive at the crime scene. Based on CCTV footage, police managed to identify the car in which the men had arrived at the spot. Police trace the men and they were arrested on August 23. Officers said Pathan has a case of theft against him in the past. During interrogation, Champalal also allegedly confessed to stealing a mini-van from Kasturba Marg, Borivli (East). Police said they are in the process of verifying the details with their counterparts from there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-arrested-for-stealing-truck-with-6-lakh-groceries-from-navi-mumbai/story-Yu8mN5zT5hV9mhzT1QZMNL.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Mithi river clean-up gets boost as MMRDA ties up with green group||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Thursday signed an agreement with an environmental organisation for the Mithi river clean-up project.Officials said that MMRDA had received a proposal from the Marine Debris Partnership, which includes four organisations that will work towards collecting floating matter from the river and recycling it. The pilot project will begin from the Vakola nullah in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), and the entire project will be completed in 18 months.Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who was present at the event on Thursday morning, tweeted, “This morning, we launched 2 projects of the @MMRDAOfficial to improve the water quality of the Mithi river:• Bioremediation & Phytoremediation by bioengineering components• Partnership betn MMRDA & UNTIL to clean the marine debris floating in the mithi (sic).”Officials said that MMRDA will also be collaborating with the University of Mumbai to improve the water quality of Mithi.RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “A process of bioremediation and phytoremediation will be used to improve the water quality. We will also share the technology with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) during the project.”Saurabh Gupta, founder Earth 5R, one of the organisations involved in the partnership to clear the floating materials in Mithi said, “The project has two components. One is where we conduct training programmes for citizens on waste-management and the second is where we look at reducing waste from the river.”The 17.84-km Mithi river falls under the jurisdiction of both, BMC and MMRDA. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) had conducted a water quality assessment of eight major state rivers in 2018, which was published in the Maharashtra Economic Survey Report 2018-19. It stated that Mithi river was Maharashtra’s most polluted river and contained human and animal excreta almost 15 times the safe limit. The 2005 floods that killed more than 1,000 people in the city was caused mainly because the river was clogged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-mithi-river-clean-up-gets-boost-as-mmrda-ties-up-with-green-group/story-4emFkoHy8b00LZrIQWOtOL.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab carpenter’s wooden cycles create a buzz||Even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave the clarion call for Atmanirbhar Bharat, 40-year-old Zirapkpur-based carpenter Dhani Ram Saggu set an example for his peers by designing and building a wooden cycle amid the lockdown.Saggu was among those rendered jobless after the lockdown was imposed in March. However, he says rather than give in to depression he used the time to work on his idea and innovate.For Saggu necessity was the mother of invention, he says, “I always wanted a cycle but our finances were such that we could not afford one. Therefore, I decided to make one for myself.” He sold eight cycles between July 27 to August 30 and five more are in the works.Saggu’s wooden cycles have created a buzz and he has received orders from as far as South Africa, Canada, Jalandhar and Delhi. “Hard work always pays and changes one’s fortune,” say Saggu, who was stoked to receive a call from Hero Cycles managing director Pankaj Munjal congratulating him. A company from Chennai has also gotten in touch with him and he is, at present, preparing samples to show them.TRIAL AND ERROR Saggu started off by measuring a regular cycle. He prepared drawings and then carved one cycle using plywood but the cycle was heavy as its wheels, too, were made of plywood.He then sought feedback from cycling enthusiast Rakesh Singh, an administrative officer at PGIMER, who became one of his first customers, and improvised the cycle.The improvised cycle had regular tyres, a mud guard, re-designed handlebar and a basket in front. He made his second cycle with the help of kail wood from Canada , which he got from a neighbour. “The wood is light and inexpensive but strong like teak. However, I am still improvising the cycle,” says Saggu, who has now rented a workspace over a showroom with orders steadily pouring in. He is also in talks with suppliers from Ludhiana for better brakes, saddles.NOVELTY PRODUCT “The cycle weighs between 20-22kgs but I am working on making it lighter. I now use disc brakes rather than rim and am working towards putting in gears as well. I am also designing a cycle for children,” said Saggu.“The cycle can cover up to 25km a day but people are mostly buying it for its uniqueness,” added Dhani Ram.These customised cycles are being sold under the name ‘Noora Interiors,’ the same name under which Saggu picks up woodwork for palatial houses and takes orders for doors, windows and cupboards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-carpenter-s-wooden-cycles-create-a-buzz/story-CEDprgaX4lOyodBO2a8XZM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Murder case registered 18 months after discovery of body in Dadumajra||Nearly 18 months after a 30-year-old man was found dead near the waterworks in Dadumajra, police on Thursday registered a murder case in the matter after a forensic report confirmed that the victim had died due to a blow to the head.Police have booked one Makhan Singh of Dadumajra under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Maloya police station.The victim, Sher Singh of Dadumajra, a labourer, had been missing for six days before his body was found on March 18, 2019. Singh had injuries on head and an eye and his blood had dried up. The victim’s family members had claimed that Makhan had beaten Sher to death, but the police were unconvinced.Victim’s mother ran from pillar to postAfter the police failed to take her allegations seriously, the victim’s mother, Keswati, lodged a complaint with the Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP).She said her son was a drug addict and would not have gone to the forested area by free will. She said the accused in a drunken haze had said that he knew who killed Sher, but the police refused to act. She had accused the Maloya police and investigating officer Neeraj Kumar of not taking the case seriously, following which the SSP had marked an inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/murder-case-registered-18-months-after-discovery-of-body-in-dadumajra/story-qqgjfWiwRaUOPPfAxj8P7L.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB arrests Bandra resident Zaid Vilatra on drug charges||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested 20-year-old Bandra resident Zaid Vilatra in connection with the ongoing probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Vilatra was arrested late on Wednesday night and produced before a metropolitan magistrate’s court on Thursday. He has been remanded in NCB’s custody till September 9. NCB recovered ₹9.55 lakh, as well as some foreign currency, including USD 2,081. The agency said Vilatra has stated the seized amounts were sale proceeds from the marijuana he had supplied to many persons. In its application before the court, NCB said Vilatra “has revealed so many names with whom he was dealing in drugs” and for that purpose, his custody was needed. The application seeking Vilatra’s custody further says that through this investigation into “the drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput’s case”, NCB hopes to “uproot [the] drug citadel in Mumbai especially in Bollywood”. Vilatra was arrested on the basis of information NCB got from Bandra resident Abbas Ali Lakhani, 21, who was arrested on August 28 with 46 grams of ganja; and Lakhani’s alleged supplier, Karn Arora, who was arrested in Powai with 13 grams of ganja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-arrests-bandra-resident-zaid-vilatra-on-drug-charges/story-eXpPTDJK56T2Ue4g8AVItM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Speeding caused 95% of all road fatalities in Chandigarh in 2019||Speeding was the cause of 95% of all fatal road accidents reported in Chandigarh in 2019. Not only this, the city recorded the highest percentage share of speeding-related fatalities among all states and Union Territories in the countryAs per the Accidental Deaths and Suicides Report in India 2019 released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) this week, out of a total 104 fatalities caused in road accidents, 99 were caused by speeding alone, while five were caused by dangerous or careless driving and overtaking. Nationally, speeding caused 59.6% of all road accident deaths; among UTs, the figure stood at 42%.Road-safety activist Harpreet Singh said, “Chandigarh has wider and better roads in comparison to many cities, which is why speeding is such a menace here. Rather than widening, road infrastructure should be focussed on building traffic-calming devices and speed tables. Roads can even be narrowed down in some places to prevent speeding.”Meanwhile, the traffic police have said that checking speeding is their priority and they are using technology to counter it. Officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena said, “Driver feedback systems were installed on six roads in December last year, which have been effective in changing people’s driving habits. These six patches have not reported a single fatal accident since.”Issuing of e-challans using automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) systems has also begun. Mounted on tripods, these machines are equipped with cameras and sensors to measure the speed of the vehicles and click a picture of those crossing the speed limit. The device can also be used at night and is portable.“The machines eliminate the need to speak to drivers or stop them. Total 15,537 e-challans have been issued since May,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Traffic) Kewal Krishan. In just four months, more challans for speeding have been issued than those collectively issued in 2016, 2017 and 2018.Kamal Soi, who is a member of National Road Safety Council, said, “Even if challans are being issued by cameras, the fear of being caught is witnessed only when traffic cops are posted on roads, which helps bring speeding down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/speeding-caused-95-of-all-road-fatalities-in-chandigarh-in-2019/story-AXXC9SmtolKqr0fIMML2VJ.html
04-09-2020||City||Urgent need for protection from dengue: Mohali civil surgeon||Already tackling a surge in Covid-19 cases, the health authorities in Mohali have now asked residents to protect themselves from dengue as well.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh on Thursday appealed to the residents to protect themselves from dengue fever, especially during these unprecedented times. He urged all to observe every Friday as Dry Day, as is being done for a long time. “Co-infection of both Covid-19 and dengue may be very risky for life,” he said. The larvae of the dengue mosquito have recently been found at various places in the district, he said, adding in addition to curbing the spread of coronavirus, the health department had been going door-to-door to check the presence of larvae and sensitise people about the disease.The civil surgeon said that people should clean coolers, flowerpots, fridgeback trays, water tanks and other containers that can be potential breeding sites for mosquitoes. District epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh said dengue fever is a treatable disease and if symptoms appear, the nearest health facility should be visited or the helpline number 104 may be contacted for medical guidance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/urgent-need-for-protection-from-dengue-mohali-civil-surgeon/story-g5YaRJ8kz6xyBF4qZP6VaI.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CBI explores possible links with Bollywood celebrity manager Disha Salian’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) called actor Rhea Chakraborty’s father Indrajit for questioning for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Indrajit reached the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guesthouse at 10.20am and was questioned till 5pm. CBI is also exploring any possible links between the deaths of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and celebrity manager Disha Salian’s death. The agency questioned Bunty Sajdeh, chief executive officer of Cornerstone company, where Salian worked for approximately three hours. CBI also questioned Niraj Singh and Keshav Bachner, who were employed as Rajput’s domestic staff, and Siddharth Pithani, who was Rajput’s friend and flatmate. The agency’s teams have been in Mumbai since August 20 and have collected evidence from Mumbai Police, which had registered a case of accidental death after Rajput was found dead in his Bandra home on June 14. As part of its investigation, Mumbai Police had recorded statements of 56 people. On Thursday, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) called Rajput’s former business partner Varun Mathur for the second day. A source in ED said Mathur said Rajput had been planning to make virtual reality movies about Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi. Mathur had been questioned on Wednesday by ED regarding Innasei Ventures, a company he, Saurabh Mishra and Rajput had started in 2018. Innsaei Ventures was initially launched in April 2018 by Mathur and Mishra, and Rajput joined as a director in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cbi-explores-possible-links-with-bollywood-celebrity-manager-disha-salian-s-death/story-QuEnSC2Z6NCiBOu7IeJUhM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||India Cycles4Change Challenge: 100 cycles to be made available in Chandigarh by Sept-end||To promote an alternate way of travel, Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) plans to provide 100 cycles that will be rented out at 10 select locations across the UT by September-end.The 100 cycles will be provided under the ‘India Cycles4Change’ Challenge and not the Public Bicycle Sharing (PBS) Project, which is also being undertaken by the CSCL and will be launched in November.CSCL chief general manager NP Sharma said, “Though our deadline is October 15, we will hopefully be able to offer these cycles on rent to residents by the end of this month (September). We have zeroed in on locations that have a high footfall, where there will be a demand for cycles,” said Sharma.The cycles will be made available at the Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT), Sector 43; Sukhna Lake, Sector 17; Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16; Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Sector 12; Sector-22 mobile market; Panjab University, Sector 14; and the Sector-34 market.“Dock stations that are being installed for the PBS project have been chosen for the project,” said Sharma. The firm implementing the PBS project will also provide 100 cycles for the IndiaCycles4Change challenge. The firm will be allowed to charge rent for the cycles but it has not been permitted to advertise at the dock stations.Chandigarh is one of the 95 cities to have registered for the India Cycles4Change challenge, an initiative of the Smart Cities Mission. The challenge aims to encourage cities to implement cycling-friendly initiatives in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.600 CYCLES TO BE MADE AVAILABLE AT 60 DOCK STATIONS COME NOVEMBER Under the PBS project, 600 cycles will be made available at 60 dock stations across the city. The project is expected to be completed by June 2021, after which 5,000 cycles will be rented out at an hourly basis at 617 dock stations. The firm implementing the project on CSCL’s behalf will execute it in multiple phases over the course of the next 18 months. Both manual and e-cycles will be available at dock stations. “Under the PBS, 1,250 cycles will be made available by April 2021; 3,750 cycles will be made available over the next nine months with 1,250 cycles added every three quarters,” said Sharma.Cycles at the dock station will be unlocked and released for use through a mobile application and cycles will be installed with Global Positioning System (GPS) trackers to avoid theft.There will be two sets of rates for members and non-members. The rates will be ₹10 per hour for non-members and ₹5 for members. The annual membership fee will be ₹200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/india-cycles4change-challenge-100-cycles-to-be-made-available-in-chandigarh-by-sept-end/story-CmcraYmkm7RryDd6jFokpO.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Aarey Colony land-use: Maharashtra government’s stance on Metro Bhavan, car shed unclear||After declaring 600 acres in Mumbai’s Aarey Colony as a “reserved forest” on Wednesday, the state government has still not made its stance clear on the proposed Metro Bhavan on 2.03 hectares of Aarey and is yet to take a decision on shifting the proposed Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) car shed from Aarey. Environment activists, while welcoming the decision, reiterated that the Metro Bhavan and car shed must not be a part of Aarey. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is looking at constructing a ground-plus-27 floor Metro Bhavan, a command and control centre on 2.03 hectares in Aarey. The state had invited suggestions and objections, on the change in land-use from no-development zone to ‘Metro Bhavan and Metro Rail allied users’, in August 2019. Following which, it had received 2,563 objections on the notification. AB Patil, deputy director, town planning said, “We had conducted the hearings online recently. The report will soon be sent to the state government.” On Wednesday, the state used sections under the Indian Forest Act, 1927, to notify 600 acres near the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) as a reserve forest. Milind Mhaiskar, principal secretary, revenue and forests said, “The 600 acres has been drawn in such a way that it does not include the planned infrastructure projects or any other structures. The adivasis who need to be rehabilitated will be compensated accordingly.” As per estimates, there are close to 2,000 tribal families in the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) and around 25,000 families in Aarey. For Metro-3, the state is said to be looking at options in Pahadi Goregaon but there has been no decision on it yet. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stalled the car-shed project in November 2019. Stalin D, director, NGO Vanashakti, said, “It is a welcome decision as Aarey was not recognised as a forest in the past seven years. With regards to Metro Bhavan, it is a building which can be constructed in any part of the city. They do not need to enter Aarey.” Zoru Bhathena, another environment activist from the Aarey Conservation group, said, “If the state is positively looking at shifting Metro-3 car shed from Aarey, it does not make sense to build a Metro Bhavan in Aarey. We will continue to fight to protect every parcel in Aarey.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aarey-colony-land-use-maharashtra-government-s-stance-on-metro-bhavan-car-shed-unclear/story-dh9DjAE0fZpimwQaHN18SM.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid in Mumbai: ₹27.48 lakh collected in fines from 2,798 who didn’t wear masks in public, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said it has collected ₹27.48 lakh in fines from 2,798 residents who were penalised for not wearing a mask in public places between April 9 and August 31 (close to five months), as a safety measure in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.According to officials, Andheri (West), Kandivli, Marine Lines, Pydhonie and Kalbadevi saw the highest number of offenders. According to the BMC, those found in public places without wearing a mask were fined up to ₹1,000. The BMC in several cases has also issued warnings and till now it has issued warnings to 9,954 citizens.In a statement, the BMC said, “The highest fine of ₹5.04 lakh has been collected in K- West ward, covering Andheri West, followed by ₹4.21 lakh fine from R-South ward covering Kandivli and ₹4.80 lakh from C ward, covering areas like Marine Lines, Kalbadevi and Pydhonie.”The statement added, “ The highest amount, ₹9.45 lakh, was collected in May, followed by ₹5.88 lakh in June. In May 2020, fine was levied on 953 citizens, 589 in June and 523 in April.” The BMC again appealed to citizens to wear a mask every time they were in a public place, so as to curb the spread of Covid-19.Widespread use of masks and maintaining social distancing measures can prevent at least 200,000 Covid-19-related deaths by December 1, revealed a new modelling of the pandemic in the country.The new data, which was released last Saturday, has underlined the critical need for the public to comply with the use of face masks, maintain social distancing norms and other Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government to prevent the spread of the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-in-mumbai-27-48-lakh-collected-in-fines-from-2-798-who-didn-t-wear-masks-in-public-says-bmc/story-LWGsZMmrzBE1tfmoHm5pqN.html
04-09-2020||City||Delhi Riots: Bail plea of murder accused dismissed||New Delhi: A Delhi court has dismissed the bail application of a murder accused in the north-east Delhi riots, stating that the offence was very grave, where one innocent person was brutally murdered just because he belonged to a different community.From the evidence of a number of witnesses recorded in the matter, the judge said, “It is prima facie apparent that the ‘riotous mob’ armed with ‘weapons’ had abducted the victim, Suleman, to murder him merely because he was from a different community”.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, who rejected the bail application of one Hemant Pratap Singh @ Himanshu, said the post-mortem report of Suleman showed he bore as many as 11 injuries, out of which as many as seven were so grave that they were independently and collectively sufficient to cause the death of any person. This, the judge said, speaks volumes about the intensity of the “dastardly act committed by the mob”.Singh was arrested for the kidnapping and the murder of 45-year-old Suleman, who was killed near Prem Vihar puliya in Karawal Nagar and his body was thrown into a drain.According to the prosecution, investigations showed that 30-40 persons confronted Sanobar, Sunil Kumar and Suleman on February 26 morning near Shree Ram Chowk with sticks and rods in their hands.Kumar was forced to leave from the spot even though he said that he would not leave his friends, while Sanobar and Suleman were brutally assaulted, the prosecution said.The judge said Sanobar and Sunil had identified the accused.Singh, through his counsel, argued that he was falsely implicated and all the witnesses were “planted”.Communal riots in north-east Delhi in February led to the deaths of 53 people and left more than 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-bail-plea-of-murder-accused-dismissed/story-XG5zpkVC2vP12N9CGlM5LM.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Borrow money, compensate states, Manish Sisodia writes to FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging her to consider that the Centre borrow money and compensate states to meet Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue shortfall, instead of asking states to do so.A senior government official said Sisodia wrote the letter on Tuesday, hours after he attended a meeting through video conference facility with his contemporaries in several non-BJP ruled states — including Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Kerala — to discuss alternatives to the two borrowing options presented to states by the Union finance ministry on August 27.On August 27, at the 41st meeting of the GST Council, the Union finance ministry offered states two options to plug a shortfall in their revenue, estimated at Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the financial year that ends in March 2021.In the first option, states can borrow ₹97,000 crore at reasonable interest rates from a special window that will be opened in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Both the principal and the interest payments under this option will come from cess collections.Under the second option, the states can borrow the entire ₹2.35 lakh crore, but will have to bear the interest cost. The Centre has defined losses arising from the implementation of GST at ₹97,000 crore and the balance as losses arising from an “Act of God” (referring to Covid-19).In the letter, which HT has seen, Sisodia said the Delhi government cannot accept any of the two options. “Delhi on its part is therefore not in a position to accept either of the two options… The GST Council may authorise the government of India to borrow on its behalf and also consider to extend the levy of cess for meeting the repayment obligation of both interest and repayment (principal amount) beyond 2022. Earlier that day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to consider a “viable” alternative to the two borrowing options provided to the states by the Union government on August 27 to meet the Goods and Services Taxes (GST) revenue shortfall, which, according to the CM, would “put an extremely onerous burden on the states”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/borrow-money-compensate-states-sisodia-writes-to-fm/story-d5fUOk8IdixLJhCEpiCEIK.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid in Maharashtra: State sees sharpest 1-day spike of 18,105 cases||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day jump in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases with 18,105 new infections, taking the tally to 843,844. It also recorded 391 fatalities on Thursday, pushing the toll to 25,586.The active cases in the state now stand at 205,428 as 13,988 patients were discharged. So far, 612,484 people have recovered from the disease. The recovery rate of the state stood at 72.58%.Of the 391 deaths reported on Thursday, 268 were from the previous 48 hours, while 64 fatalities were from last week. The remaining 59 deaths were from the period before last week. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state improved to 3.03% Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,526 new infections, taking the tally of confirmed cases to 150,095. The city now has 21,439 active cases. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, reported 2,804 new cases and 45 fatalities.The recovery rate of Mumbai has improved to 80%. Mumbai also saw 37 deaths, taking the city’s death toll to 7,764. Among the fatalities recorded in Thursday, 20 patients were male, 17 were female. Of the 37 deaths, 23 patients had co-morbidities, while 10 of the deceased patients were between 40 to 60 years and 27 were above 60 years of age.With the rising number of cases in the rural and semi-urban areas of the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in three districts, Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur. The CM said that this shift of hotspots from Mumbai-Thane belt to western Maharashtra was worrisome. Mumbai, Thane, and Pune region have 97,397 active cases, while the remaining 108,031 active cases are from the rest of state.“The high rate of transmission of Covid-19 in western Maharashtra is worrisome. The shift of focus of the coronavirus from Mumbai-Thane belt to Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur adds to the responsibility,” he said in a statement. The three districts contributed 1,983 new infections on Thursday, with Satara district clocking 670 new cases, 486 in Kolhapur district and 845 cases in Sangli district. The three districts collectively added 79 fatalities on Thursday.Thackeray, in a statement, said that the government was commencing a statewide health check-up of people. This campaign, officials say, does not involve tests, but a door-to-door inquiry to check people if they have any symptoms, note down co-morbidities, movement of family members from or to any hotspot, etc.The state would engage accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers, its group leaders, district medical officers, and civic employees for the survey where they would be asked about any symptoms, if any member of their family or relative has travelled and come back home, if they follow measures such as social distancing, use mask and sanitisers, etc.The CM said that the challenge before the administration is more, as unlike other countries, the country has several festivals and monsoon-related ailments, which add to the stress on the administration and medical infrastructure. “Muharram and Ganeshotsav were celebrated in the last few days. Now, Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali will come. Therefore, our challenge becomes greater. This is a testing period,” Thackeray told collectors and civic officials during the review meeting.The chief minister directed district officials to follow the laid down protocol, including tracing maximum contracts of a Covid positive patient, strict implementation of rules inside containment zones, etc. “No matter how many facilities are created, but in the end, if attention is paid to key points of the protocol, then results will show in 15 days. These protocols include tracing maximum contracts of a patient, diligent implementation of the ‘Chase The Virus’ campaign, increasing number of testing, door-to-door survey, etc.”Meanwhile, Pune city continued to clock a high number of cases with 1,873 new infections, taking the tally to 106,428. It recorded 47 fatalities, taking the toll to 2,654. Pune’s satellite city Pimpri-Chinchwad clocked 979 new infections, while Pune district recorded 1,058 new cases, taking their respective tallies to 50,773 and 28,921. Pune district and Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 23 and eight deaths on Thursday.Nagpur city recorded 1,349 new Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths, pushing the tally of confirmed to 24944 and death toll to 720. Nagpur rural reported 271 new cases and one death. Nashik City reported 708 new cases, while the rural part of Nashik saw 166 new cases. Ahmednagar district reported 473 new cases, while Ahmednagar city saw 265 new cases. Jalgaon district reported 516 new cases.So far, 43,72,697 laboratory samples have been tested and the overall positivity rate for Covid-19 stood at 19.29%. Currently, 14,27,316 people are in home quarantine and 36,745 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-in-maharashtra-state-sees-sharpest-1-day-spike-of-18-105-cases/story-HORLpiCQxqm5T9lDFCMc1N.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Three RTO officials suspended over irregularities in issuance of driving licences||The Delhi government has suspended three motor licensing officers (MLOs) for “irregularities” in the issuance of driving licences, transport officials said Thursday. The action came after the state transport department found an “abnormal rise” in the issuance of driving licences from the regional transport offices (RTOs) in New Delhi (IP depot), Vasant Vihar and Surajmal Vihar. The MLOs of these three RTOs were suspended on Wednesday by chief secretary Vijay Dev. HT has seen a copy of the three suspension orders.“We conducted inspections at all 10 RTOs in Delhi after receiving a few complaints, one of which was taken cognisance of by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). It was found that these three RTOs, which in pre-Covid times used to issue the lowest number of driving licences, among all the zonal offices, suddenly showed a spike during the unlock period which began from June 8,” special commissioner (transport) KK Dahiya said. Apart from colluding with touts, it was found that over 1,000 driving licences were issued from these RTOs over the past two months without conducting the mandatory video recording of the driving test given by applicants, the transport department said. These three RTOs are among the five RTOs in Delhi which do not have an automated test track for applicants seeking a permanent driving licence. RTOs in Sarai Kale Khan, Burari, Mayur Vihar, Wazirpur and Vishwas Nagar have automated test tracks, which make the entire process more comprehensive and stringent as it reduces manual intervention. Dahiya said the remaining five RTOs will have automated test tracks by the end of the year and no manual driving tests shall be allowed thereafter. He further stated that prima facie, the investigation also shows that the SARATHI software, developed and maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), could have been tampered with by certain “lower rung officials”. The Delhi government has now also written to the NIC director general, seeking a vigilance inquiry into the matter. “It has come to our notice that there were some gaps in the SARATHI software and there is a likelihood that the shortcomings in the software were shared with touts and applications of other zones were entertained at these places without any pin code restrictions… You are, therefore, requested to order a vigilance inquiry to ascertain whether the lapses in the software were genuine errors or the result of tampering by any of the NIC developers. Accountability should be fixed for this major lapse in the system,” read the letter sent to NIC by the state transport department. The government has also urged the NIC to “replace” all NIC officials at its RTOs with new staffers in order to rule out the possibility of “connivance of any official at any level” and also to facilitate a fair inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-rto-officials-suspended-over-irregularities-in-issuance-of-driving-licences/story-PCBXLZT4FgLQoFsUtu3nBN.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt notifies Metro SOP||The Delhi government on Thursday issued orders to commence Metro operations in the city and notified the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Central government and the Delhi Metro rail corporation (DMRC). The order was issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev after transport minister Kailash Gahlot held a review meeting with DMRC officials, including its chief Mangu Singh on how train services will be resumed. “The DMRC today presented its SOP before the Delhi government. I directed the corporation to carry out an extensive campaign where people are informed about the new norms of the Metro. The DMRC MD informed the government that some of the stations may be skipped if sufficient passengers are not likely to use them. Decision on which station will be skipped will depend on the number of people waiting there. It will have to be communicated by the operations control centre (OCC) from time to time,” Gahlot said after the meeting. The DMRC’s SOP, seen by HT, also stated that stopping time of trains at each station will be increased so that passengers have sufficient time to board and alight. “Train doors shall remain open at terminal stations to let fresh air infuse in the train… Even penalties on violation of any norm under the Delhi Metro rules will be taken only through digital payment methods… Validity of all parking passes will be extended as parking will remain operational at stations which have such facility… Alcohol based sanitiser cans provided at stations will be kept at 2-3 well ventilated locations/rooms equipped with fire detection and suppression system,” the Delhi Metro’s SOP read. It further said DMRC officials shall be deputed at every station initially for two weeks to monitor that social distancing is strictly observed by the commuters, all of them wear masks and that all things are being run in order with cleanliness being maintained. “After two weeks, the concerned station manager will continue the monitoring. Train operators will monitor crowd inside trains through CCTV for ensuring social distancing,” the document read. CCTV CAMERAS AND GPS IN ALL BUSES BY NOVEMBER Gahlot also said that the Delhi government will install CCTV cameras and GPS trackers in 5,500 of its Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses by November this year. “We are trying to bring our focus on petty and unnoticed crimes faced by women commuters in the buses. Today, I have personally inspected the working of the Command & Control Centre and I am glad that even the smallest incident of any crime can be captured and recorded. The presence of our Bus Marshals, have already reduced crimes in buses. Now, with this initiative, we are confident that commuters in Delhi can confidently use public transport any time of the day,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-notifies-metro-sop/story-lJrNnJPJutqGQqZ3JoNdfM.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two protests defy Panchkula DC’s order, one FIR lodged||As many as 150 physical training instructor (PTI) candidates were booked on Thursday for defying the Panchkula deputy commissioner’s order against holding protests amid the surging Covid-19 cases . A protest was also organised by over 70 members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) outside the Haryana education department. But, no case was registered in this regard till the filing of the report.Held under the banner of the Haryana Sharirik Shikshan Sangarsh Samiti, the first protest saw PTI candidates demanding that the recruitment examination held on August 23 be cancelled as “the paper was leaked” and an inquiry be marked by a sitting judge of the high court.The ABVP was protesting against fee hike at higher educational institutes and their refusal to refund excess fee charged. Deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa said, “We have registered an FIR against the PTI committee leader and 150 others under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Act. They have joined the investigation and a report will be submitted in a few days.”About action taken against the ABVP, he said, “Most of our police personnel was dealing with the teachers’ protest. The station house officer of the Sector 5 station told me that the FIR against ABVP leaders is being processed.”On his part, Sector-5 SHO inspector Lalit Kumar said, “We have registered one case, but will check the guidelines of the Epidemic Act before registering a case against the ABVP members.”“The protest was held under the leadership of Sumit Jalgaan, state executive, ABVP. We want all institutes to refund excess fees charged from students,” said Purnoor, media convener, ABVP, Panchkula. She said they got assurance from a senior officer of the education department that their demands will be met by September 15.On violation of the DC’s orders, she said, “We have taken necessary permission. Also, we were not the only ones to hold protests in the city today.”On August 28, through an official statement, the Panchkula DC had prohibited protests in the district amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-protests-defy-panchkula-dc-s-order-one-fir/story-EsI6ZvXPwg2lYSVwtTch9J.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||AAP alleges corruption in MCDs, BJP terms it ‘bunch of lies’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi, comparing alleged corruption in the civic bodies to the height of the three garbage landfills in the city.The BJP hit back calling the AAP’s claims a “bunch of lies”.“The MCDs have become a den of corruption. Take the case of the Bhalswa landfill. The BJP-ruled north civic body has been spending Rs 5 crore a month on it but has failed to reduce its height even by an inch. It’s the same story with the other two landfills. Their height today reflect the extent of corruption in the MCDs,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s in charge of MCD affairs.Besides Bhalswa, Delhi has two big landfills in Okhla and Ghazipur.Pathak said, “The landfills can lead to a major accident any day. It looks like the BJP is waiting for that to happen. People of Delhi shall give them appropriate response in the next municipal elections.”The next municipal elections are likely to be scheduled in 2022.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Mr Pathak’s statement on the landfills and alleged corruption is nothing but a bunch of lies. As far as the Bhalswa landfill is concerned, he claimed that the north MCD is spending Rs 5 crore per month on reducing its height. North DMC records show that the civic body has been spending Rs 90 lakh on 15 trommel machines to bring down the landfill’s height. The height of the landfill has gone down.”AAP TO PROTESTThe AAP on Thursday said that party leaders would join demonstrations from Monday in groups at the Civic Centre, which is the headquarters of the civic bodies in Delhi, demanding immediate payment of pending salary to the employees.“In times of pandemic, not paying salary to employees is an inhuman act. The BJP should immediately release the salary of their employees immediately or resign,” said Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-alleges-corruption-in-mcds-bjp-terms-it-bunch-of-lies/story-TYZkCbjbdNUtUbP7PjIxHN.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||No bail for Jamia student Asif Tanha in north-east riots case||A Delhi court has rejected the bail plea of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, who was arrested under a stringent anti-terror law — the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — in a case related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left 53 people dead. The court, while rejecting the bail, said the statements of the protected witnesses in the case reflected the role of many suspects, including Tanha, regarding the protest sites and how everything was planned.“The statements clearly point out the role of the accused, Asif lqbal Tanha, as also other co-accused persons and various actions taken by them in pursuance of the conspiracy. He was part of a conspiracy for doing chakka-jam, leading to the riots. His name comes out in statements of witnesses as one of the main coordinators in the entire conspiracy,” additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said in his order dated September 2.“……considering the statement of such witnesses regarding the role of Tanha and other accused persons, I have no hesitation to hold that there are reasonable ground for believing that accusations against the accused are prima facie true...,” the judge said in his order.Tanha, a BA third-year student in Persian, was arrested in May in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. Tanha, who is in judicial custody, had been earlier arrested in connection with the violence outside Jamia Millia university during a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in December last year. The 24-year old student was arrested for the second time on May 19 .Dismissing his bail plea, the court said the freedom of speech and expression under the Constitution of India granted Tanha the power to oppose any legislation and peacefully protest and it was subject to reasonable restrictions.“Thus, what has to be seen is the context, manner of expressing the dissent and various acts associated with it. It has to be some acts in pursuance of a conspiracy by various means,” it said.Appearing for Tanha, advocates Siddharth Aggarwal and Sowjhanya Shankaran, said he was falsely implicated in the case. They said the invocation of UAPA against him was bad in law as there was no unlawful association or terrorist organisation with which he was associated.They said Tanha was not a member of Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) WhatsApp group till February 24, and therefore, the messages on February 23 regarding the alleged planning of riots were not relevant to him. There has been no recovery of the money trail and no payment has been ascribed to him from any objectionable source, Tanha’s lawyers said. Police say members of the JCC, a group of Jamia students and alumnus formed in December 2019, planned the riots. The group has denied the allegations. Tanha said his premises were not searched and no evidence was collected against him. No incriminating material or arms or ammunition was recovered from him, he said.Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for Delhi police, opposed the bail plea, saying Tanha was one of the conspirators and involved with other accused persons and that there was sufficient material for establishing a prima facie case against him.The public prosecutor said there was a conspiracy hatched to cause communal riots in Delhi and it was multi-layered and deep-rooted.Communal riots had broken out in north-east Delhi in February this year, leaving 53 dead and over 400 injured. The Delhi Police in their reports before the court have said that the riots were planned at the Anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest sites by some student leaders, activists, and local politicians. The arrested suspects have accused police of targeting anti-government voices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-bail-for-jamia-student-asif-tanha-in-north-east-riots-case/story-aOwsNULLzXEm1Zyz6292VK.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Author of book on Delhi riots files police complaint||The co-author of a book on Delhi riots, which sparked a row on the day its launch last month, has filed a police complaint against publishing house Bloomsbury India, Delhi university professor Nandini Sundar, author William Dalrymple, two media publishing companies and others on September 1, accusing them of cheating, criminal intimidation, retention of stolen property and promoting enmity between classes.On August 21, Bloomsbury India had backed out from releasing the book, ‘Delhi riots 2020: The untold story’, ahead of its virtual launch, after a photograph of the virtual invite of the event showing Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kapil Mishra as one of the guests kicked up a controversy on social media. The authors had then said there was a campaign on social media to stifle their free speech and stop the book’s release. Bloomsbury said they were withdrawing from publishing the book, saying they were uncomfortable with the participation of some people.One of the authors, Monika Arora, said on Thursday that she sent a complaint to Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava’s email id, sharing evidence of their correspondence with the publishing house. Arora said they had informed the company of the virtual launch, along with details of the guests, and received an acknowledgment from them. She said while 100 copies had been already distributed, the company informed the authors about its decision to withdraw their book on August 22.In her complaint, Arora said a PDF of the book was stolen, circulated before release and Sundar was among those who had received it but did not report about receiving the stolen item. “Our script was stolen by some people and circulated on social media. It was a venomous campaign by the people I named in the report. How did they receive the PDF of our book? They started a false campaign against our free speech. The police have assured us they will take appropriate legal action,”Arora said.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said police were looking into the allegations. HT contacted Dalrymple via calls and text messages but there was no response until Thursday night. Bloomsbury too did not offer a response till Thursday night.  Delhi university professor Sundar released her statement on social media, terming the complaint as “absurd.” “...If Arora or Bloomsbury have not complained about any stolen property, what business is it of mine to take any appropriate legal measures to bring it to the notice of the authorities.”Sundar said that on August 22, the chief guest at the book launch had tweeted -- “The book is public now.”“Monika Arora, who was best situated to judge whether these reports were based on stolen property, has chosen to keep quiet about it till now,” she said in her statement.After Bloomsbury withdrew from publishing the book, the authors held a virtual launch with Kapil Mishra as the guest of honour. Apart from Mishra, filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri and OpIndia editor Nupur Sharma were invited as guests of honour. BJP national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav launched the book.Ahead of the February riots, Mishra had delivered a speech that people would take matters into their own hands if the police did not remove anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act demonstrators near the Jafrabad Metro station. Clashes between pro- and anti-CAA groups later snowballed into a Hindu-Muslim communal riot. Mishra was not charged by police for his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/author-of-book-on-delhi-riots-files-police-complaint/story-BXZgv47BpO5PF2tnkhobNI.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Most cases in 67 days after record 32k Covid-19 tests||The national capital on Thursday witnessed two extremes with the government conducting a record 32,834 daily tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the city registering 2,737 new infections — the highest single-day spike in 67 days.This was the second day in a row that the city has set a new record in single-day Covid-19 tests. The boost in testing numbers comes a week after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that Covid-19 testing in the city would be doubled to 40,000 a day with the city seeing a resurgence of cases since mid-August.As testing increased, 2,737 new cases were reported in Delhi — the highest single-day case count since June 28, or 67 days — keeping with the trend of resurgence of daily infections in the city. There were 2,889 new cases on June 28. The seven-day average of daily cases, which peaked at 3,446 on June 26 before falling to 983 on August 4, has now been rising for the 17th consecutive day and stands at 2,100. The total number of cases in the city is 182,306. The death toll from Covid-19, meanwhile, touched 4,500, with 19 new deaths lodged on Thursday. As many as 160,114 people have recovered from the disease so far.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the current rise in cases “cannot be called a second wave” of the virus. “You can’t say it is a second wave. We could have called it a second wave if there were no positive cases for one or two months and then cases would’ve started coming again. The virus is still there in Delhi,” he said. People “should not stress about the numbers”, he said, as he attributed the spike to the increased number of tests in the city.Members of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday, in a meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, discussed the rising infections in Delhi, senior government officials said. “Principal Secretary (health and family welfare) Vikram Dev Dutt informed the DDMA about some probable reasons for the increase in positivity rate Delhi. The possible reasons included lack of adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour; impact of festivals in the month of August; late testing by Covid suspects; cross-infection; return of migrants and unlock measures,” a DDMA official, who did not wish to be identified, said.In a statement issued late in the evening, the DDMA said the L-G advised that besides the entry points to the city (ISBTs and railway stations), large-scale construction sites should also be covered through special camps for targeted testing. These camps are to be set up within a week. Besides, he has also directed the government to prepare a policy to introduce a “test on demand” programme wherein people could call at a helpline number and fix an appointment at the nearest Covid testing centre without having to wait in a queue. The share of antigen tests continues to be over 70% of the total daily tests. According to Thursday’s health bulletin, 24,512 rapid antigen tests (75%) and 8,322 RT-PCR tests were conducted in the past 24 hours.Antigen tests generally provide results within hours and are relatively cheap, but they can give false negatives (in other words, they can miss positive cases). RT-PCR tests, on the other hand, is the most definitive test currently available for Covid-19 and experts say it should be used to the extent possible, especially if authorities have the capacity to do so. The downside is that they can generally take 24-48 hours and need specialised machines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-most-cases-in-67-days-after-record-32k-tests/story-xh2Oj1Ys9NkIfAG1rZgKcK.html
04-09-2020||City||Doctor’s suicide: Wife, her sisters booked for abetment||Gurugram: Three days after a 39-year-old doctor died after allegedly jumping from the eighth floor of a building, the police on Thursday booked his wife and her two sisters on charges of abetment after the victim’s father filed a complaint against them. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The victim’s family reached the city on Wednesday night and the statement was recorded on Thursday. In the complaint, the victim’s father said his son’s wife and her two siblings had been harassing him. Their divorce proceedings are sub-judice.” The post mortem was conducted on Thursday afternoon and the body was handed over to the family. Police said a note, purportedly written by the victim, had stated that no one was responsible for the incident. Police said an FIR was registered against the three persons under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code at Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctor-s-suicide-wife-her-sisters-booked-for-abetment/story-wz3je4fXmyETQ3ON2Zn1DP.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||NHAI debars Sohna elevated road contractor from future bids||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has debarred the contractor of the Sohna elevated road project from participating in any future bids — whether directly or through joint venture — involving major structural works. The disciplinary action has been taken following the collapse of a span of the under-construction elevated road on August 22 between two piers opposite the Vipul Greens condominium on Sohna Road. The NHAI said in a statement released on Thursday evening that action against the concessionaire, Rajiv Chowk–Sohna Highway Pvt Ltd and its promoters Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt Ltd, has been taken after the authority found the submission given by the company not satisfactory. The NHAI said that following the collapse of span on the project, the concessionaire was issued a show-cause notice to explain on the violation of the obligations under the concession agreement. “The explanation furnished by the concessionaire was found to be unsatisfactory. Moreover, lapses were found in implementation of the safety measures/workmanship/adherence to construction methodologies/procedures, which were highlighted time and again to the contractor before the said incident. Therefore, it was established that concessionaire failed to discharge its obligation to construct a safe structure and to ensure the safety of the user and pedestrians on the previous occasions and during the accident as well,” the NHAI stated.The authority further said that with immediate effect, the concessionaire has been debarred from participating in any NHAI bids involving major structural works until they demonstrate reliable construction methodologies/designs and adequate safety measures at sight; and demonstrate that such type of accident does not occur in other part of their works.A senior official of Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt LTD, when asked about the matter said that all directions issued by NHAI in this matter like barricading, deploying marshals and installing nets have been carried out. “Additional safeguards have been taken but we are not aware about the decision taken to debar the firm from future bids. We will take all steps to prevent such accidents in future,” the official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nhai-debars-sohna-elevated-road-contractor-from-future-bids/story-ktf7inmSOSWVhonGa9N3XJ.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||High court asks for status quo on compost unit in Kalka||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday asked the Panchkula administration to maintain status quo on the construction of compost manure unit in Kalka area.The high court bench of justice Rajiv Sharma acted on the plea of 25 villagers of Bitna Seuri and Vasudev Pura, who have challenged the Panchkula administration’s decision to set up a dumping ground and compost manure unit in the area. While issuing the notice for October 6, the high court has asked administration to maintain status quo with regard to construction of the unit.They had sought directions to ensure safety of residents living around the dumping ground being set up and steps to be taken to prevent outbreak of diseases such as cholera, diarrhoea malaria and dengue due to unhygienic conditions, after the unit is set up in the area.The court was told there are residences, shops, hotels, schools and a hospital around the land chosen for the unit and area is densely populated. Hence, it should be shifted elsewhere. The MC has already obtained land at Jhuri Wala village for setting up waste processing unit, but still this unit is being set up, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-asks-for-status-quo-on-compost-unit-in-panchkula/story-2ZIh9SkAszD8pZf3KwwmjO.html
04-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Bhondsi Jail inmates to be tested after they return from court or doctor visits||Gurugram: After 33 inmates at Bhondsi Jail, which houses prisoners from at least three neighbouring districts, tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease earlier this week, jail authorities said all inmates who travel outside the premises (either for medical examinations or court proceedings) would be tested twice using rapid antigen kits during their mandatory quarantine period, before they are returned to their barracks.“We have created a separate isolation barrack for inmates who return to the jail after attending court proceedings or from hospitals. Earlier, we would place them in quarantine before moving them to their respective barracks if they did not show any symptoms during those two weeks. It has now been decided that a quarantined prisoner should be tested once each week to rule out Covid-19,” said Sanjay Kumar, assistant jail superintendent, Bhondsi Jail. He added that all new inmates are being mandatorily tested before incarceration.He added that all inmates will be monitored for Covid-19 symptoms, and that they would be isolated and tested on priority, should they develop any signs of illness including fever, chills, sore throat, dry cough or others. He said all barracks are now being sanitised at least once daily, while the two barracks, from which the 33 positive cases emerged, were cleared out and sanitised soon after the first reports were received.“The contact tracing of suspected patients has been completed by the health department. We have also requested them over the phone to administer rapid antigen kits for all 2,200-odd inmates that are here. The authorities will do what is needed. Meanwhile, we are trying to ensure social distancing and will remain vigilant,” Kumar said.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “From the initial two inmates who tested positive, and the handler who was travelling with them, we have traced 255 contacts. Ideal as it may be, we cannot conduct tests for the all the residents. Testing resources have to be used optimally. I have not received any such request in writing.”According to data from the health department, three people tested positive for Covid on Sunday after which 80 of their contacts were traced and 172 further contacts were traced by Tuesday. Out of these 255, a total of 33 confirmed infections were reported. The patients have been shifted to a Covid ward in a government medical college in Sector 9.Of the 33 confirmed cases, all are in the approximate age group of 30-45, jail authorities said. “They are all asymptomatic or have mild symptoms,” Kumar said. The first cases were detected when two inmates, who were supposed to be shifted to a jail in Delhi, had tested positive, following which RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests were administered to inmates on Sunday. This was followed by a large antigen testing drive on Tuesday, which gave results on the spot and allowed the health department to isolate positive cases faster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-bhondsi-jail-inmates-to-be-tested-after-they-return-from-court-or-doctor-visits/story-6EXoKi1hxCsAnBzaMtrvnN.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||To assist DMRC in metro ops, admin to appoint supervisors, nodal officer for coordination||The district administration will appoint a supervisor each for all five metro stations in the city falling on the Yellow Line for close coordination with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) so as to ensure smooth operations when the metro service restarts on Monday. The district administration held a meeting with DMRC officials on Thursday and discussed measures to prevent crowding at metro stations and also to ensure screening of passengers is done effectively for Covid-19.In the meeting, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said local authorities will accord full cooperation to DMRC to ensure smooth operations while enforcing safety norms strictly to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.Khatri said a supervisor will be appointed for each of the five stations — Guru Dronacharya, Sikanderpur, MG Road, Iffco Chowk, Huda City Centre — to coordinate with local DMRC officials and a nodal officer will be appointed to coordinate the entire exercise of resuming the operation and safe movement of passengers. “All efforts would be made to prevent crowding and to ensure safe movement of passengers,” said Khatri.He further said steps would also be taken so that autos and rickshaws outside stations are regulated in a proper manner and the commuters do not face any problem in last mile connectivity.Virender Yadav, civil surgeon, Gurugram, said that the health department will provide a list of all health centres that are near the five metro stations in the city. “If any passenger shows flu-like symptoms, they can be sent immediately to the public health centre,” said Yadav.Rishab Singh, a DMRC official, who was present in the meeting, said preparations have been made for thermal scanning of all passengers, and those commuters, who show flu-like symptoms, will be asked to visit the nearest health centres.DMRC will also motivate passengers to download the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones and there would be signages for entry and exit, standing and keeping distance, he added. Each passenger will be allowed to sit on an alternate seat inside the train and tickets will be issued only through digital transactions. The trains would be sanitized after every trip, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/to-assist-dmrc-in-metro-ops-admin-to-appoint-supervisors-nodal-officer-for-coordination/story-g5EQBdkD0LIxHbDOPVSNDO.html
04-09-2020||City||Flu season drives up people coming to get tested for Covid-19, says Gurugram health dept||Gurugram: The onset of the annual flu season, categorised by a peak in prevalence of flu -- caused by strains of the influenza virus which begin to rapidly circulate due to seasonal changes in weather and temperature -- has resulted in a larger number of people seeking tests for Covid-19 due to overlapping symptoms, health department officials said. The typical season for flu in Gurugram, they added, lasts from July to October every year.“There are several strains of viruses which begin to circulate more efficiently between the months of October and July due to changes in temperature, humidity and so on. Influenza, adenoviruses, rhinoviruses, para-influenza viruses... they affect the body in different ways depending on biological factors, but like Covid-19, they target the respiratory tract and cause ‘common cold’ symptoms like fever, loss of taste and smell, and so on,” said Dr Piyush Goel, a pulmonologist at Columbia Asia hospital overseeing treatment of Covid-19 patients.While in a pre-Covid world, a person may not have paid much attention to a small cough, this year people are on high alert due to the ongoing pandemic, said Goel as well as health department officials. Anantha K, a laboratory technician with the health department who has been supervising sample collection at testing camps since the start of the outbreak in the district, said, “It’s hard to put a number on it, but these days we do see more people coming for tests because of flu-like symptoms. And in most cases it is the flu, not Covid-19.”While officials did not state how many more tests they are conducting due to flu season, Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram, pointed out that ICMR guidelines state that all people with influenza-like-illnesses (ILI) need to be tested. “Depending on the nature of symptoms, we conduct an antigen test and then an RT-PCR test if it returns negative. A runny nose and a wet cough with expectoration, for example, are not typical Covid-19 symptoms. A dry cough or breathlessness on the other hand would certainly require a confirmatory RT-PCR test. The challenge for us is that there is a larger pool of patients for whom we have to rule out whether they have Covid-19 or not,” Sharma said. He added that in early July, before flu season began in earnest, “We were collecting about 1,500 samples a day. Now it is up to 2,500 samples per day for both antigen and RT-PCR tests. People with ILI symptoms make a sizable portion, though it’s not possible to recall the data offhand.”The chief medical officer in Gururgam, Dr Virender Yadav, concurred. “It is, but natural. People will be more wary of the slightest fever these days. It’s necessary to remain that vigilant also. My advice to anyone experiencing flu-like symptoms is that they come forward for a test,” he said, adding that anyone needing a test could contact the health department via its website or helpline numbers, and get their samples collected at any number of testing camps or primary healthcare centres. However, officials and doctors also said that the number of flu cases on the whole this year is not as much. “We generally get a lot more people visiting our flu clinics every year. This time, flu season has pushed up the number of samples we are collecting for Covid, but by and large, number of people coming with symptoms of common cold is less,” said Dr Ram Prakash Sharma, district epidemiologist in Gurugram, adding that the health department is now collecting close to 2.500 samples a day to meet the demand for tests.According to Goyal, “This may be due to wearing masks. Influenza also spreads faster in close proximity to someone who is already ill. Wearing masks, social distancing, staying at home... these are not just protections against Covid-19 but also against other viral illnesses too.”Gurugram collected 72,199 samples in August for Covid. So far, 1,73,775 samples have been collected for Covid in the district since the disease broke out here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flu-season-drives-up-people-coming-to-get-tested-for-covid-19-says-gurugram-health-dept/story-8fuXDOBSjk2Ttnegxib2KM.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||Liquor shop owner murdered, shot 16 times; another critical||A 42-year-old liquor shop owner was killed while his friend suffered critical injuries after a group of armed men allegedly opened fire on their car as they were returning to their house in Jatauli, Haily Mandi, on Wednesday night. The police said the shop owner was shot at least 16 times and died on the spot, while his friend suffered three bullet wounds and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The police said, prima facie, personal enmity over a court case is suspected to be the reason for the alleged murder. Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Manesar, said, “Five teams including crime branch have been formed to nab the culprits. An FIR has been registered and several suspects have been identified. At least 12 people, all locals from Jatauli village, have been named in the FIR.” According to the police, the incident took place around 10pm when the victims, identified as Inderjeet, Vikram and Vishal, who have a liquor business in Haily Mandi, were returning to their residences in a car. As their car entered a lane, a herd of cattle blocked their path. According to Inderjeet’s cousin, Jai Bhagwan, who witnessed the incident, at least five suspects on three motorcycles, were closely following the car. “I was taking a stroll in the same lane with a cousin when I noticed that their car had been blocked by cattle. I tried to move the cattle when suddenly several armed men alighted from motorcycles and surrounded the car from two sides. They started firing indiscriminately at the victims. I rushed towards a wall nearby to evade the gunfire,” said Bhagwan, adding that he heard at least 20 gunshots and saw the suspects escape on motorcycles, while firing several shots in the air. The police said Inderjeet, who was behind the wheel, was declared dead on arrival by doctors at a hospital in Pataudi. Vikram, 40, seated on the co-driver’s seat, sustained three bullet wounds on his arm and waist and was referred to a private hospital in Sector 38, where he underwent surgery on Thursday. Vishal was on the back seat and survived the shooting unscathed, the police said. The police said probe had revealed that in July 2019, some of the accused men had fired gunshots at Inderjeet in a shooting incident in Jatauli. Karan Singh, station house officer (SHO), Pataudi police station, said, “In the last year’s incident, at least two suspects were arrested. Their aides had been threatening the victim to settle the cases. So, there was enmity related to that incident. No arrests have been made so far.” Jai Bhagwan, who is the complaint in the case, said, “A week ago, one of the accused men had threatened to kill Inderjeet and tried to extort money from him. The accused had mentioned that he was connected to some criminals. On several previous instances, the accused men have attacked our family due to business and personal reasons. There was enmity related to one of our associates getting elected in a municipal election too.” Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, who conducted the autopsy, said, “The deceased was shot at least 16 times, out of which seven bullets were found lodged inside his body.” A case was registered against the suspects under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object, 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Pataudi police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/liquor-shop-owner-murdered-shot-16-times-another-critical/story-eeZRZbQ61ggoX0w9EA1FIK.html
04-09-2020||City||Gurugram sees spike in hospital bed occupancy by Covid-19 patients||Gurugram: At least 31.30% (472) of the 1,511 hospital beds, earmarked for coronavirus (Covid-19) patients, are currently occupied in Gurugram, according to the district health department data, an increase from the 23.29% (352 BEDS) occupied up to August 27. This figure was 22% in July.Health officials cite simultaneous increase in the hospitalisation of patients, who are residents of Gurugram and those from other parts of Haryana and other states, has led to an increase in the bed occupancy.The last one-week’s hospitalisation data prepared by the district administration shows that from August 27, hospitalisation of patients who are residents of Gurugram, increased from 84 to 123, up to September 2.Simultaneously, the number of outstation patients admitted to Gurugram hospitals climbed from 268 to 350 during the same time. The health department report shows that most of the outstation patients are from Uttar Pradesh. In at least 41 hospitals, where 25% of beds have been reserved for Covid-19 patients, at least 136 are from Uttar Pradesh, 98 from other states, 75 from rest of Haryana and 41 from Delhi, the report shows.Currently, the administration has reserved 1,511 general isolation ward beds — including 197 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and 94 beds with a ventilator support system — across 41 government and private hospitals in the city. Health officials said that based on the hospitalisation trend of the next few days, they might think of preparing a strategy for Gurugram residents.A senior state government official privy to the matter, on condition of anonymity, said: “The burden is on Gurugram. Many patients from Panchkula are getting admitted to Gurugram as PGIMER Chandigarh has not been able to take patients from Haryana. There are many patients from Uttar Pradesh too. But at present, we have enough beds in the district. Only after noticing active cases and hospitalisation trends of the next few days, we might prepare a strategy.” Notably, PGIMER Chandigarh’s Covid-19 beds are getting occupied by outstation patients coming to emergency ward for other health issues and testing positive for coronavirus disease.Currently, no step towards expansion of the bed capacity has been taken. Private hospitals have reserved 25% of their bed capacity for Covid-19. “The capacity can be further escalated to additional 30% in case there is a surge in the number of cases. Hospitals have also been directed to prepare their respective facilities,” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said. According to a state government order, a maximum of 60% beds can be reserved in private hospitals.“The hospitalisation should not be more than 15% of the infected patients. For every thousand active cases, 150 people getting admitted to the hospital is normal. Only those with symptoms and underlying health conditions, such as hypertension and diabetes, are shifted to hospitals. This helps in controlling the fatality rate too,” said Yadav. Gurugram’s current fatality rate is 1.07%, while the recovery rate is at 88.18%.According to the district health bulletin, nearly 86% of the active cases are currently home isolated, while only 11.93% are hospitalised. At least 1,088 patients are in home isolation while 151 are in hospitals, according to the district health bulletin. Gurugram’s current positivity rate is fluctuating at 7%. On Thursday, 224 new Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the total count of infected persons to 12,521 in the district, of which 1,265 are active cases. In the last 24 hours, 102 patients have recovered, taking the total count of the recovered patients to 11,121. With two more Covid-19 deaths, the death toll of the district stands at 135. Out of this, 94 deaths are due to co-morbidities and 41 are without co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-sees-spike-in-hospital-bed-occupancy-by-covid-19-patients/story-S24nCCFV3OphyCw3hRcwxM.html
04-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Shanty catches fire; three of family severely injured||Gurugram: Three persons, including a three-year-old girl, suffered serious injuries after a fire broke out in their shanty in Sushant Lok’s B block Thursday morning. At least two of the injured suffered 60% burns, said the police, adding that all of them were rushed to a private hospital nearby and then referred to a hospital in Delhi, where they are undergoing treatment. Fire department officials said they received a call from a security guard at 5.55 am and two fire tenders were pressed into service.The victims, Preet Pal, his wife Kiran Devi and their daughter, who hail from Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh, were asleep in their shanty, which they had built in a vacant plot when the incident took place around 5.30 am.A police official, requesting anonymity, said: “There was some loose wiring in the shanty and a short circuit is suspected to have caused the blaze. According to the statement of Preet Pal’s brother-in-law, the victims woke up after the smoke had engulfed the shanty and they were unable to get to the door. The brother-in-law, who was sleeping outside, heard their cries and pulled them out.” Ranvir Singh, the security guard, who had called the fire control room, said, “Another guard noticed smoke coming from the shanty and informed me. One of the victims had fallen unconscious. We pulled them out and called the fire brigade. The injured couple had been working at an under-construction plot nearby for the past three months.” Police said Kiran Devi and her daughter suffered at least 60% burns while Preet Pal also suffered several burn injuries. They have been declared unfit for statement and are undergoing treatment at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi, where their condition is critical.A fire department official, requesting anonymity, said, “There was a battery in the shanty. It is possible that in the fire, the battery exploded and caused more damage.” Deepanshu Mehlawat, fire station officer, Sector 29 fire station, said, “A short circuit is suspected to be the reason. Two fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the fire was doused within a few minutes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-shanty-catches-fire-three-of-family-severely-injured/story-WoMXlhE4I79piwMOI5rrBN.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||Farmhouses in Raisina and Sohna under municipal scrutiny; likely to face action||Farmhouses, amusement parks and other commercial ventures, which have come up in the revenue estates of Sohna and Raisina after 2015, are under scanner by the Municipal Council of Sohna. Their owners are likely to face action as they have not obtained the change of land use permission and sanction of building plans, said municipal officials on Thursday. The area came under the Municipal Act in 2015 and the civic agency will now probe the constructions that have come up in violation of urban local development rules as per the Municipal Corporation Act in these two revenue estates, said Vinay Pratap Singh, district municipal commissioner, Gurugram, who is also in charge of the Sohna Municipal Council. A visit to Sohna reveals that a large number of farmhouses have come up deep inside the hilly areas of Aravallis on the rear side of Sohna town developed by private builders. Many of these structures have been constructed on several acres of land. A road has also been constructed to provide access to these farm houses. “The revenue estates of Sohna and Raisina villages came under the Municipal Act in 2015. As such, we will look into violations that were carried out after that year. The land owners need to get permission from the Municipal Council for construction and to change the land use. We will analyse the satellite pictures of 2015 and find out the constructions and other related violations that came up after 2015 under the Municipal Act,” said Singh, adding that, as per his information, none of the land owners have applied for approval of the building plan. Singh also said that the Municipal Council of Sohna, had given notices to the farmhouse owners, who have replied. “This month, these replies will be analysed and action would be taken. Earlier, Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed that Municipal Council, Sohna, will decide on the replies submitted by the owners,” he said. Referring to matter, Singh said that as per the NGT directions the category of land on which these farmhouses have come up in Raisina has been changed from ‘gairmumkin farmhouse’ to ‘gairmumkin pahad’ to ensure that owners don’t use the legal loophole to carry out construction on their land. “When the change of land use was granted by the Department of Town and Country Planning in 1988, the revenue estate was not under controlled area and the licence was for orchards and farms. However, the owners have constructed houses in these farms in violation of the rules,” said Singh, adding that different agencies of the government have issues noticed to the farmhouse owners for these violations. As per Municipal officials of Sohna, 330 notices were issued to farmhouse owners in revenue estates of Sohna and Raisina in May this year and replies of 175 owners have been received. Additionally, a total of 195 farmhouse owners in Raisina have been issued notices for violations by the Gurugram district administration. National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on August 27 issued directions to Haryana government that it should restore the forest in Raisina in the next five months. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that a survey had already been carried out in the area regarding illegal structures and to identify the character of the land. “We will take corrective measures as directed by the NGT,” he said. RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram said that they will soon start a survey in Raisina to check the status of farmhouses. “A report will be prepared in collaboration with Municipal Corporation of Sohna and other departments concerned,” he added. Last week, at least 19 farmhouses were demolished in Bandhwari by the Department of Town and Country Planning in three-day drive against structures that had come up without permission in the Aravallis .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmhouses-in-raisina-and-sohna-under-municipal-scrutiny-likely-to-face-action/story-mwuoVdyqBsoCDPDDZl9U5L.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Covid patients from neighbouring states travel miles for treatment in Delhi||Om Prakash did not want to risk it any more at the private hospital in his hometown in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly. It had been three days that his brother, Sushant Kumar, had been admitted to the hospital and his condition was deteriorating daily. Kumar was admitted to the private hospital in Bareilly after testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. But he soon developed pneumonia. “We found the treatment provided there to be inadequate. We also worried that if his condition turned worse, the hospital would not be able to manage his condition,” said Prakash.On Saturday morning, Prakash decided to put his brother in a car and take him to Max Hospital in Saket,Delhi. He called the hospital and was told that an ICU bed was available.“I didn’t want to waste time waiting for an ambulance, so I simply loaded my brother in my car and drove off to Delhi,” said Prakash.It took Prakash about five hours of non-stop driving to cover the 270 kms to reach Delhi. They didn’t stop for meals, scared that the patient might infect someone on the way. “Kumar spoke little along the way and mostly spent the journey sleeping, but thankfully he held on,” said Prakash.However, when they reached Delhi in the afternoon on Saturday, they were in for a rude surprise. “At Max Hospital, we were told that the vacant ICU bed had been occupied,” said Prakash.The next few hours were spent looking for another private hospital in Delhi-NCR with a free ICU bed . “Finally, we found an ICU bed at a private hospital in Noida, but we didn’t like the facilities. It felt like we had travelled all this way for nothing,” he said.They were mulling their next course of action when they got a call from Max Hospital answering their prayers. An ICU bed there had been vacated minutes earlier.Sushant, who is a chief pharmacist at a government hospital in Bareilly, is yet to recover. But Prakash now is confident of the treatment being given to his brother . “The Covid-19 situation is bad in UP, but we kept reading that it is under control in Delhi. We were more likely to find an ICU bed and receive better treatment in Delhi than in UP,” Prakash said.The siblings are not the only people from other states choosing private hospitals for ICU care -- doctors of many private Covid-designated hospitals attributed their nearly full occupancy of ICU beds to this emerging trend of patients opting for hospitals in the national capital.Delhi has been witnessing a spike in Covid cases after a lull over nearly eight weeks. On Thursday, Delhi added 2,737 new infections and 19 fresh deaths, taking the total number of positive cases so far to 1,82,306 and its fatality count to 4,500. The number of patients occupying hospital beds too has increased to 4,477 as on Thursday as compared to 2,973 on August 3.At Max hospital, Saket, another patient, Gaurav Aggarwal, has been in the Covid-19 ICU ward for the last one week. His family had driven him in their car from Meerut to Delhi the moment they received his Covid-19 report last week. As they made the three-hour journey, in Delhi his brother Saurav had confirmed an ICU bed at Max Hospital.“The facilities are good at the hospitals in Meerut as well. But nothing can match Delhi. Moreover, I stay in Delhi and can personally monitor whether he is receiving the kind of attention he needs,” said Gaurav’s brother, Saurav. On Thursday, Gaurav received plasma therapy at the hospital.But both the patients were lucky to find ICU beds in the city’s top private hospitals. As of 9.16 am on Thursday, the Delhi Government’s ‘Delhi Corona’ app showed that none of the 32 ICU beds equipped with ventilators at Max hospital, Saket, was vacant.The story is similar at other private Covid-designated hospitals in Delhi as well. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had in June this year raked up a storm by announcing by announcing that beds in the city’s private hospitals and in hospitals run by the state government will be reserved for residents of Delhi until the Covid-19 pandemic subsides. The order, which created much furore, was later struck down by Delhi L-G Anil Baijal.According to doctors at Max Saket and Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, their ICU beds reserved for Covid patients are completely occupied — mostly by patients belonging to other states.“Eighty per cent of our ICU beds are occupied by patients from other states, such as Uttar Pradesh and even Bihar. While the non-serious patients don’t mind staying back in their home states, those whose conditions worsen prefer to come to Delhi hospitals if they can afford it,” said Dr Nevin Kishore, head of the bronchology department at Max Saket.Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant of respiratory medicine at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital said that patients in other states are opting for Delhi hospitals because they “are not happy with the treatment they receive there”.“There are not enough private hospitals in some of these states and patients are being forced to seek admission in government hospitals, which lack the necessary medicines or care. About 40% of our ICU patients are from other states such as UP and Madhya Pradesh,” said Dr Chawla, adding that all ICU beds at Indraprastha Apollo hospital were occupied on Thursday.Relatives of patients had varied reason seeking treatment in Delhi. But they all agreed on one thing — the facilities in Delhi were better.At Tughlaqabad’s Batra Hospital, where all 15 ICU beds were occupied at 4.31 pm on Thursday, Ghaziabad-resident Ruchi Pathak sat in the lawn with her mother and sister-in-law, while her 41-year-old brother remained admitted in the ICU inside.Pathak said that the family chose Delhi over Ghaziabad or any other UP city because they had been reading about Covid cases reducing in Delhi and the availability of beds here.“Our experience in Ghaziabad was not good . When my brother fell sick a week ago and we took him to a private doctor, a Covid test was not recommended by the doctor. His fever subsided in a couple of days, but he again developed a cough. This time when we took him to a private hospital, the doctors recommended home quarantine with oxygen support, but not a Covid test. When his pulse began to drop, we got him tested for Covid and when the result returned positive, we decided to take him to Delhi,” said Pathak.The family did not want to get Tripathi admitted to GTB Hospital where ICU beds are available, due to lack of facilities. Their next choice, after a long hunt, was Batra Hospital.“We first called two private hospitals in Delhi, but both said that their ICU beds were occupied. Then my brother’s employer (he works at a finance firm) made a request to Batra Hospital authorities and procured a bed here,” said Pathak.When her brother was admitted to the hospital on Thursday morning, it appeared that he had made it just in the nick of time. “When another patient arrived immediately after us, the hospital had to refuse them admission as my brother had occupied the last bed,” said Pathak.The only pleasant experience, her mother said, was finding an ambulance in Ghaziabad. “We had an ambulance at our door within five minutes of making a call,” she said.One of the expectations of this family was that it would be easier for the patient to receive plasma therapy if need be. He has been reporting low pulse and is on a ventilator. “We have already found a plasma donor,” said Pathak’s mother on Thursday afternoon, adding that all the members of the family who accompanied the patient will be tested for Covid.The situation is not very different at government hospitals either. Dr Suresh Kumar, director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said that 20% of all Covid admissions at this Delhi government hospital were from other states, mainly UP and Punjab.“The state borders opening have also contributed to this factor,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patients-from-neighbouring-states-travel-hundreds-of-miles-for-treatment-in-delhi/story-5bXPogiBwMvYwzYO9rCS4M.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||No order on fining people driving alone for not wearing masks: Delhi Police||While the Delhi Police have been fining people for not wearing masks even while driving alone in their cars, the health ministry on Thursday said it is not compulsory for a person to wear a mask if they are not accompanied by any other person.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday said the guidelines released by the Union health ministry do not say anything about whether a person driving a car on their own has to wear a mask.“As for exercising, you must have seen there has been an increased awareness about physical activities among people. You must have seen people cycling and jogging in groups of two or three,” Bhushan said.He said, when such activities are taking place, people should wear masks and maintain social distancing to ensure they do not infect one another. “However, if you are cycling alone, then the guideline does not say anything about wearing a mask,” Bhushan added.When asked, a senior Delhi Police officer said till date they are following guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), dated June 13, which say any person who is not wearing a face mask in a public place shall be liable for fine of ₹500. “Because a car is considered a public place, we are issuing fines. Any officer of the rank of a sub-inspector or above can issue the fine. We are yet to receive any written order that states otherwise. As soon as we receive the new directives, we will start following them,” the police officer said.On an average, the Delhi Police have been issuing fines against 1,200 to 1,500 people every day for riding a vehicle without face masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-order-on-fining-people-driving-alone-for-not-wearing-masks-delhi-police/story-nWHWkeJ9t0sjTHzm0sfIiK.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Weekly markets to continue on trial basis, inter-state travel to remain prohibited: DDMA issues Unlock 4.0 order||Several weekly markets in the Capital will continue operating on a trial basis till September 13 but inter-state buses are prohibited from plying and gymnasiums and yoga centres cannot open in the city at this point.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday issued an order implementing its un-lockdown plan for September, in adherence to guidelines issued by the central government last week.The order, which HT has seen, also mentions the phased re-opening of the Delhi Metro services from Monday and operation of bars from Wednesday.The government had first allowed weekly markets to operate from August 24 on a trial basis and an assessment report was submitted to the chief minister’s office on August 31. The assessment was done on parameters of social distancing and safety measures in the light of Covid-19 guidelines. Based on the report, the DDMA decided to extend the trial operations up to September 13 before taking a final call on whether these markets can be opened permanently, said a senior government official.Under the trial run, one weekly market per municipal zone is allowed to function each day. Delhi has 12 municipal zones.However, in the light of the spike in new cases, the DDMA decided to take some more time on re-opening of gyms and inter-state transport, the senior official said.The DDMA is chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, its vice-chairperson is Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.Gyms and yoga centres had been closed since March 22. Recently, the AAP government had sent a proposal to L-G Baijal to allow gyms and yoga centres to reopen but the L-G rejected it citing the prevalent situation where number of Covid cases have been rising in the Capital.Delhi on Thursday recorded 2,737 new COVID-19 cases, the city’s highest single-day spike in 67 days, taking the infection tally to over 1.82 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,500, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Delhi government.This is the third successive day in September when the city has reported over 2,000 new cases.On August 29, the Union Home Ministry had issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which Metro trains have been allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while political, social and religious congregations of up to 100 people have been permitted from September 21.However, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, with some relaxations for students of classes 9 to 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weekly-markets-to-continue-on-trial-basis-inter-state-travel-to-remain-prohibited-ddma-issues-unlock-4-0-order/story-XseGwZnTCLKMhRKKZO9wxJ.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Sharjeel Imam remanded in judicial custody for 30 days||A Delhi court Thursday sent Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) research scholar Sharjeel Imam, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, to judicial custody for 30 days.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat sent Imam to judicial custody after he was produced before the court at the end of his three-day custodial interrogation.Imam, a PhD student at the JNU’s Centre for Historical Studies, was arrested under the anti-terror law for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” that led to the riots in north-east Delhi in February in pursuance to the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.He was brought to Delhi from a jail in Assam on a production warrant on August 24. Earlier, on July 26, the police had filed a charge sheet charging him with sedition over a speech he had allegedly given at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in January.On August 25, after he was brought back to Delhi, Imam was arrested in connection the north-east Delhi riots and charged under UAPA and the Indian Penal Code for sedition, promoting enmity, hatred between different communities, assertions prejudicial to national integration and spreading rumors.The police had also accused Imam of exhorting people of a particular community to block highways leading to the major cities and resort to “chakka jam (traffic blockade)”, during the protests against the CAA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sharjeel-imam-remanded-in-judicial-custody-for-30-days/story-lTu2CK26Qmfpi5yS186OBO.html
04-09-2020||Delhi||Man held for posing as IFS officer in PMO office, duping people||Delhi Police have arrested a 43-year-old man who was allegedly impersonating as an Indian Foreign Service officer posted in the Prime Minister’s Office and allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing them government and non-government contracts. Police said the man had recently duped a Gujarat-based businessman of Rs 36 crore.The arrested man was identified as one Piyush Bandopadhyay, who lived in Noida and claimed to be an M.Tech graduate from IIT-Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. Joint commissioner of police (economic offences wing) OP Mishra said they got a complaint from a bio-toilet company alleging that its representatives met a woman, Shweta Sorout, who introduced herself as the India head for the Intellectual Innovation Think Tank (IITT), a company engaged in the sale of patent technology to government and non-government agencies all across the world.“She also claimed that her husband Piyush Bandopadhyay was an IFS officer presently posted in the PMO and arranged a meeting of the representatives of the company with her husband in Ashoka Hotel, New Delhi. The complainant said Bandopadhyay informed them that all projects related to Make-in-India, smart city, solar energy, etc. were looked after by him and claimed he could get any proposal of the company passed by the government of India,” Mishra said. The joint commissioner said the complainant’s company was lured by Bandopadhyay and his wife and its representatives then convinced another company based in Dubai, to purchase the patent technology from Intellectual Innovation Think Tank (IITT).“As per their mutual discussion, an initial amount of $3.1 million was transferred by the Dubai-based company to the account of IITT, of which Sorout is a trustee. Later, another sum of money was also transferred and the total amount paid to IITT turned out to be Rs 36 crores. But after the payment, when Bandopadhyay and his wife stopped responding to calls and messages from representatives of the two companies, they turned suspicious of the couple and lodged a police complaint,” he said.Mishra said, during initial probe, it was learnt that two more complaints have been filed before a central investigating agency against Bandopadhyay. “On this, he was put on surveillance and following a raid at his Noida residence, he was arrested. A beacon-fitted car, in which Bandopadhyay travelled for his meetings with his targets, was also seized from his house. We also seized from him documents related to properties that he had bought using the money earned through cheating,” he said.The officer said, when questioned, Bandopadhyay said he always used to have business meetings in five-star hotels to make it look authentic. “In order to give an impression about his coveted status as a senior government functionary, he would get the phones of all his visitors and clients deposited beforehand. He would often drop names of senior officials before the clients during business conversations to create an impression and used to mention government initiatives to make his targets believe that he played important role in policy-making,” Mishra said.Role of Bandopadhyay’s wife Sorout’s and other suspects are being investigated, the officer said. Bandopadhyay’s educational background is also being verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-held-for-posing-as-ifs-officer-in-pmo-office-duping-people/story-wBIS5hyl0ooVveiR4jMmGN.html
04-09-2020||City||Sealing and demolition drive against illegal constructions in south Delhi||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Thursday conducted a sealing and demolition drive in south Delhi’s Chhattarpur, Greater Kailash-II and Khirki Extension, taking action against as many as eight properties for illegal constructions. According to officials in SDMC’s building department, the civic body has cracked down on nearly 71 unauthorised properties in Chhattarpur, Vasant Kunj, Khirki Extension, GK-II, Panchsheel Vihar, Neb Sarai in one month. Entire properties built illegally at some places in Chhattarpur Enclave and Khirki Extension were sealed, the officials said “Action was taken against illegal construction in residential areas. The violations include construction without map sanction, construction beyond permissible limit, encroachment and violation of Master Plan of Delhi-2021. At some properties in Greater Kailash-II, people constructed rooms in the stilt space that can only be used for parking. All such illegal constructions were demolished and some parts were sealed. Cases were registered against 55 property owners for unauthorised construction,” an official of the building department said.The official quoted above said out of 71 unauthorised properties, 24 were sealed and 47 were demolished in a period of more than a month.The Supreme Court had on August 14 this year ruled that civic bodies would have the authority to take action against illegal construction. It had also specified that the court-appointed monitoring committee could take action only against commercial units in residential areas and encroachment on public land and not illegal constructions in residential dwellings. On Thursday, two properties in Chhattarpur Enclave, and one property each in Lado Sarai, Khirki Extension, Panchsheel Vihar, Hauz Rani, Toot Sarai and GK-II were either sealed or demolished.Municipal officials said the demolition staff faced stiff resistance from owners and local residents during the drive. The SDMC said in a statement that the demolition drives were conducted to discourage unauthorised construction by unscrupulous builders.The properties, SDMC said, have been left in an uninhabitable condition so that these cannot be used again and there is no scope for further constructions. “The drive is aimed at bringing the constructions in properties within the parameters of Master Plan-2021 and Unified Building Bye-Laws-2016, which contain the notified regulations applicable for construction activities in the Capital,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sealing-and-demolition-drive-against-illegal-constructions-in-south-delhi/story-RtA2QfFLToPVl1NX6HOfqN.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||Report Sushant Singh Rajput case as per investigation: Bombay HC to media||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked news media to exercise restraint in its reportage of the investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The court has also asked representatives of news channels to be present for the hearing of two petitions filed by former police officers and activists. The petitioners have alleged television news channels are maligning Mumbai Police and prejudicing the general public. The case will be heard next on September 10. A division bench of justices AA Sayed and SP Tavade was hearing two petitions. In the first, filed by activists Nilesh Navlakha, Mahibub Shaikh and Subhash Chander Chaba, advocate Devadatt Kamat that the petition had a limited prayer for directing various media houses on their reportage of the the Rajput case. Kamat said some news channels had overstepped the guidelines laid down in Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995, and were conducting a media trial by exposing names and details of those named in the case. He submitted that that some had also gone on to name police officials and pass judgements on the accused before the investigation has been completed. Advocates Dr Milind Sathe and Chetan Kapadia informed the bench that their petition was on similar lines and had been filed by police officers, including former director generals of police (DGP) PS Pasricha, K Subramaniam, D Shivanandan, Sanjeev Dayal, Satish Chandra Mathur; former commissioners of Mumbai Police Mahesh N Singh, Dhananjay N Jadhav; and former anti-terrorism squad (ATS) chief K P Raghuvanshi. Dr Sathe submitted that the media coverage of the Rajput case was irresponsible, aimed to prejudice the general public and also maligned the image of Mumbai Police. He urged the court to restrain the media and also direct the government and media regulators to lay down guidelines for the coverage of pending investigations, like the one probing Rajput’s death. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh appearing for the Union of India asked for time to respond and submitted that as the petitions involved the media, media houses should be allowed to defend their actions before the court passes any order. After hearing the submissions, the bench passed a short order in which it observed, “The media should practice restraint and report the case as per the investigation.” The bench also directed the media channels named in the petition of the activists to be present for the hearing on September 10 and asked the News Broadcasters Association to file their reply before the next hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/report-sushant-singh-rajput-case-as-per-investigation-bombay-hc-to-media/story-adzWtXtRsoDxMXQcwJuAyH.html
04-09-2020||Pune||Mahabaleshwar still in deficit when Western Maha’s rainfall in surplus||Even as Western Maharashtra has received more than average rainfall with most dams are full, India’s popular tourist destination Mahabaleshwar is still facing deficient rainfall.As of September 3 since June 1, Mahabaleshwar has received 4768.7mm rain against the average of 5530.1 mm for the same duration, according to India Meteoreological Department (IMD). The hill station on an average annually receive 5,710mm rain. After heavy rainfall during August, Mahabaleshwar’s precipitation went up by 2845.9mm after first two monsoon months of June and July received 1922.8 mm rain. “Still September is remaining and I hope it will cross its normal rainfall mark this season in Mahabaleshwar. Since June and July, the rainfall has improved tremendously as most days the ghat areas received heavy to very heavy rains ,” said Anupam Kashyapi head of IMD, Pune. Along with Mahabaleshwar, the catchment area in Satara district also received good rains as Koyna dam, which was only filled to 47 per cent of capacity after June and July, is now at 97.08 per cent. “The water storage almost increased by 50.08 per cent which will help agricultural activity,” added Kashyapi. On Tuesday, the Koyna dam region experienced a mild intensity earthquake of 2.6 magnitude at 7.16am. No causality or damage was reported. 12 dams in Bhima basin filled to capacity Bountiful rain in the month of August in Maharashtra ensured that 12 dams of the 26 in the Bhima basin are filled to capacity, ensuring that the state will not face any scarcity of water this season. Of the remaining 14 dams, five dams – Vadaj (98.52%), Dimbhe (97.40%), Pavana (98.31%), Kasarsai (99.69%) and Gunjwani (99.38%) - are close to capacity. “With many dams crossing its full quota mark, farmers from the state will be relieved this season. Look at the water capacity in all the dams, we don’t have to worry till next monsoon,” said an official from the state irrigation department, requesting anonymity. Ujani dam, the biggest of the 26 dams, was at 100 per cent capacity on Monday. “Unjani dam filling to 100 per cent capacity is a good sign for farming activities in Solapur and Ahmednagar,” added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mahabaleshwar-still-in-deficit-when-western-maha-s-rainfall-in-surplus/story-xZMtkrF60rzMQkK0snO0qM.html
04-09-2020||Pune||74 new micro-containment zones announced in Pune||Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday announced 74 new micro-containment zones.Kumar said, “New micro containment zones will be sealed from Thursday midnight and citizens movement in the containment zone will be restricted.”He said, “If more than five Covid patients are reported in any housing society, lane or slum, it will be sealed immediately.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Most of the slums in the city are not in the containment zones anymore. Earlier maximum Cocid-19 positive cases were reported from the slums, but now other areas are the most affected ones.”“As more people are opting for isolation at homes the burden has reduced on the Pune municipal corporation. We are even closing some Covid Care centres as very few people are opting for it,” he said.Following are the containment zones in different wards across the city:Kasba Vishrambaug area: 4; Bhavanni Peth ward office -2; Dhole Patil ward office -2; Dhankawadi/Sahakarnagar- 8; Bibwewadi ward office-5; Yerawada-Kalas- 2; Wanowrie/Ramtekadi- 2; Shivajinagar/Ghole road- 3; Ahmednagar Road/Wadgaonsheri -7;Sinhgad ward office- 3;Hadapsar/Mundhwa- 11; Kondhwa-Yeolewadi - 3; Warje-Karvenagar-4; Kothrud/Bavdhan- 9; Aundh-Baner -9||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/74-new-micro-containment-zones-announced-in-pune/story-cW747J3myIQI6xT2q8CGTL.html
04-09-2020||Pune||Former Pune mayor passes away due to Covid after his family struggles to get bed||Former mayor Datta Ekbote passed away around midnight on Wednesday in the city though his death brings in focus shortage of beds and lack of coordination among agencies. Ekbote (84) was admitted at government-run Sassoon hospital on August 22 after his family members and other Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders failed to get a bed at a private hospital. Ekbote’s grandson Gaurav said, “Three persons from our family were admitted in a private hospital on July 27 and recovered on August 18. As Ekbote once again complained of discomfort, he was admitted at Sassoon hospital along with another son Ravindra, who passed away on August 31, at Sassoon.” His death came after three more patients passed away at the recently inaugurated jumbo facility in the city on which the government and PMC together spent Rs 80 crore. Many questioned why are people facing difficulty in getting beds despite administration setting up an 800-bed jumbo facility at College of Engineering, Pune, at Shivajinagar. While the facility is proposed to have 800 beds all are not operational. As per the PMC dashboard status at 7 pm on Thursday, total ICU beds with ventilator were shown as 753 of which 48 were vacant. While the Covid cases are increasing, fatalities have also gone up with each day reporting deaths within the range of 40 to 50. Meanwhile, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday inspected the jumbo facility developed at College of Engineering Pune and expressed unhappiness over various lacunas in the facility.While many citizens and politicians are complaining about the jumbo facility, the death of a journalist Pandurang Raykar there triggered sharp reactions from opposition leaders.Taking serious note of Raykar’s death, Kumar wrote a letter to the Pune Metropolitan Region Development (PMRDA) commissioner Suhas Divase and pointed out his observations. Kumar mentioned in the letter, “Though the jumbo hospital is planned for 800 beds all beds are not operational and there is not enough manpower in the hospital. There are many complaints of patients not getting food and breakfast. The system for the management of bodies of deceased is also not in place.”Observations pointed out by municipal commissioner about the jumbo facility- Less medical staff-Patients not getting food and breakfast properly and on time- No proper system in place to manage bodies of deceased- Despite instructions to keep 50 beds for suspected patients only 10 beds are available-Less data entry manpower-Without identity, patients won’t be admitted Pune Mayor blames PMRDA and state governmentPune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol blamed state government and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) for poor management of the jumbo facility. “The PMRDA administration and state officers are misleading office bearers. If the 800-bed hospital was not complete they should have alerted the state government. PMC had only funded it but the work was carried out by PMRDA.”“It is the PMRDA’s responsibility to check whether all things are placed or not. Now it is a challenge in front of us to create confidence among the residents to vail service at the jumbo facility. Now PMC will interfere and monitor the work here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-pune-mayor-passes-away-due-to-covid-after-his-family-struggles-to-get-bed/story-6PKFzzZ8PsbthuIU4UvLAO.html
04-09-2020||Pune||PMPML restarts service, lukewarm response on first day||City’s public transport body Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) resumed its service with 477 buses of its fleet plying on 190 routes on Thursday, more than five months after it suspended services for residents. The passenger response on the first day was lukewarm as most buses were empty and regulars were those involved in essential services. Regular commuters trickled slowly at Swargate and Pune station and were happy to see buses at stops. “I used the service after five months as I had to reach Pimpri from Katraj,” said Anish Balgude, a banker. While the service of PMPML was shut, it was operating limited buses in Pimpri-Chinchwad and parts of Pune for essential services. According to PMPML officials, 2,548 trips were made by buses plying 34,443 passengers earning a revenue of Rs 5,56,924 till Thursday evening. “We have been planning to restart the services post Ganeshotsav and held a meeting to discuss the plan. We began today with 25 per cent of the fleet on 190 routes covering major trunk routes through the city,” said PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD) Rajendra Jagtap. Bus stops and buses were sanitised before making trips. Every bus were equipped with a pedal sanitiser and a plastic screen was placed to cover the driver’s space. The 35 seats of buses were marked and could accommodate only 17 passengers. Officials said buses were cleaned at the start and the end points of its journey twice as well as the terminal bus stop. “650 drivers, 760 conductors/checkers have been deployed to regularise the public transport. We had several passengers during the morning time at Swargate between 8.30 am and 9.30 am, but since it is the first day, we are hoping numbers would pick up slowly,” said Jagtap. Jagtap said citizens above 65 years of age and children below 10 years would not be allowed to board buses, that will run between Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas. For bus conductor Manohar Koli, it was a five-month wait to rejoin. “I am on a bus route to Balewadi, Mhalunge and am happy to be back on duty. We are taking every precaution and hope that we will get more passengers soon and everything will return to normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmpml-restarts-service-lukewarm-response-on-first-day/story-FNtjeq17CxJ84AhkH8Pu1I.html
04-09-2020||Pune||Railways waits for state government’s nod to restart passenger trains||The Pune railway division is waiting for the go-ahead from the state government to resume Pune-Mumbai train services. “We are prepared to begin passenger train services, but the decision is awaited from the state government and from our headquarters,” said Renu Sharma, divisional railway manager (DRM), Pune Railway division. She said freight and parcel trains were running during the Covid-19 lockdown restriction period. “Our division operated 110 special parcel trains with 3,696 tonnes of essential commodities, medicines, medical equipment and also signed a special memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the postal department for door-to- door service,” she said. Sharma said that the Pune division ran 144 Shramik trains to facilitate migrant workers, students, pilgrims, tourists and other stranded persons stranded, facilitating 180,000 passengers to 16 states from five originating stations (Pune, Uruli, Satara, Miraj and Kolhapur). “We provided them with food packets, snacks and water bottles arranged by railways, state government and NGOs at the originating station and their food requirement was taken care at enroute stations till the destination,” Sharma said. Saharsha Bajpai, additional divisional railway manager, presented the progress report on the electrification of Pune-Miraj-Kolhapur section which was delayed due to the Covid situation. “The division has also executed many infrastructure and safety works which would have required major blocks with lot of traffic disruption during normal circumstances, like working on the overhauling of 24 level crossing gates and dismantling of the foot over bridge (FOB) at Talegaon and launching the girders of new FOBs at Kadethan and Chinchwad,” said Bajpai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railways-waits-for-state-government-s-nod-to-restart-passenger-trains/story-zsbG9qG6kZKdF07RhocTyI.html
04-09-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad tally crosses 50K mark; civic body to shut down 5 Covid care centres||The industrial township of Pimpri-Chinchwad has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases and crossed the grim mark of 50,000 progressive positives on Thursday. Meanwhile, the civic administration has decided to close Covid care centres operating at school and college premises as there is a possibility of educational institutes opening up by the end of September. According to the state health office, 979 patients tested positive on Thursday while eight died due to Covid-19, taking the progressive positive tally to 50,773. The death toll in the industrial town stands at 816.PCMC has decided to close five of 11 Covid care centres currently in operation. “School and colleges may restart by September-end, so they should not face any problems, hence we are vacating the institutions. Also, now that jumbo facilities at Annasaheb Magar Stadium and Auto Cluster have started, bed availability has increased in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Decommissioning of Covid care centres will happen in a phased manner,” said Shravan Hardikar, PCMC civic body chief. Balaji Law College, Tathwade; Pimpri-Chinchwad College of Engineering hostel, Nigdi Pradhikaran; DY Patil College girls hostel, Ravet; Symbiosis College, Kiwale; and Adivasi division hostel, Moshi, are among the Covid centres being closed by PCMC. According to officials, the civic body is focussing more home isolation, if patients only have mild or no symptoms. “Home quarantine is a good option for people and they can recover easily if precautions are properly followed,” added Hardikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-tally-crosses-50k-mark-civic-body-to-shut-down-5-covid-care-centres/story-WLjq7yAvgJ5DeduPPnEedL.html
04-09-2020||Education||Internet snapped in students hostels, IIT Kharagpur says given them enough time to leave||Amid charges that IIT Kharagpur authorities snapped internet connection in hostels of students and research scholars so that they are forced to vacate rooms, the management on Thursday said that they were repeatedly asked to leave since the end of June.While over 10,000 students had left the campus since the COVID-19 pandemic struck, about 100 are not vacating their rooms, Registrar Prof B N Singh said.An institute source said that net connection in five hostels lodging 65 research scholars and several BTech, MTech students was discontinued on September 1 after the inmates informed the authorities they cannot leave the campus till the situation normalises.One of these students said that the move of the institute was aimed at forcing them to vacate hostels, but they cannot leave the campus due to lack of adequate transport facility.“Initially they had sought a little more time citing lack of travel options and to make necessary arrangements. But two months have passed since June. There is no possibility of campus activities starting this month, Singh told PTI.The institute has started online classes as the new semester began in September.“We had considered their request earlier as they are our children. But this cannot go on indefinitely. The director himself had also requested them to leave. They must be aware of the pandemic situation,” Singh said.He said that 12-13 people including five students staying in the campus have been tested positive for COVID-19 in less than two weeks.“We cannot risk the health of our students, the registrar said.IIT Kharagpur had asked all students, who got stranded because of lockdown, to leave the campus by June 30, but a few of them remained there.The first COVID-19 case was detected in the institute when one of them tested positive on August 19.The authorities then asked all the students staying in the campus to vacate their rooms by August 23.Asked about the condition of those who have been infected with the virus, the registrar said, “They had all been admitted to a hospital in Kolkata. Several of them have already recovered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/internet-snapped-in-students-hostels-iit-kharagpur-says-given-them-enough-time-to-leave/story-QwtRlmYBIKxYt7kr8GWNtJ.html
04-09-2020||Mumbai||SC stays Bombay HC order granting bail to Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan||The Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday stayed the bail order granted by Bombay High Court (HC) to DHFL promoters, the Wadhawan brothers—Kapil and Dheeraj—until October 7. The Bombay HC had granted them bail in the money laundering case registered against them by Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the Yes Bank scam.An apex court bench, headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul while staying the Bombay HC’s August 20 judgement, said that it would examine the legal issues involved in the Wadhawans’ bail plea.The HC had granted bail to the Wadhawans on the ground that ED had failed to file its charge sheet within the 60-day stipulated time frame in line with the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The brothers were remanded to custody on May 14 and the 60th day expired on July 12. ED had filed its charge sheet on the following day, July 13.According to section 167 of the CrPC, an accused will be entitled to bail by default, if the investigating authority fails to file charge sheet within 60 days from the date of remand.The agency contended that the day on which the accused is remanded should be excluded while calculating the 60-day period. However, the Wadhawans’ counsel argued that the 60-day period would start from the day on which the accused were remanded to custody.Earlier, the HC had ruled in favour of the brothers and had stated that “excluding the first day of remand while computing the period of 60 days cannot be sustained and is liable to be set aside”.On Thursday, Justice Kaul said that the legal questions relating to the remand period must be examined threadbare.“There are two issues. The first issue is whether the date on which the accused is remanded should be excluded while computing the 60 days. The second issue is whether weekends (Saturdays and Sundays) should be excluded. These are the issues we would like to examine and interpret,” he said.The Wadhawans had not been released from jail even though the HC had granted them bail since they are also accused in another case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sc-stays-bombay-hc-order-granting-bail-to-kapil-and-dheeaj-wadhawan/story-bO03N4ttdwcUtT3vITkEYK.html
04-09-2020||Lifestyle||This family believes that kindness is what will save the world||The pandemic has reaffirmed Ankita Dasgupta’s faith in the power of compassion. The Dasgupta household has braved storms in the past as well. Adversity plants the seeds of kindness and you become your best version, they say. “We were a regular middle-class family. We were hit with financial trouble when my dad was diagnosed with cancer I was just 11. The treatment took a toll on us,” she says. Her father picked up whatever work he could and her mother also took up a teaching job at a nursery school. In her late teens, Ankita started giving tuitions to kids in the neighbourhood. “My parents and teachers always taught me that no job is small,” she says. Keeping tenants also helped ease the situation, but it wasn’t enough. Read: Spectator by Seema Goswami: Home truthsOnce her younger sister completed her education and her parents settled in their relatively relaxed roles, the 31-year old PR professional moved to Mumbai to work last year. “I got an apartment and enrolled for dance classes as dance is something that really makes me happy. But that was till the pandemic hit. I came back in March thinking this will all be under control in a month or two,” she says. Her first reaction was to wait and gauge the situation as no one knew what was to ensue. It was her boss who encouraged her to leave well in time as the possibility of a curfew in Mumbai was very high. “En route to the airport, I heard on the cab radio that curfew has been imposed. I was lucky to have my changed my plans on time,” she says. Her parents were relieved upon seeing her reach home safely. But soon, even they caved under the mass hysteria. “My father started worrying about the smallest of things. A task as simple as going to the bank became a war drill for us,” she recalls. Ankita continued working from home, but after about two months, as expenses kept rising, she contemplated going back to Mumbai and wrapping up her apartment. “It is crazy because 3/4th of my salary goes in paying rent for an apartment I don’t live in. I’m also paying my maid in Mumbai.” Her house-help, whom everyone calls Aaji, is a senior citizen with no steady income. “Initially, Aaji was in denial about the pandemic and told me not to worry about her salary. These are self-respecting people who wouldn’t take money for work they have not done. I insisted and kept paying, and would continue doing so till this pandemic ends,” she says. Read: Delhiwale: The balloon hawker’s smileyAnkita and her sister also used to feed and take care of stray dogs near Maitreyi College, where her sister used to study. They also have a pet at home. “My sister and I have been feeding strays for about five years. What used to be a minimal amount to feed a few dogs has gone up astronomically because the dhaba that used to give them roti is shut due to the pandemic and we have to figure out dog food for them. The rotis would cost about ₹3,500 but the dog food comes down to about ₹12,000,” she says. All these costs, plus the cost of running her household, have taken a toll on her. “It is nobody’s fault that the pandemic has hit. These are trying times, but will end soon. Kindness for all is the only way to get through this,” she says. “There are very limited options for alternative sources of income; Cutting down is the best way forward,” she concludes.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/this-family-believes-that-kindness-is-what-will-save-us/story-sAXjcIhKAkz3upxafco0UI.html
04-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh has second-most convicts serving life sentence among UTs||Chandigarh has the second-highest number of convicts serving life sentence among Union Territories after Delhi. As per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, there are 134 convicts serving life term lodged in Chandigarh’s Model Jail, also called Burail Jail. Delhi, with 1,288, has the most, followed by Chandigarh, then Puducherry with 48, Daman and Diu has 13, while Dandra and Nagar Haveli and Lakshadweep have none. Those serving life sentence constitute 33.2% of the total convicts lodged in Burail Jail. As per NCRB data, maximum undertrials have to spend up to two year in jail as detention period in jail. There are 182 such undertrials lodged in Burail Jail, which constitutes 31.4% of the total undertrials lodged here. More outsiders lodged in jail Burail jail had 984 inmates lodged on its premises as per data recorded in December 2019, comprising 580 under trials and 404 convicts. As per the NCRB data, majority of them are from outside Chandigarh. Of the 404 convicts, including 16 women, lodged at Burail Jail as on December 31, 2019, only 228 were from Chandigarh, while 172 belonged to other states and the remaining four were from other countries. Similarly, of the 580 undertrials, including 33 women, only 332 were residents of Chandigarh, while 234 were from other states and 14 from other countries. 5th among states, UTs in granting pardon As per the data, 1,079 convicts were released in India in 2019 after being granted pardon. Chandigarh, with eight convicts, is in the fifth position among states and UTs in terms of pardoned convicts. Maximum such releases were reported from Uttar Pradesh (890), followed by Gujarat (126), Rajasthan (25), Uttarakhand (16), Chandigarh (eight), Bihar (six), Punjab (four), Odisha (two), Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir (one each). Also, two convicts are lodged in the jail despite completion of term due to non-payment of fine. They have to be lodged for less than six months due to the non-payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-has-second-most-convicts-serving-life-sentences-among-uts/story-MkNVWKIkv6P9wBGkBdv3VL.html
04-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: DLF told to re-carpet roads, hand over parks||The municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Tuesday directed real estate developer DLF to re-carpet roads in DLF Phases 1 and 2 at the earliest. A day earlier, it had asked the developer to issue a no objection certificate (NOC) for transferring all parks in the colonies and DLF Phase 3 to the civic body.The notices are the latest in a series of moves by the civic body to acquire the three colonies home to upscale residential plots and important commercial sectors, following many requests from the residents. Earlier, it had pushed the developer into completing many of the maintenance works, much of it still pending.Even in the latest notices, both which HT has reviewed, the MCG has not issued a deadline.MCG joint commissioner Hariom Attri to DLF issued the notices to David Amal Raj, senior vice president, DLF Estate Developers Limited.Attri said in the notice that resurfacing of roads work had been pending for long “due to which residents of the area (are) facing great difficulties” and to start work “at the earliest”. Further, he directed DLF to submit a compliance report. As per the MCG’s detailed project report (DPR) prepared in 2017, DLF1 required Rs 14.12 crore to fix deficiencies, Rs 9.43 crore for DLF Phase 2 and Rs 11.89 crore for DLF Phase 3. MCG officials privy to the matter said that more than 80% of the sum was for re-carpeting roads.“They have been given a three day period to submit the compliance report, while we have also asked them to issue an NOC and handover all the parks as we want to upgrade them and provide optimum civic amenities to the residents of the three colonies,” Attri said.“These matters were also brought up in last month’s meeting with DLF officials. However, despite following up with them repeatedly over the phone, nothing was undertaken. Hence, we decided to send them a reminder in writing.”Attri said the MCG had the resources to maintain and improve the parks and improve its quality in short time. “We have received a large number of complaints from residents of the three colonies that the roads had deteriorated significantly during the monsoon and are riddled with potholes. I am arranging a meeting with DLF for next week, where the matter will once again be taken up,” said Attri.If the NOC is issued, it would mark the first time that any civic amenity has been transferred by DLF to the MCG.“We have completed around 70% of road re-carpeting work in DLF Phase 1, 55% in DLF Phase 2, and 40% in DLF Phase 3. For the last one year, work had been progressing at full swing but due to the coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent monsoon season, where bituminous related work cannot be carried out, it was suspended. However, we will be resuming it from next month after the monsoon season is completely over,” said David Amalraj, director, DLF Estate Developers Ltd.Amalraj said that DLF would issue an NOC to the MCG only for upgrading the parks, but will not hand them over. DLF will, however, continue to carry out maintenance of the parks.“In our compliance report, which would be submitted within this week, we will be clearly mentioning this,” said David Amalraj.RS Rathee, councillor of ward 34, said that the local MCG ward committee had approached Attri regarding both matters last week.“DLF had reserved less than Rs 50 lakh to upgrade parks, which is very minuscule. We have also asked DLF to issue the NOC immediately so that we can start development work right away,” said Rathee, who is also the chairperson of the MCG ward 34 committee. The transfer of the three colonies to the MCG has been pending since February 2016. Prior to transferring the colony, DLF decided to repair the existing civic deficiencies in the three colonies, instead of paying the sum required to do so, and handover the colonies to the MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-dlf-told-to-re-carpet-roads-hand-over-parks/story-KWIZ6v4L2B4Lde95fIPecJ.html
