06-09-2020||City||South Malwa districts report sharp rise in Covid deaths in last six days||As Covid-19 cases witnessed a sudden rise in the south Malwa region in last one month, crossing 11,000, the seven districts - Bathinda, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Moga, Fazilka Muktsar and Mansa - have reported spurt in deaths due to the virus in the first week of September. Of the 195 Covid-related fatalities, the south Malwa districts have reported 82 deaths in last six days as 113 were reported till August 31. The worst-hit is Ferozepur district, where Covid-related deaths have more than doubled in six days from 24 on August 31 to 51 on September 6. With 21 more deaths, Bathinda’s tally has jumped to 45. Faridkot and Moga districts reported 12 deaths each in last five days taking the toll to 24 and 32, respectively. Fazilka, Muktsar and Mansa have reported a total of 11 deaths during the same period. The seven districts have seen over 300% jump in Covid-19 cases in a month, from 2,971 on August 6 to 11,332 on September 6. Besides, the districts have seen a rise 650% in Covid-related deaths in last one month, from 26 on August 6 to 195 on September 6, as compared to a cumulative increase of 270% in the state during the same period. The case fatality rate (CFR) in south Malwa districts is continuously showing an upward trend as it has jumped to 1.7% from 0.9% in a month. However, the state’s CFR is much higher at 2.9%. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said after a sudden rise in cases, the south Malwa districts have seen a jump in virus-related deaths in the last few days. “The major reason behind this is that the people are resisting getting themselves tested, which delay the detection. Many Covid patients who had died, were admitted to hospitals after their condition deteriorated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/south-malwa-districts-report-sharp-rise-in-covid-deaths-in-last-six-days/story-qJbzOB2lsXtGwLiDrVEdnI.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Maharashtra: State past 900K cases with record 24-hour rise||Maharashtra on Sunday went past 900,000 Covid-19 cases with its highest single-day jump of 23,350 fresh infections, taking the tally to 907,212. The latest 100,000 cases took only five days. The state took 96 days for the first 100,000, 22 for the second, 14 for the third, 11 for the fourth, 10 for the fifth, nine for the sixth, eight for the seventh and seven for the tally to move from 700,000 to 800,000. Sunday saw the state recording its highest single-day spike for a fifth day in a rowMaharashtra also reported 328 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 26,604. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state improved to 2.93%. Of the 328 deaths reported on Sunday, 243 were from the previous 48 hours and 43 were from last week. The remaining 42 deaths were from the period before last week.The state has added 37.49% of its active cases in the past two weeks. On August 23, the active caseload in the state was 171,542, which has jumped to 235,857 on Sunday. Since August 27, the positivity rate of the state was ranging between 20% and 24%, while on Sunday it crossed 25%, as per the data of the state health department. Of 91,035 samples tested, 23,305 returned positive at a positivity rate of 25.64%. The overall positivity rate in the state stood at 19.52%.State health minister Rajesh Tope attributed the spike in cases over the few days to the state’s policy to lift restrictions. “Nearly all things are open now under the state government’s policy to unlock. Interdistrict travel is open, e-pass is not required, hotels have opened up, attendance of employees in offices have increased, all this results in infections in a large amount. There has been a spike in cases and we are prepared to tackle it. Self-discipline is a key factor in this fight. With self-discipline the spread will stop,” Tope said. Tope outlined that contact-tracing is not happening as required. “We have asked all at the district level to trace 15 to 20 contacts. Our survey shows that it is still around 10-12. Contact tracing is crucial and therefore collectors and commissioners should increase their focus on it.” On Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,910 new infections, taking the city’s tally to 155,622. It also recorded 37 fatalities, pushing the toll to 7,869. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, contributed 3,497 new cases and 48 fatalities.Pune district continued to record a high number of cases with 4,744 new infections. Pune city clocked 2,638 new cases, Pune rural added 1,162 new cases, while Pimpri-Chinchwad added 944 new infections. The district recorded 52 fatalities, including 31 in Pune city.Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli and Nagpur districts, too, reported a higher number of Covid-19 infections. Satara district saw 890 cases, Kolhapur added 1690 new cases, while Sangli and Nagpur districts added 965 and 1901 new cases respectively.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government is planning to write to the Centre asking it to continue providing ventilators, masks and PPE kits. Tope said that they raised the issue with Union minister Prakash Javadekar in a Covid review meeting held on Saturday in Pune and will write to the Centre soon.“The Centre had written to us some days ago that RT-PCR kit, PPE Kits, N95 masks, ventilators will not be provided [from September 1]. However, I have told Prakash Javadekar it won’t right to completely stop the support to the state as we are still battling. I requested him that the support should continue in the quantity provided so far and he has assured he would convey it to the union health minister. We will write to the centre regarding the same,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-maharashtra-state-past-900k-cases-with-record-24-hour-rise/story-oSnrWiWbfKZzC6QkLw00KJ.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai to receive first six Metro coaches in December from Bengaluru||Even as the Covid-19 pandemic has derailed two Metro corridor projects by six months, the city may soon get the first set of the rolling stock in December. Officials from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is executing the Metro master plan, confirmed that a set of six coaches will be in the city on December 11. The first set of trains will be housed at the Charkop depot. MMRDA had awarded the contract of rolling stock to Bengaluru-based Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML). Last week, BEML had issued tenders for transportation of metro coaches from its Bengaluru unit to Mumbai via hydraulic trailers. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “We will be receiving 378 coaches in different batches. The first train set of six coaches is likely to be delivered on December 11. By April 2021, we will be having 10 train sets in Mumbai.’’ The commissioner had recently visited the production unit to inspect the progress of the coaches. According to the tentative schedule released by BEML on its website, set of six coaches will be dispatched in November and December, followed by 12 cars in January 2021. Following this, 18 cars will be delivered each month. While Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) had to be made operational by December, MMRDA has revised the deadline by six months owing to delays caused by the lockdown. The two projects are now likely to be operational by May 2021. The coaches will be light-weight, energy-efficient and fully air-conditioned. The features will also enable driverless options. The trains will also have seats for the specially-abled, space for a cycle and charging points for mobile and laptops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-receive-first-six-metro-coaches-in-december-from-bengaluru/story-ASyJzrFcGGbLigN5YOD03N.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Basmati exporters uncertain, seek clarity over imposition of market fee, RDF||Basmati exporters based in Punjab are uncertain over the purchase of the aromatic rice variety from the state as the Centre’s new ordinance for agriculture marketing, allowing farmers to directly sell their produce to exporters, has created a parallel system even as the Punjab government has opposed it. The Punjab rice millers and exporters association have raised the contentious issue with the state government through representations to clarify its stand on the new ordinance as the neighbouring states, particularly Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have accepted the central ordinance. The Association feels that since the new paddy crop of 1509 variety will start arriving in the mandis by September 15, the issue of the 2% market fees and 2% rural development fund (RDF) levied by the state Mandi board remained unresolved as the new ordinance gives exemption of these two levies, provided the crop is purchased directly from the farmers or is procured from a private market area as envisaged in the new act. This year, basmati was grown over 17.5 lakh acres and arrival of the aromatic produce has started in some parts. Demanding rationalisation of the mandi fee and RDF, the exporters said they will like to purchase levy-free basmati as per the ordinance and buy paddy either directly from the farmers or from other states which offer exemptions. “It is important to add that the basmati growing states of Haryana, UP, Uttrakhand and Jammu and Kashmir have notified that they will be levying only 1% user charges on the produce brought to their mandi yards while adhering to the new norms under the ordinance which would definitely make the Punjab paddy costly, with 4% fees and fund being levied by the state,” said association director Ashok Sethi. He led a delegation of rice exporters from state to meet cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Sunday for clarity over the matter. Sethi said Bajwa assured the exporters that the state government would come to the rescue of the rice millers by bringing parity in taxes, allowing the industry to grow further while giving better rates to the farmers. According to Bajwa, agro processing ventures are an important segment and he will apprise the Punjab CM for a possible way out. Top officers in the mandi board revealed that the matter was under consideration of the top brass in the state and a statement will be issued shortly. According to rice exporters, the taxes imposed by Punjab government will leave their trade uneconomical and render their rice export unviable as they can’t compete with the exporters based in Haryana, UP and Delhi as the disparity of taxes would lead to financial crisis. The rice exports had a phenomenal growth during last three years with exports from state touching Rs 14,000 crore, out of the total country’s export of Rs 34,000 crore as per the latest figures released by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA). The association claimed that it remained at the forefront in educating basmati growers to use minimal pesticides and other agro-chemicals so that the produce is accepted worldwide. In 2017, the basmati consignments faced rejection from European countries and Saudi Arabia due to presence of fungicide higher than permissible limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/basmati-exporters-uncertain-seek-clarity-over-imposition-of-market-fee-rdf/story-cIyp8zUSluAT931jJXDLoJ.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Security beefed up at Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray’s home Matoshree at Bandra after ‘threat’ calls||Security has been beefed up at Matoshree, the private residence of Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray in Bandra, after an unknown person from Dubai called twice on Saturday night, claiming that the fugitive underworld gangster Dawood Ibrahim wanted to speak with the CM.State transport minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab said the caller dialled the landline of Matoshree and asked to speak to the CM. The minister, however, denied that the caller threatened to blow up the Sena chief’s home in Bandra (East). He added that they have alerted the police and the issue is being investigated.According to a statement from the CM’s office (CMO), state home minister Anil Deshmukh informed the state cabinet on Sunday that the Mumbai Police’s crime branch is investigating the matter.Speaking to reporters before the cabinet meeting, Parab said, “There was an anonymous caller to Matoshree who said that he is from the Dawood gang and that he wanted to speak to the chief minister. There was no threat to blow up Matoshree. We reported the call to the police and they are investigating all aspects, including who called, why, if the person was really from the Dawood gang, etc. So far, nobody has dared to give such threats and the government will not let the person go scot-free,” Parab said.There were unconfirmed reports that four calls were made to Matoshree. A senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the Mumbai Police confirmed the same. “The operator at the CM’s residence picked up the call around 10pm, and the caller said that he was calling from Dubai and Dawood Ibrahim wanted to speak with ‘CM saheb’,” said the officer.The operator refused to transfer the call following which the caller disconnected. The same person then called up again a few minutes later and repeated the same words, but again, the operator informed him that the call could not be transferred to the CM, added the officer.Call records reportedly show that two missed calls were made from the same number within a span of a few minutes. “It appears that they could be threat calls and given the seriousness of the issue, security has been increased at Matoshree. Mumbai Police has not registered any complaint but the Mumbai crime branch has been trying to trace the number,” added the IPS officer.The state cabinet expressed concern over the anonymous call threatening to blow up Thackeray’s residence, and also condemned it strongly. Terming it as a “very serious matter”, the cabinet said that the Union government should take immediate note of it and find the people behind it. Strict punishment should be given to them, said a statement from the CMO.“The police department has taken appropriate action [about security] after these calls. A review of the CM’s security is taken from time to time. The CM has had adequate security before and will continue to have it,” Parab said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/security-beefed-up-at-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-s-home-matoshree-at-bandra-after-threat-calls/story-AQ81CZrwkkTOQe4nmc0a8I.html
06-09-2020||City||Two men posing as civic officials rob 30-year-old in Badlapur of ₹20,000 worth valuables||Two unknown persons, posing as civic officials, robbed a 30-year-old man of his valuables worth ₹20,000 while he was on his way to buy groceries in Badlapur on Saturday. A first information report (FIR) has been registered, and Badlapur (West) police are scanning CCTV footage to identify the accused.According to the complainant, Ravindra Sawant, the duo allegedly approached him while he was heading out to purchase groceries in Datta Chowk around 11am. They introduced themselves as officials from the Badlapur Kulgaon Municipal Council. They told him that he was wearing a faulty mask, for which he needed to pay a fine. While one of them was distracting him, the other caught him, and the two together robbed him off his gold chain and ring. “One of the accused stopped the complainant and asked him to show the mask which he was wearing. He told Sawant that his mask was of low quality. He then asked Sawant to pay a fine for the same. When Sawant was trying to remove the money from his wallet, the other accused caught him, and the duo removed his gold chain and ring worth ₹20,000 in total,” said an officer from Badlapur (West) police station.Police are now checking CCTV footage from the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-posing-as-civic-officials-rob-30-year-old-in-badlapur-of-20-000-worth-valuables/story-Sj3uJF420sFRMvSHBVLspL.html
06-09-2020||City||Child marriage of 15-year-old girl stopped in Vasai, Child Welfare Committee to observe minor for 3 years||Waliv police and the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Palghar district, prevented the marriage of a 15-year-old girl with a 21-year-old man on September 4.Advocate Sharda Shinde, president, CWC, Palghar, said, “We got information that the minor was to get married to the 21-year-old man at her residence. The sangeet had already taken place on September 3.”Waliv police and CWC members reached the venue in time as the wedding was stopped.“We counselled the girl’s parents and informed them that it is a crime to get a minor girl married. Waliv police gave them a warning as well. As the wedding did not take place, police did not book the parents under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. CWC will monitor the girl and her family for three years and see to that she does not get married before she completes 18 years of age, as per the Indian law. If we find them guilty of not following the rule, the police will book them under the Child Marriage Act,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/child-marriage-of-15-year-old-girl-stopped-in-vasai-child-welfare-committee-to-observe-minor-for-3-years/story-azNK5qHNxT4ABuYETHWWlM.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Battle honour day of 2 Sikh regiment observed at Ludhiana’s Maharaja Ranjit Singh War Museum||The battle honour day of the 2 Sikh regiment was observed at the 2 Sikh War Memorial at Maharaja Ranjit Singh War Museum here on Sunday. Senior adviser to the Punjab chief minister Lt Gen TS Shergill laid the wreath on behalf of Captain Amarinder Singh. Deputy commissioner of police J Elanchezhian, sub-divisional magistrate Amarinder Singh Malhi, officers from the 2 Sikh Regiment and a few select retired officers from the army, navy and air force graced the occasion.Shergill said while thousands of patriots had sacrificed their lives for the liberation of the country, many had sacrificed their lives for the preservation of this freedom. “Today, every army officer and jawan is determined to uphold the country’s independent status. Asked about the repeated claims laid by Pakistan and China on different parts of India, the Lt Gen said, “All territories claimed by the neighbouring countries belong to India. The Indian army is capable of protecting the borders of the country.”The regiment had fought the 1965 war and had captured Raja Picquet on this day. Battle honour day is observed to celebrate the victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/battle-honour-day-of-2-sikh-regiment-observed-at-ludhiana-s-maharaja-ranjit-singh-war-museum/story-eji5jlelDqRGwzSaKwM3cN.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||12 booked for murderous attack on 28-year-old man in Ludhiana||The Division Number 7 police have booked 12 people for attempting a murder bid on a 28-year-old man over an old rivalry in Guru Nanak Nagar on Saturday. The victim suffered multiple injuries in the attack and was admitted to a private hospital on Chandigarh Road.The accused have been identified as Shiva, Monu Gujjar, Laddi Gujjar, Ruby, Mukesh Gandhi, Rakesh Gandhi and their six accomplices, who have yet to be identified.The victim, Kulwinder Singh of Tajpur Bet, told the police that he was going to Guru Nanak Nagar on his motorcycle. The accused intercepted him on the way and attacked him with sharp-edged weapons, iron rods and sticks. The accused also damaged his motorcycle, before fleeing the spot, while leaving him in a pool of blood.Passers-by came to his rescue and rushed him to a hospital.ASI Karnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said that both groups had old rivalry over some issues.A case under Sections 307, 323, 324, 325, 341, 506, 148, 149 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused on Kulwinder’s complaint. A hunt is on for their accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-booked-for-murderous-attack-on-28-year-old-man-in-ludhiana/story-rZqB63o2B8WAysRgMWejUI.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Khaki under attack: Assaults on cops on lockdown duty go up in Ludhiana||Amid stricter policing in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a marked increase in the number of assaults on government officials, including police personnel. After the lockdown was imposed in March, around 12 police personnel have reported being assaulted while on duty. Only two cases of assault on officials were reported this year before lockdown was imposed. Mostly lower-rung police officials, ranging from assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) to constables, are on the receiving end as they spend the most time in the field. “Many entitled people get away with misbehaving with cops due to political interference,” said an official, who did not wish to be named, adding, “On being stopped for checking, most people make it a prestige issue and start hurling abuses at the cops.” Such people can be booked under Sections 353 (use of assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “Attacks on men in uniform will not be tolerated. Police are taking the matter seriously and FIRs have been lodged against the accused.”City-based psychiatrist Dr Rajiv Sharma said, “The restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus have affected some people mentally as well as physically. As the police take action against violators, some people view cops as villains for deterring them, which is one of the reasons behind increased assault on police personnel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khaki-under-attack-police-personnel-assaulted-times-since-lockdown/story-uVdoJ5OLzMJckFCmStTcVP.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 toll in Ludhiana rises to 499 with 13 deaths, 307 test positive||Covid-19 claimed the lives of as many as 13 Ludhiana residents on Sunday, taking the death toll to 499. The district’s Covid-19 patient tally also rose to 11,784 with 307 new cases. Of the total cases, the district still has 1,810 active cases, while 9,475 people have recovered. There were four women among the fatalities confirmed on Sunday. The deceased include an 85-year-old woman from Mall Road, two 71-year-old men from Prem Nagar and BRS Nagar, a 68-year-old woman from Subash Nagar, a 63-year-old man from Manakwal Enclave, a 60-year-old man from Giaspura, a 58-year-old woman from Jethi Nagar, Khanna; a 58-year-old man from Haibowal, a 52-year-old man from Parkash Nagar, a 45-year-old man from New Subash Nagar, a 40-year-old man from Kabrana, a 37-year-old man from Kanech village and a 27-year-old woman from Sherpur Chowk. Among those who tested positive are 104 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 70 are contacts of positive patients and 56 patients were referred from the outpatient departments. The new cases include six healthcare workers and four police personnel. Pool party: Heath dept seeks tests of all guests A day after a SAD leader’s son and his 52 guests were arrested for holding a pool party in violation of Covid guidelines, the health department has sought that the police have all of them tested. “We are witnessing a peak in the infection rate, so we cannot leave anything to chance. The tests are for the safety of the people, who attended the party, and their family members. Even if one of them is infected, they can spread the virus further. Residents have been urged not to attend social gatherings, but they don’t seem to be paying heed to our requests,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. The Sarabha Nagar police had arrested 54 people, including the son of SAD leader Manpreet Singh Bunty and the owner of a restaurant, for organising a pool party in the South City area on Friday night. The party, organised by the SAD leader’s son to celebrate his son’s birth, started at 3pm and continued till 10pm till the police conducted a raid. When police reached the venue, they found the guests celebrating without face masks or maintaining social distancing. Moreover, they had flouted the guidelines on large gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-toll-in-ludhiana-rises-to-499-with-13-deaths-307-test-positive/story-PRdDj9uME2NsfF7ee5CsTK.html
06-09-2020||City||Ludhiana residents not segregating waste to shell out up to ₹5,000 from September 15||Taking the heat for poor solid waste management from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to start issuing fines to property owners not segregating waste at source from September 15.Besides, MC will also stop picking the garbage from the violators’ properties. According to MC officials, the solid waste management bylaws have been notified, which entail fine for not segregating waste into biodegradable and non-biodegradable. The fines range between Rs 250 for households and Rs 5,000 for bulk generators (see box). MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana said, “A system is being put in place for collection and dumping of segregated waste at the main dump from September 15 onwards. The secondary collection points have been divided in two parts, and the A2Z company has been directed to collect wet and dry waste separately. Letters have also been issued to senior government officials living in government accommodations in the Civil Lines area that non-segregated waste will not be collected by MC.”“As the local bodies department has notified the Solid Waste Management and Sanitation Bylaws 2020, a drive will be initiated for challaning property owners not handing over waste in a segregated manner,” she added.NGT’s monitoring committee in August had directed the civic body to submit Rs 15 lakh as bank guarantee to the Punjab Pollution and Control Board for its failure in dealing with the solid waste in the city.INFRASTRUCTURE MISSING, SAY COUNCILLORS MC’s decision has invited strong resentment from city councillors, who have highlighted the absence of infrastructure to deal with segregated wet and dry waste. BJP councillor Manju Aggarwal said, “Firstly, MC does not have proper garbage carts for door-to-door collection of waste. Further, there is no system for shifting the segregated waste from the secondary collection spots to the main dumping site on Tajpur Road.” Leader of opposition in MC’s General House, SAD councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “We have received no information about the fines from September 15. Besides, MC is not equipped with the infrastructure required to support this system. An awareness campaign is also needed before the corporation starts issuing fines to residents.”Notably, there are around 3.5 lakh properties in Ludhiana’s 95 wards. With MC yet to start door-to door collection of waste from at least 20% properties, complete waste segregation has remained a distant dream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-residents-not-segregating-waste-to-shell-out-up-to-5-000-from-september-15/story-PjmxyFCy6ELrf47M2iAiBN.html
06-09-2020||City||LIP announces gharao of Moti Mahal||: Seeking the dismissal of cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over the alleged multi-crore SC scholarship scam and CBI inquiry into the matter, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) has announced a gherao of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s Moti Mahal in Patiala on Monday. While the state government has imposed restrictions on large gatherings, LIP president Simarjeet Singh Bains urged residents to reach Patiala in large numbers to raise their voices against the alleged corrupt practices of the government. Addressing a press conference at his Dugri road office on Sunday, Bains said, “We are forced to gheroa Moti Mahal in large numbers as the CM has failed to act against the minister. I had also written to interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi and the Union government, but no action has been taken till now. Dharamsot has been named in the inquiry conducted by additional chief secretary of his own department and no further proof is required to take action against the minister. Funds worth Rs 64 crore, meant for the welfare of SC students, have been embezzled.”“SC students and LIP members from different districts will participate in the protest on Monday. If the government still fails to act against the minister, we will move to the roads,” he added.Speaking on restrictions on gathering, Bains said that they have been forced to protest as the CM has failed to act against the minister. We will continue to raise our voice against the corrupt practices of the government, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lip-announces-gharao-of-moti-mahal/story-jd676ScY9xdXaDYDm90z9M.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Organ harvesting allegations: Officials seeks police action as protest video does rounds||A day after the family of a 52-year-old Covid victim staged a protest alleging the health department’s involvement in an organ harvesting scam, a senior medical officer said that the video of the protest was being shared on social media to circulate misinformation and sought police action against the rumourmonger. Raikot senior medical officer Dr Alka Mittal has lodged a complaint with the police. Mittal said, “We have the number that was used to spread the rumour. It has been shared with the police. We need to stop such rumours as the situation is turning hostile for health workers collecting samples in the field.” Relatives of the victim who had died of the infection at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, had cried foul and claimed that the victim was killed by doctors for organ harvesting. They also said they had received messages on social media about the prevalence of organ harvesting. Doctors had to conduct the cremation amid protests.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said he was disappointed over the rumour mongering. He blamed the family for levelling baseless allegations on the health department and the team that had performed the cremation. “Organ transplant in not like buying vegetables from the market. It is shocking how people are falling prey to such absurdity. Firstly, no transplant has been performed here since the Covid outbreak in March. Transplants can only be conducted after receiving the government’s approval.” “Unfortunately, people are believing the rumours and are refusing to have their Covid tests conducted. They only reach the hospital at a critical stage,” said Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/organ-harvesting-allegations-officials-seeks-police-action-as-protest-video-does-rounds/story-o4qd7SGXuRhajBCO8mtmIO.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration to install water quality monitoring station at N-choe||For real-time monitoring of the pollution levels in the N-choe, the UT administration will be installing a water quality monitoring station on the seasonal rivulet.“The monitoring stations are being installed on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had earlier instructed the administration to check pollution in the N-Choe, particularly, to stop the discharge of sewage into it,” said a UT official.Even though the administration claims to have closed all sewage outlets except one point, the monitoring station will keep a tab if any such effluent is discharged in the choe. “In such cases, the department concerned will get live updates if the pollution increases over the permissible levels. The entire process will be monitored online,” the official said.The system will monitor, the pH value, BOD and COD of water. “The station will be installed at the choe near the Mohali border because when water enters there from Chandigarh, it will ensure that water does not get contaminated,” the official said.The N-choe passes through several gardens in the city and is flooded during the rainy season. It enters Kajheri, Mohali after passing through Leisure Valley.In the past, NGT had appointed inspection committees that found N-choe water to be contaminated.“The monitoring station will also be beneficial for the people coming to the gardens here, because if the water of N-Choe is contaminated, then the department will be able to make efforts to improve it immediately after getting information. Around ₹2 lakh will be spent on the station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-install-water-quality-monitoring-station-at-n-choe/story-08S7WVM6sII2NZrC2KNcKJ.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Less than 50% students turn up for last day of JEE Main in Ludhiana||On the last day of Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main on Sunday, less than 50% of students who had registered, turned up for the exam. As many as 242 students out of 496 students appeared for the exam which was conducted at the ION digital zone near Sherpur Chowk by Tata Consultancy Services. The question paper consisted of 75 questions with three sections comprising 25 questions each. Of the three sections (physics, chemistry, and mathematics), students found the maths section lengthy and some said chemistry was slightly difficult.The exam was conducted in two shifts — morning and evening. As many as 125 appeared for the examination in the first shift which began at 9am and concluded at noon, while 117 appeared in the second which was held from 3pm to 6pm. The students were satisfied with the arrangements made by authorities to prevent the spread of Covid-19. They said temperature check was conducted at the entrance and they were given masks. They were allowed to carry their own sanitisers and they were also available inside the centre.Harpreet Kaur, a student, said, “I found the exam easy and balanced compared to the one held in January. I will be able to improve my score this time.Another student, Ankit Khurana, said the exam was balanced, but the chemistry section was a bit difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/less-than-50-students-turn-up-for-jee-main-in-ludhiana-on-day-6/story-5cczku5Mnh9EOhOYwY9czJ.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Shopkeepers dig up road without getting consent, MC stops construction work||Fed up of waterlogging in the Guru Teg Bahadur market near the clock tower, shopkeepers dug up a portion of the road to build rainwater harvesting wells without getting consent from the municipal corporation (MC). However, the construction was stopped on Sunday, after officials received a complaint. One of the shopkeepers, requesting anonymity, said, “There are around 90 shops in the market that fall under the jurisdiction of the zila parishad. However, not a single penny had been spent on its maintenance since the market was built.”He said accumulated rain water enters the shops, due to which shopkeepers decided to out in five rainwater harvesting wells in the market. The project was to cost ₹5 lakh . The shopkeepers have been directed to repair the portion of the road, which had been dug up for putting up wells. MC executive engineer Pardeep Kumar said, “The road had been dug up without getting consent from the MC. We have stopped work. Those involved in the illegal exercise have been asked to visit the MC office on Monday. Action will be taken against them as per norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shopkeepers-dig-up-road-without-getting-consent-mc-stops-construction-work/story-ME1GUsIvDFHhQg6YaC3APO.html
06-09-2020||City||Mohali: 15-year-old gives birth to girl, youth booked for rape||A youth was booked on charges of rape after a 15-year-old gave birth to a baby girl on Saturday. A case under Sections 376, 506 of the IPC and sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered at Mataur police station. According to the police, the minor and the accused became friends two years ago. The accused developed a close relationship with her and allegedly made physical relations with her on the pretext of marrying her. After a few months, the accused moved to Agra without informing the minor.In her complaint to the police, the minor said that the accused stopped taking her calls on reaching Agra and also threatened her not to reveal the incident to anyone. The minor had severe stomach pain following which she was admitted to the hospital, where her family came to know that she was pregnant. The minor is still undergoing treatment at the hospital and the police teams have started conducting raids at various places to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-15-year-old-gives-birth-to-girl-youth-booked-for-rape/story-AOIFPnQHcDwK3HgcFFSchI.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid effect in Ludhiana: Increased screen time causing spike in eye problems||Online classes and increased screen time amid the Covid pandemic is leading to increased number of eye problems among children and older generations alike.Many teachers are also approaching ophthalmologists with complaints of weakened eyesight.Dr Priyanka Arora, associate professor at department of ophthalmology, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), said that after schools closed down amid the pandemic, many students have to take online classes for hours on end, resulting in excess strain on their eyes, causing dryness, irritation, redness, watering and even headaches.She said that rather than giving children phones/tablets to note down their work, they should be given printouts or the work must be dictated to them.“Interestingly, there has been significant rise in the number of myopia cases among younger and middle-aged people due to increased time spent on mobile gaming, watching movies and other online content,” Dr Arora said.Arora advised the use a high-quality screens with relatively large display, located directly in front of line of vision. She said the screen should be atleast 20 to 24 inches away from the eyes.She added that as per American Academy of Ophthalmologists, children below the age of two should not be exposed to screens, while more than two hours of screen time is not advisable for any age group. She recommended scheduling and taking frequent breaks.”Follow the 20-20-20 rule: every 20 minutes, look at something atleast 20 feet away for 20 seconds. This relaxes your eye muscles,” she said.For teachers like Manbir Kaur and Anupam Baghria life has turned upside down.“Earlier, we used to stop students from spending time on mobiles and other gadgets, but now, it is totally the opposite. The entire curriculum is being done online, which is not only strenuous for students, but it is also taking a toll on eyesight of teachers,” said Kaur, an English and science teachers at a government school. “A teacher’s job is no less than winning a war in these unforeseen circumstances. From morning to late in the evening, we remain hooked to smart phones to explain every possible detail of the topic to our students. It is a challenge to create an atmosphere where students remain attentive. Of course, this puts strain on the eyes. After two months of online teaching, I too faced repercussions of myopia and my number increased from one to two. Online checking of tests, copies and answer sheets also results in back problems. But, being teacher, it gives me immense satisfaction as my students always actively participate in class,” said Bhagria, an English teacher at Shri Nankana Sahib Public School for higher and senior secondary classes .Naina, a student of Class 8, is also going through a similar ordeal. “After four hours of online classes, we have to do homework that is also sent to us on phone. Then, it is time for tuitions. If I include gaming and using other OTT platforms, I spend roughly 10 hours a day on the phone,” said Naina.BOX:Concerns and solutionsDr Priyanka Arora, ophthalmologist at DMCH, recommends the following tips to avoid eye problems. Cut down on screen time Shift to bigger screens and maintain distance: Take frequent breaks: Maintain proper posture||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-effect-in-ludhiana-increased-screen-time-causing-spike-in-eye-problems/story-RmZYxTsqYJI0RGSrbMF6tJ.html
06-09-2020||City||Woman jumps to death from 12th floor in Kharar||A 26-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the 12th floor of a residential apartment in Kharar on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.As per the information, the woman worked as a domestic help at the house of an advocate in Sunny Enclave. A suicide note was recovered from the spot that stated that no one is responsible for her death. She was a native of Goonda in Uttar Pradesh.Station house officer of Kharar police station (Sadar) Sukhveer Singh said, “The body has been kept in the mortuary of Kharar Civil Hospital as her parents will arrive in the city in a day or two. We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-jumps-to-death-from-12th-floor-in-kharar/story-wYjSdh7HPucEyszaFh7pQN.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Slight chance of drizzle in Chandigarh||After cloudy weather on Sunday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain in the city on Monday. The weather is likely to remain dry after Monday.An IMD official said, “Some thundery development along with light rain can be expected in the city on Monday. Drizzles up to 10mm can be expected. Afterwards, the weather is likely to remain dry for a few days.”The maximum temperature went down from 34.3°C on Saturday to 34°C on Sunday. Minimum temperature went down from 26.3°C on Saturday to 25.6°C on Sunday. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 33°C and 35°C while minimum temperature will remain between 25°C and 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/slight-chance-of-drizzle-in-chandigarh/story-caHrS7adKhFvkVZttykbcO.html
06-09-2020||City||Police inspector shot at in Palam Vihar||Gurugram: An inspector of Haryana Police was allegedly shot at by at least two unidentified men outside a real estate office in Palam Vihar area on Sunday night. The police officer suffered one gunshot wound and was rushed to a private hospital in Sector 38, where his condition is stable, the police said. A family dispute is suspected to be the reason behind the shooting, they said. According to the police, the incident was reported around 8 pm when inspector Sonu Malik, who is presently posted in the Commando Complex at Newal in Karnal, was walking to his car after meeting a relative. The police said as he reached near his car, at least two armed suspects intercepted him and fired at him. The police officer suffered a gunshot wound in his right shoulder and in retaliation, he fired at the alleged shooters who escaped. A police official from crime branch, requesting anonymity, said, “The shooters had come on a motorcycle. A family dispute could be the reason for the incident.” The police said in 2017, Malik’s uncle, Satyawan, was shot dead by some gangsters in Rohtak in retaliation to the killing of a gangster named Sandeep Badwasni in Sonepat earlier. In Badwasni’s murder, Satyawan was one of the accused persons. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The accused men escaped from the spot. The police inspector was rushed to a private hospital for treatment and is stable. Prima facie, a family dispute could be the alleged reason. We are also probing a gang rivalry angle and if this incident was related to his uncle’s murder in Rohtak.”Till the time of filing this report, a case was yet to be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-inspector-shot-at-in-palam-vihar/story-Re7NOPPKhb0cmjRXWdjU4I.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amid surge in cases, Centre forms high-level team for Covid management in Chandigarh||In the wake of rising coronavirus cases, the health ministry on Sunday constituted a high-level team of medical experts in Chandigarh to assist them in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and clinical management of Covid-19 patients, with the aim to reduce mortality.The development comes two days after the senior ministry officials had expressed concern over the sharp increase in the Covid-19 cases in the city.Keeping a tab of activities undertaken in the city to thwart the spread of the virus, the team will submit, on a daily basis, a report to the ministry of health. The regional director under the health ministry will coordinate with the UT health department for the visit of the team.The team comprises Dr PVN Laxmi, professor community medicine, PGIMER, Chandigarh and Dr Sahil Goel, deputy director, NCDC. It will provide “extended guidance in managing Covid”, the health ministry said in a statement.The UT has 2,250 active cases whereas its cumulative cases stand at 5,763. Its positivity rate stands at 11.99%, one of the highest in the country.Team’s mandateThe team has been tasked to assist the UT in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing, and efficient clinical management of Covid-19 patients with the aim to reduce mortality. They will also guide the UT in effectively addressing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up.The team members will visit areas reporting a high number of cases including the containment zones and health facilities therein. They will review containment and surveillance, infection prevention, and control practices, testing and status of health facilities for Covid-19.Before concluding their visit, the teams will meet the UT health secretary, and submit a report of their observations and suggestions with a copy to the ministry of health. It will bring to the notice of ministry any issue of urgent importance.The UT has been advised to proactively undertake comprehensive measures to break the chain of transmission of the virus and lower mortality, such that it eventually dips below 1%.The team is expected to start its work on Monday. It will meet all the stakeholders and visit different health facilities, said a senior UT official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-surge-in-cases-centre-forms-high-level-team-for-covid-management-in-chandigarh/story-gw5F9t5yzwFDeFb0DR3a7I.html
06-09-2020||City||Chandigarh tricity sees record surge with 613 Covid cases, 14 deaths||The Covid-19 pandemic continued its surge in the tricity, with record 613 cases and 14 deaths recorded on Sunday.Chandigarh led with 261 cases, followed by Mohali at 215 and Panchkula at 137. Also, Mohali district logged its highest toll with eight people succumbing to the virus. Panchkula and Chandigarh recorded four and two casualties, respectively. The previous steepest surge was recorded just two days back on September 4, when 602 people had tested positive.Tricity’s total tally has climbed up to 13, 723, of which 5,781 (42%) cases remain active. The toll stands at 210 while 7,729 (56%) patients have been cured. Mohali fares poorest in both fatality rate and recovery rate (see box).The number of casualties in Mohali has now climbed to 107, 28 of which have been recorded in the past six days. As many as 65 had died in August alone.Meanwhile, 215 fresh cases were confirmed in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 4,882. Also 96 patients were discharged, after which the number of those cured and active cases stand at 2,518 and 2,257, respectively.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said all those who died had comorbidities and were hospitalised for more than two weeks. Six of them were undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital in Patiala. They included a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon, 64-year-old woman from Phase 2, and 60-year-old man from Kurali, all of whom were suffering from diabetes and hypertension. A 71-year-old man from Sunny Enclave in Kharar, and 41-year-old man from Mohali, both of whom had hypertension, besides a 45-year-old woman from Mubarakpur in Dera Bassi, who had high fever and stomach infection, were the other three casualties.A 57-year-old man from Nayagaon, who was suffering from hypertension and was admitted to GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, and a Kharar woman, aged 55, who had diabetes and was undergoing treatment at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, succumbed too. Among the fresh cases, maximum were reported from Mohali city (87), followed by Zirakpur’s Dhakoli (42) and Kharar’s Gharuan (33).2 dead in Chandigarh, 4 in PanchkulaThe toll in Chandigarh climbed to 71 as two more deaths were confirmed on Sunday. Also, a day after district education officer Harbir Singh Anand succumbed to the virus, two other senior officials of the department tested positive for it. In all, 261 fresh cases surfaced, which took the UT’s tally to 5,763. It was for the sixth consecutive day that more than 200 cases were reported.Among those who died was a 58-year-old man from Dhanas, who also suffered from diabetes. The other was a 50-year-old man from Manimajra. He too suffered from diabetes and hypertension. Both deaths took place on Saturday, but were added to the tally on Sunday.Meanwhile, 149 patients were discharged, including those in home isolation, taking the number of those cured to 3,439. As many as 2,250 cases remain active.Panchkula district reported four deaths and 137 fresh cases, which also took its tally past 3,000 on Sunday. While 3,078 people have tested positive so far, 1,772 of them have recovered and 32 have died, leaving 1,274 cases active. A 14-year-old boy from Kundi and a 76-year-old woman from Mansa Devi Complex were among those who died. The other two were women, aged 52 and 56, from Nanakpur. All three women had comorbidities.Two more UT education officials test positiveChandigarh director of school education and higher education Rubinderjit Singh Brar and deputy director of school education Rajinder Kaur tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. This comes a day after district education officer Harbir Singh Anand succumbed to the virus. Brar, who had been unwell, hadn’t attended office since Wednesday. UT education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill said: “We are proceeding as per protocol and around 20 employees of the department will be tested in the coming days. For the time being, the DEO office in Sector 19 and education department offices in Sector 9 will remain closed for sanitisation.” Three more employees of the DEO office had tested positive along with Anand on Thursday. Earlier on July 5, the education department office in Sector 9 had been sealed for two days after a few employees tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-sees-record-surge-with-613-covid-cases-14-deaths/story-4q5skcluW75fCm5QjNaRnK.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid curbs killing business, say Ludhiana liquor vend owners||Liquor vendors, whose businesses have taken a hit due to the pandemic, have demanded that the state government either order a proportional reduction in ‘quota fee’ or allow their vends to function till 11pm. They may move the Punjab and Haryana high court if their grievances are not resolved. Before the coronavirus outbreak, the vends would run from 9am to 11pm. Now, they have to shut shop at 6.30pm as curfew is imposed after 7pm. The vendors said they were struggling to stay afloat and may have to pull down shutters permanently in the near future unless the decision to close liquor shops at 6.30pm was reconsidered. The businessmen said the 98 circles in the city had been suffering a combined loss of around ₹1 crore per day due to the curbs. According to the district excise department, each circle has up to four vends. As a condition of their allotment, vendors have to pay the government a ‘quota fee’ per month. Though the vendors’ earnings have shrunk, they have to pay the entire fee. Earlier this week, a delegation of vendors had also met deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma and apprised him of their concerns. A wine contractor, Kirat Singh, said, “The peak time for sales is from 7pm to 10pm but the vends remain closed at the time. We have sought relief from the government. A quota fee is charged for operating vends till 11pm. Since the vends are being shut at 6.30pm, there should be a proportional reduction in fee.”They said they will also challenge the imposition of Covid cess on liquor as it was not part of the excise policy.Association leader Varinder Sharma said, “Liquor vendors in Haryana have already challenged the imposition of Covid cess on liquor and we will also do the same as imposition of cess is not the part of the excise policy, on the basis of which the vends were allotted.We will be forced to move the court if the government fails to provide relief in the coming days.” Deputy excise and taxation commissioner Rajpal Khaira said, “A final decision is yet to be taken . The memorandum of demands will be forwarded to the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-curbs-hampering-business-may-move-court-liquor-vendors/story-EeMeOeRcUlC050R0EvIMIJ.html
06-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Labourer stabbed in throat for resisting robbery by drug addict||A 42-year-old labourer, trying to resist a robber’s attempt to snatch his Rs 400 and a mobile phone, was stabbed in the throat, on Kakowal Road on Saturday night. Onlookers managed to chase the accused, a drug addict, and nab him. Identified as Roshan Kumar, 22, of Kakowal Road, the accused was handed over to the police. The victim, Anwar Alam, 42, is admitted to a private hospital, where his condition is stated to be serious due to the grievous injury to his throat.In his complaint to the police, Dilnawaj, brother of the victim, stated that Alam worked at a hosiery factory. After wrapping up work on Saturday, he was walking back home around 8pm. As he reached near the petrol pump on Kakowal Road, a man tailing him on foot demanded his cash and belongings.When Alam resisted and refused to give his Rs 400 and mobile phone to the robber, the latter flashed a sharp-edged weapon. Before Alam could react, the accused stabbed him in the throat and tried to flee, leaving Alam gasping for breath in a pool of blood.Passers-by noticed the attack and chased the accused, soon managing to nab him. They thrashed the accused before handing him over to the police. Meanwhile, others rushed Alam to a nearby private hospital. According to eyewitnesses, the accused was under the influence of drugs at the time of the incident.Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO at Basti Jodhewal police station, they had booked Kumar under Sections 392 (robbery) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. “We are investigating, whether anyone else was accomplice to the crime. We are looking into Kumar’s criminal record.”ROBBERS HAVING A FREE RUN September 1: Four men robbed a money exchanger of Rs 5 lakh in cash and US Dollars worth Rs 1 lakh from his shop near Samrala Chowk after injuring him with sharp-edged weapons. The victim is recuperating at a private hospitalSeptember 1: Three motorcycle-borne men robbed an elderly man of Rs 2.8 lakh in cash at gunpoint outside IndusInd bank on Gill Road and fled in broad daylight. When the bank’s guard tried to intervene, the accused threatened him alsoAugust 31: After celebrating a Tanzanian student’s birthday, her acquaintance robbed her of Rs 9,000 in cash after shooting her in the leg in Sarabha NagarAugust 29: A group of several men attacked a petrol pump employee with sharp-edged weapons and escaped with Rs 15,000 in cash. The worker had suffered severe injuries in the attack that took place on Gill Road. August 16: A couple, along with their accomplice, injured a pick-up auto driver and robbed him of his vehicle and Rs 17,500 in cash on the pretext of shifting household items from Lalru in Mohali district to Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-labourer-stabbed-in-throat-for-resisting-robbery-by-drug-addict/story-HfabKtMhheDPcniAeWRN4L.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bansal urges MP Kher to ask Centre for more funds for Chandigarh||Former Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal has asked Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher to urge the Union government, UT administrator and the Bharatiya Janata Party leadership to ensure that Chandigarh residents do not suffer due to the “Centre’s apathy in allocation of resources to the city,” including the municipal corporation.Bansal recalled that the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission had recommended an allocation of 30% of the receipts of UT to the MC. And though the civic body had sought Rs1,073 crore for the current year, it was just allocated Rs 425 crore. “While it was already reeling under severe financial crisis, a further cut of 20% was slapped, bringing the allocation down to Rs 340 crore. This amount is lower than the grant-in-aid to the corporation seven years back in the year 2013-14, when it stood at Rs 359 crore. The direct impact of this is on condition of roads and all other civic services in the city,” Bansal said.Criticising what he termed as the unfair treatment of the UT administration and MC by the Centre, Bansal said, “Instead of a minimum annual enhancement of 10%, plan head allocation of Rs 813 crore to Chandigarh in the last UPA interim budget in 2014-15 has been brought down to Rs 494.14 crore (Capital) in the budget for the year 2020-21, that is, a dismal 60% of what it should have been in 2014-15. Chandigarh deserves better treatment and not this abject neglect”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bansal-urges-mp-kher-to-urge-centre-to-allocate-more-funds-for-city/story-G7CcTErqSZpEA1kubh9zvO.html
06-09-2020||NA||Nearly 9,400 fresh cases push Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally to 3.98 lakh||Karnataka on Sunday 9,319 cases and 95 deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, which pushed the tally to 3.98 lakh, the state’s health department said. The total cases include 99,266 active cases, 2.92 lakh discharges and over 6,300 deaths. The health department said that as of Sunday 4.94 lakh people were home quarantined while in the past two weeks, 7.86 lakh primary contacts and 10.90 lakh secondary contacts had been traced.Bengaluru Urban still continues to be worst-hit district from the pandemic although Sunday’s daily count was less than that of Saturday’s. As many as 2,824 people were infected with Covid-19 on Sunday while 3,093 cases were added on Saturday. Mysuru is the second most affected, with 686 fresh cases and five deaths on Sunday. As per the health bulletin 427 cases were reported in Belagavi, 396 in Ballari, 326 in Dakshina Kannada, 324 in Hassan followed by others, the health bulletin showed. Meanwhile, Karnataka’s medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday said that the state will achieve the target of conducting one lakh Covid-19 tests per day. “From one testing lab for Covid-19 test, we have opened 108 labs in 6 months. From 300 tests per day, we have increased to 75,000. This will soon reach the goal of 1 lakh tests per day,” he added.The state has 33.48 lakh tests so far out of which 72,684 tests were done on Sunday. (With inputs from PTI, ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/nearly-9-400-fresh-cases-push-karnataka-s-covid-19-tally-to-3-98-lakh/story-pYsiW3aut7Vb3oaLlLvC3O.html
06-09-2020||Pune||11% of Pune city’s population living in containment zones, but not many follow Covid-19 rules||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is facing a massive challenge of maintaining discipline in micro-containment zones to prevent the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. According to PMC’s latest map released on September 3, as many as 74 areas covering 5.25 lakh or 11.21 per cent of the city’s population lives in containment zones. However, at most places, no social distancing norms are observed with people seemingly oblivious to the pandemic threat as they are seen mingling with each other, including senior citizens and children. Small kids in the arms of womenfolk were also seen without masks openly moving in the area. When HT visited the spot at 3.30pm on Sunday at Phadke Haud, an area under Covid-19 containment zone, residents could be seen buying vegetables some 500 metres away from the thoroughfare in the inside lane.PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar also admitted that there is an immediate need to tighten restrictions and act against people who are flouting norms. “There are 5.25 lakh people, which is 11 per cent of the city’s population, under the containment zones. However, implementation of rules in these zones are not as strict as needed. Residents of such areas say it’s been six months since the lockdown and they can’t be permanently under restrictions. So, this is one area where we are not getting as much success as needed,” Kumar said during a meeting on Saturday. In Ramoshi gate neighbourhood, the tenements are so close to each other that residents were openly moving in the area without any fear of the virus. Youngsters were seen taking their mortorbikes out for joyrides around 4pm without masks. No health department official could be seen there for enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines. A report by the state government officials assigned for spot visit in Pune reveals that despite a surge in Covid-19 cases in Pune, the containment zones have seen movement of residents with violation of social distancing norms at market places and grocery shops while youths are seen moving on bikes in large containment zones. Azim Gudakuwala, a social worker from Bhavani peth, said, “Though Bhavani peth is not in the containment zone any more, we have seen the worst here and yet people are not exercising caution before stepping out. Wearing masks is mandatory and maintaining social distance is the need of the hour. In the borderline areas of micro containment zones attached to our area, we see that residents are not adhering to safety guidelines.”“I think that the virus infection is increasing because of people to people transmission. Now is the time for the residents to take a call and exercise self-discipline to protect their health and fellow residents,” said Gudakuwala.Akash Sable, a resident of Sinhgad road, said, “Earlier strict lockdown was implemented and residents were serious too. At that time too, people in slums were not following the norms. As of today, they are moving freely and not following the restriction norms. We need a strong health system to tackle the Covid-19 menace.”“Also Covid-19 literacy among citizens is the need of the hour and presently, citizens don’t have any idea of how deadly the disease is,” he added.Of the 15 wards, maximum containment areas are in Hadapsar-Mundhwa, Kothrud-Bavdhan, Aundh-Baner, Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar and Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri wards. These areas are on the periphery of Pune city, which indicate the spread of Covid, first concentrated in “old Pune areas” like Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road and now in the outskirts.Sunita Gaikwad, a resident of Upper Indiranagar, who works in a private firm, said, “We follow the norms, but many are not aware of the virus and have a casual approach towards the infection. Neither the PMC nor the policemen visit our area to implement the law, so citizens have become fearless about the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-of-pune-city-s-population-living-in-containment-zones-but-not-many-follow-covid-19-rules/story-wkH5hfQXPwbe9coVeJvVzM.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Despite monsoon ban, sand mined illegally in Dera Bassi’s Kakrali village||Even though the Punjab government has banned sand mining operations on riverbeds during the monsoon, till September 15, illegal mining is continuing in the Ghaggar near Kakrali village in Dera Bassi. People with mining contracts in the area have alleged that some unscrupulous elements were digging up sand on Sunday. They fled when they were spotted by men working for a contractor.“We have received complaints regarding illegal mining in Ghaggar and I have asked the team to check and lodge a police complaint. Last month too we lodged an FIR against some persons on the same site,” said Gurpreet Pal Singh Sandhu, district mining officer.In the past three years 50 FIRs have been lodged to cope with the problem, but no one has been convicted as yet. About 17 cases were registered in 2018; 21 in 2019 and 12 in 2020, police records state. Around 50% cases in the past three years were registered in Mubarakpur, Dera Bassi. On July 6, Majri Police had booked former director general of police (DGP) Paramdeep Singh Gill and 44 farmers of Saini Majra under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act for allowing illegal mining on their land. A fine of Rs 11 crore was imposed on them by the mining department. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said he had directed officials to take strict action against offenders and also owners of sites where illegal mining was carried out. In July last year, the mining department had imposed a penalty of Rs 52 crore on 193 landowners in three villages of Mohali — Mianpur Changar, Kubaheri and Abhipur— for allowing illegal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-monsoon-ban-sand-mined-illegally-in-dera-bassi-s-kakrali-village/story-keQuZDW6m39P1zZawDNZjN.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Remove hoardings in 7 days or face action, NH 21 building owners warned||The Mohali sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) issued notices to private building owners on Saturday, asking them to remove illegal advertisement hoardings at National Highway-21 (from Balongi barrier to VR Punjab mall) within seven days or face action. SDM Jagdeep Sehgal has said if not removed by the deadline the hoardings will be taken down by the authorities concerned and action taken against vendors. The Punjab and Haryana high court in 1995 had issued directions to all deputy commissioners to remove hoardings on national as well as state highways as these were not just eyesores but a traffic hazard which could divert motorists’ attention.Despite several directions from the court later too, no action was taken by the authorities concerned.A large number of display boards can still be seen on national highway-21 in Kharar area. In March this year, MC was forced to cancel a drive to remove them on the intervention of director local bodies, Punjab, following which the Covid-19 lockdown was announced.Every year, the Kharar municipal council allots tenders for 40 ‘legal’ sites in the city and this year too a tender was allotted at the cost of Rs 3.25 crore per hoarding for nine years. Due to the illegal sites, however, the civic body is facing losses of around Rs 1 crore every year.Harpreet Singh, member, district road safety committee in Mohali, called for the removal of hoardings as these could lead to accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/remove-hoardings-in-7-days-or-face-action-nh-21-building-owners-warned/story-ulR8M3czKdZ6KNnkTRroBP.html
06-09-2020||City||Hours after praising Rajindra Hospital, Shutrana MLA shifts to private facility||Hours after he praised the facilities at Government Rajindra Hospital’s Covid care centre, Shutrana MLA Nirmal Singh got himself shifted to a private hospital for further treatment. Singh had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 28 and was in home isolation before he was taken to Rajindra Hospital on Friday. On Saturday, the district administration released a video of the minister heaping praises on the hospital’s facilities and staff. However, by evening, the MLA’s family shifted him to a private hospital. “I was already getting some treatment from a private hospital, therefore I preferred to get myself shifted from Rajindra hospital,” said the MLA.When asked about his family raising questions over the cleanliness at Rajindra Hospital, Nirmal Singh said he did not face any inconvenience as he was provided a special room with an attached-bathroom facility. Surbhi Malik, in-charge of the Covid-19 facility at Rajindra hospital, said, “The MLA shifted to a private hospital due to some personal reasons which cannot be disclosed. Cleanliness is not an issue at all as the best of facilities are provided to every patient here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hours-after-praising-rajindra-hospital-shutrana-mla-shifts-to-private-facility/story-eZQOjkjveUVwFOpUBSrRuK.html
06-09-2020||Noida||Noida: 3 held, 13 vehicles impounded for flouting Covid-19 curbs||Three people were arrested across Noida and Greater Noida on Sunday for allegedly violating curbs imposed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, Gautam Buddh Nagar police said.As many as 1,400 vehicles were challaned, while another 13 were impounded for similar violations in the district, which has so far recorded 8,737 Covid-19 cases and 47 deaths, according to official figures.Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which bars assembly of more than four people, is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar in view of the pandemic. Heightened security checks were witnessed on Sunday due to lockdown-like restrictions in the district.“Three FIRs were registered and three people arrested for violating curbs imposed due to the pandemic on Sunday. A total of 4,338 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 1,387 of them while another 13 were impounded,” the police said in a statement.A total of Rs 1,01,200 was collected in fines during the action, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-3-held-13-vehicles-impounded-for-flouting-covid-19-curbs/story-Tdk0XxFWPNCEbNT61tfA5K.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ad hoardings removed from 3 Mohali foot overbridges||The municipal corporation has removed advertisement hoardings from three foot overbridges (FOBs) in the city in line with the Punjab government’s new advertisement policy banning any such displays on any structure within a 100-metre radius of a traffic signal.All the three FOBs are situated in close proximity of the traffic signals at Phase 7-3B1 crossing, Chawla Hospital crossing and Phase 3B1-5 crossing.“We have to follow the government policy as human safety is more important,” said MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg.Locals, however, question the move, saying the advertisements helped the MC garner revenues of Rs 90 lakh annually and that the FOBs, built nine years ago, were being used for drinking and gambling activities and not by pedestrians.Most of the FOBs were littered with empty liquor bottles and used paper plates with stale food , with people gathering at some spots to drink and play cards.“So much money was wasted on the FOBs, but now drug addicts and alcoholics are the only ones using them,” said CL Garg, president of the Confederation of Greater Mohali Residents’ Welfare Associations, the apex body of 65 RWAs.From 2011 the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) spent more than Rs 2 crore on building four FOBs for managing pedestrian traffic, most of them in disuse now.In May 2016, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed GMADA not to invest in installation of escalators/elevators at FOBs. “We could have asked you to dismantle it (the FOBs). But you have spent so much of money. But let’s not invest more as it is of no use,” the high court bench observed .The decision to build the FOBs was taken at a meeting chaired by former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, for better development and upgrading basic amenities in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ad-hoardings-removed-from-3-mohali-foot-overbridges/story-Yyb9n8RWNj2e4CgWvMvQ8K.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Missing children’s guiding light, this policeman helps reunite them with their families||He works with simple clues: A butcher’s shop, bald shopkeeper, a pond and even a guava tree, to track down missing persons, most of them children, and reunite them with their families. Not less than an angel in khaki, assistant sub-inspector Rajesh Kumar from Panchkula’s Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) has helped send 573 missing persons back home in the last five years.Over half of the cases were solved by Kumar alone while his team pitched in for the rest.Joining AHTU in 2015, Kumar recalls one of his first cases, a five-year-old girl named Kaveri, who wore a gold nose pin. As she didn’t know any language except Bangla, he had to take her to the Chandimandir Command Hospital to get help from an acquaintance to translate what she had written. It was the name of her school, and within 15 days Kaveri was back home.All details in a diaryHis diary comes in handy in which every minute detail is noted down neatly. “It’s not easy to get cues from children, who are often scared. I don’t introduce myself as a policeman and try to be friendly to build a rapport with them,” says Kumar.From their dialect, to what they eat, he has to factor in everything in his investigations.Giving credit to Kumar’s entire unit for tracking missing persons, additional director general of police, Haryana, Navdeep Virk, calls Kumar “the prime motivator.”He has gone the extra mile. “In five years, he has taken the initiative to solve 294 cases wherein children from child care institutions were reunited with parents,” Virk adds.In 2017, Kumar managed to contact 16-year-old Pooja at the Tuti Kundi Children’s Home in Shimla. She had left home 11 years earlier and didn’t remember a thing, except for a “dhaage ka dher (pile of threads)” and that her father’s name was Somdat Sharma .“I could think of two places with textile factories – Ludhiana and Panipat. With no success in Ludhiana, I left for Panipat and looked through over 250 FIRs of 2007. One listed Pooja, daughter of Somdat Sharma from Sudana village as missing,” says Kumar.She was reunited with her family on July 23, 2018.Tracing the family of Kajal, another girl at the Shimla home, Kumar found she had been sent from Mumbai five years ago. “Her name too was Pooja who had mentioned Chandpur in 2007, when she had been found.”After an intensive search (there are 18 cities named Chandpur in India) he finally traced Pooja’s family to Chandpur in UP. “She had run away from home because she had lost the key to the house and was afraid of being beaten up,” he says.She was back with her family after 11 years on August 1, 2018.This year in January, an Aadhaar card came in handy to trace the Muzaffarful (UP) based family of a 10-year-old hearing and speech impaired boy.Purpose in lifeHis work, Kumar says, has given him a purpose in life. “Lost children find their families, what more can I ask for?” He has been unstoppable, even during the Covid-19 pandemic, solving 63 cases this year.One of them involved six-year-old Suraj, who said he was from Bindki in Uttar Pradesh when he was found, but the sarpanch there could not identify him. After asking the reserved child more questions, another clue, of a pond near his home, was revealed and the sarpanch contacted again and the home located. The boy who was missing from home since January 5, went home on August 5. It also took Kumar just a few days to help a missing child from Delhi return home with just two references to a “murge ki dukaan (chicken shop)” and “ganjey (bald) uncle.”On Sunday, he was able to connect two sisters from Bal Sadan in Panchkula with their father after six years.“At times my wife complains that I remain too busy, but she has never stopped me from working. When I ask my four-year-old daughter about what she would say if she was lost, she says, ‘my father reunites children with their parents’,” laughs Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-children-s-guiding-light-this-policeman-helps-reunite-them-with-their-families/story-YSr1BfPrk40N9IQZnPHDHN.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi records over 3K new Covid-19 cases; tally over 1.91 lakh||Delhi recorded 3,256 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the tally to over 1.91 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4567, authorities said. Twenty-nine fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours. As many as 26,829 rapid antigen tests and 9,217 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The number of Containment zones stands at 1,076. The total number of cases stand at 1,91,499, of which 1,65,973 patients have either been discharged, recovered or migrated. The number of active cases stands at 20,909.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-over-3-000-new-covid-19-cases-tally-over-1-91-lakh/story-FKo1fYh2cila5ZogOvcNXJ.html
06-09-2020||City||Jalandhar MC orders inquiry into sign forgery||Jalandhar Municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Karnesh Sharma has ordered a probe into signatures of deputy controller of finance and accounts (DFCA), Pankaj Kapoor, being forged on a file. The forgery was detected on a file that was to clear bills of Rs 90 lakh of a road construction firm. A three-member panel comprising a joint commissioner, MC, superintendent engineer and the DCFA himself has been asked to look into the matter and submit its report in a week.An MC official said the file of contractor, Rakesh Bansal, came to the DCFA, for clearance of Rs 80 lakh bill for road construction. Kapoor, however, found that after the accountant’s signature, his forged signature were already there. Kapoor scrutinised the file and found his forged signatures on one more bill worth of Rs 10 lakh, belonging to the same contractor. Kapoor issued show-cause notice to the accountant, Rajiv Sobti, asking him about the forged signature. Sobti’s reply was found unsatisfactory and had been brought to the notice of the MC commissioner and mayor Jagdish Raja. Municipal councillor Gurvinder Singh Bunty Neelkanth, who had raised this matter in a financial committee meeting said this was not the first case of its kind. “Probe should be conducted into previously passed bills to stop corruption in the MC. It is a serious issue,” he added. Mayor Jagdish Raja has also said the sensitive issue needed a deeper probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-mc-orders-inquiry-into-sign-forgery/story-qLRqExG7PVJvp55QwsdiXP.html
06-09-2020||City||Covid-19 hits the wrong note for music instrument makers||Bathinda Artisans engaged in the manufacturing of traditional Indian musical instruments like harmonium and tabla fear a prolonged slump in business year. Hit hard by the pandemic outbreak, manufacturers and traders say the order book has shrunk to a quarter of the usual. They add that Unlock 4.0 phase is also expected to continue with restrictions on organising religious and marriages functions in Punjab to stay. Industry sources added harmonium, tabla and dholak are manufactured in the state, whereas stringed instruments are supplied from other states.Harmonium manufacturing business is much more prevalent in the state, with workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh the mainstay of the labour force. Umesh Kumar, who has a harmonium manufacturing unit in Mohali, said he had been supplying at least 5,000 units a year to dealers in Ludhiana, Jalandhar and cities of other adjoining states. “Since March this year, there has hardly been any work. When travel restrictions were relaxed for migrant workers, more than 100 working for me at my unit left for their native places. Now, I have insufficient manpower even if I get orders in the next two months of the festive season,” he said.Gurmeet Singh, of Yamuna Musical Store in Ludhiana, said restrictions on international travel had also hit business.“Besides local demand, I had an average monthly orders of 100-150 sets of harmoniums and tablas. Ragis travelling to the US, Canada, Germany and Australia for religious events at gurdwaras placed these orders. Suspension of overseas travel had directly hit sales,” said Gurmeet.Arun Kumar, another manufacturer from Jalandhar, said this year educational institutes were not demanding musical instruments.“We are struggling for survival. As schools and colleges continue to be closed, I do not see normalcy returning over the next few months as well. Even as the market demand has dipped, the government has also failed to support artistes,” he said.Premjit Singh of Panipat in Haryana had a flourishing small-scale business of manufacturing reeds for harmonium sets. His year has been dismal. “I used to supply reeds made of pure brass to Punjab, Delhi and other states. This year, peak season like Ganesh Visarjan and Jagannath Yatras in cities have passed by without any major order,” he added.A third-generation entrepreneur in trading of musical instruments Tejwinder Singh said demand from orchestra parties and groups performing at ‘jagrans’ has vanished. “The pandemic has disrupted the entire chain in the business. The traditional peak season of marriages and religious functions is scheduled to begin next month, it is highly unlikely that we will get new orders for this year,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-hits-the-wrong-note-for-music-instrument-makers/story-y16PnUyiSwja0qX4v8VkRP.html
06-09-2020||City||Man dies after consuming “home-made” liquor in Tarn Taran village||A 45-year-old man died allegedly after consuming countrymade liquor in Manochahal village of Tarn Taran, police said on Sunday.The deceased, identified as Seetal Singh, was found dead at his in-laws’ house on Saturday morning.A senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “Our investigation has found that Seetal, along with one Gore and his father Bhupinder Singh, had purchased liquor from one Gurpreet Singh of Manochahal village and consumed it on Friday night.”“Gurpreet has disclosed that he had been distilling countrymade liquor at his home for his personal consumption, which he also sometimes gives to his cousin Gora on request,” the official said. “Gurpreet had purchased 10kg jaggery from a local store run by one Dheera Singh of the village. Using the jaggery and a makeshift apparatus for distillation, he had made seven bottles of countrymade liquor, which he had been consuming for the last 10 days. He had given the same liquor to Gora and Seetal,” the investigating official revealed. A sample of the liquor has been recovered and sent for forensic examination.Superintendent of police (SP-investigation) Jagjit Singh Walia said the viscera of the deceased would be sent to a forensic lab to ascertain the exact cause of his death. Though he maintained it was not a case of spurious liquor death, he appealed to the people to purchase liquor only from approved liquor vends. Last month, 123 people had died after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in three districts of Punjab--Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-dies-after-consuming-home-made-liquor-in-tarn-taran-village/story-ORUOYvd4KZBtlNdEhwcI7H.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder should desist from making false allegations to cover-up his govt’s failures: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Punjab unit on Sunday said that the state government had completely failed in the fight against Covid-19 and chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh had resorted to making baseless allegations against the AAP to cover up its failures.Referring to a post on Facebook post by an unknown person, who according to the CM has allegiance with the AAP, deputy LoP Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and legislators Principal Budhram, Kultar Singh Sandhawan, Prof Baljinder Kaur, Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Jai Singh Rori, Kulwant Singh Pandori, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Master Baldev Singh, in a joint statement, said that such an absurd statement by the CM was unfortunate.“The death rate in Punjab has reached the third highest in the country. After the large cities, the outbreak of Covid-19 in small cities, towns and villages is a matter of grave concern. Acting as a responsible and sensitive government, the CM should join hands with all opposition parties, social and religious bodies to reach out to the people for the success of his otherwise flop Mission Fateh,” said the AAP legislators. The AAP leaders said that the failure of the government could not be concealed by making baseless allegations against AAP. “Our party has nothing to do with rumour-mongers, however, Amarinder Singh and the Congress are making efforts to tarnish the image of AAP by linking the persons to us,” said the AAP MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amarinder-should-desist-from-making-false-allegations-to-cover-up-his-govt-s-failures-aap/story-Qe4RW5Kp896tmfj0QgOGPI.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Last date for admission to engineering diploma courses extended to September 10||Due to the low response to engineering diploma courses, Maharashtra Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) has extended the admission deadline till September 10. The extension comes as many students, who have completed class 10/12, could not complete the admission process till September 4, which was the last date. Students willing to take admission to the courses can still apply online till September 10 and the final merit list will be declared on September 18. This year for the first time, the entire admission process has been conducted online. As per the revised admission circular issued by the state technical director of DTE, now students can send their admission application, complete document verification and payment of fees till September 10. Once a student applies for the admission, he/she can verify documents submitted online. Any student who cannot upload the documents, can go to a nearby facilitation centre of DTE and get the documents verified. Students will be given a time prior to the visit to the centre and by maintaining proper social distancing, the documents will be verified. DTE started its engineering diploma admission process on August 10 for various courses like pharmacy, surface coating technology, hotel management and catering technology, among others. “There are many students who want to take the admission to engineering diploma courses, but due to various reasons they couldn’t make it. So we have extended the deadline till September 10. According to the updated admission schedule, the provisional merit list will be declared on September 13, students can give their objections and corrections till September 16 and the final merit list will be declared on September 18,” said DTE director Abhay Wagh. Engineering diploma courses’ admission updated schedule August 10 to September 10 – Students can apply online Till September 10 – Document verification Provisional merit list– September 13 Submission of objections/corrections by students– September 14 to 16 Final merit list – September 18||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/last-date-for-admission-to-engineering-diploma-courses-extended-to-september-10/story-48XcF5Ex8ctwbdBB8yMsNI.html
06-09-2020||City||Himachal sees biggest single-day spike with 397 new Covid-19 cases||Himachal Pradesh witnessed the biggest single-day spike with 397 fresh Covid-19 infections that took the state tally to 7,415.The active cases have mounted to 2,176 and 5,021 people have recovered so far. Of the new cases, 68 were reported in Kullu, 60 in Kangra, 57 in Solan, 52 in Chamba, 40 in Mandi, 31 each in Shimla and Bilaspur, 22 in Sirmaur, 20 and 16 in Una. The death toll due to Covid-19 in Himachal reached 53 after a 75-year-old succumbed to the contagion in Amb sub-division of Una. Solan has recorded maximum 14 deaths due to Covid-19 so far, followed by 10 deaths in Kangra. Eight people have died in Mandi, five in Hamirpur, four each in Shimla, Una and Chamba and three in Sirmaur. Chamba chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Guleri said 20 workers of a hydropower project have tested positive in Holi area of Bharmaur sub-division. They are primary contacts of some labourers who had earlier tested positive. Eight people tested positive in Bangotu locality of Chamba town, three in Hardaspura and four in Julahkari localities. Most of them are primary contacts. With this, Chamba district’s tally has reached 536 of which 157 are active cases, he said. Of the 19 cases reported in Shimla, twelve are migrant labourers in Rohru. Hailing from Uttar Pradesh, they were primary contacts of labourers who had tested positive earlier and were in institutional quarantined. In Bilaspur, two police personnel and a child were among the new cases. Two army jawans are among four people infected in Kullu’s Nirmand area. They were institutionally quarantined at the army’s Averi camp in Nirmand. Details of other cases were reported. With 1,696 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 1,091 cases have been reported till date. Sirmaur has 1,046 cases, Hamirpur 660, Una 587, Chamba 536, Mandi 487, Shimla 420, Bilaspur 412, Kullu 359 and 103 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported eight Covid-19 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-sees-93-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-7-111/story-U02NrfAUUzXueJDMUvfkoL.html
06-09-2020||City||Chandigarh-Manali highway remains blocked for second day||Chandigarh-Manali national highway remained closed for the second consecutive day as a massive landslide had blocked the road on Saturday causing major inconvenience to the commuters.Although machinery has been deployed and the district administration and police are trying to clear the road, boulders are falling on the road frequently, which is disrupting the clearance works on the stretch, said Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Shalini Agnihotri.The road will be cleared for traffic soon, the SP added.The police and district administration have advised the commuters to be careful while travelling through the road. The district administration has diverted the traffic towards Bajaura road.Orchardists of Kullu district are also facing huge difficulty in transportation as the highway continues to be blocked.Boulders had started rolling on to the road near Duwara in Mandi district early on Saturday. However, no loss of life was reported in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-manali-highway-remains-blocked-for-second-day/story-a11Nhc8guJSltsgIObLSML.html
06-09-2020||City||Srinagar man held for impersonating as doctor||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Sunday arrested a 50-year-old man for impersonating as a doctor in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, an official said.The man, who is a resident of Srinagar, was arrested after police got information that he was practicing as a general physician in a clinic in Kupwara. “We have arrested a fake doctor after we got information from some mediapersons,” said station house officer Mohammad Ashraf.He said the accused is recognised by the name of MA Khan in the district. “The accused told us that he is a not a doctor but works in a hospital in Srinagar,” the SHO said. “It is not clear since when he was practicing but we are still collecting information about him,” he added.A case has been registered under Sections 419 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code.A video of the man was also widely shared on social media in which a mediaperson is questioning him from where he had got his MBBS degree. The mediaperson is subsequently seen forcing the alleged fake doctor to apologise to the patients present in the clinic.Chief medical officer, Kupwara, Kousar Amin said she has no details of the case. “We also came to know through the media about the person,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-man-held-for-impersonating-as-doctor/story-2JkhG3Iv6LhrQV0OkQWcOO.html
06-09-2020||City||Man shot dead over land dispute in Una’s Haroli||A 38-year-old man was shot dead over a land dispute at Bhadsali village in Haroli sub-division of Himachal Pradesh’s Una district on Sunday, police said.The deceased Ashwini Kumar worked as a Chowkidar in the revenue department. The accused has been identified as Suresh Kumar, son of Harjot Singh of the same village. The dispute arose over construction of an irrigation tank on the land owned by Suresh which the other party claimed to be theirs.Local panchayat pradhan Ashwini Jaswal was also on the spot to resolve the dispute when the incident took place.Jaswal in his statement to the police alleged that Harjot and his sons first assaulted Ashwini Kumar and him. Later, Harjot’s son Suresh shot at Ashwani in the chest. The accused also shot at Jaswal but he escaped the bullet and fled into the nearby fields.Kumar was rushed to the nearby hospital by his family, where doctors declared him dead on arrival.Haroli deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Anil Mehta said the accused have been arrested and booked under Section 302 (Murder) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code.The body has been handed over to the family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-una-s-haroli/story-yba9nqshjy2S2XWMSXSTxK.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Over 3,800 Punjab Police personnel infected with Covid-19 so far: Report||According to an official statement on Sunday, more than 3,800 personnel of the Punjab Police have been infected with the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) since the pandemic began. As many as 3,803 police personnel in the state have tested positive for the disease. The total cases in the police force include, 1,597 active cases, 2,186 recoveries and 20 deaths, the statement added. Senior police officers are calling up personnel infected with Covid-19 to motivate them to fight the disease and free health kits which include a pulse oximeter, sanitisers and medicines are also being provided to the infected personnel by the police free of cost, the statement said. The state police had a telephonic conversation with over 500 infected personnel who are either being treated at hospitals or are placed under home quarantine. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe officers along with enquiring about the health of the have also assured the infected personnel of every possible support; the statement said adding that some officers with medical backgrounds even gave therapeutic guidance and advice to them.  1946 new #COVID19 cases and 54 deaths reported in Punjab today. Total number of cases now at 63473 including 16156 active cases, 45455 discharges and 1862 deaths: State Govt pic.twitter.com/Gyx89q11HEMeanwhile, Punjab over the past few days has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases and fatalities. The union health ministry on Sunday rushed teams to Punjab and its capital Chandigarh to provide assistance in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of Covid-19 patients. Punjab registered 1,946 Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths on Sunday, pushing the state’s tally and death toll to 63,473 and 1,862 respectively. Active cases stand at 16,156 whereas 45,455 people have been discharged so far. (With inputs from PTI, ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-3-800-punjab-police-personnel-infected-with-covid-19-so-far-report/story-pMS4oAqE8tpG5pq7nJCeeN.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab has become a laggard under Amarinder: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said that it was shameful that Punjab, which had secured the number one rank in several parameters in the ease of business rankings during the SAD-BJP tenure, had become a laggard state under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh and continued to be among the worst-performing states for the second year in running. In a statement here, the SAD president said that the state had secured the 19th rank in the Business Reform Action Plan 2019 rankings while last year, it was at the 20th position in this category. “This is in stark contrast to the number one ranking achieved by the state in ease of setting up of business in 2015 and number one position secured for single window reforms in 2016 during the SAD-BJP tenure,” said Sukhbir. Stating that the latest rankings were a cause for concern for all Punjabis as the state had witnessed a fall in the rankings even after the introduction of a New Industrial Policy in 2013, Sukhbir said even Punjab’s neighbours had outstripped the state. “Himachal Pradesh has jumped from the 16th rank last year to the 17th rank while Haryana has been ranked 16th.” The SAD chief said that earlier in December 2019, Punjab had finished 13th out of 18 big states on the Good Governance Index (GGI). Asserting that CM Amarinder Singh was responsible for this state of affairs, Sukhbir said the CM had downgraded the Invest Punjab department, which had created a one-stop clearance system and boosted investment to the tune of Rs 45,000 crore during the SAD-BJP tenure. Asking the CM to perform or quit, the SAD president said, “You (Capt Amarinder Singh) are presiding over the downfall of the state in each and every sphere. Your fake claims of bringing in investment and holding a sham investment meet have been exposed. Investors have lost confidence to invest in Punjab under your leadership. The situation has become such that Punjab is now being ranked below the erstwhile ‘bimaru’ states which has hurt Punjabi pride and prestige also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-has-become-a-laggard-under-amarinder-sukhbir/story-sOf2z16TshJydrNXIGvPSJ.html
06-09-2020||City||HP govt issues SoPs for religious places: Elders, kids prohibited||The Himachal Pradesh government has issued the Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) for regulation of movements of devotees in temples and other religious places of the state. The temples in the state, which were closed since March 17 in wake of Covid-19 pandemic, are set to reopen from September 10.As per the guidelines issued by language, art and culture department, staggering of visitors will be done and choirs, singing groups and taking dip in the temples is prohibited.Sanitisation of frequently touched surfaces will also be done frequently with sodium hypochlorite solution. The bells will be removed or covered with clothes to prevent touch by devotees. Entry to the sanctum sanctorum will remain prohibited and the priest cannt touch or bless the pilgrims. No one will be allowed to stand for more than a minute in front of the idols for puja rituals. Persons above 65 years of age, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are banned from entering the premises of religious places.The movement in the worship hall/premises will not be allowed and if necessary shall be restricted to minimum by barricading.An isolation room will be created near the place of religious worship for isolating the symptomatic patients. Ceremonies like marriages or mundan will not be allowed in religious premises and overnight stay is also prohibited.Posters on preventive measures about Covid-19 will be displayed prominently and audio and video clips to spread awareness on preventive measures will be played.Proper crowd management in the parking lots and outside the premises, duly following social distancing norms, will be organised. Any shops, stalls, cafeteria etc outside and within the premises will have to follow social distancing norms at all times.Community kitchens and langars will be allowed with proper physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing the food.SOPs for tourists applicable on devotees from outside stateThe state government has not issued separate SoPs for pilgrims coming from other states.Additional chief secretary (language, art and culture) RD Dhiman said the SOPs issued for tourists coming to the state will be applicable on the devotees.It means, the devotees must have confirmed hotel booking for two days. They shall also bring Covid-19 negative report from the recognised laboratory that should not be older than 96 hours.No special permission will be granted for visiting temples only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-issues-sops-for-religious-places-elders-kids-prohibited/story-unNLL6oQC5Q9S1gKOL4txL.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Road upgrade projects worth Rs 211cr to begin in Punjab: Minister Singla||Punjab public works minister Vijay Inder Singla, on Sunday, said that the government is going to initiate 12 major projects to improve road connectivity in the state, under the central road and infrastructure fund (CRIF). The cabinet minister informed that these projects would cost around Rs 211.22 crore, which includes improvement of major district roads, other district roads and construction of new bridges. Singla said that improvement of the 23.74km-long Amritsar-Chogawan-Ranian road stretch will be done at a cost of Rs 27 crore, while a 40.47km-long stretch of Gurdaspur-Shri Hargobindpur road will be strengthened at a cost of Rs 18.57 crore. He said that the upgrade of Sarabha-Raikot road in Ludhiana, Baghapurana-Bhagta Bhai-Nathana road in Moga, Phagwara-Jandiala road in Kapurthala will be starting soon with an investment of Rs 6.95 crore, Rs 11.28 crore and Rs 15.72 crore, respectively. Singla said that the four-km long stretch of State Highway 14, which connects Malout Chowk to Hanumangarh Chowk, and the 2.3km stretch of the district road connecting Malout Chowk to Sitogunno, both in Abohar town of Fazilka district will be upgraded at a cost of Rs 25 crore. He added that apart from these road projects, two new bridges in Roopnagar and Gurdaspur district will also be constructed for Rs. 12.37 crore. He added that in Roopnagar, the bridge will be reconstructed on Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal near Behrampur Zimidaran village, replacing the earlier narrow and low-level bridge while in Gurdaspur, a high-level bridge will be constructed over the hydel channel at Barth Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-upgrade-projects-worth-rs-211cr-to-begin-in-punjab-minister-singla/story-2ZMVyS1iHUPBTQM35smL7L.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Kailash Gahlot inspects Rajiv Chowk station day before Delhi metro services resume||Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot inspected the Rajiv Chowk Metro station on Sunday, a day before the resumption of metro train services in the national capital, and expressed satisfaction over safety measures taken against Covid-19.He said if both the Delhi Metro management and people responsibly follow the protocols in place, safe train operations will set another benchmark in the ‘Delhi model’ of fighting Covid-19.Also read: Delhi Metro to resume services from tomorrow: Here are the important things to followGahlot visited the Rajiv Chowk metro station to take stock of the preparations made by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Delhi Transport department for the resumption of metro services from September 7. He was accompanied by senior DMRC and transport department officials.“I am glad that metro services are finally resuming in the city tomorrow. I inspected the station and am satisfied with the arrangements in place,” he said after the inspection.Rajiv Chowk, despite being one of the busiest stations, has ensured that all precautions are in place as per the standard operating procedures, the minister said.“I appeal to all Delhi Metro users to follow social distancing at the stations and inside the coaches. I am assured that if both the management and Delhiites responsibly follow the protocols in place, we will be able to set another benchmark of the Delhi model of fighting Covid.” After being closed for over five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Metro services will be resumed in three stages from September 7-12, but stations located in containment zones will remain closed.Also read: UV light disinfection, foot pedals for lifts: Delhi Metro to bank on tech push for safe rideTrain services will commence with adequate frequency as they were before March 22, which may be increased or decreased as per requirement. However, due to trains halting for longer duration at stations, there will be a minor increase in time required for a trip.Also, because of the threat of infection, tokens will not be available for commuting and only smart cards will be allowed.The Delhi Transport Department has provided civil defence volunteers and enforcement teams to be deployed at metro stations to manage crowds, ensure social distancing, and guide travellers.Suitable markings at stations and inside the trains have also been done to ensure social distancing. Only asymptomatic people would be allowed to travel after thermal screening, officials said.An automatic sanitiser dispenser machine has also been made available at every entry point for passengers.Delhi Metro has come up with an ingenious way to avoid hand contact with the elevator buttons by providing a foot-operated lift mechanism. They have also made a proper announcement system to regularly inform the commuters about safety measures.Even the coaches in metro trains have instructions on its wall about all the protocols to be followed while travelling. Currently, only one gate for entry and exit has been allowed and signboards are installed at every important point to guide the passengers, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kailash-gahlot-inspects-rajiv-chowk-station-day-before-delhi-metro-services-resume/story-NW22lyuPAKVFxK3tTwarOI.html
06-09-2020||City||Himachal: Veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar shoots off letter to Maha CM, seeks security for Kangana||BJP veteran leader and former minister Shanta Kumar on Sunday shot off a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding security for actress Kangana Ranaut.Shanta wrote that the “brave daughter of Himachal” was the only star who has been promoting nationalism in Bollywood.“She recently wrote that her agenda was nationalism only. In the political spheres, Shiv Sena is the only nationalist party after BJP,” wrote Shanta adding, “So, I expect Shiv Sena to support and cooperate with Kangana.”The veteran leader added that actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide and the facts that have come to light after his death have shocked the country.There are many dubious activities taking place in Bollywood on which Kangana has spoken with courage, said the 85-year-old leader.He said every citizen in India has freedom of speech and expression. However, some Shiv Sena leaders were issuing threats to Kangana over some comments.“Kangana’s family and the entire Himachal is concerned over her safety. As the CM, Thackeray should provide full security to the actress and also stop his party leaders from harming her,” he wrote.He said Shiv Sena leader and former Lok Sabha speaker Manohar Joshi is his old friend, and “I have written to him to provide security to Kangana.”Meanwhile, Shanta also talked to the actress’s family and advised them that Kangana should not get involved in the controversy anymore.He has also urged Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to immediately speak to his Maharashtra counterpart on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-veteran-bjp-leader-shanta-kumar-shoots-off-letter-to-maha-cm-seeks-security-for-kangana/story-ssGUqKB8jJdUzUpK3mHryI.html
06-09-2020||City||AAP MLA Arora opposes night curfew, weekend lockdown||Aam Aadmi Party’s Sunam MLA, Aman Arora has opposed the night curfew and weekend lockdown, terming it an unsuccessful idea for controlling the spread of Covid-19, here on Sunday. Arora said that due to the weekend lockdown, traders are facing huge losses and it is bound to lead to rebellion. “The trader community has never revolted in the past as they used to focus on their business, but the simmering anger against the restrictions is sure to lead to rebellion,” he said. He further said, “In fact, in the last three weeks since the government brought in the weekend lockdown, the Covid-19 cases have only seen a rise. We demand the withdrawal of the night curfew and weekend lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-mla-arora-opposes-night-curfew-weekend-lockdown/story-e9AlR3up5bRbhOEENhdhRO.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Man claiming to be Dawood gang member calls Uddhav Thackeray, security beefed up at CM’s residence||Security at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s residence ‘Matoshree’ in Mumbai’s Bandra was scaled up after an unidentified man called him up, saying that he was calling from Dubai on behalf of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.“Security has been tightened at Maharashtra CM’s residence as a precautionary measure after two calls were received on the landline at Matoshree wherein the caller said that he was calling on behalf of Dawood,” a police official said.“The phone at CM Thackeray’s residence rang twice around 10.30pm on Saturday. The caller wanted to speak to the CM. We’re trying to locate the caller,” the official added.The local police were also informed about the calls later, following which additional security force was deployed outside the bungalow, the official said. According to him, no case was registered in this connection. “We are trying to verify whether the calls received were from Dubai or some other place. Investigation is on,” a senior police official told news agency PTI.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-claiming-to-be-dawood-gang-member-calls-uddhav-thackeray-security-beefed-up-at-cm-s-residence/story-ccHhL6ia7qv5x67HyJGwoI.html
06-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records yet another highest single-day spike of 6,777 Covid-19 cases; tally over 266,000||Uttar Pradesh on Sunday registered yet another highest single day spike of 6,777 cases due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the state’s health department said. The over tally stands at 2,66,283. As many as 77 people lost their lives, taking the death toll to nearly 4,000. The previous single-day highest spike of 6,692 Covid-19 cases was recorded on Saturday, Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said adding that active cases have now reached 61,625. As many as 200,738 patients have been discharged after recovering from Covid-19. Prasad also said that nearly 156,000 samples were tested for the disease on Saturday. Meanwhile, India on Sunday logged more than 90,000 Covid-19 cases which is also the highest single day-spike globally .The overall tally is over 4.11 million and the death toll stands at 70,626. The active cases in the country have climbed to 862320 whereas nearly 3.2 million people have recovered from the infection so far. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-records-yet-another-highest-single-day-spike-of-6-777-covid-19-cases-tally-over-266-000/story-NqI2NRPxIYILDgTUnCZszL.html
06-09-2020||City||Storybooks keep Spiti children’s interest piqued amid pandemic||Even as the pandemic and subsequent lockdown has resulted in closure of schools across the state, a non-profit organisation has been making sure that education of students living in the tiny hamlets of in Spiti valley is not hampered.Let’s Open a Book is proving services in the remotest parts of the valley, including Kibbar, Kaza, Mane, Guling villages, to name a few.Founder Ruchi Dhona said as schools are closed due to the pandemic, students are not able to visit the libraries set up by them across Spiti, so their volunteers, with the help of local administration and teachers, are providing books to students from these libraries, ensuring that their studies don’t get interrupted and the habit of reading does not break. “Books will help the children adjust to a new set of circumstances while staying safe at home.”Since 2017, the NGO has been setting up libraries in government schools of Spiti valley, which is one of the remotest and coldest valleys in the Himalayan region. Till now, the organisation has set up more than 60 libraries in government schools which are located in far-flung areas of Spiti, benefiting around 600 students.These libraries include knowledge enhancing books in Hindi, English and Tibetan languages.Apart from this, the organisation is also providing videos of stories in regional as well as other languages through their teachers and parents so that they can show these videos to children through smartphones and laptops.One of the volunteers, Chemi Lhamo said there is an old tradition of story-telling in Spiti valley and due to the pandemic, there are not many resources available for the same, so she has been telling stories to children in the regional language.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jeevan Singh Negi said the organisation has been very helpful in establishing libraries in Spiti valley and students are benefiting in a big way from these libraries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/storybooks-keep-spiti-children-s-interest-piqued-amid-pandemic/story-sYKNZbcMtztsxe7SXC7dyM.html
06-09-2020||City||Power engineers object to Montek Ahluwalia report||Terming the recommendations of the Montek Singh Ahluwalia committee on power sector as discouraging, PSEB Engineers’ Association has sought a meeting with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The association’s general secretary, Ajay Pal Singh Atwal, said the expert committee’s recommendations disregard the performance of PSPCL/PSTCL. The association also pointed out that there was no expert from the power sector in the committee and moreover, the opinion of the PSPCL management and engineers was also not taken. Atwal said the overall distribution losses in PSPCL are 11.7%, which is among the lowest in India. Association president Jasvir Dhiman said that the closing of two PSPCL thermal plants will lead to disastrous consequences for Punjab in the long run. “The expert group has failed to point out that independent power producers are creating an extra burden of Rs 1,000 crore per annum in the form of fixed charges. The closure of the state’s thermal plants will not only raise the tariff but also lead to total blackmail by the private sector independent power producers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-engineers-object-to-montek-ahluwalia-report/story-4SiWyx8JjNkXaDn3yhBY2J.html
06-09-2020||Pune||₹1cr collected in fines for not wearing masks||In an effort to contain the spread of Covid-19, the administration has been repeatedly appealing to citizens to wear masks when they venture out and stop spitting in public places. However, it has been seen that as the pandemic is progressing, the fear among people is decreasing, say officials, who are now cracking down on such offenders. The Zilla Parishad has collected over Rs 1 crore from such offenders in just a week’s time from 13 talukas. The highest numbers of such offenders were found in Haveli and Indapur. The PMC too has recently hiked its penalty for spitting from ₹500 to ₹1,000 and ₹500 for those not wearing a mask.The Zilla Parishad in its drive against such offenders collected ₹1.13 crore in fine from over 40,000 citizens who were found in public places without wearing masks. The highest fine was collected from Haveli taluka of ₹22 lakh from 7,888 citizens and Indapur taluka of ₹14.80 lakh from 8,602 people. Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “We are trying to level up our efforts to contain the spread of the virus, but people are not following basic manners which is more essential in this pandemic situation. We have collected over ₹1 crore from over 40,000 people. This fine is collected by officials appointed by both ZP and the police.”The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recently hiked its penalty for spitting in the open from earlier ₹500 to now ₹1,000 and has decided ₹500 as the penalty for those not wearing a mask in public places. Till date the civic body has collected ₹4.24 lakh from 857 people for not wearing masks. In a meeting chaired by union minister Prakash Javadekar along with senior politician and NCP leader Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and health minister Rajesh Tope reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the district and the administration was asked to act strictly against violators.Sharad Pawar directed the administration to focus on door-to-door survey, contact tracing and imposing penalty on those roaming without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1cr-collected-in-fines-for-not-wearing-masks/story-ZAUi6Laf0Rk6ho3kK4a6DK.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Many patients came to jumbo facility after oxygen supply was disrupted at Sassoon: Pune divisional commissioner||The jumbo facility at Shivajinagar was in the eye of storm mainly due to a large number of patients coming there after oxygen supply at Sassoon was disrupted, said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. The jumbo facility at College of Engineering Pune (COEP) faced numerous complaints this week after three patients died while a journalist did not get a cardiac ambulance. An audio clip of a doctor purportedly claiming that four patients died in absence of medicines, added to the criticism. Responding to criticism, Rao said, “We were expecting that the jumbo facility will be scaled up step by step. However, during the Ganesh festival, the inflow of patients increased as Sassoon’s oxygen supply system suddenly collapsed, forcing us to undertake repair work there.” “Due to the repair work, most patients from Sassoon were shifted to the jumbo facility, adding the burden to the newly set up facility, where systems are being streamlined,” said Rao.He also informed that an additional private agency was being roped in to put in place management of Pune’s jumbo facility. Responding to criticism over functioning of the jumbo facility, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that he has sought a detailed report about the centre and the report is being prepared by Sassoon hospital dean which will be submitted by Monday. “There are many complaints about the jumbo hospital. I have asked the authorities to conduct a detailed inquiry about deaths there. If needed, we will take action against the contractor and replace them,” he said.Decisions taken in the meeting- Prakash Javadekar announced that more help from the central government will be given and it will provide more ventilators and necessary help for improving testing- Almost 30 to 40 per cent of people in both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad are not using masks. All the leaders appealed to residents to use masks or face action- Better coordination for ambulances- Daily briefing to media||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/large-number-of-patients-came-to-jumbo-facility-after-oxygen-supply-was-disrupted-at-sassoon-in-pune-pune-divisional-commissioner-saurabh-rao/story-YGvEOP7moohyYpV9IcqZSO.html
06-09-2020||Jaipur||So far, Rajasthan has recorded normal rainfall during this monsoon: Report||Rajasthan has recorded normal rainfall so far during this monsoon season with 17 of its 33 districts falling under the normal rainfall category, a report by the state’s water resources department said. Rajasthan recorded 474.37mm rains from June 1 to September 5, which is 2.3% more than the average rainfall of 463.67mm, the report stated adding that 119 out of the total 742 dams are completely filled, 390 are partially filled and 233 are still empty. On Saturday, light to moderate rainfall continued in several parts of the state and Chhatargarh in Bikaner district recorded a maximum of 7cm rainfall, the Meteorological Department (MeT) said. Rainfall in Rajasthan was 6.94% more than the average during this time in 2019. Also read: IMD predicts heavy rain in south India for next three daysThe water resources department’s report pointed out that apart from the 17 districts which fall under the normal rainfall category, nine received excess rainfall (20% to 59% of average), six fall under deficit rainfall category (-20% to -59 per of the average) and one falls under abnormal rainfall (60% or more) category. Jaislmer district, which is mainly a desert area, received the highest rainfall of this season whereas Ganganagar, which shares border with Jaisalmer, recorded the lowest with 31% deficit, the report said. Jaisalmer is the only district in Rajasthan which received abnormal rainfall this year and flood like situation was reported in some areas including Ramgarh since last two days and numerous people have been shifted to safer places, it addedMeanwhile, Banswara, Barmer, Churu, Dungarpur, Jalore, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Rajsamand and Udaipur were some other districts which recorded heavy rainfall while Alwar, Bundi, Dholpur, Ganganagar, Kota and Tonk recorded deficit rains, as per the report. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/so-far-rajasthan-has-recorded-normal-rainfall-during-this-monsoon-report/story-1ozHEtaoNvfkVJexfw7t1K.html
06-09-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata woman risks life to save another from attack inside running car||Nilanjana Chatterjee, a resident of the Anandapur area in south Kolkata, was injured when she risked her life on Saturday night to save a woman who was allegedly attacked in a running car by its driver. The incident happened on the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass. Chatterjee, who was returning home with her husband in their car, heard a woman sitting beside the driver of a Honda City behind them crying for help. Chatterjee’s husband, Deep Satpathy, stopped his car to block the path of the Honda. “My wife got down and rushed towards the Honda. Its driver pushed the woman out of the car and tried to speed away. The car hit my wife and the driver drove over her leg. Her shin bone broke,” Satpathy told the media. “I frantically dialled the police emergency number. The police acted very promptly. A police team arrived at the spot and an ambulance too was rushed to take my wife to hospital. She will undergo surgery,” Satpathy added. The Anandapur police station arrested Amitabha Basu, the driver of the Honda, on Sunday afternoon. The woman he allegedly attacked registered a complaint of molestation, said officers at the police station. The woman said in her complaint that she got acquainted with Basu less than a week ago and the two decided to go out on Saturday evening. The woman alleged that Basu attacked her and tore her clothes during an altercation. She alleged that she asked Basu to drop her home but he refused. The incident triggered a furore in Kolkata and prominent citizens spoke out. “While on one hand the incident exposes the risk women face, it also shows how bravery can teach us a lesson. I salute this act of bravery,” said noted thespian Debshankar Haldar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-woman-risks-life-to-save-another-from-attack-inside-running-car/story-AMGnMflKShxqT5JK4SCh1H.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Players excited to be back, aware of precautions, says Ashwin Girme, secretary, tennis dept, Deccan Gymkhana||Deccan Gymkhana, one of the oldest clubs in the city, is taking all precautions as tennis activity resumes on the club premises. Ashwin Girme, secretary of the tennis department, Deccan Gymkhana, talks about the measures taken to resume sports activities at the club. What was the reaction of Deccan Gymkhana members when you decided to restart tennis activity? We held an internal meeting after the order was issued by the state government on July 29. We discussed all the factors, which also includes standard operating procedures (SOPs) given by Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association (MSLTA). All who attended the meeting were optimistic about starting tennis. All SOPs are posted on notice boards and members and players have to follow it strictly. We have seven hard and four clay courts and all of them are sanitised three times a day. Most competitive players are back in action for practice. What is the Covid risk factor Deccan Gymkhana has considered? If we follow all the norms, then the risk factor is less. As an individual we all need to take care. We are very strict with rules. Players are not even allowed to socialise after their training is completed. Have players raised any objections? Most players are excited to be back on court. They are not scared, but are aware of what precautions need to be taken. What is the tennis schedule at Deccan Gymkhana? Two hours each, in the morning and evening, are for Deccan Gymkhana members only. For players under coaching, batches start from 9:30 am and continue till 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/players-excited-to-be-back-aware-of-precautions-says-ashwin-girme-secretary-tennis-dept-deccan-gymkhana/story-88IDOIR8TGp2BEIuCFeDUM.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Lockdown was lifted due to pressure from traders: Ajit Pawar on Raut’s remarks||After Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was against “hastily” lifting the Covid-19 lockdown in Pune city, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the decision was taken in July given the pressure from traders and other stakeholders. He was in the city on Saturday for various meetings to discuss the Covid-19 crisis here.Raut’s remarks, made earlier this week, was seen as indirectly blaming Pawar and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) after Pune becoming one of the worst-affected districts in the country with over 1.89 lakh cases and 8,333 deaths till Friday. Responding to the remarks, Pawar said while the chief minister has been of the view that things should open up step by step, several people were of the view that the economy should not suffer for this long. “Many even said that we have to learn to live with the virus while the traders’ community was insisting on lifting the lockdown. They said attention should be given to livelihood of people dependent on the industry. When a decision is being taken about a big city such as Pune, various people have various views,” said Pawar.The ten-day lockdown from July 14 to 23 was to break the chain of transmission after the region saw an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. However, it came under heavy criticism from various quarters including Pune Traders’ Association. Pawar’s response came against the backdrop of rising complaints about unavailability of beds, an issue that has been consistently raised in the city. To effectively deal with the situation in Pune and western Maharashtra, the chief minister has now appointed former Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar as his advisor, a move seen as another attempt by Shiv Sena to corner Pawar. Mhaisekar, who retired on July 31, will work from Pune under CM’s principal advisor Ajoy Mehta. Through Mhaisekar, CM will be able to keep direct watch on the situation here, which is currently being monitored by Ajit Pawar. Lifting of lockdown in July fourth week was at the behest of Ajit Pawar, who holds sway in the Pune region. Despite repeated attempts, Mhaisekar did not respond for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-was-lifted-due-to-pressure-from-traders-ajit-pawar-on-raut-s-remarks/story-m51sIgwofBjHrgNajIQNcP.html
06-09-2020||City||Jammu man orchestrates wife’s murder so he can remarry and have a son||The Jammu and Kashmir Police arrested a man, who had his wife murdered by his helper in Rajouri district because she had given birth to four daughters. The man wanted to marry someone else so he could have a son. Rajouri district SSP Chandan Kohli said that on August 30, the Kandi police station received a complaint about an attack on one Shanaz Akhtar, the wife of Zulfikar Ali, at home, which resulted in her death. “The woman’s body was shifted to a local hospital where medico-legal formalities and a post-mortem examination were conducted. An FIR under Section 302 of the Indian penal Code was registered. We suspected the woman’s husband and his helper and detained them. During questioning, Zulfikar Ali and his helper Mohammad Aslam of Thanamandi confessed to their crime”, said the SSP. Zulfikar, who has four daughters, two of whom are three-month-old twins, had promised Mohammad Aslam money to kill his wife so that he could marry another woman and have a son, said Kandi Police Station SHO Mustaj Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-man-orchestrates-wife-s-murder-so-he-can-remarry-and-have-a-son/story-bJyv0eANxljpWL1Vq5BRuO.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Covid-19: State govt decides to allot more oxygen supply to health sector||The state government has decided to increase medical oxygen production and instructed the oxygen producing industry to divert supply meant for the industry to the health sector.The decision was taken by the government after a series of complaints related to shortage of oxygen supply to Covid-19 patients. As per the current norms, the industries are permitted to produce 15 per cent oxygen for health purposes and rest 85 per cent for industrial purposes. “With the rising number of Covid cases, Pune and other cities in the state are facing oxygen supply shortage, as a result of which there have been complaints of patients dying. Taking cognisance of the situation, the state government has urged the Centre to take a same decision at the national level and change norms by allowing industries to supply 50 per cent of overall oxygen for health purposes while remaining 50 per cent to industries,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. “As many complaints of oxygen shortage are reported in the state, the health minister Rajesh Tope and I discussed this issue with state chief secretary and industrial secretary on Saturday morning. We have now instructed industries to increase oxygen supply to 50 per cent of the total for health sector from the existing 15 per cent,” said Pawar. The deputy chief minister during the meeting on Saturday in the city urged Union minister Prakash Javadekar to put forth this demand at the central level. “Once the Centre takes a decision, it will be implemented nationally,” said Pawar. As Pune’s Covid situation is worsening, with the district reporting the highest number of cases across the country, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar, Union minister Prakash Javadekar, Ajit Pawar and state health minister Rajesh Tope took marathon meetings on Saturday. As on Friday, Pune district’s Covid tally crossed 1.89 lakh with 4,333 deaths. Taking into account complaints about bed shortage and ambulance unavailability, the administration was directed to start a separate dashboard for ambulances. “The dashboard will be updated in realtime so people will know about the availability of ambulances,” said Javadekar. “We decided to have better coordination in all the agencies in Pune. The central government will help Pune more and I am going to meet the ministers concerned on Monday for various issues. Centre will provide more ventilators for Pune city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-state-govt-decides-to-allot-more-oxygen-supply-to-health-sector/story-ccn9t40BIYDbm45XfqpPEO.html
06-09-2020||Jaipur||BSF jawan shoots himself with service rifle in Barmer||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan allegedly shot himself dead with his service rifle along the Rajasthan border near Munabao in Barmer district. The incident took place Saturday evening under the jurisdiction of Gadara Road police station area in Barmer.The deceased man was identified as Pradeep Kumar, 38, of Uttarakhand. He was posted at India-Pakistan international border near Akli village in Barmer.Amar Singh, the station house officer at Gadara Road police station, while confirming the report, said that after the autopsy, the body was handed over to BSF officials. It will be dispatched to his hometown in Uttarakhand.Singh said that Kumar was on duty from 1pm to 7pm. He shot himself to death with his service rifle on Saturday around 6pm. Around 7pm, when another BSF jawan got there to start his duty, he found Kumar’s body and informed the authorities.BSF officials and police recovered the body.BSF officials said that Kumar may have ended his life due to family issues. They said his wife informed them of a family dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bsf-jawan-shoots-self-with-service-rifle-in-barmer/story-hsYaIaaZbFgdBhnylUkC5M.html
06-09-2020||Dehradun||In a first, quarantine facility for imported horticulture crops to come up in Uttarakhand||The Uttarakhand government has started working on making a quarantine facility --- spread over 20 acres -- for imported high-value horticulture crops. The objective of the facility is to prevent the spread of any diseases from these imported crops to other native plants. Subodh Uniyal, minister for agriculture and horticulture in the hill state, said that the Central government has asked the state government to find a suitable plot of land, where the facility can be built. “This is a first for the state. We have written to the district magistrates (DMs) of Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar to look for a plot of land, where the post-entry quarantine facility can be built. A Central government team will conduct an inspection within two weeks to survey the chosen land,” said Uniyal. The minister said not only imported crops and agriculture produce for Uttarakhand, but for other states would also be kept at the soon-to-be-built facility before they were distributed among farmers. “Imported high-value horticulture crops will be kept in the facility for a year, as researchers will study these plants for any diseases following which they will be distributed among farmers. The researchers will study various factors such as how a plant reacts to climatic conditions, soil, temperature etc,” added Uniyal. Rajbir Singh, joint secretary, Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture, wrote to the principal secretary, horticulture, Uttarakhand, on September 4 about a suitable plot of land for the facility. He stated that the National Seeds Corporation (NSC) had informed that the University of Horticulture and Forestry at Bharsar in Pauri Garhwal had agreed to allot 20 hectares (ha) to build the facility. “NSC’s proposal involves an unproductive cost due to the undulating and hilly terrain…” the letter said.“A four-member Central team will visit Dehradun soon to explore the possibilities of an alternate site and discuss the facility’s cost implications that will be borne by the state government,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-a-first-quarantine-facility-for-imported-horticulture-crops-to-come-up-in-uttarakhand/story-puj4cgP0Ad5b20jZyI7LlN.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro to resume services from tomorrow: Here are the important things to follow||The Delhi Metro services are set to resume from tomorrow after a period of six months due to the coronavirus pandemic and the news of this announcement has brought relief to several groups of people who belong to several socioeconomic groups ranging from the daily office goer to local businessmen. The resumption of services brings not only relief for the people of Delhi who require the Metro for daily purposes but also have led to traders heaving a sigh of relief who were looking forward to the resumption of the Metro services to breathe back some life into their dwindling businesses as now customers can travel. The Delhi Metro Railway Corporation has announced several measures as the Metro services resume to ensure that passengers follow social distancing as coronavirus cases continue to rise. DMRC has also said that they will bring in provisions to ensure norms are not flouted. Covid-19 preventive etiquettes like the wearing of masks is being made mandatory and fines can also be charged if passengers are seen developing a callous approach towards these preventative measures. The Delhi Metro resumption will not be a hasty one and the routes will also not open on the same day. The Yellow Line, which connects HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli, will be the first route to reopen on September 7. The timings are 7AM to 11 AM for the morning and 4 PM to 8 PM in the evening. On September 9, the Blue Line which connects Dwarka Sector 21 to Noida Electronic City and Vaishali will reopen along with the Pink Line which connects Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar. The timings are 7AM to 11 AM for the morning and 4 PM to 8 PM in the evening. The Red, Green and Violet Lines of the DMRC will resume from September 10. Red Line connects Rithala to Shaheed Sthal and will be operational from 7AM to 11 AM in the morning and 4 PM to 8 PM in the evening. Green Line connects Kirti Nagar Inderlok to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh will also be operational at the same timings along with Violet Line which connects Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh. The Grey and Magenta Line will reopen on September 11 and will have slightly shorter timings compared to the other routes but will be operational for 6 hours at a stretch. The Magenta Line which connects Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden will be operational between 7 AM to 1 PM. The Grey Line which connects Dwarka and Najafgarh will also be operational between 7 AM to 1 PM connecting commuters from Dwarka and Najafgarh. The Airport Express Line will be the last route to reopen and will be operational throughout the day . Starting from September 12, passengers can use this line to travel to the IGI airport. This route connects New Delhi to Dwarka Sector 21. Delhi Metro authorities have ensured ticketless travel as the only travelling mode as a measure to stop the spread of Covid-19. Usage of smartcards will be encouraged and in a bid to go cashless passengers will also be encouraged to download an app which will prompt them to recharge their smart cards once the balance drops below Rs 100Users are also encouraged to stagger their work timings in order to ensure less crowding at Metro stations. DMRC also requested passengers to wear masks and carry their own hand sanitizer or use the hand sanitizing kiosks present at the Metro station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-resume-services-from-tomorrow-here-are-the-important-things-to-follow/story-etPnozBvFOgJWmKYLaqCZM.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Police arrest man for murder||Delhi Police on Sunday claimed to have arrested the man who allegedly shot dead Rahul Solanki (27), one of the first victims of the riots that erupted in the north-eastern parts of the national capital in February. Over 50 people died in the communal violence. The arrested accused, identified as Mustaqeem alias Sameer Saifi, a carpenter, was carrying a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head. Police said they have recovered the country-made pistol used in Solanki’s murder from Saifi, a class 10 dropout.Solanki had stepped out of his house to buy milk when he was shot dead on February 24. The murder had occurred near Rajdhani Public School at Mahalaxmi Enclave in Mustafabad. Solanki’s family members took him to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, where he was declared dead.The murder probe was transferred from the district police to the special investigation team of Delhi Police’s crime branch. Anit Mittal, additional spokesperson, Delhi Police, said: “While analysing the video footage of the violence, a man was spotted shooting Solanki dead.”Soon, police teams were deployed at Mahalaxmi Enclave in Mustafabad to gather more information about the murderer. Informers were also activated in the neighbourhood to keep an eye on the suspects and collect information about the criminal, he said.“On September 3, we received information that Saifi has been spotted,” Mittal said.“Acting on the tip-off, a team raided the identified premises and Saifi was nabbed from Bhajanpura. His description matched with the shooter seen in the video footage. Saifi revealed his name as Mustaqeem during the interrogation. Initially, he had denied his involvement in the murder but later when confronted with evidence, he confessed to having opened fire at Solanki. A country-made pistol was seized that he had used during the riots,” Mittal said.Police have seized the clothes --- a pair of jeans and shoes – and the helmet that Saifi was wearing at the time of his alleged crime and his mobile phone from him. “He also revealed that he had participated in protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) near Farukia Masjid. The accused has been sent to judicial custody,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-police-arrest-man-for-murder/story-RE8uPby08TEShSwgprbBLK.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt relaunches initiative to combat dengue||Amid ongoing monsoon season, Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government has again launched the initiative “10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute, Har Ravivar, Dengue Par Vaar” initiative to arrest the surge of dengue cases across the national capital.Speaking to ANI, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he was confident that the people of the national capital will make the programme a success like last year.“The monsoon season has already started. Its the first week of September. We all know that dengue cases rise during this time. To reduce the spread across the national capital, we are once again starting our ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute, Har Ravivar, Dengue Par Vaar’ initiative,” the chief minister said.Talking about last year’s success of the initiative he said, “In 2019, two crore people of Delhi successfully defeated dengue with no deaths reported from the disease. There were only 1,400-1,500 cases compared to 14,000-15,000 previously.”“I urge people to Delhi to remove old stocked water in their homes and replace them with fresh water every Sunday at 10 am. It hardly takes 10 minutes. This way we can defeat dengue this year as well. Am confident that the people of the city will once again take part in the initiative,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-relaunches-initiative-to-combat-dengue/story-Xfq7fMp325WpsKGNn83pzM.html
06-09-2020||City||Team of Covid-19 experts from New Delhi to reach Tripura||As the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths continues to rise, a team of experts from New Delhi is set to arrive in Tripura at the earliest to assess the situation. “A team of doctors from New Delhi is expected to arrive here at the earliest. We will seek suggestions from them on how to give better health care services,” law minister Ratan Lal Nath told the media in Agartala. A total of 14,531 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the state since April 6, and 144 patients have died since June 9. Two Covid-19 patients killed themselves. A total of 8,745 patients have recovered. On Saturday, Nath said that the cabinet ministers decided they would take turns to stay at the Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) Hospital, the first dedicated Covid Care Centre of the state, if required, to ensure there is no negligence.A case of negligence was lodged against doctors at the GBP Hospital that led to the death of a three-day-old baby last month. The baby’s mother said he died after his swab samples were taken for a Covid-19 test. The mother had tested positive and that’s why the baby’s samples were taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/team-of-covid-19-experts-from-new-delhi-to-reach-tripura/story-FgjRZCeGXGEaXH3t7XX6OM.html
06-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP MLA booked for rape, denies charge||Mahesh Negi, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Uttarakhand’s Dwarahat constituency accused of rape, has been booked for the offence and criminal intimidation.The case was filed in state capital Dehradun on Saturday night following a sessions court’s order. HT has a copy of the first information report (FIR).The woman, 30, has filed a petition at the sessions court in Dehradun. She has demanded a DNA test of the legislator and her daughter, who she said was born of the relationship, to prove her allegations. She has also alleged that the police were not taking action against Negi.Rakesh Gosain, station house officer (SHO), Nehru Colony police station, said, “A case of rape and criminal intimidation under sections 376 and 506 of the of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), respectively, has been registered against Negi and his wife Rita late at night on Saturday as per the court’s order.”The complainant has ben booked for blackmail and a bid to extort Rs 5 crore from Negi on the basis of a complaint lodged by Rita. A probe is underway in this connection.The woman, who accuses Negi of assaulting her over two years, welcomed the court order. “I am happy with the court order because no case was registered on the basis of my complaint against Negi and his wife.”“I have full faith in the judiciary. So far, neither the police and nor the state administration took any action against the MLA and only penalised me,” she said.Negi accused the woman of “misleading courts by providing fabricated facts”. “We will move court, if needed...The police are probing the matter and the truth will be unearthed soon,” he added.The incident has sparked a political row in Uttarakhand.Opposition Congress is attacking the state government and the ruling BJP by accusing it of not taking any action against Negi. Negi has accused the Congress of hatching a conspiracy against along with the complainant. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-booked-for-rape-denies-charge/story-Hf6bq1QqBL8G2n1tTrtVLO.html
06-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan logs 726 new Covid-19 cases; tally over 90,000||As many as 726 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths were reported in Rajasthan till Sunday morning, the State’s Health Department said.The total number of coronavirus cases in the state has gone up to 90,089 of which 15,577 are active cases. A total of 1,130 people have lost their lives due to the pandemic so far.Jaipur has seen the highest number in the last 24 hours with 133 new cases, it informed.“Rajasthan records 726 new #Covid19 cases, 8 deaths, 137 recoveries and 137 discharges today. The total cases in the state rise to 90,089, including 1,130 deaths, 73,382 recoveries and 72,251 discharges. Active cases stand at 15,577,” it added.Meanwhile, the country registered the highest single-day spike of 90,633 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the national caseload past 41-lakh mark, according to the union ministry of health and family welfare.With 1,065 more deaths in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll reached 70,626.The total case tally stands at 41,13,812 including 8,62,320 active cases, 31,80,866 cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-logs-726-new-covid-19-cases-tally-over-90-000/story-XNX6ZKuUo9AAdiud9C7MjN.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court declares 2 accused as ‘proclaimed offenders’ in cop’s murder||A Delhi Court has declared two accused as “proclaimed offenders” in a case related to the murder of Delhi Police’s head constable Rattan Lal during the violence which broke out in the north-east district of the national capital earlier this year.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pushotaum Pathak of Karkardooma Courts Complex while declaring Suleman aka Salman Siddiqui and Ms Ravish as Proclaimed Offenders on Saturday said, “I considered that both accused are intentionally avoiding to appear in the court despite due service of process under section 82 of CrPC.”The same court has recently also taken the cognizance on the chargesheet filed in the High Court regarding Rattan Lal murder case. The court said, “It is of the opinion that there is sufficient material on record to take cognizance of the offences alleged to have been committed by accused persons”.The court while taking cognizance on the chargesheet also added that “However, it is not inclined to take cognizance for the offence under Section 153-A IPC as for taking cognizance for the said offence, the previous sanction as provided under section 196 CrPC is mandatory to be filed by the agency but same has not been filed till today. Investigation officer has informed that in the present case a letter dated 13.07.2020 has been sent to the competent authority but it is not clear as to how much time, it will take for obtaining sanction. In this scenario when there is no timeframe for obtaining sanction and that any delay in proceeding further in the matter will unnecessarily defeat the purpose for which the special courts for trial of riot cases have been created. It deems it fit to take cognizance of all the offences as discussed.”Court had also issued a production warrant against all the accused and directed the Tihar Jail authority to produce them through video conferencing on September 10.Delhi Police chargesheet stated that Head Constable Rattan Lal was killed and several other police officials and public persons were injured when the mob without provocation attacked the police party. The post mortam report of Rattan Lal revealed that he sustained gunshot injuries apart from 21 injuries and had succumbed to these injuries.According to the chargesheet, the public witnesses and the local beat staff have categorically stated in their statements about the specific role of accused persons that they were the main organisers of the protest and were fully involved in inciting people for rioting.“Further, the eyewitnesses who have witnessed the incident have stated in their statements that on February 24, the police party deployed at Chand Bagh protest site was suddenly attacked by the mob led by accused persons. The mob was armed with lathis, rods and killed HC Rattan Lal, caused injuries to DCP Amit Sharma, ACP Anuj Kumar and also to several other police officials and public persons. Besides the statement of witnesses, there is also CCTV footage which showed the presence of accused persons,” said the Delhi Police chargesheet.According to the chargesheet, protests were being held against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Chand Bagh area without any official permission and in blatant violation of rules and regulations.“Speakers addressing gathering were spreading false information about CAA and NRC and were deliberately conveyed to the Muslim population that they would lose their citizenship and later when NRC would be introduced then on non-production of the documents they would be sent to the detention camps,” Delhi Police said in the chargesheet.In February, violence took place in the northeast area of Delhi between groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which led to the deaths of at least 53 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-declares-2-accused-as-proclaimed-offenders-in-cop-s-murder/story-9sLhRsWFIUq3Rvhm8ErE1M.html
06-09-2020||Patna||Bank officer shot dead by three men in Bihar||A State Bank of India (SBI) cash officer was shot dead on National Highway-31 in Naugachhia late Saturday. The murder took place near a rail overbridge under the jurisdiction of the Bihpur police station, around 260 km northeast of Patna. Ajant Kumar Choudhary, the victim, was posted as a cash officer at the Barauni Refinery Campus branch of SBI. Police said Choudhary was on his way to Tilakmanjhi in Bhagalpur on his motorcycle when the suspects accosted him and opened fire. Police said that he was not robbed, adding that according to eyewitness accounts, three men on a motorcycle caught up to him and shot him dead. All of his belongings were found intact. Naugachhia SDPO Dilip Kumar said that prima facie, the murder seemed to be the fallout of personal enmity. He added, “We want to question his family members, but they are not in a condition to talk right now. However, we have started our investigations and are hoping to crack the case.” Choudhary is survived by his wife and children. A senior police officer at the state police headquarters, who requested anonymity, said, “It was a pre-planned murder. Every angle will be examined and the culprits will be booked soon.” The State Bank of India Officers Association (Patna Circle), one of the largest officers’ organisations in the region, denounced the killing. The general secretary of the confederation Ajit Kumar Mishra said, “What is all the more deplorable is that the murder took place at a time when all bank employees and officers are under tremendous pressure to meet public demand, along with the pressure of the government and management of fulfilling targets.” The association has demanded a prompt and proper investigation into the killing and steps to prevent recurrence of such crimes in the future. Naugachhia SP Swapna G Meshram said separate police teams have been formed to crack the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bank-officer-shot-dead-by-three-men-in-bihar/story-nLoN9OwPwYGHykKFdK2OhO.html
06-09-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru Metro to restart tomorrow. Here’s all you need to know||After the Centre’s nod, Bengaluru Metro is all set to start operations from Monday in a graded manner after services remained suspended for over five months in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The Metro trains will start plying in three stages keeping Covid-19 protocols in mind.Here’s everything you need to know:--In the first stage of Unlock 4, from September 7 to September 10, operations will resume on the Bengaluru Namma Metro’s Purple Line from 8am till 11am. The trains will also operate in a second shift between 4:30pm and 7:30pm on the Baiyappanahalli-Mysuru Road route.--The Green Line will resume services in the second phase, i.e. between September 9 and 10, on Nagasandra-Yellachenahalli route. The timings will be the same as the first stage in both slots.--In the third phase, from September 11 onwards, the trains will play on both routes from 7am till 9pm.--Passengers will only be allowed to use smart cards and no tokens will be sold at the counters. There won’t be any card recharge counter open at the stations. Passengers will have to use online mode via an app that will be made available September 7 onwards. --The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRC) has made it mandatory for commuters to wear masks, else they won’t be allowed inside the stations.--All passengers will also have to undergo thermal screening at the entrance of the Metro station.--In order to ensure social distancing, yellow queue strips have been marked in front of the ticket counters, escalators and lifts, and on platforms in front of each door of every coach.--Only 400 commuters will be allowed at a time inside a train. Alternate seats are to be left vacant and standing is allowed only at the yellow strip marked location.--Only four to six passengers can avail the lift service at once.--Hand sanitisers will be provided at the station entrances.--No more than 50 people will be allowed inside the stations except terminal and interchange stations.--All passengers will have to download the Aarogya Setu app on their phones in order to travel on these trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-namma-metro-to-resume-from-tomorrow-here-s-all-you-need-to-know/story-aFRVSt0vlKpZo1dWpaHyUN.html
06-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case latest developments: Rhea Chakraborty joins NCB probe, Showik arrested||Three central agencies, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), are currently probing Bollywood actor Sushant Rajput’s death from several angles.Chakraborty on Sunday joined the probe being handled by NCB into the drug abuse angle of the case. The agency has so far arrested her brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and three others in connection with the case. Chakrabortys’ lawyer has said that neither of the siblings has ever consumed drugs.Here are the latest developments in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case:Rhea Chakraborty to come face-to-face with brother ShowikThe NCB issued summons to Rhea early on Sunday, following which she reached the agency’s office around 12pm. She will be confronted with her brother Showik, who along with Miranda has been remanded to the central agency’s custody till September 9.Rhea ready for arrest, says lawyerAs Chakraborty joined the NCB probe today, her lawyer said she was ready for being arrested and hasn’t even applied for anticipatory bail.“RheaChakraborty is ready for arrest as it’s a witch-hunt. If loving someone is a crime she’ll face consequences of her love. Being innocent she hasn’t approached any court for an anticipatory bail in all cases foisted by Bihar Police with CBI, ED & NCB,” lawyer Satish Maneshinde said.‘Next in line is my daughter’: Rhea Chakraborty’s father issues statementChakraborty’s father Indrajit on Saturday issued a statement, after his son’s arrest on Friday, saying next on line was his daughter Rhea.“Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don’t know who is next thereafter. You have effectively demolished a middle class family. But of course, for the sake of justice, everything is justified. Jai Hind,” Lt Col Indrajit Chakraborty (Retd) said.Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant arrestedNCB late on Saturday arrested Sawant as well in connection with the drugs probe. Sawant has been remanded to NCB custody September 9.CBI visits Rajput’s Bandra home with his sister, staffCBI officials probing Rajput’s death case were spotted at the actor’s house in Mumbai’s Bandra on Saturday morning along with his sister Meetu Singh and a few staff members.According to reports, Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj, house caretaker Keshav were also present with them.Mumbai Police hiding ‘something very big’: KK Singh’s lawyerAfter the arrest of Showik and Miranda by NCB, Sushant Singh Rajput’s family lawyer alleged that Mumbai Police were hiding “something very big.”“Arrests by NCB prove the fear of the family that there was something very big that Mumbai Police wanted to hide. Clearly, there are several angles in this case. The family hopes that more angles will come out,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Arrests so farWhile CBI and ED, probing the actor’s death and the alleged money laundering angle respectively, have made no arrests so far, NCB has till now has arrested seven people.NCB has held Zaid Vilatra, Kaizan Ebrahim and Abdel Basit Parihar for drug peddling apart from Showik and Miranda, who were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/sushant-singh-rajput-case-latest-developments-rhea-chakraborty-joins-ncb-probe-showik-arrested/story-8mdxHJBaqRlHnaLg5UHbVN.html
06-09-2020||City||50-year-old charged with molesting two minor Covid-19 patients in Tripura||A 50-year-old member of the cleaning staff of a Covid Care Centre in Unakoti district, nearly 130 kilometres from Agartala, was charged with molesting two minor Covid-19 patients. He is yet to be arrested, police said Sunday. The case was lodged on Friday. The two 17-year-old patients were admitted to the centre nearly 10 days before they lodged the complaint. A case was registered against the suspect under Section 354 (a) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 08 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.“An investigation is on. Both the complainants are at the centre and their statements would be recorded soon after their release. The man has not been arrested yet,” said Unakoti superintendent of police Rati Ranjan Debnath. A health officer from Unakoti district said that the man was removed from duty on Friday after the case was lodged against him. In addition, they submitted a proposal to the state government to appoint a woman as part of the cleaning staff to avoid such incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-year-old-man-charged-with-molesting-two-minor-covid-19-patients-in-tripura/story-vLQg8SOnDfOmmEnOBYgAoJ.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut criticises Nirmala Sitharaman’s ‘Act of God’ remark||Sanjay Raut, the Rajya Sabha (RS) member of the Shiv Sena, has criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government over Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s “act of God” comment. Raut, in his weekly column Rokh Thok in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, took on the BJP and said blaming god for the failure of the government is an “insult to Hindutva”.In end-August, during the 41st Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting, Sitharaman had referred to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic as “an act of God” that disrupted economic activities. Raut, in the column, wrote, “The country’s collapsed economy is due to an Act of God, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said so. What kind of Hindutva is this to cover the failure of the government by blaming God? If God is being accused, in which court will he be tried? ... Blaming God for the failure of the government is an insult to Hindutva.” He also took on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Our PM Modi speaks on all issues under the sun, but does not speak on the battered economy, or even touches upon the question that has cropped up because of the economic woes. On the road from demonetisation to lockdown, our economy has died,” he wrote. He gave examples of several countries, including Brazil, which are helping their nationals with financial aid to tide over the pandemic and its resultant economic impact. “During the pandemic, several countries such as Brazil are helping their people. For them it is not an Act of God, but an economic crisis that has befallen on their people and governments are helping them with financial aid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-criticises-nirmala-sitharaman-s-act-of-god-remark/story-PVxGewsiQULf38nP5ljxsI.html
06-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: ‘Man-eater’ leopard that killed 25-year-old man shot dead||A man-eating leopard that recently killed a 25-year-old man in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district was shot dead early Sunday, officials said.Dharam Singh Meena, the divisional forest officer (DFO) of Narendra Nagar forest division, said, “A seven-year-old leopard was shot dead by hunter Joy Hukil in the early morning on Sunday. The leopard was declared a man-eater after it had killed a man in Devprayag on August 29.”The forest department had been trying to capture the leopard for the past week after the animal killed a man and attacked a few other people in the area.“We had installed cages to capture the leopard and set up camera traps to track its movement. The pictures helped identify the leopard and it was shot dead in the early morning on Sunday. The animal had become old and was looking for easy prey,” Meena added.Earlier on July 11, a man-eater leopard, which had killed a girl (12) in Chamoli district, was shot dead in Badrinath forest division.Ashutosh Singh, the DFO of Badrinath division, had said that the leopard was declared a man-eater on June 30, a day after its second kill.A chief wildlife warden of a state can declare any wild animal a threat to human life and fit to be killed by invoking Clause 11 (1) (a) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-man-eater-leopard-that-killed-25-year-old-man-shot-dead/story-Z6BgjwzVUzEr8yaU2TcJKN.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackery revokes decision of institutional quarantine for Covid-19 patients over 50||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s decision to mandate institutional quarantine for Covid-19 patients above the age of 50 drew criticism, the decision has now been revoked. Patients in the age group of 50-60 can be permitted home quarantine. However, the earlier decision to institutionally quarantine patients over the age of 60 will still prevail. The decision was made in a state review meeting headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday.A circular issued by BMC’s health department on August 20 said that Covid-19 patients over 50 or anyone with co-morbidities, irrespective of their age, will now have to go to Covid Care Centre 2 facilities (institutional quarantine) for treatment and isolation. Till then, the earlier guidelines allowed home isolation for asymptomatic patients below 60 with no co-morbidities and those having separate toilet facilities in their homes. However, the amendment to the earlier guideline led to criticism as patients above 50 who showed no symptoms and could have been home quarantined still had to be admitted to institutional quarantine. This issue was brought up in the state review meeting wherein directions to revoke the quarantine rules were given.Even though the decision has been revoked, BMC has now decided to consult the family physicians of patients above 50 who test positive. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Our ward war rooms will now collect additional details from these patients about their family physicians who will be consulted with on a daily basis. Patients over 50 will be institutionally quarantined after their family doctors opine or if their condition worsens.”Kakani added that this is to ensure that the patients over 50 get immediate medical attention when needed.The current average Covid-19 mortality rate of Mumbai is stagnant at 5.0%; it is way above than the national mortality rate at 1.8% and state average mortality rate at 2.97%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackery-revokes-decision-of-institutional-quarantine-for-covid-19-patients-over-50/story-vzkmn2AasEPMwAhGHv6gPK.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal launches Delhi’s campaign against dengue||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the second edition of its “10 Hafte-10 Baje-10 Minute” (10 weeks, 10 o’ clock, 10 minutes) campaign against dengue and other vector-borne diseases such as malaria and chikungunya on Sunday.“Last year, two crore people of Delhi had joined hands to win a fight against dengue. In the next 10 weeks, we will do it again. I inspected my home on Sunday for places where stagnant water could accumulate. I urge you to do the same. Let’s join hands to fight against dengue once again,” the CM said.The people have been urged to inspect their homes for any possible sources of stagnant clean water that can lead to the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes, which spread vector-borne diseases. In 2015, Delhi had recorded 15,867 cases of dengue and 60 deaths. The national capital had reported 2,036 cases of dengue and two deaths last year, the data shared by the Delhi government showed.On Sunday, all Delhi government’s ministers, Rajya Sabha (RS) members of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), lawmakers and other party leaders joined the drive. They posted photographs and short video clips on social media. Several volunteers and party supporters also joined the campaign and took to social media in a similar manner.“One should not be complacent assuming that there is no place in a person’s house, where clean water can accumulate. If you invest 10 minutes, you are most likely to come across some place that went unnoticed. I urge more people to participate in the campaign,” tweeted Manish Sisodia, said deputy CM, Delhi.The participants, including CM Kejriwal, pledged that they would devote 10 minutes at 10 pm every Sunday for 10 weeks to inspect their house for stagnant clean water and clean it to avoid breeding of Aedes mosquitoes and prevent the spread of vector-borne diseases.In the coming weeks, doctors would be requested to endorse the campaign and more children would be encouraged to participate through homework assigned by schools. Government offices would also be asked to promote it, Satyendar Jain, minister for health, Delhi, told media persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-launches-second-edition-of-10-hafte-10-baje-10-minute-campaign-against-dengue/story-RKx3JgSIgJivJCC1PbdJ5M.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Arduous pilgrimage: 44-yr-old devout walks for 29 days to reach Vaishno Devi from UP||A 44-year-old devotee, who walked for 29 days and covered around 1,000km to pay his respects at the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine in Katra, was finally able to undertake the yatra on Saturday. The man, who had not got himself registered as a pilgrim and did not have Covid certificate, was initially not allowed to visit the cave shrine nestled in the Trikuta hills.The devotee, Gore Lal, of Mainpuri in UP, had embarked on the pilgrimage on August 5 and reached Katra on September 2. In the wake of the pandemic, the shrine board has capped the number of pilgrims allowed to undertake the journey per day and has also made online registration and a recent Covid-19 negative report a requisite for undertaking the journey. Lal sought help from a local shopkeeper, who informed the deputy commissioner of his plight. Reasi district commissioner (DC) Indu Kanwal Chib said, “This man, a staunch devotee of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi, walked all the way from UP to reach Katra. He had to be quarantined for a few days, after which a Covid-19 test was conducted. Once he tested negative, he was allowed to proceed for the darshan.” Lal has reached Ardhkuwari. The DC clarified that concessions were only made in this case because the man had undertaken a 29-day journey. She said, “We cannot allow unregistered people to visit the shrine. Though, I am a stickler for rules, I relented in this case because the man walked for almost a month to reach here,” she said.Now, 500 pilgrims from outside J&K can visit shrine each dayWith the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi yatra picking up pace, the administration has now increased the number of pilgrims from outside J&K allowed to visit the shrine to 500 per day. A total of 2,000 pilgrims can visit the cave shrine per day. The shrine re-opened on august 16 after a gap of five months. Shrine board CEO Ramesh Kumar said bookings for the Shradha Suman Vishesh Pooja (SSVP) have also commenced online. Accommodations at Bhawan, Adhkuwari, Katra and Jammu have also been opened for the pilgrims. The pilgrims can also avail facilities such as battery-operated vehicles, passenger ropeways and helicopter services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/arduous-pilgrimage-44-yr-old-devout-walks-for-29-days-to-reach-vaishno-devi-from-up/story-tiAuEHP1FjzBmSCTvAiviP.html
06-09-2020||Lucknow||UP jumps to 2nd position in ease of doing business rankings||Uttar Pradesh (UP) has jumped to the second position in the ease of doing business (EoDB) annual rankings that Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal released in New Delhi on Saturday. “UP has jumped from the 12th position in Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) 2017-18 to the second position in BRAP 19. UP has left behind several leading states such as Gujarat, Telangana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra etc in the EoDB annual rankings,” said a spokesman of the state government. UP is second only to Andhra Pradesh (AP).UP has implemented 186 of the 187 reforms suggested by the Union government’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) under BRAP 19. “This year’s exercise was completely based on user feedback. Attaining the second rank indicates that entrepreneurs have been receiving the benefits of these reforms implemented by the UP government under the dynamic leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” the spokesman said. “From May onwards, the state had also started to rank all its 75 districts in the EoDB exercise,” he added.Under state BRAP 20-21, UP implemented 170 out of 301 suggested reforms, he added. The reforms covered several aspects such as labour regulation, online single-window facility, access to information and transparency, land administration, construction permit, commercial disputes etc. Over 20 departments such as Invest UP (Udyog Bandhu), labour, commercial tax, power, stamp and registration, excise, food safety and drug administration, UP Pollution Control Board etc have been an integral part of the reforms, according to the spokesman. UP’s feat is being attributed to the successful implementation of the Nivesh Mitra portal. In two years, Nivesh Mitra received 2,29,936 applications for No-Objection Certificates (NoCs) and 94% were disposed of, the spokesman said. Nivesh Mitra is a dedicated single-window system of the UP government. State industrial development minister Satish Mahana, UP chief secretary (CS) RK Tiwari, infrastructure, industrial development commissioner (IIDC) Alok Tandon and additional chief secretary (ACS) (infrastructure and industrial development) Alok Kumar have lauded the achievement. “The CM has been emphasising on transparency and best practices in business-to-government (B2G) interactive procedures through the use of technology. Our government has been successful in improving EoDB by introducing various IT-driven modules and Nivesh Mitra is one such successful tool,” said Mahana. Tandon said: “EoDB shows that the Nivesh Mitra portal has become an integral part in bridging the gap between industrial demands and expectations from the state government.” Kumar said, “A maximum approval of BRAP 19 reforms and higher user feedback satisfaction record on Nivesh Mitra portal have played a critical role in achieving this milestone. Initiatives such as a monthly ranking of all 75 districts on EoDB parametres shall further help in creating a conducive business environment in UP.” Neena Sharma, chief executive officer (CEO) of Invest UP, said the feat reflected Nivesh Mitra’s acceptance in the industry. The portal has received 18,120 grievances from entrepreneurs to date, of which 17,752, or 98%, have been resolved. Yogi hails state’s achievementHT Correspondentletters@hindustantimes.comLucknow: CM Yogi Adityanath has congratulated investors, entrepreneurs and the public for Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) second position in the ease of doing business (EoDB) annual rankings.In a press statement, the CM said UP has been playing a key role in making Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat campaign a success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-jumps-to-2nd-position-in-ease-of-doing-business-rankings/story-dAJ3hAkA1hgphJZ1er5LzL.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Youth Akali Dal worker shot dead in Bathinda||Unidentified gunmen shot dead Youth Akali Dal (YAD) worker Sukhman Preet Singh Sandhu (25) at the Thandi Sadak locality in Bathinda on Saturday night.A resident of Lal Singh Basti locality, Sandhu received a gunshot wound to the head.He was shot at from close range, likely from the right side as he rode his scooter on his way to meet an unidentified person, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurjeet Singh Romana said on Sunday.Police recovered a .32 bore pistol, which Romana said belonged to Sandhu, and an empty shell casing from the crime scene.Sandhu had left home to hand over cash to an unidentified person after he received a phone call, police quoted his mother as saying.Later the body was recovered from Thandi Sadak. It has now been kept at the Bathinda Civil Hospital mortuary, Romana said.Police are scanning the mobile phone data of the deceased.“Sandhu’s handset has face recognition feature and after the crime we are unable to open it. Phone call data is being scrutinised to identify the callers who had contacted the deceased last night,” Romana added.The DSP said Sandhu was facing at least two criminal cases, including one under 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, registered last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-akali-dal-worker-shot-dead-in-bathinda/story-TnvZ2MrrMAqHMsIAacUkMJ.html
06-09-2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh expected to pay bills, though voluntarily, in dedicated hospitals||Even as Covid-19 cases surge in Madhya Pradesh by the day, the state government will now expect patients to pay their bills even in dedicated hospitals, though voluntarily, where treatment expenses are being borne by the government, as per a government official. At the same time, the rates at private hospitals have been fixed for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Expenses of treatment in these hospitals will be borne by patients only, as per the state government’s official communiqué. These decisions were taken in a meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, held through video conferencing, to review the Covid-19 situation in the state on Saturday evening. Also Read: Covid-19 updates: Recoveries in India surpass 3.18 mn, recovery rate at 77.32%With regard to the first decision, an official who didn’t want to be named said, “A decision was taken in the meeting that the patients treated at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, many of which are private, will be expected to pay the bills, though it will be left to them whether to pay completely or partially or not to pay at all.” As far as the second decision is concerned, the state government’s official communiqué read, “Private medical institutions will be encouraged to treat Covid-19. Treatment given to Covid-19 patients by private hospitals on or before February 29, 2020, will be as per the notified rate list. Under any circumstances, hospitals will not be able to increase this rate by more than 40%.” Another significant decision, as per the communiqué, read, ‘the process of door-to-door collection of samples will be discontinued. Fever clinics will be developed as the primary source for collecting samples of potential cases. All arrangements for examination and consultation will be made available at the Fever clinic.” Also Read: Covid-19 toll in India crosses 70k-mark“Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that it is necessary to follow and propagate appropriate behaviour required for protection from Covid-19 and to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in urban areas. For this community participation and accountability will have to be ensured. Covid-19 is likely to spread further after lockdown is opened and life gets back to normal. To check this, it is necessary to work on a positive and potential patient-centered strategy,” said the official release. It was also decided in the meeting that not more than 100 persons would be allowed to gather at a place for Durga Pooja, and all precautions will be taken against Covid-19. As per the health department’s bulletin released on Saturday night, the Covid-19 case tally rose to 71,880 with 1,636 new patients identified in the past 24 hours in the state. There have been 1,543 deaths in the state so far. As many as 54,649 patients have been discharged from hospitals, while there are 15,688 active cases in the state at present. The number of Covid-19 tests went up to 1,494,848 on Saturday with 25,389 tests conducted in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/covid-19-patients-in-madhya-pradesh-expected-to-pay-bills-though-voluntarily-in-dedicated-hospitals/story-rhOnfY0vS0d2CypkdPWz1K.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB team at Rhea’s residence, asks her to join drugs probe||A team of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials reached actor Rhea Chakraborty’s house in Santacruz at around 8.30am on Sunday to serve her a summons asking her to join the agency’s investigation into allegations of drug abuse in connection with a case linked to the death of her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput. “An NCB team has gone to serve summons to Rhea Chakraborty. She has to join investigation today. It depends on her if she wants to come on her own or she can come with the team,” said deputy director KPS Malhotra. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Showik and Rhea have never consumed drugs, says their lawyerThe agency till now has arrested seven people, including Rhea’s brother, Showik; Rajput’s house manager, Samuel Miranda; and a member of his personal staff, Dipesh Sawant. Sawant was arrested at 8pm on Saturday night. On Sunday, he was remanded in NCB’s custody till September.Showik and Miranda were arrested on Friday under sections 8 (c), 20 (b) (ii), 27A, 28 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and remanded to NCB custody till September 9. The agency, in its remand application, has not mentioned about any drug seizure or any other material evidence either from Showik or Miranda. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB arrests late actor’s domestic help in MumbaiThree more persons, Zaid Vilatra, Kaizan Ebrahim and Abdel Basit Parihar, were under arrest for alleged drug peddling. NCB, in its remand application, said Showik had to be confronted “with other accused who are in its custody to uncover the linkages of network which indulged in selling and purchasing drugs”. The agency also claimed that it needed Showik’s custody to confront him with Rhea and Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-team-at-rhea-s-residence-asks-her-to-join-drugs-probe/story-XRLbDjxiUuDEIjwBHaAmgK.html
06-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal police review security in former Maoist stronghold after stray incidents||Virendra, the director-general of police (DGP) in West Bengal, on Saturday reviewed security arrangements in parts of the state’s western districts that used to be a hotbed for subversive activities carried out by the members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) until 2011. These districts are located along Bengal’s border with neighbouring Jharkhand and Odisha. Last week, the Centre withdrew the Central security forces deployed in the region to counter the Left-wing extremists (LW) since there has been no insurgent activity in the past 10 years. DGP Virendra visited Jhargram and West Midnapore districts and held a meeting with Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to review some stray incidents that had come to light of late. On August 15, around a dozen hand-written posters were recovered from a couple of villages located around the Bhulabheda forest. The posters had urged the public to observe Independence Day as ‘kala divas’, or black day. On August 27, a cooking gas dealer had lodged a police complaint, saying a shot was fired outside his house at Belpahari in Jhargram district. Some posters, issuing threats to a local contractor, had surfaced at Banspahari in West Midnapore district around the same time. “No Maoist connection was found in any of the incidents. Police also did not find any evidence of a shot being fired outside the house of the cooking gas dealer. It could be crackers. But we have activated our intelligence network,” said a Jhargram district police officer who did not want to be quoted. “We reviewed the incidents at the meeting. Police will intensify vigil in villages,” DGP Virendra told media persons after holding talks with IPS officers. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar recently hinted that Maoists could be regrouping in the state. “The dangerous head of Maoism is getting visible with support of state actors,” Dhankhar had said at a function organised at the Raj Bhawan to mark the second death anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. Parts of West Midnapore, Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram districts comprise the region where the Maoists had carried out subversive activities between 2009 and 2011. Over 350 civilians, including Maoist leaders and cadres, and more than 50 security personnel were killed in Bengal during that period. Security forces had killed around 80 Maoist leaders and activists. The Maoists were wiped out from Bengal after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) came to power in 2011. Maoist leader Koteswar Rao alias Kishanji was killed in a police encounter the same year. The TMC has recently inducted Chhatradhar Mahato, who was the convener of the Maoist-backed People’s Committee against Police Atrocities (PCPA) during the Left Front regime, into the party’s state committee. He was in prison for 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-police-reviews-security-in-erstwhile-maoist-zone-after-stray-incidents/story-zLVPgHFX7ufOtkXPSVMReK.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Light rain likely in Delhi today, tomorrow||After a night of receiving ‘moderate to heavy’ rainfall, Delhi is now expected to record light drizzle till September 7, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Sunday.Scientists said between September 6 and September 7, Delhi is likely to receive light rain, and after this rainfall in the city will reduce.Also Read: Warmer Arabian Sea led to intense rain in AugustOn Saturday evening, Delhi recorded 15.6 mm rainfall, according to the Safdarjung observatory, representative of the city’s weather.“The monsoon trough has remained near Delhi from September 3. This is the reason the city received light rainfall on Saturday. Apart from this, the day time temperature in Delhi was high, which resulted in thunderstorm activity in Delhi-NCR,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said.Srivastava said a cyclonic circulation passing over northwest Rajasthan also contributed to Saturday’s rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/light-rain-likely-in-delhi-today-tomorrow/story-9on64DH44UzdUDPYCLH1fN.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Don’t be careless, take precaution, Javadekar tells Punekars||Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Pune district and said the next month was crucial to contain the outbreak.He said the coronavirus outbreak containment appeal to people had changed from ‘don’t be afraid, take precaution’ to ‘don’t be careless, take precaution’.NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and state Health Minister Rajesh Tope were also present along with the Union minister for the review meet at Council Hall here.“We will increase antigen tests in containment zones, and soon begin the second round of serological survey with a bigger sample size,” he said.The NCP chief wanted more people to be tested for the virus, while the deputy CM said the inquiry report into the death of a television reporter at a Covid-19 facility here will come in by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-don-t-be-careless-take-precaution-javadekar-tells-punekars/story-kGBGgOPnKyizkV9TzbtKJN.html
06-09-2020||Gurugram||Rainfall leads to waterlogging in parts of Gurugram||Severe waterlogging was witnessed in areas around Civil Hospital in Gurugram on Saturday evening following heavy rainfall.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted “isolated to scattered rainfall with isolated thunderstorm and lightning” in Haryana and some other parts of north India on Saturday.IMD also said on Saturday evening that there would be light to moderate intensity rain over parts of Haryana on Saturday evening.“Thunderstorm with wind speed 20-40 kilometres per hour and light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Jind, Hissar, Jhajjar, Rohtak, Rewari, Nuh, Manesar, Gurugram,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rainfall-leads-to-waterlogging-in-parts-of-gurugram/story-ejrDgIdHh6UfuwuiNpjkcJ.html
06-09-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal reports 3,042 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deaths||West Bengal has reported 3,042 new Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths, taking the total number of cases here to 1,74,659, as per the State Health Department on Saturday. Out of 1,74,659 cases, 1,50,801 people have been discharged after recovering from the disease, while 3,510 patients have succumbed to deaths. There are 23,390 active cases in the state, it added.Meanwhile, India registered the highest single-day jump of 86,432 new coronavirus cases taking the national caseload past the 40-lakh mark, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.With 1,089 more deaths in the last 24 hours, the cumulative toll reached 69,561.The total case tally stands at 40,23,179 including 8,46,395 active cases and 31,07,223 cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-reports-3-042-new-covid-19-cases-58-deaths/story-OZmbNglw6qlI24yAw6bJHJ.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Missing saroops: Days after being indicted, SGPC ex-chief secy dies of heart attack||Former chief secretary of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, Harcharan Singh, died of heart attack on Saturday, nearly a week after the SGPC panel announced legal action against him in the case of missing Guru Granth Sahib’s saroops. Singh, 75, who stayed in Chandigarh, complained of chest pain in the morning and was rushed to a hospital where he died, said family sources. A former vice-chairman of Punjab and Sindh Bank, he served as chief secretary of the apex gurdwara body from August 2015 to July 2017. His hefty salary of Rs 3 lakh per month had sparked a row following which he voluntarily reduced it to Rs 1 lakh. On August 27, while announcing legal action against Singh, the SGPC executive panel stated that he failed to discharge his responsibilities properly. He did not take any action despite knowing about the tampering of the record, said the SGPC, adding that it pointed towards his involvement. Seeking a probe into Harcharan Singh’s death, SAD (Taksali) spokesperson Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad said he was upset over being targeted by the SGPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-saroops-days-after-being-indicted-sgpc-ex-chief-secy-dies-of-heart-attack/story-RA4NRckBBPC2MYLLZbG1DM.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ease of doing business: At number 19, Punjab among the laggards||Punjab continues to lag behind in the Business Reform Action Plan 2019 (BRAP-2019) rankings representing the performance of states and union territories on ease of doing business. The state has been placed at number 19 in the ranks announced by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) for 36 states and union territories at a virtual event chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Andhra tops, UP no. 2 Andhra Pradesh for the third time in a row has topped in the ease of doing annual business ranking. Registering a jump of 10 places, Uttar Pradesh occupied the second position in 2019 as against 12th in 2018. Telangana slipped to the third position from second in 2018. Though the state officials were expecting a big improvement from the 20th rank the state got in 2017-18, the 19th position has left them disappointed. “The detailed report is still awaited. We will look at areas where improvement is needed,” a senior government official said. The states were ranked on the basis of implementation of business reform action plan in business regulatory areas such as single window system, access to information, labour, environment, etc. Himachal among top 10, Haryana slips to 16th rank In the region, Himachal Pradesh bagged seventh slot in the annual ranking that is aimed at promoting competition among states with a view to improving the business climate to attract domestic as well as foreign investments. Haryana slipped from number three to 16th rank in the latest reportPunjab had implemented 178 of the 187 reforms suggested by DPIIT. The rankings, which were launched by the Centre five years ago to encourage competition among states for improvement in business environment to attract investments, have also given full weightage to the feedback about the effectiveness of the reforms, according to a government release. In 2016, the state had got 12th position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ease-of-doing-business-at-number-19-punjab-among-the-laggards/story-jlgc6QvBXi1HolRFY6PF1N.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, attendants of patients admitted at PGIMER need to produce own Covid reports||The attendants of the patients being admitted at the region’s tertiary care hospital, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), will now need to furnish a report on their Covid-19 status as well.The move comes after some attendants of patients were found infected, which led to spread of infection within the ICU wards.PGIMER director, Dr Jagat Ram, said: “We are testing all those being admitted here, be they from Punjab or Haryana, and many of them are testing positive. But we have found that many attendants have also spread the infection in a few areas.”He added that since it wasn’t possible for them to test all attendants, they will now ask for their Covid-19 reports for them to accompany positive patients. Dr Ram said that this will help them contain the infection in the hospital.Recently, the son of a patient from Himachal Pradesh developed symptoms and later, tested positive. Subsequently, two patients admitted in the same ward also tested positive who had come in contact with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-attendants-of-patients-admitted-at-pgimer-need-to-produce-own-covid-reports/story-YEGAWReIyBafClxwAadE3L.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College witnesses 28% more campus placements this year||Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, has witnessed a 28% increase in the total number of jobs offered during the placement drive this year.A total of 145 companies, including Microsoft, Arcesium, Sales Force, JP Morgan, American Express, Goldman Sachs, Airbus, Texas Instruments, Mastercard and Amazon, have rolled out 461 offers to the students of the 2019-20 batch (as compared to 360 last year). The placement drive will continue till September 30.Eight students have been offered the highest package of ₹42 lakh per annum (LPA) by Microsoft. Last year, five students were offered the same package by the same company. The highest package on offer to the 2017-18 batch was ₹37 LPA.The average package offered was recorded at ₹10.2 LPA, an increase from last year’s 9.4 LPA. Pre-placement offers, too, increased from 83 to 89.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “Earlier, only those students with above 6 CGPA were allowed to sit for placements. This year, all those who completed their academic credits regardless of CGPA could sit for placements as everyone with a degree from PEC deserves to be considered for placements.”Students from the electronics and communication engineering (ECE) and computer science engineering branches got the highest package offers. ECE was able to clinch the ₹42-LPA package, a significant upgrade from last year’s ₹19.96 LPA.The highest package offered to the students of civil engineering was ₹17.5 LPA, an improvement from last year’s ₹10.8 LPA. Meanwhile, the highest package offered to both mechanical and production engineering branches was ₹17.5 LPA and ₹14.0 LPA respectively, a drop from last year’s ₹21 LPA.Coding jobs most in-demandPEC placement in-charge Dr JD Sharma said, “44% of all jobs were related to coding. Core jobs formed 25% of all offers while 13% of the jobs were from the analytics sector.” Consulting, operations and finance were relatively less popular with just 10%, 6% and 2% of all jobs on offers, respectively.Only 14 students excused themselves from placements this year to pursue higher education. In the two previous batches of 2018-2019 and 2017-2018, 36 and 43 students, respectively, had opted to pursue higher studies after graduation.32% jobs went to girlsOnly 32% of the total job offers went to girl students. Mechanical engineering, a branch not very popular among girls, saw just 6% placement among girls. In the electrical engineering branch, on the other hand, 40% jobs were offered to girls. Certain recruiters—RBS, NXP, JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs—specially hired more females for better gender ratio.Virtual placements also heldKeeping the pandemic in mind, 22 companies conducted virtual placements, most of them from the pharma, healthcare, investment banking and insurance sectors. Companies like United Airlines and CollegeDunia, which had earlier revoked their offers due to Covid, also took students on board in separate job profiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-witnesses-28-more-campus-placements-this-year/story-oOjaYx9i8vAneVHgku47bN.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh least business-friendly in India||Chandigarh may boast of being the first planned city of Independent India and educational and political hub of the region, but when it comes to ease of doing business, the Union Territory has shared the bottom rank with seven other states in 2019. The capital of two states has achieved 29th rank, same as last year (2017-18), in the fourth edition of ‘Business Reform Action Plan’ rankings for 2019, released by the Union finance minister in New Delhi on Saturday. Haryana is ranked 16th and Punjab 19th.Chandigarh is tied with Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim and Tripura at the 29th position.Andhra Pradesh has topped the rankings, with Uttar Pradesh at second and Telangana at third positions. Business Reform Action Plan rankings began in 2015 with an objective to introduce healthy competition among states and UTs and thereby attract investments and increase the ease of doing business. Chandigarh achieved 24th rank in the inaugural report, but was placed last in 2016 .Reform parametersThe Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19 contained a list of 80 reforms (187 reform action points) including access to information and transparency enablers, availability of land, environmental registration enablers, obtaining electricity connection, labour regulation enablers, single-window system, environmental registration enablers, land administration and transfer of property and sector-wise enablers.Of the 187 reform points, Chandigarh only implemented nine, and there was no action on the remaining 178. As per the ranking report, the reforms were implemented in some points falling under access to information, obtaining electricity connection, and environment, but the performance was “not good”.Calling the rankings extremely disappointing, Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association of Chandigarh, said: “The administration needs to take concrete steps in consultation with all stakeholder to reverse this situation.”Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said: “The main reason of low ranking was non-implementation of Chandigarh Industrial Policy 2015. Major issues are non-conversion of leasehold industrial plots to freehold and no increase in floor area ratio. The rigidity of rules is leaving no scope for growth and ease of doing in business. Chandigarh’s loss is Punjab and Haryana’s gain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-least-business-friendly-in-india/story-GjSwScM0u8yTvG1dSscLPN.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to conduct final-semester exams from September 17||The final-semester examinations for undergraduate(UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses will be conducted from September 17 onwards, Panjab University announced on Saturday.The practical exams will be conducted online from September 10-15. The roll numbers of the students will be uploaded on the university website on September 12.The UG examinations will be of two-hour duration from 9am-11am. Similarly, the PG exam will be held from 10am-12pm.The question paper as per the date sheet will be uploaded on the university website (www.puchd.ac.in) at 8.30am for students to download. It will also be emailed to chairpersons, directors, and principals who can also share it with the students.After two hours, students will need to upload a scan of the answer book to the source. If for some reason they are unable to submit it online, they can submit it in a sealed envelope at the nearest nodal centre or send by registered mail/speed post.The list of all nodal centres will be uploaded on the university website.Dos and don’tsThe candidate will be required to attempt 50% of the question paper. They will not be asked to attempt any compulsory question. The candidates will solve the question paper from their location on A4 size paper in their own handwriting with a maximum page limit of 12 sheets of which only one side has to be used. The candidate is required to write the roll number, class, paper, course and signature on each sheet.In case the student cannot appear online, a special extra chance will be given to appear in the physical exam as and when the situation improves.The evaluation will be completed within five days of termination of exams, and results will be declared accordingly.Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar has constituted a special monitoring coordination committee, which will be monitoring, on day-to-day basis, technical hurdles, administrative issues and logistics pertaining to online exams. A special dedicated email will be generated by the exam controller office for addressing grievances.A nodal centre will be created where all kinds of facilities related to online conduct/post-conduct exams will be provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-conduct-final-semester-exams-from-september-17/story-ciSRNyXFrAGLPDhU69cSsN.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||No on-demand Covid testing at government-run facilities in Chandigarh||The government-run labs in Chandigarh will not allow on-demand testing of Covid-19.In a fresh advisory released by the Indian Council of Medical Research on Friday, it has been recommended that any individual who wants to get tested should be allowed to do so.On any such decision regarding on-demand testing in government-run labs, UT health secretary Arun Gupta, “It will not be available in government labs, however, private labs can test anyone.” Currently, three private labs are operational in the city.At present, those reporting with Covid-19 symptoms and contacts of confirmed cases are being tested in the three government-run labs through various sampling centres.UT adviser Manoj Parida said in addition to tests being conducted as per requirement, a few random tests were also conducted in city markets, but no one was found infected.“On-demand testing is available in private facilities, while government-run facilities are exclusively for persons with symptoms and exposure to infected persons,” said Parida.UT had earlier allowed private labs to RT-PCR tests for detecting Covid-19 without any prescriptions for a fixed fee of ₹2,000. So far, 34,369 tests have been conducted, out of which more than 5500 have returned positive suggesting a positivity ratio of more than 15%. Experts have called for more aggressive testing along with extensive contact tracing to bring the pandemic under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-on-demand-covid-testing-at-government-run-facilities-in-chandigarh/story-WJ3DwDfBF9pT8TJveHLu4J.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Concerns over aviation ministry move to permit international fliers take Covid-19 tests after arrival to India||Three days after the central government issued guidelines on Wednesday allowing international passengers arriving in the country to get tested for Covid-19 at the entry airport, experts have raised concerns and said that this step would pose a risk of spreading the virus to other passengers who were tested negative before their departure. The central government has said the latest guideline will be implemented on a pilot basis without specifying the time period. Responding to the concerns, Rajeev Jain, additional director general and spokesman, Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA), said, “Our order just talks of facilities available at entry airport and the guidelines followed for transit passengers. Ministries of civil aviation, home affairs or health and family welfare have not discriminated asymptomatic passengers to be treated differently . Experts need to advise if their demand is that the passengers need to be Covid-19 negative before boarding flight or they should be treated separately. Even after testing negative, a passenger may get infected during transit before boarding his/her next flight. Even the World Health Organization’s International Health Regulations (IHR) has not mandated any such requirement for passengers to be made to sit separately from the ones who have got themselves tested before take off. However, further discussions are proposed with health officials and other relevant departments, “ On Friday evening, an aviation safety expert had written to aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, suggesting that tests after arrival should only be allowed in extraordinary situations. The letter written by Vipul Saxena, a former defence pilot and an aviation expert, read, “The order virtually sends message of exemption from RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test 96 hours before boarding at last foreign departure point as the order doesn’t specify under which circumstance a passenger is exempted from the test; this would encourage passengers to deliberately avoid RT-PCR and increase risk of boarding of infected passengers, putting other healthy passengers at risk of getting infection from one who boarded and supposedly positive. The order is also silent about separating such passengers from others and being made to sit separately from other passengers.” Saxena also pointed out that passengers who board the flight without getting tested should be handled separately for in-flight services. “It is requested that the order may please be reviewed and specify a list of exempted instances under which a passenger who could not do RT-PCR may be allowed to board, and also that such passengers are to be allotted seats away from other passengers...passengers without RT-PCR be allowed only under extraneous circumstances and be treated on board as deemed to be infected for the seating arrangements and in flight services etc (sic),” the letter concluded. Allowing international passengers to take onward flights after landing at the entry airport (and thereby avoiding the seven-day institutional quarantine), the aviation ministry on September 2, had issued guidelines for entry airports to conduct the RT-PCR tests for passengers without the negative RT-PCR results of tests they are supposed to take 96 hours within the take off. The aviation ministry had stated that a passenger will be allowed to take the onward domestic flight only if he tests negative and that the result will be given within seven hours. It also directed airport operators to ensure that such passengers are made to wait at one location – where basic facilities such as Wi-Fi, food and washrooms are available – until the test results are declared. However, the guidelines failed to state protocols for the other passengers who booked for onward journey but travelled with an infected co-passenger in their previous flight. Mohan Ranganathan, former instructor pilot for Boeing 737, said, “Going by the recent guidelines, all the other passengers are at a greater risk of getting exposed to the virus. The ministry seems to have thought of the guidelines only after considering the commercial angle to help the airlines and did not think about the risk factors which are a larger issue. Passengers who plan to get themselves tested after landing in India could be carriers and in case any other passenger catches the virus from them, they will transmit it to other passengers on their subsequent flights.” Aviation safety expert Captain Amit Singh said changes in the guidelines should have been issued by the health ministry. “MoHFW (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) issued the revised guidelines on September 2, which clearly stated that the test be carried out prior to boarding. Any change in the guideline must be issued by the competent authority ie. MoHFW itself. Notifications have to be communicated by issuing the Aeronautical Information Publication (AIP) or a supplement thereof, but the MoCA (Ministry of Civil Aviation) did not do so. International regulations (ICAO Annex-9) mandate that a national facilitation committee coordinate all such issues. I am not sure if this committee is in place yet,” he said. Singh further said, “If a passenger tests positive post arrival, there is no standard operating procedure (SOP) for it. Will all 200-300 passengers on the aircraft be quarantined? An established protocol needs to be followed. Passenger safety is compromised the moment a passenger is permitted on board without a confirmation [of test results] as one could easily be spreading the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-days-after-centre-permits-international-passengers-to-undergo-covid-19-test-at-indian-airports-experts-raise-concerns-request-reviewing-the-move/story-o4pELihMvjuexwDXgzegEM.html
06-09-2020||City||2 held for stealing bronze and copper sheets worth ₹14 lakh from godown near Mumbai||Narpoli police officers arrested two people for allegedly breaking into godowns in Bhiwandi and stealing bronze and copper sheets worth Rs14 lakh on August 22. The police have recovered stolen valuables worth Rs7 lakh from the accused, identified as Kamathipura resident Shaitansingh Solanki, 33, and Kalwa resident Farooq Shaikh, 42. During the investigation, the duo also revealed the names of their four aides who are involved in this crime. The accused worked in the metal market at Mumbai and started facing difficulties since the lockdown was imposed in March. “The accused were looking for ways to earn easy money. Solanki came up with the idea to steal materials from godowns. He was aware about copper and bronze sheets stored at the Bhiwandi godown. During the lockdown, he visited Bhiwandi two-three times at night to conduct a recce and then hatched the plan with his other accomplices to steal the materials,” said a officer from Narpoli police station. On August 22, the accused executed stole bronze sheets worth Rs14.27 lakh from the godown owned by Sandip Shaha. Sub-inspector P Suve from Narpoli police station said, “Through CCTV footages and our informers, we could find the accused. We laid a trap and arrested them from Mumbai and recovered the stolen goods worth Rs7.18 lakh on Friday. These accused were planning to sell the materials to a dealer. We are yet to arrest the other accused and are investigating further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-held-for-stealing-bronze-and-copper-sheets-worth-14-lakh-from-godown-near-mumbai/story-6531x7MGQcxcplMiQYhUxM.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||1.47 lakh junior college seats up for grabs in Mumbai Metropolitan Region MMR after Round 1 of admissions||As the first general admission round for first-year junior colleges (FYJC) ended on Friday, more than 1.47 lakh seats remained vacant in institutes across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). While a total of over 2 lakh seats are up for grabs in MMR for online admissions this year, in the first round, only 53,383 students confirmed their admissions. Those who are yet to confirm their admissions will now be eligible for the coming admission rounds. However, more than 7,000 students who have failed to confirm admissions in the college of their first preference, despite being allotted a seat they will not be able to participate in the regular admission rounds, as per the rules laid down by the education department. Meanwhile, after Round 1, the most number of seats were taken for the commerce stream, followed by science, arts and vocational education. Despite a large number of seats remaining vacant, prominent colleges said that most of their seats have been filled in the first round itself. “We have completed majority admissions in the first round. There will be few seats left for the coming rounds,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal at VG Vaze College. A principal from a south Mumbai college said, “Cut-offs for the second and the third list are not likely to go down as there are too many high scorers this year. At least in prominent colleges, there might be only a marginal dip in the next lists,” said the principal. As per the data shared by the education department, over 25,000 students have already confirmed their admissions under the minority, management, in-house and other quotas. The second regular admission round began on Saturday and the second merit list will be declared on September 10. Students who wish to exit from the admission procedure and apply for diploma programmes or other courses can withdraw their admissions from the portal. Those who wish to secure a seat can click on the ‘proceed to admission’ option on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-47-lakh-junior-college-seats-up-for-grabs-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-mmr-after-round-1-of-admissions/story-KzshuUukEu7iWzXMCsa3tK.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Don’t let IT cell of a political party use your Twitter handle: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut tells actor Kangana Ranaut||The spat between actor Kangana Ranaut and Shiv Sena continued on Saturday with party MP Sanjay Raut telling her to use her own Twitter handle and not tweet through the IT cell of a political party. “One needs to use their Twitter handle themselves, instead of allowing the IT cell of a political party to do so,” said Raut. The Shiv Sena and Congress have alleged that the BJP IT cell is behind Ranaut’s Twitter account. BJP, however, has distanced itself from the actor’s remarks, saying it “does not subscribe to anti-Mumbai or anti-Maharashtra sentiments”. The controversy erupted after Ranaut on Thursday tweeted that Raut had issued an “open threat” to her to not return to the city if she had no faith in the Mumbai Police. “Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader has given me an open threat and asked me not to come back to Mumbai, after Aazadi graffitis in Mumbai streets and now open threats, why Mumbai is feeling like Pakistan occupied Kashmir?” she had tweeted. The comment sparked a political row, with Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday saying “she has no right to stay in Mumbai”. The minister had said, “Mumbai Police is compared to Scotland Yard. Some people are trying to target Mumbai Police. After her uncalled-for remarks over Mumbai Police, she has no right to live in Maharashtra or Mumbai.”On Saturday however, he refused to comment on the spat. “I don’t want to say anything on the issue,” he said.Deshmukh also evaded a question on Raut’s demand that the home ministry should act against Ranaut for casting aspersions over the credibility of Mumbai Police. Meanwhile, Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik reiterated on Saturday that Sena women workers will slap Ranaut when she arrives in Mumbai and he was willing to go to jail for this act. The National Commission for Woman (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday had demanded the arrest of Sarnaik. Sarnaik said that Ranaut had insulted Maharashtra with her PoK remarks. “This issue concerns the pride of Maharashtra and there will be no compromise on this front. Ranaut needs to apologise for her PoK remarks or else she will face the music from our women’s wing,” said Sarnaik. Sena workers held demonstrations across the state and key leaders continued their tirade against Ranaut. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), which had on Friday threatened to file a case against Ranaut for “anti-national activity”, on Saturday called the whole controversy as diversionary tactics adopted by the Sena for covering its government’s failure to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. “She [Kangana] is just hungry for publicity and I cannot understand why so much importance is given by the Sena to her. This seems to us a tactic to divert attention from its mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande. (Inputs from Pradip Kumar Maitra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-let-it-cell-of-a-political-party-use-your-twitter-handle-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-tells-actor-kangana-ranaut/story-MELzjH2XvfjudTrpwHkPOO.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB arrests late actor’s domestic help in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant on Saturday night as part of its investigation into allegations of drug abuse in the case of Rajput’s death. Earlier on Saturday, actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda were remanded in NCB custody till September 9. NCB’s remand application did not mention seized drugs or any other material evidence. Confirming Sawant’s arrest on Saturday, deputy director KPS Malhotra said, “At 8pm, Dipesh Sawant has been arrested. He joined the investigation yesterday at 10pm. He was subjected to interrogation and confrontation with Showik, Samuel Miranda, Zaid and Kaizan.” Zaid Vilatra and Kaizan Ebrahim are both under arrest for allegedly peddling drugs. Sawant was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and will be produced in court today. Malhotra said NCB’s investigation was ongoing. On Saturday, NCB produced Showik, Miranda and Ebrahim before a magistrate court. They have all been charged under the NDPS Act. In its remand application, NCB said Showik had to be confronted “with other accused who are in its custody to uncover the linkages of network which indulged in selling and purchasing drugs”. The agency also said it needed Showik in custody to investigate the allegations against Rhea Chakraborty and Rajput’s manager Dipesh Sawant. NCB said Showik was also needed to verify the financial trail. According to NCB, during questioning, alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar, who is also under arrest, had said he procured drugs from Vilatra and Ebrahim, on Showik’s instructions. He also claimed Showik had told him to give drugs to Miranda. Sources in NCB said Showik’s phone messages include one in which he asked Miranda to pay Vilatra ₹10,000 for 5 gm of ‘bud’, a curated form of marijuana. A senior officer from NCB said, “We conducted searches at Miranda’s and Showik’s homes and collected some evidence. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and details of the evidence can’t be revealed at the moment.” Meanwhile, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned Rajput’s sister Meetu Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-arrests-late-actor-s-domestic-help-in-mumbai/story-UI6g0O2wGKgftOeAiIxxMI.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Showik and Rhea have never consumed drugs, says their lawyer||Senior counsel Satish Maneshinde, who is defending both actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, spoke to HT about the allegations against his clients. Maneshinde described the multiple investigations as “a complete witch hunt” and said there was no truth in Rajput’s family’s allegation that Rajput’s mental health had deteriorated due to his relationship with Chakraborty. According to Maneshinde, the relationship between Rajput and Chakraborty collapsed because Chakraborty had insisted he follow the treatment suggested by five doctors in Mumbai whom Rajput had met and consulted, which Rajput had stopped arbitrarily. Here are selected excerpts from the interview with Maneshinde: “Showik Chakraborty’s sister Rhea Chakraborty first met Sushant Singh Rajput at Yash Raj Films in 2013. Thereafter, they became close friends sometime after April 13, 2019. She was living with him till June 8, 2020. She was asked by Rajput to leave the house with bag and baggage as there was disagreement on the line of treatment of Sushant’s mental health as he was insisting on taking the illegal and unwarranted prescription sent by his sister Priyanka.” “The doctor who had prescribed the medicines [for Rajput, to Priyanka] had not consulted Sushant ever and there was no online consultation or tele-medicine possible. It is not in conformity with pandemic rules. The WhatsApp messages between Sushant and Priyanka are clear on the point.” “He [Rajput] had stopped the line of treatment and was not taking prescribed medicines. He was, on the contrary, consuming psychotropic drugs regularly. Doctors had advised him to desist from drug consumption and instead take the prescribed medicines. Thereafter [after Chakraborty was asked to leave Rajput’s home], except one WhatsApp message each on Showik and Rhea’s phones from Sushant, there was no further contact. Rhea had blocked Sushant on her phone.” “As a matter of fact, five doctors who were consulted by Sushant have made statements to police that Sushant was under their treatment and that he had drug issues. These statements are in public domain. Five housemates and help have made statements to Mumbai Police that Sushant consumed drugs and that it was much before Rhea came in his life. All of them were already living with Sushant and were hired much before April 13, 2019.” “Both Showik and Rhea have never consumed narcotic / psychotropic drugs. They are both ready and willing to take a blood and drug test.” “Sushant, as a matter of fact, was consuming drugs much before Rhea came in his life. Rhea knew that he was consuming drugs even on the sets of [the film] Kedarnath when it was being shot in 2016-2017.” “Sushant was suffering from the age of 20, according to the doctors. It is not a minor incident as suggested by Sushant’s family lawyers. His sister gave medicines illegally. His mother also suffered from several mental health issues, which contributed to her early death. The arguments of Sushant’s family and lawyers that after Sushant met Rhea, his mental health deteriorated is utterly false.” “Mental health unlike Covid-19 can’t be afflicted by a person coming into contact with the other. It is primarily a genetic problem with which Sushant was suffering [from] for several years and there is evidence to the effect that he was being treated for the same since the year 2013 and that his family was well aware of it.” “It is a case of a person who consumed it [drugs] against medical advice and requests from Rhea. He enjoyed it [drugs] in his lifetime and died. Instead Showik and Samuel Miranda are being prosecuted after his death, which is unwarranted.” “The allegations [of abetting Rajput’s suicide and siphoning money] are false and make no case. Mumbai Police and Enforcement Directorate have conducted forensic audits into the financial affairs of Sushant and Rhea, and they have found no discrepancy in the accounts of Sushant or Rhea. The involvement of multiple agencies and parallel investigations is a complete witch hunt. There’s no flow of a single rupee from the account of Sushant to Rhea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-rhea-chakraborty-s-lawyer-described-multiple-investigations-as-a-complete-witch-hunt-against-her/story-6HGlp235gf6qQKpF2r8n9J.html
06-09-2020||City||UP jumps to 2ndrank in ease ofdoing business||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh has jumped to the second position in the ease of doing business annual rankings that union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and union commerce minister Piyush Goyal released in New Delhi on Saturday. “Uttar Pradesh has jumped from the 12th position in Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) 17-18 to the second position in BRAP 19, taking a remarkable leap of 10 positions. UP has left several leading states like Gujarat, Telangana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra etc behind in this ease of doing business ranking,” an official spokesman said. Uttar Pradesh is behind only Andhra Pradesh now.Uttar Pradesh has implemented 186 of the 187 reforms suggested by the union government’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) under the Business Reform Action Plan 19. “This year’s exercise was completely based on ‘User feedback’. Therefore, attaining the second rank across the country indicates that entrepreneurs have been receiving the true benefits of these reforms implemented by the government of Uttar Pradesh under the dynamic leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” the spokesman said. From May 2020 onwards, the state had also started to rank all its 75 districts according to ‘district-wise ease of doing business,’ the spokesman said. Under State BRAP 20-21, UP has already implemented 170 out of 301 suggested reforms, the spokesman said. UP’s reforms covered several areas such as labour regulation, online single-window facility, access to information and transparency, land administration, construction permit, commercial disputes and inspection enablers. Over 20 departments such as Invest UP (Udyog Bandhu), labour department, commercial tax, power, stamp and registration, excise, food safety and drug administration, UP Pollution Control Board and many others have been part of the journey on the way to reforms, according to the spokesman. UP has been able to achieve this top position by successful implementation of the Nivesh Mitra portal. In a period of two years, Nivesh Mitra received around 2,29,936 applications for No-Objection Certificates (NoCs). Out of them, Nivesh Mitra had already disposed of 94% applications to grant NOC/licenses to entrepreneurs, the spokesman said. Nivesh Mitra is a dedicated single-window system of the UP government. Industrial development minister Satish Mahana, chief secretary RK Tiwari and infrastructure, industrial development commissioner (IIDC) Alok Tandon and additional chief secretary (infrastructure and industrial development) Alok Kumar have lauded the achievement. “The chief minister has been emphasising on transparency and best practices in business-to-government (B2G) interactive procedures through the use of technology. Our government has been successful in improving the ease of doing business by introducing various IT driven modules, Nivesh Mitra is one such successful tool,” said Mahana. Tandon said, “EoDB (ease of doing business) is testimony to the fact that the Nivesh Mitra portal has now become an integral and efficient part in bridging the gap between the industrial demands and expectations with the government machinery.” Kumar said, “Maximum approval of BRAP 19 reforms and higher user feedback satisfaction record on Nivesh Mitra portal have played a critical role in achieving this remarkable milestone for Uttar Pradesh. Initiatives like monthly ranking of all 75 districts on EoDB parameters shall further pave a path in attaining many more heights for UP towards creating a conducive business environment.” Neena Sharma, CEO of Invest UP, said the achievement reflected Nivesh Mitra’s acceptance in the industry. The Nivesh Mitra portal has received 18,120 grievances from entrepreneurs till now, of which 17,752 have been successfully resolved at an outstanding resolution rate of 98%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-jumps-to-2ndrank-in-ease-ofdoing-business/story-AyxNhnPVDtHaOBwdvTxMPO.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Crawford market accident: Accused undergoes psychological testing; claims epileptic attack ahead of crash||Sameer Ali Sayyed alias Diggy, 45, the accused arrested for killing five people in a road accident near Crawford market on August 31, was recently subjected to testing at Sir JJ Hospital, for his psychological profile. Police aim to ascertain if Sayyed has any psychological disorder or had an attack at the time of the accident.Documents pertaining to the investigation, of which HT has a copy, state that a series of psychological tests on Sayyed had already been conducted on September 2 and 3. The medical officer at the hospital has again called him on September 7 for a follow-up.The investigating officer in the case, police inspector Kalim Shaikh on Friday informed a local court that the police are also probing if the accused had knowingly caused the accident and killed people. For this, it is important to know what was his psychological condition was at the time of the crash.Police are also checking if there was any terror angle to the incident. However, nothing concrete has surfaced so far.On August 31, Sayyed was heading towards Carnac Bunder when he lost control of his car and ended up ramming into people on the street and footpath, opposite Cafe Janata restaurant, near Crawford market. Five people were killed, and three others were injured as a result. One of the survivors is still critical and is also undergoing treatment for Covid-19.Prior to the accident, Sayyed was involved in another accident in the jurisdiction of Sir JJ Marg police station on May 12. In that accident, his car had rammed into another vehicle, and a woman had sustained minor injuries. Police had then booked him and seized his vehicle. He later bought a second-hand car.In his statement to police, Sayyed said that he had an epileptic attack ahead of the August 31 accident. However, he reportedly concealed details about his health complications from doctors at the time of his medical check-up following his arrest after the May 12 accident.City traffic police has already decided to revoke the accused’s driving license, as they believe he is not physically and mentally fit to drive safely. Police believe if Sayyed’s driving license is not revoked, he may drive dangerously in the future and may put the lives of citizens at risk.Sayyed, a scrap dealer by profession, was not drunk at the time of the accident. Police are awaiting a report from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Kalina to ascertain if he was under the influence of any drug.He has been booked under sections 304(B)(2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 ( mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 183 (speeding) and 184 (driving dangerously) of Motor Vehicle Act.On Friday Sayyed was remanded in police custody till September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crawford-market-accident-accused-undergoes-psychological-testing-claims-epileptic-attack-ahead-of-crash/story-uTJ0ySv8EYsWdXgOv6udUL.html
06-09-2020||City||Veterans target Azad for silence on their expulsion||Lucknow: A group of ‘expelled’ veteran leaders of the Congress, including former ministers, ex-MPs and former youth wing chiefs, have now targeted senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and others for remaining mute spectators when action was taken against them in Uttar Pradesh. Azad is one of the 23 senior Congress leaders who asked for a full-time, effective, “active” and “visible” party president. In their letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, a group of about 10 ‘expelled’ party leaders from UP said, “It is strange that leaders, who have been occupying positions of responsibility and have been raising the issue of the freedom of expression and internal democracy in recent days, remained mute spectators (when action was taken against us).” They urged her to ‘re-establish’ communication with the party workers. While they did not name Azad directly in the letter, a member of the group spoke about him and the others. Former MP Santosh Singh, who has signed the letter on behalf of the 10 expelled leaders, said, “Senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad called me to know about the circumstances that led to action against us. Azad agreed the state party (unit) is not authorised to take any action against us as we are all elected members of the AICC (All India Congress Committee). Only AICC’s central disciplinary committee can act against AICC members on the recommendation of the state disciplinary committee.” Singh is also a former chief of the party’s youth wing. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee’s (UPCC) disciplinary committee had expelled a group of about 10 senior leaders when they held a separate get-together to celebrate birth anniversary of former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru in Lucknow on November 14, 2019. “The expulsion of former minister Ram Krishna Dwivedi was withdrawn a few days before his death,” said Vinod Chaudhary, a former youth wing chief and member of the state party’s disciplinary committee. In the letter, the group also said, “Under guidance of the Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru and thereafter Mrs Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi have built the Congress and the nation, upholding democratic values and ideals. No one can deny the strength the Congress has gained under your leadership following the same values, ideology and principles….But this is ironical that a sense of confusion and non-communication prevails among the Congress workers in view of the manner the party is running or being run…” “History is witness to many defeats. But the Congress workers have never been so hopeless and disappointed as they are now. This is an issue of concern for the Congress for sure…..Those who are not even the primary members of the Congress have been working at the party’s headquarters (in states) on a financial package.…. These people now are reviewing the loyalties of such committed and dedicated (leaders) who fought for the Congress from 1977-1980 and have occupied important positions in the party representing it in the Lok Sabha and the state assembly,” they said. “It was under pressure of such leaders that 10 leaders were expelled overnight from the Congress, like daily wage workmen, in an undemocratic, unconstitutional and unjust manner,” they said. Urging Sonia Gandhi to re-establish’ communication with the party workers, the leaders said if she deviated from this responsibility, the “Congress will become history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/veterans-target-azad-for-silence-on-their-expulsion/story-AwK6F7geyayHALhI9iHAVJ.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Migrants not entitled to benefit of reservation in Maharashtra: Bombay HC||Migrants as contemplated under the Maharashtra Caste Certificate Act, 2012 are not entitled to the benefit of reservation in Maharashtra, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) held.The bench of justice SV Gangapurwala and justice Shrikant Kulkarni said the 2012 enactment and the rules framed under it, provide a cut-off date and the persons who have entered Maharashtra on or after the cut-off dates, are treated as deemed migrants, who are not entitled to the benefit of reservation.These observations came while the bench dismissed the petition filed by Aruna Kudmulwar, president of Kundalwadi municipal council in Nanded district, seeking review of the order passed by the bench on June 16, 2020, by which her petition was dismissed by the bench.She had approached HC challenging October 22, 2018, the decision of the caste scrutiny committee at Nanded, refusing to verify her caste claim that she belonged to Manner Kapu caste, a nomadic tribe (NT-B) in Maharashtra.The caste scrutiny committee had refused to verify her claim on the ground that she was not entitled to the benefit of reservation in Maharashtra for being a ‘migrant’ in terms of the 2012 enactment - having migrated to Maharashtra after the cut-off date provided in the rules made under the Act.Kudmulwar, who was born and brought in Hyderabad, had shifted to Maharashtra after her marriage to a Kundalwadi resident in May 1987. She claimed that she belonged to Munnur Kapu caste, which was included in NT-B category (part of OBC) in Maharashtra only in January 2014, and since she had migrated to the state much before the date, she was entitled to the benefit of the reservation provided for the caste. Before January 2014, the caste was included in the special backward class.HC on June 16 dismissed her petition and confirmed the decision of the caste scrutiny committee. The bench said a perusal of the Caste Certificate Rules, 2012, demonstrates that the deemed date for Special Backward Classes is October 13, 1967, and that for Nomadic Tribe is November 21, 1961.The bench added that under the rules, a person who has migrated to Maharashtra on or after the deemed date is termed as ‘migrants’ and they are not entitled to the benefit of reservation in the state, and dismissed Kudmulwar’s petition, as she shifted to the stare much after the cut-off dates.She had sought review if the June 16 order contending that she cannot be termed a “migrant” since she has been residing in the state for over 30 years and since competent authorities are authorised to issue caste certificates to persons domiciled in Maharashtra - persons residing in the state for 15 years or more, she could not have been denied the benefit of reservation.The argument, however, failed to impress upon the bench which rejected the review petition noting that the petitioner, having migrated to Maharashtra after the cut-off date, was a migrant and this not entitled to claim the benefit of reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrants-not-entitled-to-benefit-of-reservation-in-maharashtra-bombay-hc/story-39tLYy8G6szVewBUMaCvPM.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||After rain reduces, Mumbai faces heat; pollution levels rise||Over the past two days, the city witnessed hot and sultry conditions in the absence of rain since the beginning of the month. On Saturday, a thin layer of smog across the city skyline indicated a rise in pollution with a sepia-coloured sky during sunset.The city and suburbs witnessed recurrent flashes of lightning and loud claps of thunder between 1.30am and 3am on early Saturday morning. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted the possibility of thunderstorms in the evening or late night for Saturday and Sunday.On Saturday, the maximum temperature in the suburbs was 33.6 degree Celsius, 2.5 degrees above normal, while it was 33.8 degree Celsius on Friday. In south Mumbai, the maximum temperature on Saturday was 33.2 degree Celsius, more than 2 degrees above normal. Humidity level was 90% during the day which dropped to 85% by the evening.The pollutant-measuring indicator — air quality index (AQI) for PM2.5 pollutant or particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause ailments — was 78 which falls under ‘satisfactory’ category (51-100). This was the first time this monsoon that AQI was in that category as the levels had been below 50 throughout Covid-19 lockdown between March 21 and May 31 followed by monsoon onset on June 14. However, during the unlock phases there were isolated days when AQI was recorded in ‘satisfactory’ level. Saturday’s AQI was collated from all 10 locations where System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) monitors air quality.Bandra-Kurla Complex was the most polluted location with an AQI of 215, falling under ‘poor’ category, followed by Worli at 149 (moderate). Remaining eight locations in the city either recorded ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ levels. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. An AQI of 73 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Sunday.Researchers said drop in rain activity, increase in vehicular pollution and low wind speed led to higher pollution.Meanwhile, rumbling thunder on early Saturday morning sounded like mini explosions, citizens said on social media adding that they were awakened by the weather activity. However, there was hardly any overnight rain. Between 11.30pm and 8.30am, the suburbs recorded 6.9mm rain while 15mm was recorded in south Mumbai. No rain was recorded on Saturday. “On early Saturday morning, radar images showed very intense echoes over Alibag that slowly moved over Mumbai leading to thunder and lightning with light drizzling, but it faded soon. Similar weather is expected on Saturday and Sunday night or Monday early morning,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.After record-breaking rain in July and August, September began with a break in rain activity with less than 20mm rain over the first five days. “Hot and sultry conditions combined with land heating during the day are allowing tall cloud formation by evening or late night. Rain activity is likely to be subdued over the next week for Mumbai,” said Hosalikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-rain-reduces-mumbai-faces-heat-pollution-levels-rise/story-3Br7vH358MU5E2enpFqwpN.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||In a grim first, Maharashtra sees over 20,000 Covid-19 cases in a day||Another day, another unsettling coronavirus disease (Covid-19) record for Maharashtra as it reported more than 20,000 cases inside 24 hours for the first time. Saturday saw the state recording its highest single-day spike for a fourth day in a row as 20,489 fresh infections took the tally to 883,862. The surge has led to a rise in active cases at 220,661, accounting for 24.96% of the total infections.The state’s positivity rate (see graphic)— a crucial metric that reveals the fraction of tests that return positive — coupled with an increase in new cases,, paints a concerning picture of the virus’s spread. Maharashtra also breached the 26,000 mark for Covid-19 casualties after 312 more deaths were reported, of which, 190 were in the past 48 hours, another 90 were from last week, while the remaining 32 were from the period before that, health officials said. The toll is now 26,276.The high number of casualties continues to be a concern for state authorities as it is still the highest in the country. In the past five days, the state has recorded 1,693 deaths, which is an average of 338 a day. In August, the average was 309 deaths per day, while in July, June, May and April, it was 282, 187, 59 and 14 deaths per day, revealed statistics. State health minister Rajesh Tope said patients tended to wait till late before coming to hospitals for treatment, which has contributed a significant number of casualties. “Of the total deaths, 30% were within 24 to 48 hours after admission. This indicates they came too late for treatment. By that time their lungs were badly affected and doctors found it difficult to save their lives,” Tope said on Saturday.This is the reason why the state government said it is focusing more on IEC (information, education and communication) on the pandemic. With more awareness among people, a certain number of deaths can be avoided by means of early detection and treatment, the minister said. He said that the symptoms of Covid-19 can also be determined if pneumonia patches are found on the chest X-ray of a person. If the same person starts getting proper treatment immediately, then his or her life can be saved. “Considering this, all rural hospitals will now be connected to a centre based in Pune where experienced radiologists will examine chest X-rays on a real-time basis and advise patients as well. This will help in reducing Covid deaths,” the health minister said in Pune.To cope with the shortage of doctors, they are also assigning 2,000 medical post-graduate students on Covid duty as soon as their ongoing examination process is completed, he added.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 2.97% on Saturday. A comparison with Gujarat shows the difference between the neighbouring states is minimal. On Friday, Gujarat’s CFR was 3.03% with 3,076 deaths (101,533 cases), according to statistics shared by the state medical education department.Public health expert Sanjay Pattiwar said delays were the major reason for such a high toll. “We are noticing that people are either not testing after getting symptoms and don’t get admitted on time even if they tested positive,” said Pattiwar. He said apart from Mumbai, most areas lacked health infrastructure to cater to such type of serious patients which has resulted in high toll in the state. “Another major reason for high toll is those who tested positive are afraid to be admitted and hence delay happens,” he added.The surge in cases continues to be a challenge for the state. In the last five days of this month, it has recorded over 91,010 cases and its per day average number of cases came to 18,202. According to state health department, Maharashtra recorded 15,765, 17,433, 18,105 and 19,218 infections on September 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively.The health officials are wary that the surge in cases is likely to increase further as a fresh round of relaxations has come in to effect from September 2. The state has allowed inter-district travel by removing a mandatory condition of e-pass required for travelling and allowed private passenger buses, mini buses to operate. It has allowed to increase the workforce in government and private offices to between 30% and 50%. It has further allowed hotel, lodges and guest houses to operate at their full strength.Mumbai has recorded 1,737 cases, which is much higher than the daily number of cases seen in August, which ranged between 900 and 1,400. Its tally reached 153,712. Of them, active cases are 22,978.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-grim-first-maharashtra-sees-over-20-000-covid-19-cases-in-a-day/story-xqhjvLPpy0YtNdXZzTT9DI.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Four dead, three injured in Kinnaur road mishap||Four youngsters were killed and three injured after an SUV plunged into a deep gorge in Kinnaur district on Saturday.Anshuman Kumar, 20; Om Krishan, 19; Sikander Singh, 20; and Aadesh Kumar, 20, were killed on the spot while Paras Singh, 20, Ankit Chauhan, 19, and Nikesh,19, all residents of Sangla were injured.The victims were on their way to Sangla from Raksham when the driver lost control of the vehicle near Kharogala on the Sangla-Chhitkul link road. The injured were rushed to the Community Health Centre (CHC), Sangla, from where they were referred to the Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Khaneri, Rampur Bushahr. The bodies of the deceased were handed over to their relatives after postmortem.Kinnaur superintendent of police (SP) SR Rana said an investigation was underway. The district administration gave ₹10,000 as compensation to the families of the deceased and ₹5,000 to those injured in the mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-dead-three-injured-in-kinnaur-road-mishap/story-1YTBh6Yn7ZVLOGJlTWY8xJ.html
06-09-2020||City||17-year-old drowns while performing stunts in Gundle dam at Boisar||Sanjit Kanojia, 17, a resident of Ostwal Wonder City in Maan village of Boisar, drowned in Gundle dam built over the Surya river on Friday evening. His body was found on Saturday late afternoon by the local fire brigade.Kanojia and his two friends decided to take a dip in the dam filled with rain water and the trio also attempted some stunts such as diving straight into the waters. While the other two teenagers reached the surface, Kanojia went missing in 30-foot-deep water. He reportedly hit a stone, got injured and was swept away, said senior inspector Pradip Kasbe of Boisar MIDC police station. “The other two teenagers contacted their parents, who informed us. We sent a fire brigade team to the spot to look for Kanojia. The search operation, however, was paused on Friday after it got dark. The operation continued on Saturday and Kanojia’s body was found in the afternoon,” said Kasbe.He added that the body has been sent for post-mortem and the report is awaited while a case of accidental death has been registered.In July, a youth drowned while swimming at the same spot. Locals have placed a demand to the irrigation department to put up warning boards at the spot so as to prevent future tragedies, said Naveed Shaikh, a local resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-drowns-while-performing-stunts-in-gundle-dam-at-boisar/story-frWvtT76eeE0y1G7q6xLSM.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Two men including a cop arrested for assault and robbery in Mumbai||Two persons including a 40-year-old police constable were arrested by Mulund police for assaulting and robbing an Indian Railways official on Friday. According to Mulund police, constable Anil Chintamani Supe and his friends including 37-year-old Rohan Rajendra Mahadik, an Indian Railways official, had organised a party at an under-construction building site at PK Road in Mulund.Supe and Mahadik in an inebriated state had an argument over ₹5,000 which led to Supe hitting Mahadik. Supe’s other friends — Sahil Muchhalu, Kishor Gaikwad and Jay Jadhav alias Deva — joined him and assaulted Mahadik with wooden sticks. Supe then forcibly took ₹5,000 from Mahadik’s pocket, said police officers.Mahadik later approached Mulund police station. “We registered an offence under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Supe and Gaikwad. Muchhalu and Deva are still wanted in this case,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-men-including-a-cop-arrested-for-assault-and-robbery-in-mumbai/story-zHl8k4bQVDE4k6lHd09bON.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Cong MLA, IAS officer among 188 test positive, Himachal tally reaches 7,018||Senior IAS officer and additional chief secretary (industries) Ram Subhag Singh, and Congress legislator from Nalagarh assembly segment Lakhvinder Rana are among 188 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal on Saturday, taking the state tally to 7,018. As many as 71 cases were reported in Solan, 28 each in Una and Kangra, 22 in Hamirpur, 12 in Mandi, 11 in Sirmaur, nine in Chamba, five in Shimla and one each in Kullu and Kinnaur. With this, there are 1,978 active cases in Himachal, while 4,941 people have recovered. Officials said that the Nalagarh MLA’s son has also contracted the virus. Authorities have started contact mapping and the source of the infection is being traced. Ram Subhag had travelled to Delhi earlier this month. He was home quarantined after his return and was attending official meetings through video-conferencing. His wife is also an ACS rank officer and authorities have started their contact mapping. The vice-chairman of the Himachal Pradesh Water Management Board has also tested positive. Among the 28 people who have tested positive in Kangra, five are from Jawali sub-division and five from Shahpur. Most of the infected persons are primary contacts of covid patients. One patient has no contact or travel history. In Shimla, a member of the catering staff to be deployed at Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha for the monsoon session has tested positive. Meanwhile, the health department has sent samples of 300 cops, who will be deployed at the Vidhan Sabha, for covid testing. In Sirmaur, a gynaecologist and a lab technician posted at Paonta Sahib Hospital have tested positive. Two cops have also caught the infection. With 1,639 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 1,031 cases have been reported till date. Sirmaur has 1,024 cases, Hamirpur 640, Una 581, Chamba 484, Mandi 447, Shimla 389, Bilaspur 381, Kullu 291 and 103 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported eight Covid-19 cases till date. DEATH TOLL RISES TO 52 The death toll in Himachal went up to 52 on Saturday with one death each being reported from Mandi, Una, Kangra and Solan. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said that an 82-year-old man, who was suffering from fever and shortness of breath was admitted at Palampur civil hospital on Friday. He was tested positive for Covid-19 and succumbed to the contagion on Saturday morning. A 64-year-old man, who was tested positive on September 2, died in Una. He suffered a heart attack and died while being shifted to Dharamshala covid care hospital. Solan has recorded maximum 14 deaths due to Covid-19 so far, followed by 10 deaths in Kangra. Eight people have died in Mandi, five in Hamirpur, four each in Shimla, Una and Chamba and three in Sirmaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-mla-ias-officer-among-188-test-positive-himachal-tally-reaches-7-018/story-m1GBEpp5iaHoDXFxzKNtYI.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Educationists allege ‘unfair’ distribution of academic branches in J&K SCERT||Educationists and academics in Kashmir have raised concern over what they termed was the ‘unfair’ distribution of academic branches between Kashmir and Jammu divisions in the newly established State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), which was inaugurated by Lieutenant Governor, Manoj Sinha through electronic mode on Saturday.Early this month, the school education department established SCERT in J&K by issuing an order to merge the two existing State Institutes of Education (SIE) at Jammu and Kashmir divisions and instead creating two Divisional Offices at the respective capitals of the two divisions. There will be a central move office as well as the government created a post of director by upgrading one post of joint director of the school education department.A government spokesman said that the SCERT will function on the lines of NCERT, the apex institution of educational research and training at the National level.Though the academic branches have been distributed equally between the two regional offices of SCERT, the academics in Kashmir say that the distribution is not fair as more important branches which help in framing the basics of the education have gone to Jammu division. “The formation of SCERT is a good step. It has centralized the process and will help in research but there is no fair distribution of academic wings. Most important branches have gone to Jammu putting Kashmir valley at a disadvantage,” said Mohammad Rafique Rather Jammu and Kashmir Teachers Forum chairperson .In Jammu division office, the academic branches which will be dealt are: 1) Curriculum development and studies; 2) Population education, girls education, early childhood care education and education for all; 3) Education in social science, humanities and commerce; 4) Teacher education.On the other hand, the Kashmir division office will handle: 1) Educational research, survey and assessment; 2) Education in science and mathematics; 3) Health & physical education and guidance & counseling; 4) Inclusive and special education. Five more branches have been assigned to both the divisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/educationists-allege-unfair-distribution-of-academic-branches-in-j-k-scert/story-XlLESTPIYKAoXjDTPyBheK.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Eight IAS officers get additional charge of various posts in HP||The Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday handed over additional charges of various posts to eight Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers with immediate effect due to home quarantine and isolation period of some officers during the Covid-19 pandemic.Additional chief secretary (forests) Sanjay Gupta will be holding the dual charge as additional chief secretary (printing and stationery, animal husbandry and fisheries). Additional chief secretary (home, vigilance and food, civil supplies and consumer affairs) Manoj Kumar will hold the dual charge of additional chief secretary (industries) while Prabodh Saxena, who is the additional chief secretary (MPP, power and NCES) will also be chairman of Himachal State Electricity Board, Shimla.Principal secretary (agriculture and tribal development) Onkar Chand Sharma will hold dual charge of principal secretary (Jal Shakti Vibhag and horticulture) while secretary (ayurveda and YSS) Ajay Kumar Sharma will also be secretary (social justice and empowerment), Shimla.Managing director, HP State Civil Supplies Corporation, Shimla, Manasi Sahay Thakur will also hold additional charge of director, food civil supplies and consumer affairs. HPMC managing director Debasweta Banik will hold additional charge of director, horticulture and special secretary (forest and industries) while managing director, HP Handloom and Handicrafts Development Corporation, Shimla, Neeraj Kumar will also be special secretary (industries).Officers under home quarantine/isolationAdditional chief secretary (MPP, Power and NCES) and chairman, HP State Electricity Board Ltd, Shimla, Ram Subhag Singh, additional chief secretary (social justice and empowerment, printing and stationery, animal husbandry and fisheries) Nisha Singh, secretary (Jal Shakti Vibhag and horticulture) and director, horticulture, Amitabh Avasthi and special secretary (industries) and director (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs) Abid Hussain Sadiq are under home quarantine/isolation period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-ias-officers-get-additional-charge-of-various-posts-in-hp/story-PfotXfxqotBFYDqTcPhmDL.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||YAD seeks Punjab health minister’s dismissal for mismanaging Covid pandemic||The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) on Saturday demanded the resignation of health and family welfare minister Balbir Sidhu, claiming that he had completely mishandled th covid-19 situation in the state. YAD state chief Parambans Singh Banti Romana claimed, “After the clear cut indictment of the Congress government by its own health advisor for mishandling the covid-19 crisis, the health minister should be dismissed. The CM should also come out of hiding and take urgent steps to restore the trust of the people in government health services,” he said. Addressing a digital press conference, Romana also announced that the party would launch a programme aimed at encouraging plasma donation by calling upon youth activists who had recovered from covid to donate their plasmas to pandemic patients. “The high fatality rate coupled with the Congress government’s failure to upgrade and maintain health services was reason enough to dismiss the health minister. However, the report of the state’s health advisor KK Talwar is an indictment of the chief minister also because the expert has also pointed out the state’ inability to manage containment zones, which was the job of the state police, which reports to the chief minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yad-seeks-punjab-health-minister-s-dismissal-for-mismanaging-covid-pandemic/story-AeO4Xqke57En8VdMeXYA8N.html
06-09-2020||City||Health teams in field to hold camps in Ludhiana||Already a Covid hotspot, the Union ministry report that Ludhiana is among the top 15 districts in the country with high Covid caseload and fatality rate has set alarm bells ringing for the health authorities, who have announced a series of steps to control the surge in infections. Ludhiana has so far recorded 11,477 cases and 486 deaths. The district is recording an average of 12 to 15 deaths on a daily basis and over 200 positive cases every day. As many as 5,000 samples are being collected on a daily basis in the district. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they will be holding medical camps in all the areas in the main city during the next three weeks. “We will be examining patients in the camps who are above 30 years of age and are comorbid. Besides, we will be examining all the persons above 40 years of age irrespective of their comorbidity status,” he said. Bagga said they have fanned out 30 teams across the city to hold such camps over the next three weeks. He further added that they will be further increasing sampling. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the number of samples being tested daily in Ludhiana has now crossed an average of 5,000 per day as against 1,000 earlier. “We want more people to get tested but due to rumours, some people are no coming forward for testing. It is my appeal to the people to get tested at the slightest of symptoms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-teams-in-field-to-hold-camps-in-ludhiana/story-iV8KV43KLwVk5ZiXpMdgjN.html
06-09-2020||City||Search on for 3 bike-borne car snatchers in Gurdaspur||A manhunt has been launched in Gurdaspur and neighboring districts after three-bike borne men looted a car, a Hyundai Verna, at gunpoint near the Bariar bypass on the Amritsar-Pathankot highway about 3:45 pm on Friday. Gurpreet Singh, of Kot Mohan Lal village, along with a friend was waiting in the parking of a restaurant on the highway for their order, when the robbers struck. Gurpreet’s friend said, “Three persons, who were on a motorcycle, came to the parking. Two of them alighted and asked Gurpreet to give them the car key. When Gurpreet resisted, one of them opened fire from he was carrying, and the bullet hit Gurpreet’s leg. They fled, taking the car and the bike they were on.”Gurdaspur SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said the crime had been recorded in a closed circuit television (CCTV) installed outside the restaurant. However, the faces of accused are not clear in the footage, he said.He ruled out the possibility of a terror angle, “It appears the accused are robbers. However, our investigation is on is and our search operation is also on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/search-on-for-3-bike-borne-car-snatchers-in-gurdaspur/story-a7kTn1xrfkGOGskwIU4ctO.html
06-09-2020||City||Aspiring teachers protest, seek jobs in Sangrur||Members of Unemployed B.Ed TET Pass Teachers Union held a protest march in the city of state school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Teachers’ Day on Saturday. The aspiring teachers raised slogans against the state government and sought jobs.Sukhwinder Singh, state president of the union, said around 3 lakh new students had been enrolled in government schools during this academic session and 15,000 posts of master cadre are required in Punjab. “We demand that 10,000 posts of teachers should be filled immediately and the age limit of recruitment should be increased from 37 to 42,” said Randeep Sangatpura, press secretary of the union.Another body of teachers, the Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), has opposed the Nation Education Policy 2020 and initiated a campaign ‘Teachers reject NEP’. Members of this organisaton held a protest across parts of the state. DTF members also termed the New Education Policy (NEP) as being pro-privatisation, centralisation, commercialisation and saffronisation. “The new education policy sidelines democratic, multicultural and scientific values and even represents mythology as history,” a joint statement from the teachers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aspiring-teachers-protest-seek-jobs-in-sangrur/story-Gt02AHTqCABXdym3cQ2SVI.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Sans human intervention, flowers of Kaas plateau bloom in the bosom of nature||Kaas Plateau Reserve Forest, locally known as “Kaas Pathar” (plateau of flowers), may have turned into a sea of blooming flowers in the absence of human intervention because of the Covid lockdown restrictions, according to botanists and environmentalists.Pune-based botanist Kanchanmala Gandhe said that the virus situation has had a positive impact on conservation of rarest of rare species in the region and would lead to revival of nature at the biodiversity hotspot. Kaas, located 140 km from Pune in Satara district in western Maharashtra region and home to varieties of flowers, is a world heritage site declared by the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO).The reserve forest is still out of bounds for visitors as the district administration and the forest department are yet to a take a decision on permitting tourists in the area. Tourists, nature lovers and students visit the plateau during the flower blooming season from August to October. Authorities imposed many measures to protect the nature spot after it became a part of a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site in 2012.Ecologist Madhav Gadgil, who headed the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel formed in 2010, said, “Commercial developments in the form of hotel constructions and ecotourism affected the rich biodiversity of Kaas plateau. There has been a huge rush of people to this sensitive area in the guise of ecotourism and it has triggered commercial activities in the Western Ghats, followed by construction activities like hotels and other infrastructure which has defeated the purpose of protecting the green cover and habitat protection of the plateau.” Gadgil said that there is a need to strengthen acts like Biological Diversity Act of 2002, which empowers local bodies like panchayats to take appropriate steps for conservation. The participation of locals comprising Adivasis and forest dwellers is of crucial importance in carrying out sustainable development in the area. “Currently, the government has taken control over the area and Adivasis and locals, the original stakeholders, have been left out in the sustainable development process,” he said. Gandhe said, “The colour of the plateau changes with season as many flowers, including rare wildflowers, bloom throughout the year. It is natural that the bloom will last for longer period this year because of the Covid restrictions and one can look forward to more varieties of flora in the coming season. Nature comes to its original state if there is no disturbance. The plants will flower with full bloom this time and next year too. Pink balsams, blue utricularies and yellow smithias are in full bloom during monsoons. Kumudini (lotus flower) blossom during October and November.”“As the number of Covid-19 cases in Satara and its surrounding villages is on the rise, giving permission to visitors to visit Kaas is not in public interest. The authorities have not taken any decision on allowing visitors to the plateau,” S Pardeshi, range forest officer, Kaas Pathar, Satara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sans-human-intervention-flowers-of-kaas-plateau-bloom-in-the-bosom-of-nature/story-Eofn9r4n0h5kiiSc06VOEP.html
06-09-2020||City||74 conferred with state award on Teachers’ Day||As many as 74 teachers and education department officials were conferred with the state award during a low-key event at Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology here on Saturday.Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla presented award certificates to four Patiala teachers during the function, while the remaining 70 teachers were honoured through video-conferencing.Lauding the efforts, Singla said teachers are the biggest contributors to the development of any country, adding that government school teachers have been working tirelessly to improve the standards of education in the state.“Due to their hard work and dedication, Punjab has registered around 15 percent growth in enrolments, which is the state’s highest ever growth in admissions in the history,” the minister said.This year, government schools have outshone private schools and performed better in the examination results, Singla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/74-conferred-with-state-award-on-teachers-day/story-CDQq8Uy7ZN5Cpg1Eq3pkbK.html
06-09-2020||City||Filming himself drinking in police uniform costs Ludhiana-based actor dear||Recording a video in a police uniform while drinking in the open landed an actor in soup, as he was arrested on Friday for maligning the image of police.The accused has been identified as Kulwant Singh Dhillon, 50, of MIG Colony, Sector 32, Chandigarh Road.Sub-inspector Satbir Singh, SHO at Division Number 7 police station, said after the video appeared on social media, they swung into action, traced Dhillon and arrested him.In the video, Dhillon is seen dressed as a cop and pouring a drink in a glass placed atop the bonnet of his SUV, before gulping it down.During questioning, he revealed he was a businessman and also a small-time actor, with some telefilms to his credit.Police are investigating where he procured the uniform.He has been booked under Sections 177, 269 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/filming-himself-drinking-in-police-uniform-costs-ludhiana-based-actor-dear/story-8cCYELvIgBbbb1953qzYlJ.html
06-09-2020||City||2 fire at businessman with airgun in Panvel; cops look for clues on CCTV||Two men opened fire with a pellet airgun at a businessman’s car in an attempt to rob him in Panvel, on Thursday night. No one was injured in the incident. According to the Panvel police, the incident took place at around 8pm in Pushpak Nagar area. The complainant Sunil Gadekar, 36, a Panvel resident, who owns a shipping and logistics firm in Kamothe, was heading to look at a plot. He stopped his car in the Pushpak Nagar area to attend a call from his friend. In the meantime, two men on a bike stopped next to his car. “The pillion-rider walked up to him and aimed a gun at him. The window on the driver’s side of the vehicle was partially down when the accused told him to hand over his money. When the man threatened to shoot him, Gadekar challenged him to fire,” said an officer from Panvel police station. The man then stepped back a few paces and shot at the backseat window. The windowpane was damaged in the firing, but Gadekar was unhurt. However, scared with the gunshot, Gadekar started his car in a bid to flee from the spot. The shooter then attempted to snatch the car key, during which, the remote control attached to the keys broke. Gadekar then tried running from there, said police. The bikers followed Gadekar for a few metres but abandoned the chase when he entered the service lane of the highway. Officer said the attempted robbery seemed to be random as the men may have been on the lookout for targets along the stretch. “Based on the preliminary investigation, it appears the accused had initially planned to scare him into paying by brandishing the airgun. We have found broken pellets of airgun from inside the car. We have made a sketch of the accused based on the complainant’s description and are also checking the CCTV footage for leads,” said Rahul Sonawane, assistant inspector at Panvel city police station. The accused who shot at Gadekar had worn a face mask and donned a cap. The Panvel police have registered a case of attempted armed robbery against the unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-fire-at-businessman-with-airgun-in-panvel-cops-look-for-clues-on-cctv/story-p8Os5IeGuMODplEmCkaw5J.html
06-09-2020||City||Central health institutes stay away from Punjab govt’s Covid care plan||Two Centre government-run healthcare institutes in Bathinda and Ferozepur continue to stay away from Punjab’s Covid management plan even as the south Malwa region has witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases in the last fortnight.Punjab is expecting a huge spike in coronavirus cases in September. Officials say central institutes should have voluntarily offered their infrastructure and manpower to fight against the pandemic as per their capabilities. But both institutes do not figure on district administration’s emergency plans.Till Saturday, seven districts of the south Malwa region crossed 11,000 confirmed cases that was one-sixth of total 60,000 cases from Punjab.Bathinda leads with over 3,000 cases, followed by 2,294 in Ferozepur. Mansa has the lowest number of positive cases at 779. There has been a surge in number of positive cases since the past 20 days. Bathinda reported 1,742 cases after August 15.After assuming office as the first executive director of the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Bathinda, Dr DK Singh had said on July 6 that coronavirus testing will commence within 10 days. The institute had reportedly secured all necessary approvals from the central government to work as a Covid-19 facility. Also, the institute had announced to start level-2 Covid care facility with 30 beds. But none of the two projects has started yet.Medical superintendent Dr Satish Gupta, who is in home quarantine, said he can comment on starting testing and Covid care facilities on Tuesday.Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said AIIMS may start 20-bed care facility from next week, but there is still no clarity how much time it will take to roll out Covid testing.Ferozepur has an 85-bed hospital managed by the railway ministry. It is originally meant for the railway employees posted in Ferozepur division comprising of several districts of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.A district official said the railway hospital was informally approached for Covid management but they did not respond.Railway hospital officials said they have not been given a nod from the central railway authorities to chip in with Punjab health department for Covid management plan.“The railway hospital stopped admitting patients for the last several days and even the staff members falling sick for various ailments, including suspected Covid cases, are sent to the Ferozepur district hospital,” said a doctor requesting anonymity.Chief medical superintendent Dr Ranjana Sehgal, who is also in home quarantine, said the hospital is not attending Covid cases.Ferozepur civil surgeon Vinod Sareen said the railway hospital works independently and the health department has no input about the medical facilities they have.“District authorities are roping in the private hospitals whereas the central government’s institutes are not volunteering to handle Covid cases. Bathinda and Ferozepur parliamentary constituencies are represented by Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal, both Akali leaders, and they should push the case with the Centre to strengthen pandemic management mechanism,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-health-institutes-stay-away-from-punjab-govt-s-covid-care-plan/story-MUfJhym1c17Za1e41mbH8O.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Next 2-3 months crucial for Mumbai, says CM Uddhav Thackeray during Covid review meeting||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that the next two-three months are going to be crucial for Mumbai as daily cases have again gone up. Many festivals are also lined up, for which proper planning needs to be made till the year-end. The CM had called for two meetings to review the Covid-19 situation in the city with officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), including ward officers.Thackeray said that a maximum number of new cases are being reported from housing societies and high-rises – contrary to the previous situation when slums made up most of the hot spots. Indicating a rise in cases, he also said that the health infrastructure needs to be augmented in the city. “We have successfully controlled the situation in Dharavi and Worli; we were praised for the efforts, but now we have work with more vigour. The daily infections were in the range of 1,000-1,100 cases for quite some time, which led us to believe that the city had reached its peak in Covid cases. However, since the last two days, cases have increased to 1,900 daily, which means we have to face the challenge for another two-three months,” Thackeray said during his interaction with BMC officials.He said that the ‘chase the virus’ initiative helped control the spread. Daily infections have shifted base from slum areas, and now 80-85% of infections are from housing societies, high-rises and upscale areas. “We can provide 5,000-6,000 additional beds in the city, but for the future, health facilities need to be augmented,” Thackeray said.He also stressed the need for aggressive contact tracing, saying this has to be increased to 30 people against one Covid-19 positive person, from the current norm of 20 people. Also, all high-risk contacts must be tested within 48 hours. The state has reported a few cases in which recovered patients are again experiencing health issues. The CM has directed BMC to set up post-Covid treatment facilities. “We need to see if a recovered patient is experiencing health issues because of Covid-19 or because of the treatment,” he said.Thackeray informed that the state government is starting its door-to-door survey – ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ – from September 15. The survey aims to identify every citizen for influenza-like illness (ILI), severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), and citizens with comorbidities. The state will inspect a total of 2.25 crore families during the survey that will be conducted in two phases — September 15 to October 10 and October 12 to 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/next-2-3-months-crucial-for-mumbai-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-during-covid-review-meeting/story-2JofEXWwLYqyYTAoo25d6O.html
06-09-2020||City||Greater Noida police book four for obscene act outside shopping complex||Noida: Four persons were booked on Friday night for allegedly indulging in obscene acts outside Sector Beta Plaza in Greater Noida. The suspects – two men and two women – are residents of the Surajpur area. They had come to the shopping complex for dinner after which the incident took place, the police said. Sub-inspector Rekha Chaudhury said a police team was patrolling the area when some locals informed them that some youths were allegedly involved in obscene activities at a public place. “The police team found four persons – two men and two women – standing near a stationary car. Their acts were creating nuisances to the local people. The four were brought to the police station for questioning,” she said.Sector Beta 2 police registered a case against them under Section 294 (any obscene act in any public place) of Indian Penal Code. “The suspects, in their early 20s, are students of a local private college. They were issued challans and released after warning. The police have seized their car found from the spot,” said Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO, Sector Beta 2 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-police-book-four-for-obscene-act-outside-shopping-complex/story-qvCfxOirhnzLKNftMTduIN.html
06-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai airport to test international fliers if no Covid-19 negative result 96 hours before flight||The city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport will soon begin testing international passengers for Covid-19 on arrival, if they have not tested negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours of travelling. The airport authority has floated a tender, inviting private laboratories to conduct these tests. On September 2, the ministry of civil aviation issued a notification to all states to undertake Covid-19 testing of international passengers at the entry airport. Passengers can choose between the regular real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, which takes more than eight hours to deliver results; or GeneXpert, which gives results within 30 minutes. The cost of the tests will be borne by passengers. “Any international passenger who arrives at Mumbai airport without RT-PCR negative report and needs to take a connecting flight will have to undergo the test. Such passengers will be given the option of booking their test online,” said an officer from Airport Health Authority (AHO). If the passenger is found Covid-19 negative, the airport will stamp the passenger’s hand and they will have to self-quarantine till the given date. In case a passenger tests positive for Covid-19, they will be institutionally quarantined in the city. Last week, the airport floated a tender, seeking labs approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research to apply for the initiative. Approved labs may open Covid-19 testing kiosks in the airport. As per sources, three labs have applied so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-to-test-international-fliers-if-no-negative-result-96-hours-before-flight/story-jzXsgFNX7Eyz8lo7YhF9tM.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Woman alleges harassment by cops, police call allegations false||The video of a woman,18, in which she accused at least four police personnel of misbehaving with her and harassing her inside a park in east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar went viral on Instagram with over 15,000 users watching it. The Delhi Police on Saturday afternoon released a statement, describing the woman’s allegations as “false”. In the statement, the police said that woman and her friend, 19, had “assaulted” a shopkeeper, Nitin Jain,37, because he had brushed past the couple inside the park while walking on Thursday evening. Police also said the father of the 19-year-old man, who was with her in the park, admitted that his son had assaulted Jain and settled the matter that day. Initially, none of the two parties (Jain and the couple) filed a complaint but when the woman’s video was widely circulated on social media, Jain approached the police on Saturday and gave his complaint regarding Thursday’s incident, police said. “We are yet to receive any complaint from the couple or their families. Jain has given his complaint,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma. In the 14 minutes and 38 seconds video, the woman has alleged that she was walking in the park with her friend when an unidentified man overpowered them and held them hostage. She says that they both pushed the man to set themselves free. She alleged that a policeman, who was in plain clothes confronted them, made videos, and passed derogatory remarks. “..They became aggressive and assaulted my friend with sticks and belts. I was also hit while saving my friend... my friend’s parents arrived...they both started shouting at me saying why I was in the park so late in the night...,” the woman says in the video. The police in their statement, however, said that the accused constable was patrolling Lal Quarter market when Jain approached him and alleged that he was assaulted by a couple in the park. “...the constable rushed to the park where the couple started arguing and abusing him. They even pushed him on multiple occasions. The constable called his senior to the spot. The couple hurled abuses and also physically engaged with the policemen. The woman also threatened to lodge a false complaint against the police staff,” the police said in the statement. Police said the father of the woman’s friend reached the park, apologised for his son’s behaviour and had settled the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-alleges-harassment-by-cops-police-call-allegations-false/story-0ABOkJiXJXdjtcgmuq5rEN.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Another Covid casualty: Students union elections in DU and JNU||Come September, and universities and colleges in the national capital would usually gear up for the high-stakes students’ union elections in Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University. Hoardings and pamphlets would appear on campuses and campaign slogans would be painted over walls. This year, however, the Covid-19 crisis has inevitably delayed the process.Last year, the Delhi University students’ union (DUSU) election was conducted on September 12 and the polls for Jawaharlal Nehru University students’ union (JNUSU) was held on September 7. Jamia Millia Islamia – another central university in the capital – does not have an elected students’ union since 2006 when it was disbanded. The matter is currently sub-judice.“It is further recommended that elections be held on a yearly basis and that the same should be held between six to eight weeks from the date of commencement of the academic session,” state the Lyngdoh Committee recommendations, which formulate the guidelines for conducting student elections in universities.Dean of Students’ Welfare at DU, Rajeev Gupta, who oversaw the election process last year, said, “Students’ union elections are not a time-specific thing and they are related to admissions. We used to follow a particular calendar. This time admissions are going to start sometime in October and so everything will start once they are complete.”The existing unions in both the central varsities will complete a year this month. In the absence of a newly-elected student body, the question remains over what happens to their tenure. “I think till the time the newly-elected union doesn’t join office, the existing union can continue,” Gupta said.Across universities, the new academic session generally begins in the July-August period. However, the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown delayed the process of admission for first-year students in all courses in DU and JNU. Admissions are yet to be conducted in JNU, which conducts entrance tests for all its courses. In DU, the admission process is currently underway and is expected to be completed by October.Classes for other students, however, have already begun or are in the process of starting soon in these universities. While DU already started the semester for second and third-year students from August 10, JNU is in the process of conducting provisional registrations for the monsoon semester and is expected to start online classes soon.Asked about the gap between the commencement of the academic session for the two groups of students, Gupta said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has caused an unprecedented situation, the solution to this also has to be an unprecedented one. I doubt if anybody has a discreet or clear answer on these queries at this point.”JNU Registrar Pramod Kumar too said there has been no discussion on the subject so far. “The institute hasn’t even opened yet. We will carry out the necessary processes for the student’s union election only once things normalise in the university,” he said. “The current registration process for the next academic session is also provisional so that we can just start the online classes for students willing to attend.”DUSU president Akshit Dahiya said, “Since we are students’ representatives, it is our responsibility to look at various issues within the community during a pandemic. Our tenure usually continues till admissions and doesn’t end till the next session begins officially. Even once the admission process is completed and classes begin, the university will have to look at how it will conduct the elections.”JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said, “During a pandemic, students’ issues need to be represented, which is why an elected students’ body is required. As new semester has not begun, and the process of ongoing semester is still pending, the current union will continue till free and fair elections are held as per Supreme Court order on Student Union Elections & JNUSU Constitution once the new academic session begins and campus reopens properly.”Elections for JNUSU and DUSU have always been significant in university spaces. Several political leaders like Arun Jaitley, Prakash Karat, Sitaram Yechury and Kanhaiya Kumar were earlier members of the students’ bodies in these universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-covid-casualty-students-union-elections-in-du-and-jnu/story-QDNf3G9AWbxO1kNklF7yUK.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police map burglary-prone areas in capital||If you live in Civil Lines, Greater Kailash, Hauz Khas or Lutyens’ Delhi chances of burglars breaking into your house are less as compared to the rest of Delhi, suggests a police survey which has mapped different city zones based on the cases of burglaries reported from there. According to the survey, Nihal Vihar, Samaipur Badli, Nangloi and Bawana are the most burglary prone areas. The study was conducted by the crime branch unit of the Delhi Police last month. A team of investigators from the unit analysed 1,269 cases of burglary reported in Delhi till August 15 to divide the city into red, green, blue, and white zones, with red representing the most vulnerable areas and white the least. Senior police officers described it as one of a kind study to identify crime patterns, loopholes in security apparatus, and suggest area-specific solutions to bring down number of cases. According to crime data available on Delhi Police website, 3,026 cases of burglary were reported in Delhi last year. The report was discussed in a video-conference meeting at police headquarters last Saturday. According to a copy of the report, seen by HT, Nihal Vihar, Samaipur Badli, Nangloi and Bawana -- industrial belts in the city -- have reported more than 20 burglary cases each this year  Next is the green zone, which comprises Laxmi Nagar and Shakarpur in east Delhi, Tilak Nagar in the west and Shahdara in the north-east Delhi among others. These areas reported up to 19 cases each this year. Areas such as Paschim Vihar east in west Delhi and Neb Sarai in south were classified in the blue zone where 11-15 cases each were reported. Localities in white zone, three cases each, included Civil Lines in north Delhi, New Friends Colony in south-east Delhi and Hauz Khas in south Delhi, besides most police station areas in the Lutyens’ Delhi. An officer, who was part of Saturday’s meeting, said, “We have identified the problem areas. This was the first step. It was an extensive study of each case. We are speaking to market associations and residents groups to join hands with us and fix this problem. We will ask them to install CCTV cameras or get more security guards in the factory/industrial areas.” “At our end, we will set up police posts in some areas and increase patrolling in others. In some of the colonies such as Laxmi Nagar or Rohini, the residents can also come together and install CCTV cameras, which will act as a deterrent. The aim is to bring the cases to zero. We will also rework the deployment of police control room vans, accordingly,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.Bhanu Pratap Mehta, president of Rohini Joint RWA Forum, said thefts and burglaries were a major problem in the area and they fear it would increase in the backdrop of “people losing their jobs/businesses in the pandemic”. “We have been holding meetings with police. It has been a few months since CCTV cameras have been installed in some of the colonies and for the remaining the work is going on now. The residents are worried that with the coronavirus pandemic taking a toll on people’s livelihoods, incidents of crime may go up but hopefully with the cooperation of the police, we will be able to sail through this,” Mehta said. The study has also identified the type of place within the zones where the burglars struck. The report shows that in 694 burglars struck in houses, followed by shops (273 cases), 71 offices and 66 factories, among other places categorised for the purpose of the study. The officer added that the police stations in red and green zones will microscopically analyse the pattern in their area. The focus would be on checking the lanes, where there are no street lights, CCTV cameras. The timing and patrolling pattern of police vans will also be analysed. A second police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the study suggests that besides other factors the nature of area (whether residential or industrial) and population also play a part in determining the level of safety. “For example, Hauz Khas is relatively smaller and has less population than say Bawana. Also, in places such as Civil Lines and Greater Kailash, the residents welfare associations employ security and individual houses too have private security guard. This helps in overall policing,” he said. “Industrial areas and markets are relatively isolated and have fewer people on the streets after sundown. Plus, there is a problem of streetlighting,” he explained. Former Delhi police’s deputy commissioner of police, LN Rao, who has worked in the police force for three decades said the study is a step in the right direction. “It is good that police are analysing the problems and patterns of crime. Studies like this have multiple benefits. Based on the patterns, the police can intelligence (and crack down on the criminals). This is what most corporate houses do while dealing with a problem. I am optimistic that it will lead to good results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-map-burglary-prone-areas-in-capital/story-aJOE7vTlJorhQiAYktFySL.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||At least 10 Covid-19 cases reported from Delhi lower courts and high court||At least 10 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the last week from different court complexes and the Delhi high court. Five of them were reported from Saket courts, one each from Rouse Avenue courts and the Karkardooma courts and three from the Delhi high court. HT could not independently verify if the cases were a result of the courts starting in-person hearings last week. Five benches of the high court and one-fourth of the courts in each of the seven district courts had started physical hearings from September 1 on a rotational basis. Until then, the courts were working virtually through video conferencing. Advocate Dhir Singh Kasana, secretary, Saket Bar Association, said three typists, an additional public prosecutor and a staffer at the photocopy department at the Saket courts tested Covid-19 positive. “We have been maintaining all norms and have also reduced the number of typists. But five reported positive at the Saket Courts Complex. We are taking all further precautions so that the number of cases does not increase,” Kasana said. A circular issued by district and sessions judge Sujata Kohli, Rouse Avenue District Courts, on Friday said the judge who tested positive, and those who came in contact with the judge, was advised to take the necessary precautions.At the high court, HT has learnt that three court officials working in the courts of three different judges, tested positive this week. HT has reliably learnt that some of them have mild symptoms and have quarantined themselves. Before opening the courts for in-person hearings, detailed standard operating procedures and rules were put in place for lawyers and litigants, with entry into the premises restricted to just one advocate from each side per case. Advocate Manish Bhadouria, member, Shahdara Bar Association, said the footfall has increased at the Karkardooma Courts Complex since in-person hearings began. He said even though the rules do not allow the entry of litigants, except when necessary or on specific orders, clients are coming to meet lawyers and they are being allowed in for the convenience of all parties concerned. “We have to allow litigants or clients entry on many occasions as per the need of the case. Also, clients want to personally meet and discuss their case with lawyers.This is also a matter of our income, which has been severely hit during the lockdown period,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-least-10-covid-19-cases-reported-from-delhi-lower-courts-and-high-court/story-GDwtLp10uBXfU7t0wfWKQL.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||UV light disinfection, foot pedals for lifts: Delhi Metro to bank on tech push for safe ride||A lot has been happening behind the closed doors of the Delhi Metro for the past five-and-a-half months -- the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) was utilising the time to experiment with new technology that would make travel safer and operations more efficient once services resume on September 7 (Monday). DMRC managing director Mangu Singh said the Delhi Metro was trying out “tech friendly” ways to ease the commute and ensure safety of passengers. The Metro has remained since March 22, three days before the nationwide lockdown, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, was imposed on March 25.In the first few days, the Metro will operate in two shifts of four hours each -- from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm. It will start full-fledged operations, through the day and on all routes, from September 12.From ultraviolet (UV) lights for disinfecting surfaces to using CCTV cameras to monitor work in construction sites and installing touch-free foot pedals in elevators, the Delhi Metro has chalked out a detailed plan for its reopening. The DMRC also was holding regular video meetings with transportation experts from across the globe to discuss best practices of running a mass transit system during a pandemic. Singh said the Delhi Metro is in talks with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to develop the use of UV disinfection technology to sanitise surfaces that frequently come in contact with commuters, especially on the station premises and on trains, he said. “Some of the measures that we have taken in view of the pandemic is that instead of using chemical disinfectants, we are in talks with the DRDO to develop a UV disinfection technology, which can be used to thoroughly sanitise common area touchpoints. Till the time the Covid-19 pandemic lasts, maintaining a hygienic system for passengers will be our ultimate aim,” Singh averred. Unlike chemical or water disinfection, UV disinfectants provide rapid and effective elimination of harmful bacteria and viruses that are present on any surface, making this method of cleaning the safest, especially for a mass transit system.Christian Zollner, University of California, United States, who has co-authored a study that was released in April on the large-scale efficacy of the use of UV disinfection said the light can be used on protective equipment (PPE) gear, surfaces, floors, and within the HVAC (heating, ventilation and air-conditioning) systems. “Many technological advances are needed for the UV LED to reach its potential for efficiency, reliability and cost-effectiveness,” said Zollner, whose work centres on advancing deep ultraviolet light LED technology for sanitisation and purification purposes. Apart from that, the Metro is also strengthening its internal functioning through the use of technology. Singh said at all its Phase-4 construction sites, they will install CCTV cameras to monitor work progress. The corporation had already installed these cameras at some of the sites, before construction activities were allowed to be resumed on May 3. “The idea is to reduce physical contact between persons as much as possible. The cameras will also improve monitoring and increase efficiency at construction sites,” the DMRC chief said. To sail through the Covid-19 pandemic, many government agencies are also resorting to technology to reduce physical contact between persons, while ensuring that the work does not suffer. When the DMRC resumes its operations on Monday, commuters will be greeted by foot-operated systems inside elevators at several Metro stations. Senior officials said at present, such systems will be available on 50 elevators across 16 Metro stations and they will be installed across the network in the coming months. In the initial phase, this system will be available in stations such as Kashmere Gate, New Delhi, Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, Hauz Khas, Dwarka Sector-21, Janakpuri West, Rajouri Garden, IGI Airport and Nehru Enclave. “These foot-operated switches will reduce surface contact and, hence, a safer way to use lifts. When we restart our operations, we will only allow three people to board the lift at a time to ensure social distancing,” a DMRC spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/uv-light-disinfection-foot-pedals-for-lifts-dmrc-will-use-tech-to-sanitise-metro-premises-make-travel-safer/story-4UwTBxFXQMgoke2knbyysK.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||220k aspirants, 24 cities: Delhi University’s entrance exams begin Sunday||Entrance tests to Delhi University’s undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD courses will be begin on Sunday at exam centres in 24 cities for over 220,000 aspirants, who are in the race for 133 courses. Usually conducted in July, the tests were delayed by nearly two months due to Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent lockdown imposed in the country in March. Since last year, the National Testing Agency (NTA) has been conducting these examinations for nine UG courses and all PG and Mphil/PhD courses. The entrance tests this year will be conducted from September 6 to 11.The NTA has issued detailed security protocols for the exams but aspirants and their parents are not convinced. Ashish Singh, a native of Bihar who will be appearing in two entrance tests, said while the premises might be sanitised, conveyance becomes tricky. His centre is in Noida.“My test will begin at 8 am and we have to report at 6.30 am at the centre, limiting our travel options. Earlier phones and bags were allowed, but the admit card mentions we cannot carry personal belongings. I am not sure how to book a cab if phones are not allowed. Friends who have sick parents and cannot risk their safety, are choosing to opt out,” he said.University officials said around 140,000 students had applied for the entrance to various postgraduate courses while approximately 70,000 students had applied for the nine entrance-based undergraduate courses at DU. Around 14,000 students have applied for MPhil and PhD courses.Sreejith K, who is slated to write his PG entrance test on Sunday, said, “Several areas in Kerala have been declared as containment zones and my friends there won’t be able to appear for the test. I came to Delhi a couple of days ago in a train where very few people were wearing masks. I am worried about putting my family at risk, so I will quarantine myself for a couple of weeks after I reach home.”The mandatory quarantine has become a concern for many. Sreedharan Nair, whose daughter is aiming for a PG seat, said, “The centre in our state is 400 kms away from our home and with a lack of conveyance options, it will be difficult to reach it. Travelling so far to a centre where other students will also appear puts her safety at risk. If she comes back and quarantines herself for 14 days, she will lose out on the opportunity for other entrance tests.” Nair said unless another centre is added in Kerala – accessible to students from other states as well – his daughter will not appear for the Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET).DU entrance tests will be conducted at across 24 cities, including in Delhi-NCR, Thiruvananthapuram, Bangalore, Kolkata, Jaipur, Patna, Chennai, and Mumbai. There are multiple centres in Delhi-NCR.DU Dean (Admissions) Shobha Bagai said, “The number of cities where DUET exams will be conducted has already been increased from 18 to 24 keeping the Covid-19 crisis in mind and the number of applications received from states. If a handful of students are appearing from certain cities, it becomes a logistical challenge to set up centres there and have enough manpower.”Speaking about the safety protocols put in place by NTA, Bagai said, “The agency has already conducted the Joint Entrance Examination, where they are maintaining protocols and we have faith in those measures.”The safety protocols include contactless frisking and reducing seating capacity at these centres, which will be sanitised at regular intervals. Masks and gloves will be provided to students who are without them. An isolation room will be set up for students whose body temperature might be higher that the permissible limit. Entry and exits will be staggered to avoid rush.The two-hour computer-based entrance test for UG courses consists of multiple-choice questions on topics relevant to each subject. “There will be 100 questions. Each correct answer will get a score of plus 4 marks, each wrong answer will get a score of minus 1 mark and a question not answered will get a score of zero marks,” reads the information bulletin.For PG courses, it can either be 50 or 100 questions. For M.Phil/PhD aspirants, there will be 50 questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/220k-aspirants-24-cities-delhi-university-s-entrance-exams-begin-sunday/story-mlpLyLDaXe1Ex71cN3r7gJ.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||AAP to join MCD workers’ protest demanding salaries, BJP hits back||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday said its councillors would join a protest staged by employees of the three municipal corporations (MCDs) at the Civic Centre on Monday to demand payment of their pending salaries. Addressing a press conference, senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge, Durgesh Pathak, said AAP would like to “give some suggestions” to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including training their leaders on how to reduce corruption and increase the budget of the municipal corporations. The three civic bodies in Delhi -- north, south and the east -- are run by the BJP.“If the BJP wants, AAP can train their officials and councillors on how civic work can be carried out honestly and developmental works can be improved. We want to help the BJP in making the MCDs self-reliant,” Pathak said. Pathak said when the Arvind Kejriwal government was formed in 2015, Delhi’s budget was around Rs 28,000 crore. “The Delhi government’s budget has doubled and is now Rs 60,000 crore. This happened without putting any extra tax burden on citizens. In MCD, the budget was Rs 10,000 crore in 2015 and now it is just Rs 11,340 crore. Which means in the last five years, the BJP has increased its budget by just Rs 1,340 crore,” he said.The BJP denied AAP’s allegations and said the Kejriwal-led party was making these baseless claims to garner support from the people of Delhi ahead of the municipal elections, scheduled sometime in April, 2022. In the last elections on April 23, 2017, the BJP won a majority in all the three civic bodies -- north, south and east. “The AAP should know that worldwide, no municipal body is financially self-sufficient. The AAP leaders should know that in a combined meagre budget of Rs 18,000 crore, the MCDs employ around one lakh staff, providing Delhi basic sanitation, health and school services, while their Delhi government, which boasts of a Rs 60,000 crore budget, employs hardly 25,000 staff,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-to-join-mcd-workers-protest-demanding-salaries-bjp-hits-back/story-4WXwSfVudqTzaGJ1kEfVGJ.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Man posed as British citizen, duped women of over Rs 4.5 lakh; arrested||Police on Saturday said they had arrested a 33-year-old man who pretended to be a British national and cheated several women of their money on the pretext of marriage. The man, Mohit Tokas alias Vikas, an Indian, was arrested on Thursday in a cheating case registered at south Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur police station on a complaint filed by a 38-year-old medical counsellor at a skin care clinic in outer Delhi last month. Police said Tokas targeted divorced women and conned them by promising marriage Apart from cheating the counsellor of near R1.22 lakh, the man, using the same method, cheated two more women in two different cities in Karnataka. Two separate cases are registered against Tokas in Karnataka. He was also arrested in a similar cheating case in Gujarat, deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. “We traced four separate bank accounts in which around R4.5 lakh were deposited by the women he had cheated in the name of marriage. The accounts have been frozen and their past transactions are being analysed to find if he cheated more women,” the DCP said. In the Kotla Mubarakpur case, the medical counsellor in her complaint said while scrolling a matrimonial website for a suitable match, she came in contact with a man who said he was a British citizen. He showed his passport and other documents, which were actually fake, to convince her, a police officer probing the case said, requesting anonymity. “The two exchanged their phone numbers and the man started calling and texting her through a mobile application. After convincing the woman that he would marry her, the man tricked her into depositing R121,900 in his account in the name of starting a hotel business. Later, he started avoiding her calls. The woman became suspicious and filed a case,” the officer said. During the probe, DCP Thakur said, the investigating team collected details of the suspect’s phone numbers that were issued on forged identity papers. Through technical surveillance and scrutiny of the money trail, the team identified and caught Tokas, who is a resident of Munirka in Delhi. “Tokas admitted to his involvement in similar cheatings. He was earlier involved in a kidnapping and robbery case registered at Vasant Vihar. Three similar cheating cases are registered against him in Gujarat and Karnataka. He was arrested in the Gujarat case,” the DCP said. The fake passport and other documents are yet to be recovered, said DCP Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-cheating-women-in-name-of-marriage/story-46Lbp4lbbi4DLXRov7GDzL.html
06-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s anti-dengue campaign kicks off on Sunday||The Delhi government will kick-start the second edition of its #10Hafte10Baje10Minute (10 weeks, 10 ’o’ clock, 10 minutes) campaign against dengue and other vector-borne diseases from Sunday. The 10-week mass awareness programme will be launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at 10am, during which he and his family will devote 10 minutes to inspect his own residence for stagnant clean water and clean it to avoid breeding of mosquitoes and prevent the spread of diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya. “Last year, when we launched the 10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute campaign, we were successfully able to defeat dengue by the collective efforts of the people of Delhi and the government. The fatality rate due to dengue was negligible. This year also, the Delhi government will fight dengue by making the people of Delhi partners in its campaign against mosquito breeding,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said. Under the campaign, citizens must inspect their homes for any possible sources of stagnant clean water, which can lead to the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes that spread vector-borne diseases. After the first week of the launch of the Delhi government’s flagship campaign, doctors will be asked to share advice on dos and don’ts to prevent dengue in the second week. “The campaign seeks to engage residents to pick up the phone and call 10 of their friends/relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue. Resident welfare associations (RWAs) will be asked to come together and help in the fight against dengue and promote the campaign. Many celebrities and social media influencers will take part in the campaign by recording themselves following the good practices advised during the campaign and subsequently share their videos through various social media channels,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement. Children will be encouraged to take part in the campaign by assigning them homework on behalf of schools and asking them to call their friends to encourage them to take part in it, the government said. It said neighbourhoods will be encouraged to follow good practices of preventing dengue and promote them in their neighbourhood and surrounding areas. Offices will be encouraged to follow the drive and promote it. Last year, when the campaign was first launched by the Delhi government, a number of celebrities such as former India cricketer Kapil Dev had joined the drive. “It is because of the campaign that in 2019, there were only 2,036 dengue cases in Delhi and two deaths, as compared to 2015, when 15,867 dengue cases were registered and as many as 60 people had died,” the chief minister’s office said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-s-anti-dengue-campaign-kicks-off-on-sunday/story-E4Z8ftmoVguuXfNrQdgHwK.html
06-09-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: When the Billi Patrol took on the Chinese at the border||The year 2020 has been a year that most of us would like to erase from our memory. It started off well enough but March onwards things started going downhill, soon turning into an uncontrollable roll down the hill. The Covid-19 pandemic has virtually brought the world down to its knees both socially and economically. In India there was virtually nothing else on the local news channels. But, the month of May brought in another element -- the surprise aggression of China in Ladakh. Covid-19 was no longer the primary news. The unsettling news from Ladakh hogged the limelight. Then, in mid June, there was a surprise clash with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army troops where, in medieval type of fighting, the Indian Army lost 20 personnel and the Chinese had an unknown number of casualties in the Galwan valley of Ladakh. Covid-19 was put on the back burner as the news channels vied with each other to cover these events. Memories of the 1962 Indo-Chinese war came back to haunt the people who feared a redux of that ignominious event. The fear of the powerful Chinese soldier seemed to be getting into the mindset of the people of India. My thoughts went back to the year 1967. I was a young officer in a Gunner regiment and we were deployed in the high altitude region of Sikkim. In September that year an armed clash started in Nathu La with the Chinese Army. The word La means a pass through which old trade routes operated. The clash at Nathu La lasted just a few days but the Indian Army inflicted heavy fatal casualties on the Chinese mainly through deadly artillery fire. While this was going on, my CO sent me up as artillery observation post officer ( OP Officer) to Jelep La, which was located towards the east and adjacent to Nathu La . The post had been strengthened with a battalion level force and we were all ready for an escalation. However, the Chinese, having suffered high casualties, asked for a ceasefire at Nathu La and the guns went silent. But now we were daggers drawn all along the border expecting a riposte from the Chinese. My interesting stay at Jelep La started.All the features consisting of hills, spurs and saddles had a name, mostly of animals. Earlier there was a Sikh unit there and they named the main position as Saragarhi. My OP was located on a hill feature called Lal Quila. Over to the West towards Nathu La, there was a dominating feature called Camel’s Back. Other than that, there were a number of other hillocks with names like Sher (tiger), Cheetah, Khargosh (rabbit) and Cub. The most interesting one was the name Billi (Cat). Billi was the name given to a platoon level post which was just 100 metres from the border. The Chinese had made bunkers along the border which covered the complete pass of the old trade route. Clearly the Billi Post was tactically unsuitable, which had been established as a show of bravado by the Sikh battalion. Better sense prevailed and the post was abandoned by the relieving unit. But all the bunkers etc remained intact and that was the reason for the weekly Billi Patrol. Once a week a party of about 20 men and a young officer in command went on patrol to the post and after inspecting the bunkers walked to the border to offer cigarettes to the Chinese soldiers. As an artillery officer, I was not expected to go on this patrol but I did go a couple of times. It was interesting to see that the PLA soldiers located there were big built men, very different from the average Chinese. Apparently they had been recruited from the region close to Mongolia and brought here to put fear into the Indian soldier. As we started walking from Saragarhi, the Chinese PA system, consisting of a cluster of powerful loudspeakers, would start warning us in Hindi to desist coming towards the border. This PA system used to come alive around midnight on some days telling the Indian soldiers to go back home to their families. Anyway, we used to continue our walk to Billi Post. After a cursory inspection of the post we would walk up to the border. That is when the fun started. The Chinese soldiers would point their rifles at us and threaten us in their language. All the while the PA system would carry on its diatribe in Hindi. We used to go and put up our foot on our part of the low rock wall. We had briefed our troops not to show any anger. Instead smile, abuse them in Punjabi if they felt like it and offer the cheap ration cigarettes to them. The Dogra boys could all speak Punjabi and they would smile and let go some powerful expletives concerning mothers and sisters, smiling all the while. The political commissar, who was part and parcel of the Chinese system, could understand rudimentary Hindi and English. So, he would come up to me and ask me as to what our troops were saying to their soldiers. I told him that they were sending good wishes to them, and to their mothers and sisters. He would look a bit sceptical but that was it. Soon we would bid them goodbye with their guns still pointing towards us. So, did we see any supermen on the Chinese side? Not at all! Instead they were just poorly clad unwilling soldiers of the PLA who had no choice but to toe the line. Not like our volunteer disciplined soldiers who would follow their officers anywhere. We had given them a bloody nose at Nathu La and have the capability to do the same now. Needless to say, the Armed Forces have to be given the wherewithal in terms of weapon systems and equipment. The nation has to back the soldier, give him due respect and protection to those he leaves behind should that happen. The nation is represented by the government of the day. The writer is a retired Army officer and a Vir Chakra awardee||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-when-the-billi-patrol-took-on-the-chinese/story-0mAup3PhhsbrmNwVrGB83N.html
06-09-2020||City||Two Markfed staffers in Ludhiana booked for embezzling ₹64.19 lakh||Three years after being accused of embezzling Markfed’s Rs 64.19 lakh, Sadar police on Saturday booked Avtar Singh, regional officer, Kila Raipur, and a clerk, Sanjiv Kumar, for the crime.The FIR was lodged on the statement of Markfed’s district manager MPS Brar.Brar had filed a police complaint on December 15, 2017, seeking action against the two accused.According to Brar, the accused had mentioned in the records that they had sold manure and other products worth Rs 59.91 lakh to different co-operative societies. However, the co-operative societies had claimed that they had bought products worth Rs 41.96 lakh only.While the investigation was underway, the accused procured more fake documents and pilfered more funds to the tune of Rs 64.19 lakh in all.ASI Pritpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused were booked under Sections 420, 409, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, adding that they will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-markfed-staffers-booked-for-embezzling-rs-64-19-lakh/story-allBbfcf0ughmQ5aJmcV2H.html
06-09-2020||City||SAD leader’s son arranges pool party in Ludhiana, 54 arrested||The Sarabha Nagar police have arrested 54 people, including the son of SAD leader Manpreet Singh Bunty and the owner of a restaurant, for organising a pool party in the South City area on Friday night.The party, organised by the SAD leader’s son to celebrate his son’s birth, started at 3pm and continued till 10pm till the police conducted a raid.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma said Harshdeep, alias Sammy Oberoi, son of Bunty, senior vice-president of the district SAD unit, organised the party at Moon Walk restaurant in Jhammat village near South City.He had invited 53 guests, including three women. When police received information about it, a raid was conducted around 9.30pm and the guests were found celebrating without face masks or maintaining social distancing. Moreover, they had flouted the guidelines on large gatherings.Therefore, the party organiser, restaurant owner, Kamalpreet Singh, and all guests were arrested for violating the Covid protocols.The ADCP said the police also recovered 28 bottles of liquor, five cartons of beer and hookahs from the venue, even though the restaurant did not have a liquor licence. Kamalpreet has also been booked under the Excise Act for the offence.All accused have been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-leader-s-son-arranges-pool-party-54-arrested/story-uf1lrhKbAKdWSw2z94NAOK.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 4,664 fresh positive cases, 44 deaths due to Covid-19||Pune district reported 4,664 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 44 deaths on Saturday, as per the data of state health department. This puts the progressive positive count to 1,94,559 of which 1,32,411 have recovered, 4,377 were declared dead and 57,771 are active cases. Pune city reported 2,366 new positive cases of people being infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus in a day, which is one of the highest reported so far as per the state health department. PMC reported 2,366 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,10,565 and 32 deaths in the last 24 hours till Friday evening which took the death toll to 2,724. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 953 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 52,830 and seven deaths in the last 24 hours since Friday evening which took the death toll to 840.Meanwhile, Pune rural reported 1,345 fresh positives taking the total virus cases to 31,164 and five deaths in the last 24 hours which took the death toll to 813.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-4-664-fresh-positive-cases-44-deaths-due-to-covid-19/story-mXuFCG797GdASDXGJ2eE7O.html
06-09-2020||Pune||12 private hospitals in PCMC refund Rs 37.2 lakh to patients||A total of 12 private hospitals located in Pimpri-Chinchwad have paid a cumulative refund of Rs 37, 27,930 to patients after a committee led by N Ashok Babu, joint commissioner (income tax department), identified flaws in the hospital bills.The committee was appointed by Pune divisional commissioner and they have been visiting hospitals in the twin cities since July 27.“A total of 12 hospitals have paid the refund to patients. Our team is working non-stop since we have been appointed by Pune divisional commissioner,” said N Ashok Babu, joint commissioner, income tax department.It was found that hospitals which didn’t have permission to offer Covid-19 treatment were treating Covid-19 positive patients. “The Desai accident and general hospital did not avail permission to treat Covid patients, but they still had Covid patients. I have lodged a complaint against them with the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) commissioner Shravan Hardikar,” added Babu.People who have suffered due to the exorbitant hospitals bills are happy after receiving the refund. “I got ₹25,000 back and my wife was treated at the Sevadharam hospital. The committee is doing a commendable job,” said one patient’s husband on the condition of anonymity.Ayush multispeciality hospital, Accord hospital and Phoenix hospital have not yet paid the refund to patients.“We are keeping an eye on hospitals which have not paid the refunds till now. Our aim is that people should get the refund as early as possible,” added Babu.On Saturday, at least 953 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and seven deaths were recorded, according to the state health department. This takes the total Covid progressive case count to 52,830 and the death toll to 840 in PCMC.Total refund by private hospitals1. Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital ₹9, 31,4762. DY Patil Hospital ₹1, 81,4213. City Care Hospital ₹48,9984. Star Hospital ₹6, 43,5405. Lifepoint Multispeciality Hospital ₹1, 93,3876. Gunjkar Hospital ₹2, 38,3007. Lokmanya Hospital ₹46,1928. Ayush Multispeciality Hospital ₹09. Sterling Multispeciality Hospotal ₹46,77010. Accord Hospital ₹011. Desai Accident and General Hospital ₹1, 04,00012. Jeevan Jyoti Hospital ₹3, 41,44613. Phoenix Hospital ₹014. Ojas Hospital ₹8, 28,45015. Sevadarhma Hospital ₹1, 23,950Total: ₹37, 27,930||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/12-private-hospitals-in-pcmc-refund-rs-37-2-lakh-to-patients/story-5a5kTLwLtmpanxaVBjwQFJ.html
06-09-2020||Pune||50 contacts to be traced for every Covid-19 positive person: Pune collector||In an order dated September 4, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh ordered that the rural administration and both the civic bodies in Pune district must ensure that at least 50 contacts of a Covid-19 positive person are traced. These will include the high-risk and low-risk contacts of the person. The order also specifies the quarantine guidelines for the contacts till the report comes out. The district contact tracing is currently about 15 contacts on an average for the district which the administration aims to increase to 50 which would be effective to break the chain of the virus spread.The Pune district administration’s contact tracing efforts have been slammed not just by the relatives of the patients in some cases, but also by the state health department which said that the Pune’s contact tracing is lower than the state’s. Deshmukh said, “Currently, we are tracing about 15 contacts on an average in the district for every Covid-19 positive person which in some cases has also gone up to 25 to 30. However, now we have set the target of at least 50. Reaching as many contacts as possible will help us break the chain by containing the spread.”The order states that civic bodies and rural administration has to trace at least 50 contacts for every single Covid-19 patient, which includes at least 20 high-risk contacts and 30 low-risk contacts. These 50 people must be tested either through Rapid Antigen Detection tests or RT-PCR depending on their symptoms and ICMR guidelines. The high-risk contacts will be institutionally quarantined at a Covid centre till results are awaited while low-risk contacts will be quarantined at home.Dr Sanjay Dabhade, member of Jan Aarogya Manch, a public health vigilant group, said, “It is true that the contact tracing in the city is poor, I have had this experience personally and also many relatives have complained about the same. Contact tracing is not only important to contain the spread, but also for early detection which will go a long way to prevent high-mortality as early detection means early treatment.”District collector issues guidelines regarding management of Covid-19 deceased bodiesThe same order which gives a holistic guideline for various Covid-19 issues including how to resolve bill disputes, drugs management, also mentions how to handle dead bodies of Covid-19 patients. The order states that the respective authorities in rural areas and in civic body areas must provide free PPE kits to the relatives and the employees during cremation or burial. Around 200 metres of area around the cremation centre must be declared a containment zone.There must be a gap of at least two hours between the cremations of two Covid-19 positive dead bodies. Once the cremation is over the entire premises must be sanitized twice. All the expenses must be borne by the authorities said the order. Deskhukh also said that up to five PPE kits can be provided for the cremation to the relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/50-contacts-to-be-traced-for-every-covid-19-positive-person-pune-collector/story-toPav56WF4IKxsFfuRfYvO.html
06-09-2020||Pune||Unlock Pune: Tennis resumes in the city under safety net on secure courts||The tennis academies, courts and clubs in the city are back in action since the state government allowed it to resume as part of “outdoor non-team” sporting facilities from August 5 under the coronavirus lockdown easing of restrictions. Professional players have started practice, following all the social distancing norms, while beginners are yet to hit the courts. There are 40 tennis coaching centres in the city. “Competitive players are back in action, while I think beginners will take some time. Covid fears might still be on their mind,” said Hemant Bendrey, coach of top Pune and India players like Ankita Raina, Rutuja Bhosale and Arjun Kadhe at the PYC Gymkhana. Not only has practice started at clubs like Deccan Gymkhana, PYC Gymkhana and Poona Club, but also at other centres as well. “The PYC Gymkhana courts are sanitised thrice – before the start of the play, at 3pm and at night after training concludes,” said Bendrey. Sachin Rathi, tennis secretary and committee member, Poona Club, said, “As we are one of the oldest clubs so have opened our tennis courts only for members. We are strictly following all the state government and Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association (MSLTA) guidelines for the safety of our members.” Solaris Club, which has multi-sports facilities, has also begun tennis. “Senior/junior players have begun their training at the club and the number of players is increasing every day. Special care regarding sanitisation of players and playing equipment is taken. All of the players are behaving responsibly and although it is a new normal, players are starting to adjust,” said Ravindra Pandey, who runs the Ravindra Pandey tennis academy (RPTA) at Solaris Club, Kothrud. Parents are allowed to accompany wards, but they have to follow strict rules. “Parents are allowed to sit in the arena, but not near the courts. Once practice is over they are told to leave immediately. Professional players practice for more than an hour, while beginners practice for one hour,” added Pandey. “Players are happy to be back on the court. In the beginning a few players took time to settle down,” said Navnath Shete owner of Meterocity sports and health club, Ideal colony, Kothrud. “Since last one month I am working to increase my physical strength and improving on technical aspects of the game. Maximum three players are only allowed to practice on one court. Generally we prefer two,” said Arjun Kadhe, India tennis player “I am happy to be back on court after such a long break. During lockdown I was following all exercise routines at my home. I am enjoying the new routine which is now followed on courts,” Siddharth Marathe, u-16 player trains at PYC Gymkhana . “As a parent I fear sometimes of sending my child for practice, but I have to think about the professional aspect and I trust the precautions taken by PYC Gymkhana,” said, Vijayanti Marathe, parent . Do’s Temperature check at gates Sanitising hands, racquet Not more than three players on practice court at a time Wearing of mask on club premises when not playing Don’ts Handshakes Seating near each other Socialising on court, or off it Avoid touching the mouth in case of handling shared sports equipment Nitten Kirrtane, senior tennis player says, “The start is slow, but I can see players are following the new norms due to Covid. Soon, more players will be seen on the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unlock-pune-tennis-resumes-in-the-city-under-safety-net-on-secure-courts/story-6rjFyAZJmy5UmJhn2ePexO.html
06-09-2020||Arts||Local, vocal and always ambling||Gopal MS (@MumbaiPaused on Instagram) likes to take the long way to anywhere. If he has to step out for a meeting, he’ll leave the office early. That way, he reaches his destination in time to amble around, check out a new neighbourhood, and look twice at areas that many of us don’t look at even once. He photographs what he sees: everyday folk, hilarious graffiti, patterns in unlikely places, ruins, signs of new money and old habits. Collectively his work is a unique record of a Mumbai from the ground up, ever changing and never changing. “Mumbai may seem like one city, but when you start to look closely, you realise it’s multiple cities in one, a complexity that is the mark of any great city,” says Gopal, 47, an advertising executive. In Delhi, HT’s own Mayank Austen Soofi (@TheDelhiwalla on Instagram) captures everyday life, culture, change and people in books, on social media and in a column in the Delhi edition of this newspaper. About a dozen others in both Mumbai and Delhi focus on their respective city’s heritage structures, shrines, trees, markets and street foods. In cities all over India, enthusiasts like Gopal and Soofi are cropping up and taking note of the same kinds of complexity and change. They’re on Instagram fighting to save old neighbourhoods, organising urban-heritage tours to re-introduce towns to their residents and consulting with local administrators on how to best preserve each area’s character. KOLKATA Walk through Kolkata with photographer Manjit Singh Hoonjan (@The.Manjit on Instagram) and you’ll end up making plenty of unscheduled stops. On the back of a bus shelter he’ll point to pasted rows of local papers, so citizens can stay updated for free. He greets tea sellers by name. He knows that a bad storm knocked over the rooster on the weathervane of the Scottish St Andrew’s Church in August. “I draw happiness from walking through my city and documenting the ordinary,” he says. “A first trip is just a glance; keep going back and the layers of familiarity build up. You lose the outsider-in-awe perspective. Objects and areas become touchstones for your memories and connections.” Over the last decade, his company Calcutta Photo Tours, has helped locals take the same delight in their neighbourhoods as they do when they visit exotic destinations. He says he’s thrilled by the new wave of young people, design firms, architects and filmmakers tapping in to the city’s character. “It’s quite fashionable to romanticise Calcutta now,” Hoonjan says. “For me, it’s like having a steady date for 10 years, who’s now getting checked out by other people.” He’s happy to share. “But I saw her first.” In Pune, Shantanu Paranjape and Anurag Vaidya’s (@anny_bunny_v on Instagram) walks around the old and new city have given them a first-hand look at how much the past influences everyday life. “As with all history, the food, architecture, people, traditions and stories are connected,” Vaidya says. “You can only make those connections if you’ve walked through an area over and over yourself.” In 2017, the connections culminated in a book documenting local heritage spots. Now, their company, Firasti Maharashtrachi (Flaneurs of Maharashtra), lead participants through their offbeat trails - spots where certain Peshwas lived, lesser-known Ganpati mandals, and historic markets. “We consult historians and libraries, but there’s more to a city than dates, wars and monuments,” Vaidya says. “You have to walk through a place to get a feel of how it operates, and appreciate its unique character.” BHOPAL Architect Huzoor Choudhry (@TheHuzoor on Twitter) remembers looking at the city’s neighbourhoods with a fresh eye as part of a team that set up the first local heritage tours 15 years ago. His familiarity with the city – the lane with the most pre-Independence homes, where the oldest zardozi craftsmen work, which are its oldest trees – has become a powerful asset. Choudhry now creates signage for local monuments, has worked on interpretation panels in museums and proposed projects to restore the Moti Masjid area down to its cobbled streets. The best research still comes from walking the streets and taking it all in he says. “Bhopal slowly grows on you,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/local-vocal-and-always-ambling/story-5Nr0yKJtTf5U9DCiVhHlfO.html
