07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University teachers’ body polls: File nominations by Sept 13||The returning officer on Monday released the schedule for this year’s Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections.As per the schedule, the last date for filing nominations is September 13. The elections will be held on September 25 and 26. It will be held in a staggered manner this time to avoid large gatherings and maintain social distancing. The correspondence on the behalf of returning officer will be done by the PUTA secretary. All existing PUTA members will continue to hold their posts for the purpose of the elections, while those who have retired will cease to be members. Teachers who are not currently members, but want to enrol, can do so by paying subscription fee of Rs 500 by September 10.Contestants for various posts can fill nomination forms and send the scanned copy directly to the returning officer on putaelections2020@gmail.com by September 13. Scrutiny of the forms will be done by the returning officer with the assistance of current PUTA president/secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-body-polls-file-nominations-by-sept-13/story-69tldRAPEjQXbWXusvrtQN.html
07-09-2020||City||Ludhiana gangrape: Victim accuses police of favouring accused||A gangrape victim has accused the police of sheltering the main accused and not registering a case against him, an allegation refuted by the Division Number 3 station house officer (SHO). According to the victim, she was gangraped by four men, but the police registered the first information report (FIR) only against three accused.Seeking action, the girl, along with her family members, on Monday met the joint commissioner of police, Kanwardeep Kaur, and filed a written complaint.The woman alleged that she had given names of all four accused in her statement to the police and before magistrate as well, but the police registered a case only against three accused, who are minors. The main accused, who is 24-year-old, is politically connected, which is why the police have spared him, she alleged. Her mother also accused the Division Number 3 police of harassing them.“The police called my daughter for investigation late in the evening and made her wait for hours at the police station,” she claimed. Joint commissioner of police Kanwardeep Kaur said the area was not under her jurisdiction, so the matter was sent to the official concerned.The victim had lodged an FIR on September 1 at the Division Number 3 police station against three minors. The victim, who is a domestic help, was returning home when the accused intercepted her. They threatened to attack her with acid and took her to a room, where they raped her and also clicked her pictures.Division Number 3 SHO Satish Kumar said the police had registered an FIR according to the statement recorded by the victim. He said had “no idea why the victim was accusing the police”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-gangrape-victim-accuses-police-of-favouring-accused/story-x6pUzdUY6BMxKpYaZMP7oN.html
07-09-2020||Noida||Registration department to seize 19 properties for stamp duty evasion||The Gautam Budh Nagar stamp and registration department have decided to seize 19 properties which had claimed waivers on stamp duties to set up industrial units, but failed to establish the same in the past three years. Officials said that these units had claimed waivers and paid bank guarantees of the equal amount of stamp duties however, they failed to set up a factory/company while also getting the bank guarantee released.SK Tripathi, assistant inspector general (registration), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the Uttar Pradesh government provides exemptions on stamp duty to certain industrial units as per the Infrastructure & Industrial Investment Policy 2012. “According to the policy, industrial units related to information technology, biotechnology, agro processing, food processing, food parks, solar energy or alternative sources of energy and BPO call centres will be provided 100% exemption from stamp duty in the state. There are some other fields in which the government gives 50% or less exemption in stamp duty. As per the guidelines, these units need to be operational within three years of the land being allotted,” he said.Tripathi said the allottees need to submit a bank guarantee of the same amount equal to stamp duty for three years. “We have found that some people have not developed their industrial units, while they have got their bank guarantee released. We will seize the properties of 19 such allottees and recover the stamp duty,” he said.Tripathi said that about Rs 16 crore stamp duty would be due against these allottees.Sudhir Shrivastava, vice president, Noida Entrepreneurship Association (NEA), said some allottees sometimes fail to develop their units. “We have also seen that the allottees sometimes do not get the land developed. The officials need to investigate in what circumstances the units were not developed and then they can take action,” he said.The district stamp and registration department did not change circle rates this year as the real estate sector is facing a slump and has been hit hard by the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown. There were zero registrations in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/registration-department-to-seize-19-properties-for-stamp-duty-evasion/story-wCWhC7qVpAWNXC6zmc57KP.html
07-09-2020||Noida||Field work initiated to make a case of Dhanauri wetland as Ramsar site||In what could be termed as the initiation of fieldwork to notify the Dhanauri wetlands, officials from Wetland International and the state forest department on Monday begun ground inspections and terrain analysis to make a case for Dhanauri to be declared as a Ramsar site and a sarus crane sanctuary.Ramsar sites are wetlands of international importance. Once declared Ramsar sites, no other activity can be taken up at the wetland. India is a signatory to the Ramsar Convention, 1971 in Iran. India has a total of 27 Ramsar sites, including Narora in UP.The officials, aided by gram panchayat members from neighbouring villages, collected water samples and demarcated the coordinates of the area to draw a ‘habitat map’ of the wetland.Once the habitat map is developed, the forest department will observe the land ownerships falling within the wetland, initiating the process of land acquisition.“The forest department has made a good proposal so far. We as knowledge partners of the Union environment ministry will complete the technical work, and will make a case for the Ramsar site,” said Dr Ritesh Kumar, director, Wetlands International, South Asia.The on-spot sample -- collected from one of the muddiest parts of the wetlands – found dissolved oxygen of 2 milligram per litre (mg/l) (against the required 4 to 8 mg/l), as well as high levels of phosphate nitrates. However, officials said parts of the wetland with cleaner water, away from agricultural fields, would have a better water quality.“These values will differ from place to place. But with these values, we can establish a baseline about the existing condition, so we will build a case for it,” said Dr Kumar.In 2018, the district forest department first sent its proposal to declare the waterbody as a wetland under Wetland Rules 2017. Forest officials said that upon notification, the ecology would improve as no other works which could harm the ecology of the area would stop.“It is a wetland as per definition. Once notified as per the Supreme Court’s guidelines it will be officially notified as a wetland. We are speeding up the process for a Ramsar site as well. Once declared a wetland, it would bring a curb to the other works such as agriculture,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, and nodal officer appointed by the state government to initiate the legal processes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/field-work-initiated-to-make-a-case-of-dhanauri-wetland-as-ramsar-site/story-IQTXg0XWbwFwGLylCGM8uI.html
07-09-2020||City||All 10 metro stations in Gzb to resume graded operations on September 9 and 10||Ghaziabad: All 10 metro stations under the two metro networks in Ghaziabad will open for passenger operations from September 9 and 10. The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Monday said he held meetings with station in-charges and went for an inspection of arrangements made by the Delhi metro rail corporation (DMRC) The Blue line is scheduled to resume passenger operations from September 9 while the Red line is slated to open on September 10. The Blue line comprises two prominent stations of Vaishali and Kaushambi. The Red line has eight stations -- Shaheed Nagar, Raj Bagh, Major Mohit Sharma Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Mohan Nagar, Arthala, river Hindon and Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda. “We held meetings with station in-charges of DMRC on Monday and all 10 stations will open as per schedule. The DMRC officials have requested us for additional deployment of 104 civil defence personnel in two shifts to help in social distancing and to maintain order at stations. Besides, at stations where there is likelihood of heavy rush of passengers, our police personnel will remain deployed,” Pandey said. “We have also directed the municipal commissioner to clean the space outside all metro stations as they have been shut since March and ensure that all garbage and clutter are removed. We visited the stations and DMRC officials showed how passenger operations will work,” he added. A DMRC spokesperson said the stations will open for operations as per dates already announced by it. According to the schedule released by DMRC on September 2, Line-3/4 (Blue Line) from Dwarka Sec-21 to Noida Electronic City/Vaishali & Line-7 (Pink Line) from Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar will open for graded operations from September 9. The trains will run in two shifts from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm. The schedule also said Line-1 (Red Line) from Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda, Line-5 (Green Line) from Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brig. Hoshiar Singh (Bahadurgarh) & Line-6 (Violet Line) from Kashmere Gate to Raja Nahar Singh (Ballabhgarh) will resume operations from September 10 with a similar schedule. The DMRC sources said all passengers arriving at the stations will be screened carefully with the help of infrared thermometers, besides sanitisation of luggage and use of hand sanitisers. “Trains will not stop at stations in containment zones. Such stations will remain closed for public. Similarly, some of the stations may be skipped if social distancing is not followed by passengers,” the statement had said. The Vaishali and Kaushambi stations in Ghaziabad connect passengers directly to Rajiv Chowk while the Red line stations connect them to Rithala in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-10-metro-stations-in-gzb-to-resume-graded-operations-on-september-9-and-10/story-4E9Mvnayw1DjXTVzt4gltJ.html
07-09-2020||City||2 more trains to stop at Ludhiana rly station from Sept 12||The Ferozepur Division has got two more trains after the Railways announced to press into service 80 trains. Both these trains will halt at the Ludhiana railway station. With the announcement, a total of 10 trains would now have a stoppage at the city railway station. Earlier, only eight trains used to stop at the railway station.According to the announcement, Ferozepur-Dhanbad train would stop at Ludhiana railway station daily. Similarly, Amritsar-Dibrugarh weekly train will halt at the station as well. The train has been scheduled to start its journey from Dibrugarh every Tuesday and every Friday, it will depart from Amritsar for Dibrugarh.According to the Railways officials, they all are prepared for the new development. The passengers will have to follow the norms set up by the government, they said. The passengers have to go through thermal scanning before boarding the train. Only those with confirmed tickets would be allowed to travel in trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-more-trains-to-stop-at-ludhiana-rly-station-from-sept-12/story-3ry135rWrsHhx66GdimaHM.html
07-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Labourer arrested for raping 14-year-old daughter||Sahnewal police on Monday arrested a labourer for allegedly raping his 14-year-old daughter. According to the victim, her father had been raping her for the past few months. She claimed to have shared her ordeal with her mother, but the accused threatened both of them with dire consequences. In her complaint to the police, the girl mentioned that she has four elder sisters, all of whom are married. She said her father was unemployed, while her mother worked as a labourer in a factory to support the family. The girl alleged that her father had been raping her in the absence of her mother.She told the police that on Friday too, the accused had assaulted her sexually. The girl had left her home after the assault and returned the next day. When her neighbours and relatives asked her why did she leave, she narrated the entire episode to them, after which the police were informed.Sub-inspector Jagdeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said the complainant approached them on Monday. Accused has been arrested: Police“Immediately after receiving her compliant, we registered a case against the accused under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The accused has been arrested,” he added. The sub-inspector said they will conduct a medical examination of the girl to ascertain if she was pregnant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-labourer-arrested-for-raping-14-year-old-daughter/story-H7QqnNxFiDisO6QA5Ob3vK.html
07-09-2020||City||Ludhiana labourer dies in factory mishap; owner booked||Moti Nagar police have booked the owner of a textile factory after one of the workers employed there died while on duty on Sunday. This is the second such case wherein a factory owner has been booked for causing death due to negligence in the last five days.The deceased has been identified as Parsu Sakal Dev Mandal, 32, of Vijay Nagar. He was working in the factory for past several years.In his compliant to police, brother-in-law of the victim Gautam Kumar Mandal said Parsu used to work as a machine operator in the Jindal Textile at Industrial Area-A. “Parsu’s co-workers called me on Sunday and informed that some slabs used for covering the roof fell on him and he has sustained severe injuries,” he added. He was rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead, the complainant said. ASI Mewa Ram, who is investigating the case, said the cemented slabs were used to cover the factory. “The slabs were almost four decades’ old and accidentally fell on the worker. A case has been registered under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC against factory owner Ravinder Kumar Jindal.Last Wednesday, a 13-year-old girl had died after her dupatta got stuck in a machine while working at a factory. She was working as a child labourer for the past two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-labourer-dies-in-factory-mishap-owner-booked/story-vzMbP0opzhdvCsm4wdThQL.html
07-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Burglar targets Congress councillor’s office, decamps with ₹10,000||An unidentified man barged into the office of Congress councillor from ward number 12, Naresh Uppal, after breaking open its locks on Sunday and decamped with ₹10,000.The crime has been recorded in the surveillance cameras. The registration number of his motorcycle has been also been captured. The Tibba Police have registered an FIR against the unidentified accused and initiated an investigation.Councillor Uppal in his complaint stated that he had locked his office in New Subhash Nagar around 2.45pm. “At 4.30pm when I came back, I was shocked to see the door of the office broken open and ₹10,000 missing from the drawer,” he added. When he scanned the footage of CCTV cameras installed in his office, he found a masked man turning up there on a motorcycle. The man wore a yellow coloured shirt. Uppal said the registration number of the motorcycle has been captured in the CCTVs.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Baldev Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the unidentified accused. The police have been trying to ascertain his identify, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-burglar-targets-congress-councillor-s-office-decamps-with-10-000/story-deij8o10eYQTd02UQBRbRO.html
07-09-2020||City||College student among three held for snatching mobiles in Ludhiana||Daresi police on Monday arrested a BCom student and his two accomplices for snatching and recovered five mobile phones and a motorcycle from their possession. According to the police, the accused are drug addicts and used to sell the stolen smartphones for any amount between ₹500 and ₹1,000 only.The arrested accused have been identified as Neeraj Kumar, 20, of Janakpuri; Rajit Kumar, 21, also from Janakpuri; and Harsh alias Harry, 21, of Islamganj. Harsh had been pursuing his under-graduation in commerce from a private college, while the other two are school dropouts.Daresi station house officer (SHO) Davinder Singh said the accused had on September 4 snatched a mobile phone from one Rajan Kumar on Sekhewal Road. The Daresi police had registered a first information report (FIR) under Section 379-B (snatching and use of force) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against them on September 5 and initiated an investigation.The police arrested the accused during a special checking near Daresi on Monday. The snatchers were passing through the area on a motorcycle. On frisking, the police recovered five mobile phones which they had snatched from commuters.“During questioning, the accused confessed to their crime. They told the police that they had targeted commuters on Gaushala road in Madhopuri, Samrala Chowk, Chandigarh Road, Sherpur Chowk, Shingar Cinema road and area around the Christian Medical College and Hospital,” the SHO said. “The accused are addicts and use to commit the crime to meet their need for drugs. Neeraj and Rajit used to snatch mobile phones from commuters and further sell those for ₹500 to ₹1,000 to random people claiming that they were selling the phones due to urgent need of money,” he added.The SHO said they were expecting to extract more important information from the trio during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/college-student-among-three-held-for-snatching-mobiles-in-ludhiana/story-Kj4f398Bbsjxft28j7uavI.html
07-09-2020||City||Ludhiana first in Punjab to record 500 Covid fatalities||With eight more fatalities, death toll due to Covid-19 crossed the 500-mark in Ludhiana district on Monday. As many as 507 people have succumbed to the deadly virus in the district so far. Out of total deaths, 451 casualties have been reported from the city, while 56 deaths were registered in the towns of Khanna, Jagraon, Raikot, Payal, Samrala and other surrounding villages. The district’s Covid-19 patient tally also rose to 11,998 with 214 new cases on Monday. The district has 1,734 active cases, while 9,754 people have recovered. As per the health department, Ludhiana’s recovery rate stands at 81.29%. The dead included a 60-year-old man from Jamalpur; a 82-year-old woman from Haibowal Kalan; a 78-year-old man, also from Haibowal Kalan; a 72-year-old man from Model Town; a 40-year-old woman from Loppon village; a 58-year-old man from Indra Nagar; a 77-year-old man from Civil Lines and a 51-year-old man from Mahavir colony in Ludhiana. Among those who tested positive for Covid-19 were 53 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 33 were contacts of infected patients and 74 were referred from the outpatient departments (OPDs). The new patients included eight healthcare workers and a policeman. While 507 casualties were reported from the district, 129 patients from other districts and states have lost their lives at different health facilities in Ludhiana. As per the health department, as many as 147 ventilators are available in various hospitals of the city. There are 40 patients who are on ventilator support currently. A total of 37,063 people have been kept in quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-first-in-punjab-to-record-500-covid-fatalities/story-BG3ylkThoc7ColAQbVEgMO.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: Mohali crosses 5K mark, 83% cases since August||Covid-19 count in Mohali district crossed the 5,000 mark on Monday, with 83% of the infections reported since the beginning of August. Also, the toll rose to 113 with six more deaths. As many as 87% casualties too have been reported since August 1, while the toll this month has reached 34 in just a week. The case tally now stands at 5,106 after 224 people tested positive on Monday. The number of active cases stands at 2,358, as 117 patients were discharged, which also took the number of those cured to 2,635. Recovery rate in the district has reached 51.6%, a decline of 7.5% since August 1.“In the wake of spike in cases, we have increased sampling twofold,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. “Earlier, it was around 350 per day, and has been accelerated to about 850-1,100 samples daily. Flu corners have been strengthened with additional teams working on rotation.”Dayalan said that in order to match sampling pace, the corresponding testing has also been doubled. “As against the earlier 400 tests per day, now on an average about 850 tests are being done daily,” he said.In fact, Mohali is well ahead of Punjab in tests conducted per million of population (see box). 3 senior citizens among 6 casualtiesThose who lost their life on Monday included three senior citizens: a woman, aged 70, from Phase 4 who also had hypertension, besides a 71-year-old man from Sector 71 and a 81-year-old man, also from Mohali city, both of whom were suffering from diabetes and hypertension. A 57-year-old man from Sector 78 and a 58-year-old woman from Jawaharpur, both with comorbidities, also succumbed. A woman, aged 33, who was hospitalised with high fever was the sixth fatality.Among the fresh cases, 82 were reported from Mohali city, followed by 67 from Dhakoli, 28 from Gharuan, 27 from Kharar and 16 from Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-mohali-crosses-5k-mark-83-cases-since-august/story-4ULkEzlHi8kGX1OPuWSbTJ.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Testing not keeping pace with rising cases in Chandigarh||The Covid-19 testing numbers have not been able to maintain a steady rise even though the number of cases has seen a massive jump in Chandigarh.Since the month started, the Union Territory has recorded more than 200 cases daily, but while 891 people were tested on September 1, only 565 tests were conducted on September 4. The number again went up to 919 on September 6 before falling to 791 on September 7 (see box).The cumulative testing number for Chandigarh remain around 36,000, while the neighbouring Panchkula district has tested around 46,000 people and Mohali leads with around 50,000 tests.“As the number of cases goes up or down, a similar trend will be seen in testing numbers. However, there has been a steady increase in testing,” said UT health secretary Arun Gupta.While he maintained that testing is done as per the requirement and there is no “target to achieve”, experts said people should be encouraged to come forward for testing to rule out infection.“The message should be that if anyone is having symptoms or has come in contact with a confirmed case or has even the suspicion of contracting the infection should be encouraged to go for testing. It should be available in a hassle-free manner, which in turn will increase the testing numbers,” said Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER.Professor Yogesh Chawla, former director, PGIMER, said at times, people have symptoms but don’t come forward due to the fear of stigma. “In such a scenario, it is necessary to encourage people at the local level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/testing-not-keeping-pace-with-rising-cases-in-chandigarh/story-sirn60hjnVmocdu1Bjo1qK.html
07-09-2020||Election:||Congress kicks off virtual rally from Champaran, slams govt for not fulfilling promises||The Congress on Monday kicked off its series of virtual rallies — Bihar Kranti Mahasammelan — from East and West Champaran districts calling out the people to teach the ruling dispensation a befitting lesson for its failure to deliver. “Nitish Kumar-led NDA dispensation had come to power dubbing the previous regime as jungle raj and by promising qualitative change in all sectors. The negligence in dealing with coronavirus crisis have exposed the government’s insensitivity towards the people’s plight,” said former UP congress chief Raj Babbar. The first phase of virtual rallies will end on September 16 after covering 19 north Bihar districts. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) spokesman Rajesh Rathore claimed over 10.50 lakh people watched the rally across the state and country. Meanwhile, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi is slated to address a virtual rally after the second phase, covering south Bihar districts, which is likely to conclude by month end. Babbar alleged Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is yet to deliver on the promises of better education facility, job opportunities, change in health infrastructure that he had made even as people continue to struggle with recurring floods and subsequent devastation. AICC general secretary and screening committee chairman Avinash Pandey alleged that state economy had collapsed and employment opportunities reduced. AICC spokesman Acharya Pramod Krishnam said the country was waiting for Bihar’s mandate, which always offered a new dimension to the nation’s political narrative. He said the CM should be ashamed for perpetuating a regime of chaos and corruption and leaving the people to fend for themselves. AICC secretary Ajay Kapoor, All India Mahila Congress Committee Chief Sushmita Dev and state Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha among others also addressed the rally from party offices in Delhi and Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/congress-kicks-off-virtual-rally-from-champaran-slams-govt-for-not-fulfilling-promises/story-6TM7vJJVzDQ06MJ25n4DuJ.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nine education dept staffers among 232 fresh Covid cases in Chandigarh||Covid-19 claimed three more lives in Chandigarh while 232 people tested positive on Monday.The toll has climbed to 74 while the case count is just shy of 6,000 mark, at 5,995.However, the day also witnessed a record number of 295 patients being discharged, including those in home isolation.All three who died were women, including a 72-year-old from Sector 43. Another, aged 45, from Dhanas had diabetes, while the third, aged 50, was from Sector 37 and died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome. Meanwhile, among the fresh cases, nine are of employees of the district education officer (DEO) office in Sector 19.DEO Harbir Singh Anand had died of Covid on Saturday. Two other senior department officials tested positive on Sunday. In fact, 19 employees have tested positive so far, after which both the DEO office and the education department office in Sector 9 have been closed on Monday and Tuesday for sanitisation.Education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill said: “All employees in contact with positive staffers at both offices have been asked to get tested as per protocol.”68 +ve, 2 dead in PanchkulaTwo persons succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the toll to 34 in Panchkula district. Apart from this, 68 new cases were reported.The total count has reached 3,146, of which 1,214 cases are active while 1,898 patients have been discharged. Those who died included an 86-year-old woman from Sector 4, who had hypertension. The other was a 55-year-old woman from Pinjore, who was suffering from chronic kidney diseaseMeanwhile, the administration increased the number of Covid sample collection centres in the district to 21. “Now samples will be collected at 21 health centres across the district, so that people face no difficulty in getting tested,” said deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja. The number had earlier been increased to 19 from nine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-education-dept-staffers-among-232-fresh-covid-cases-in-chandigarh/story-A6udWkskKsNxISs8AW6zuL.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||UT Employees’ Housing Scheme: CHB redraws plans, explores price options||It was an apartment scheme that fell through due to the high price tags of the units, but now the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is making new drawings of the project and exploring costing options of the UT Employees’ Housing Scheme.A consultant has been hired by CHB to rework plans, it has been revealed. “Unless architectural plans of all the options are prepared, we will not know how to minimise costs... or the exact costs,” says a senior board official who wishes to remain anonymous.Once the drawings are complete CHB will get inputs on it from the UT urban planning department.Process to take two weeksThe entire process is likely to be completed within two weeks, said the official. “Various elements regarding Floor Area Ratio (FAR), covered space, and density will be reworked for different options, particularly when it comes to the number of floors and other plans.” FAR is the ratio of a building’s gross floor area to the total area of the land on which it’s built.The move followed a meeting to discuss the housing scheme through video conferencing on August 19 under the chairmanship of the Union home secretary.After deliberations to resolve the costing issue it was decided that costs be recalculated again for different categories by applying various factors such as FAR, collector rate, plotted area etc in consultation with the representatives of petitioners who had filed a court case related to the scheme.FAR likely to be increased“The options being accessed includes increasing the FAR for the project. The floors can go up to 11. Increase in FAR means the scheme will only apply to Sector 56. Also, charges will only be applicable for plotted areas instead of the total land parcel,” the official said.Around 4,000 apartments were to be built in sectors 52, 53 and 56 by CHB for government employees as part of a scheme launched in 2008.A draw of lots was held in 2010, in which 3,930 employees among 7,827 applicants were selected. They had then deposited around Rs 57 crore with CHB.Later, the scheme was shelved and then revived after the employees took up the matter with city MP Kirron Kher. But the ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed the administration to transfer the land to the CHB at the current collector rates.With this the apartment prices shot up to Rs 50 lakh for Category D, Rs 1 crore for Category C, Rs1.64 crore for Category B and Rs2.08 crore for Category A.When the scheme was announced prices were low at Rs 34.70 lakh for Category A, Rs 24.30 lakh for Category B, Rs 13.53 lakh for Category C and Rs 5.76 lakh for Category D.The employees then moved the Punjab and Haryana high court alleging that the CHB was charging five times the initial price for land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-employees-housing-scheme-chb-redraws-plans-explores-price-options/story-bzDgp2Ap4HvArcOF5etVPI.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal construction on panchayat land: HC asks Mohali SSP for report||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked for a report from the Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) on a Mullanpur resident’s complaint that no action is being taken to stop illegal construction on panchayat land. Surprisingly, the land is located close to a police station and the local administration has been informed about the matter.The high court was hearing Satnam Singh Sarpanch, who alleged that a person named Sultan was illegally carrying out the construction and that he (Satnam) being sarpanch had complained about it to the local administration.He also said he was being threatened by Sultan for taking up the matter.The high court was informed that the Mohali deputy director and special collector (panchayati lands) had acted on Satnam Singh’s complaint on August 20 and restrained Sultan from carrying out work. However, as he did not pay heed to the order, the sarpanch complained to the SSP on August 21 and on August 27, photographs were taken of the site as proof that work had not stopped.The site in question lay adjacent to the Mullanpur-2 police station but officials there have not taken any action despite being informed about the matter. While posting the matter for September 11, the high court bench of justice AG Masih sought a response from the authorities with status and action taken reports from the SSP on the August 21 complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-construction-on-panchayat-land-hc-asks-mohali-ssp-for-report/story-1WUXNzpWcJwx8hd5j8cbdL.html
07-09-2020||City||Anti-encroachment drive: Ludhiana MC razes illegal structures||A total of seven structures were demolished by the anti-encroachment team of the municipal corporation(MC) on Monday. Out of the seven structures, six were commercial establishments, while one was a paying guest accommodation constructed in violation of the building bylaws. Sharing information, building inspector Jagdeep Singh said that the commercial establishments including three at Churpur Road, two at Jassian Road, and one at Habran were being constructed in violation of the parking norms.A paying guest accommodation was also being constructed in the Mall Enclave near Mall Road in vioaltion of the norms, he added. A police party of the corporation accompanied the team to foil any attempt of resistance by the established owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anti-encroachment-drive-ludhiana-mc-razes-illegal-structures/story-J6rGQCekCUc51ayLoUdDlK.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, an extra green topping for Chandigarh Golf Club course||Golfers from Tuesday will get to play on the newly re-laid and only three-tiered greens at hole 12 of the 18-hole Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) course. As CGC resumes sports activities amid a slew of relaxations after the Covid-19 lockdown, players will now face increased difficulty levels putting three-tier greens at the 415 yard par-4 hole.Putting from one tier to another can be difficult, as the slope that divides tiers can prevent players from speeding up their game.The new changes come eight years after the greens at hole 6 were re-laid at the CGC course. Even as the basic characteristics (a dogleg right hole, green with table top and no bunkers around) of hole 12 remain unchanged, 36% of its surface area has increased from 4,800 square feet to 6,554 square feet.“The greens are a very important part of the course as 50% of the scored strokes are taken on the greens. In the overall round of the golf game, half is played on the greens. It is a delicate area on the course and requires extra care. Looking at the footfall we have at our course, the greens are overused, so on a rotational basis we need to change the upper layer (turf) of the green. Also, if required, we need to completely relay the green, which is a very technical task, requires time and decent investment too,” says SPS Matharoo, CGC captain, who is responsible for the course.“We started the relay work of the hole 12 greens in mid-March but faced delays because of the lockdown. Now we are ready to open it for play. During the time of the relaying work, we made a small makeshift green close to the original area of the green. The members are enthusiastic about playing on the new green and hopefully it will add more challenge to their play,” adds Matharoo.Apart from producing top-class professionals such as Jeev Milkha Singh, Gaganjeet Bhullar, Shubhankar Sharma and Ajeetesh Sandhu, CGC hosts professional events regularly.The big-ticket Rs1.5 crore Jeev Milkha Invitational Tournament was played last year. “For hosting top professional golfing events, we need to have a top-class course. For that our course manager and entire course maintenance team have been on their toes,” he says. Elaborating on the changes at hole 12, course manager Amrit Inder Singh says, “We reduced the existing big slopes and introduced smaller contours and more small slopes. This is the first three-tiered green at the course, all others are either single or two-tiered. The new green gives more pin position, thus increasing its lifespan.” The 7,202 yard 18-hole CGC course was designed by five-time British Open champion Peter Thompson. He was assisted by a founder member of the club and professional golfer Simran Singh, who also remained coach of the Indian golf team for the 1986 Seoul Asian Games. The overall annual budget of maintaining the CGC course, including investment in machinery, is around Rs 2.5 crore, giving employment to over 100 people for maintaining the course. Getting it rightGreens: The greens are where the flagstick and hole are located. When players hit the ball on the green, they use a putter to roll the ball into the hole. Half of the strokes are played on the greens.Components of greens: Below the turf (putting surface) is a 12-inch to 16-inch hole filled with seedbed, sand, gravel, drainage pipes and subsoil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-an-extra-green-topping-for-chandigarh-golf-club-course/story-7nRUwceT6LoI7HmiANfGAJ.html
07-09-2020||City||Punjab traders’ body protests against restrictions||Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) staged a protest against the policies of the state government here on Monday. Addressing the protestors, mandal’s state general secretary Sunil Mehra and leaders Rakesh Vohra, Ramesh Mahajan, and Vijay Kapoor said the traders were facing acute recession due to the faulty policies of the Punjab government. They said that they regretted that the weekend lockdown had broken the backbone of the traders’ community and that if liquor vends, restaurants, hotels, etc are permitted to open then why are other shops not allowed to. They said, “It seems as if traders are being ignored by Capt Amarinder Singh government even when it is they who give maximum revenue in the form of taxes to the government. The lockdown has been lifted everywhere including Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi but Punjab government is yet to take a decision in this regard.” The mandal leaders warned that if the Punjab government failed to withdraw the weekend lockdown, the traders will protest by wearing black badges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-traders-body-protests-against-restrictions/story-RCDXVlj5FdhQ5ohWrb9NDM.html
07-09-2020||City||Speeding car leaves traffic cop injured in Panchkula||A traffic police personnel was injured when a speeding car, suspected to be an Audi, hit him in Panchkula on Monday.The accident took place around 7pm when special police officer Raj Kumar was crossing the road while on duty near Welcomhotel Bella Vista in Sector 5. According to Sukhdev Singh, station house officer, traffic police, the driver fled from the spot instead of helping Kumar, who is now undergoing treatment at the Panchkula civil hospital.“We rounded up a person on the basis of the car number provided by onlookers, but he has been denying the allegations. We will check the CCTV footage,” said the SHO, adding that the car is an Audi registered in Chandigarh.No FIR was registered till the filing of this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-car-leaves-traffic-cop-injured-in-panchkula/story-iVrrVpUig8Zl0wJMhjfAgK.html
07-09-2020||City||Punjab govt releases Rs 50 lakh for renovation of hockey turf||The Punjab government is spending Rs 1 crore on the renovation of the hockey astroturf at Bhaini Sahib. The first instalment of Rs 50 lakh has been released. A sanction letter for the same was handed over by minister for sports and youth affairs Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi to Namdhari Sect head Satguru Uday Singh at the Bhaini Sahib Darbar.Rana Sodhi said that the state government appreciated Bhaini Sahib’s contribution in the field of sports. He said, “Keeping in view the efforts being made by this sect to engage youth in sports, the government has decided to renovate this astroturf. The coaches of the state sports department will continue to render their services from time to time for the development of sports in the region.”He said that the Punjab government was making all efforts for the development of sports and sportspersons in the state. A special quota of 3% has been fixed for government jobs for sportspersons, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-releases-rs-50-lakh-for-renovation-of-hockey-turf/story-31nzWn7l30duwpTolCoiGJ.html
07-09-2020||City||PAU renames department of agronomy after Dr Rattan Lal on his birthday||To felicitate World Food Prize laureate and renowned scientist Dr Rattan Lal, vice-chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Dr BS Dhillon rechristened the department of agronomy as Dr Rattan Lal laboratories.An online ceremony was conducted where dignitaries from Ohio State University (OSU), USA; president Dr Kristina Johnson, Dr Rattan Lal and vice provost, OIA, Dr Gil Latz participated. After rechristening the department, the V-C called it a red-letter day in the history of PAU and for the coming generations as a “matter of great pride and privilege to be associated with one of the most illustrious alumni of PAU, who brought laurels to the university as well as Ohio State University.” “By honouring Dr Rattan Lal, we are honouring ourselves”, Dr Dhillon remarked as he went on to describe the relevance of the day with respect to it being celebrated as Teachers Day, in memory of former president, and a great teacher, Dr Sarvapali Radhakrishnan. The vice-chancellor further traced the long and strong relationship between PAU and OSU dating back to 1962 when the latter played the role of mentoring a number of PAU scientists who brought back academic excellence and work culture to the university. He said, “The result was the green revolution in India during the 1960s and 1970s in which PAU played a motherly role, thereby transforming the country from being food deficit to a food exporting nation.” Dr Dhillon elaborated on the university’s role towards sustainable agriculture, the latest example being crop residue management and direct-seeded rice. He highlighted the role of OSU alumnus and former PAU vice-chancellor, Dr GS Kalkat in strengthening the bond between the two universities which led to the formation of the Food Industry Centre at PAU. While acknowledging the online presence of OSU president, Dr Johnson, the V-C extended an invitation to her for visiting the university after the pandemic.The 16th president of Ohio State University, Dr Kristina Johnson called Dr Rattan Lal an unbelievably outstanding and inspiring personality with a humble demeanour. While calling for deeper partnerships with PAU, Dr Johnson said she was confident that under Dr Rattan Lal’s dedicated guidance, the two universities would achieve major milestones in providing safe food to the planet and stopping climate change.While accepting the newly bestowed honour by PAU, Dr Rattan Lal (who was also celebrating his birthday) referred to the event as his best birthday ever and expressed gratitude to the university for sowing in him the seeds of hard work and excellence. “It is a momentous occasion as the Ohio State University is celebrating its 150th anniversary this year,” Dr Rattan Lal said.He congratulated the university scientists for playing a frontier role in perching the country as the largest producer of 15 crops and soon projected to become a leading producer of wheat and rice too. Dr Lal appreciated the shifting of 25% state farmers to direct-seeded rice, and applauded PAU’s role in the impressive 5% agricultural growth rate of the country, at a time when other sectors are struggling for survival.He further highlighted the future goals as making agriculture a part of the solution by changing the mindset of people. Dr Lal emphasised minimising agricultural dependence on chemicals and raising awareness about the inseparable nexus between soil and human health. He concluded by elaborating a Sanskrit verse that refers to the world as one big family, of which, said Dr Rattan Lal, “PAU and OSU are the exemplary icons”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-renames-department-of-agronomy-after-dr-rattan-lal-on-his-birthday/story-8ONdTV1cMwOu4FcsdaYItL.html
07-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Hotel, restaurant owners welcome relaxations||The hotel and restaurant owners of the city have welcomed the state government’s decision to allow the hotels and restaurants to remain open throughout the week and on Saturday till 9pm.According to the guidelines, non-essential shops will also be allowed to open on Saturdays and will be allowed to function till 9pm.The state government has also revised night curfew timings which will now be from 9:30pm to 5am.After 9pm, home delivery of food will be allowed, as per revised guidelines.Meeting with finance ministerEarlier during the day, a delegation of the state’s hotel and restaurant association met finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, cabinet ministers Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria in Chandigarh.Amarveer Singh, president of the association, demanded a waiver of the excise fee of six months and urged to extend the dine-in in timing of hotels and restaurants till 9.30 pm.Singh said that the finance minister agreed to the terms forwarded by the delegation.“Our businesses received a massive setback, first during the lockdown and later, due to the strict government guidelines. We are currently not in a position to run our businesses let alone paying taxes. We have urged the government to be considerate so that we can bring our businesses back on track,” said Amarveer Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-hotel-restaurant-owners-welcome-relaxations/story-lOSmtZADvhHywdAq795XMP.html
07-09-2020||City||Warriors in khaki who beat Covid honoured in Ludhiana||Several police officers who defeated the coronavirus disease which they contracted in the line of duty, and later donated their blood plasma for the treatment of other infected patients, were felicitated by Hero Dayanand Heart Institute (HDHI) on Monday. Two women police officers Arshpreet Kaur, station house officer of Jodhewal Basti police station and constable Sushma Rani donated their blood plasma. Besides constable Harish Sharma, sub-inspector Jatinder Singh, ASI Dinesh Kumar and head constable Davinder Singh were honoured by the institute. Additional deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Rupinder Kaur Sra, who is the nodal officer for Covid-19, was also honoured for motivating the cops to donate the life-saving plasma. Those present at the felicitation ceremony include deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, chief cardiologist Dr GS Wander along with medical superintendent, HDHI, Dr Bishav Mohan, Dr Rajesh Mahajan and president of Sewa Sankalp Society, Harpreet Sandhu.In his message, Dr Wander said, “Instead of panicking, we need to follow preventive measures with great care and attentiveness to thwart the spread of the virus.” A special brochure depicting a message to laud the efforts of plasma donors was launched by DC Varinder Kumar Sharma.Speaking during the occasion Dr Bishav Mohan said, “The plasma of ASI Dinesh Kumar was used to treat critically ill patients. It was due to the timely treatment that precious lives could be save added.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/warriors-in-khaki-who-beat-covid-honoured-in-ludhiana/story-CNPlyzt5pGD3b4u6uE2zYJ.html
07-09-2020||City||Organ harvesting allegations: Day after complaint, Ludhiana man booked for spreading misinformation||Taking note of falsehoods about organ harvesting doing rounds on social media, the Raikot police on Monday booked a person for spreading misinformation and creating panic among residents. On Saturday, the family of a 52-year-old Covid-19 victim staged a protest alleging the health department’s involvement in an organ harvesting scam. However, Raikot senior medical officer Dr Alka Mittal had lodged a complaint with the police on Sunday alleging that the family had cried foul and claimed that the victim was killed by doctors for organ harvesting.She demanded registration of an FIR against the admin of the WhatsApp group on which the message was being shared. She has given an ultimatum till Tuesday and threatened to stop medical services at the hospital if no action is taken by the police. Station house officer of Raikot City police station Inspector Heera Singh said that the accused identified as Manoj Kumar Verma alias Monu, a resident of Talwandi, Raikot Road, has been booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 54 of the Epidemic Act for violating the government orders and for spreading misinformation to create panic. The accused has been booked on the complaint of Jaswinder Singh Walia, a pharmacy officer of Raikot civil hospital. The FIR stated that Monu’s message on WhatsApp accused the health department of organ harvesting of coronavirus patients and even condemned the state government for being involved in the scam.“It is really sad that due to the misinformation being shared by such a foolish person, patients are reluctant to come out to get their tests done and reach the hospital when their condition deteriorates. Initially, we were rebutting this misinformation, but now we have decided to take stern action against such anti-social elements who are spreading fear and panic,” said Dr Alka Mittal.It was on Saturday, a tailor from Raikot town succumbed to the virus. The victim’s family members staged a protest outside the crematorium alleging the health department’s involvement in an organ harvesting scam, a senior medical officer said that the video of the protest was being shared on social media with a message by Monu to circulate misinformation. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga reiterated that people should not fall prey to misinformation. “No transplant has been performed here since the Covid-19 outbreak in March. Transplants can only be conducted after receiving the government’s approval.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/organ-harvesting-allegations-day-after-complaint-ludhiana-man-booked-for-spreading-misinformation/story-5yr624nbdh9iFqkov8tGjJ.html
07-09-2020||City||Stripping case: Victim seeks cancellation of ‘false’ FIR lodged by ex-Khanna SHO||After the arrest of suspended Khanna SHO Inspector Baljinder Singh, the police have initiated an investigation into the FIRs lodged by him.Singh was booked in an assault case where three men were allegedly stripped and then filmed at Khanna Sadar police station.The victim Jagpal Singh alleged that the mobile phone used to record the video is yet to be traced. He also alleged that they were forced to remove their clothes and humiliated by the cop. Later, they were falsely implicated in a case of burglary.Jagpal Singh has approached the special investigation team (SIT) seeking cancellation of the FIR lodged against them.Inspector general (Ludhiana zone) Naunihal Singh along with members of the SIT is scheduled to meet Jagpal through his counsel Guninder Singh Brar.Advocate Guninder Singh Brar also alleged that some members of the SIT are in favour of the accused Inspector. He requested the IG to remove such officers from the SIT. However, the IG has assured him that he will be personally investigating the matter.On Monday, the Khanna police produced the accused before a court that sent him to police remand for one more day.Inspector Baljinder Singh surrendered before the IG on Saturday. after his bail application was rejected by the court. The police were after him for the past two months.The cop was booked for assault, illegal detention, stripping clothes of three men and recording the video. The police had also added sections of the SC/ST Act and the Information and Technology (IT) Act against the inspector in the FIR lodged at City-1 police station of Khanna on July 5.In the nine-second video, three persons were seen standing nude in front of the SHO, whose voice is audible but his face cannot be seen. After the video went viral, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had directed the inspector general of police (IGP), Ludhiana Range, to carry out a fact-finding inquiry into the matter on April 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stripping-case-victim-seeks-cancellation-of-false-fir-lodged-by-ex-khanna-sho/story-fNLOP1CMTuTWft2fHlP7zO.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Wife, friend held for attempt to murder of businessman, six others for arms smuggling||The probe into a case of attempt to murder of a businessman in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar last week led to the arrest of his wife and friend and also helped the police bust an interstate arms smuggling racket.Police said the duo had procured two pistols and bullets from the smugglers to try and kill the businessman, the police said Monday.A total of nine countrymade pistols and 53 cartridges have been recovered from the duo and six other persons, who are part of the gang that supplies firearms to criminals in western parts of the city. Police said the syndicate has roots in Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh, where the firearms are illegally manufactured. The gang had supplied over 50 firearms and hundreds of bullets to over a dozen criminals in west Delhi, senior police officers associated with the case said.An investigating officer, who is not authorised to speak to the media, said the arrested 24-year-old woman, Sunita (single name), and her husband’s friend Manoj (single name), were allegedly having an affair. When Sunita’s husband Babu (single name) got to know of this, fights ensued between the couple and they had also complained about each other to the police in the past. “As altercations between the couple became routine, Sunita and Manoj decided to get rid of Babu and planned his murder,” the investigator said.On September 1 around 10.30pm, Babu, an apparel businessman, was returning to his Raghubir Nagar home from a nearby temple when an unidentified masked man waylaid him and fired two shots at him. The bullets missed him and he survived the attack. After the attacker fled, Babu rushed home and informed his mother, Panno Devi, who in turn called the police.“A case of attempt to murder and firing was registered and investigation was taken up. Babu suspected the role of his wife and Manoj in the attack. Manoj was caught the next day and his interrogation led us to unravel the entire conspiracy and arrest Sunita from whose possession two pistols and a bullet were recovered,” the officer said.During their interrogation, another police officer associated with the case said Manoj disclosed that he had procured the firearms from one Tarun alias Rakesh. When Tarun’s antecedents were verified, it was found that he was wanted in a murder and robbery case, registered recently in Nihar Vihar. “We arrested Tarun,26, and his questioning revealed his association with Sabir alias Mulla, a weapons supplier. Mulla was also arrested with two pistols and 20 cartridges. His interrogation helped us bust the entire network,” the second officer said.Sabir told the police that he was operating the racket along with his uncle, who runs the illegal firearms manufacturing unit in Firozpur. The duo is believed to have supplied over 50 illegal firearms to west Delhi criminals in the past three or four months, the police said.“After Sabir, we arrested four more men – Ajay alias Jatin,28, Bobby,25, Sunny,26, and Shalender,33 -- and recovered five more pistols and 32 cartridges. Efforts are on to nab Sabir’s uncle and all those who procured weapons from the duo,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wife-friend-held-for-attempt-to-murder-of-businessman-six-others-for-arms-smuggling/story-0ORyXUE1op0Mgnlqfmru8N.html
07-09-2020||City||Three held for kidnapping and robbing truckers||New Delhi: The police scanned footage of more than 60 CCTV cameras to arrest a gang of robbers who had allegedly kidnapped and robbed a truck driver and his helper in West Delhi’s Najafgarh on Thursday night, the police said. The helper escaped by jumping off the vehicle while the driver pulled off some wires to stop the truck, after which the robbers fled. The victims went to the police, which tracked down the robbers with leads from CCTV footage.The three arrested men had followed the truck in a compact sports utility vehicle (SUV) before two of them forcibly entered it and held the two victims captive and robbed them of Rs 25,400 in cash and a mobile phone. One of the suspects, Yogesh, was previously booked in four robbery cases, and another was found involved in a drugs case. The third arrested suspect had no criminal past, Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said. “They robbed to fund their drug addiction. We recovered two pistols and a toy gun from them,” the DCP said. The victims were identified as truck driver Parmod Rawat and his helper, Amit. The crime happened around 8 pm on Thursday when they were driving a truck loaded with construction material from Najafgarh. “We had stopped at a temple to take drinking water near Mitraon village. Just as we were getting into our truck, two men asked us for a lift. When we refused, they forcibly entered the truck and beat us up,” Rawat told the police. The investigators later learnt that the two men involved in the robbery were being followed by their third partner in a Hyundai Venue car. One of the suspects allegedly took over the wheel. They robbed cash from the driver and a mobile phone from the helper, the police said. “At one point, my helper suddenly jumped off the truck when the vehicle slowed down. The robbers continued to drive with me inside,” Rawat said. About two kilometres later, Rawat took the suspects by surprise by pulling off some wires, due to which the truck stoped. “The robbers got off the truck and fled even as I fixed the wires to drive back and check on my colleague,” he said. The driver and the helper had relatively minor injuries and went on to seek police’s help, upon which a case of robbery and kidnapping was registered at Baba Haridas Nagar police station. “We began tracing the movement of the suspects backwards. One of the 60 CCTVs we checked had captured the vehicle number of the suspects before they had targeted the truckers,” the DCP said.The car allegedly used in the crime belonged to one of the suspects and it helped the police track them easily. The three suspects were subsequently nabbed from Jhajjar in Haryana on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-kidnapping-and-robbing-truckers/story-8I4Xw4W9ahgnsZTmvLkM4K.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Four held for stabbing man to death after one of them was ‘slapped publicly’||A 23-year-old man was stabbed to death on Saturday in north-east Delhi’s Welcome allegedly by four men to avenge the “humiliation” they faced when he “slapped” one of them in public, the police said. All four alleged attackers were arrested and two knives used for killing the man, Noor Hassan alias Armaan, were seized on Sunday, deputy commissioner of police (north-east) Ved Prakash Surya said.The arrested men were identified as Asif Khan aka Danny, Rehaan, Kasif, and Feroz Khan, all residents of Welcome and Seelampur in north-east Delhi. All four knew Hassan and Asif and Kasif were his neighbours.“Around a fortnight ago, Hassan had slapped Asif in public. Asif felt humiliated and decided to take revenge. He included his three friends who also bore grudges against Hassan allegedly because he had assaulted them several times in the past,” DCP Surya said.On Saturday, the police received a call regarding a body in Janta Mazdoor Colony in Welcome and were told that it was taken to a hospital. They found Hassan’s body with three to four stab wounds to the chest and abdomen. A case of murder was registered and investigation was taken up.The investigating team activated their informants’ network and through them they came to know about Hassan’s enmity with Asif and the other three men and also about the public slapping incident. Police went to look for the suspects and found that they were missing from their homes.“We collected information about their whereabouts and caught them from north-east Delhi. They admitted to killing Hassan to settle scores with him. Their interrogation led to the recovery of the two knives used in the crime,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-held-for-stabbing-man-to-death-after-one-of-them-was-slapped-publicly/story-KP48PfUaXgzyRuMtC81UZO.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Riots: Delhi court seeks clarification of HC order on bail extensions||A Delhi court on Monday has sought a clarification from the Delhi high court as to whether the directions of its full bench, extending the interim bail of an accused by 45 days to stop the spread of Covid-19 in jail, apply to the cases of riots or not.It observed that several accused have taken interim bail on humanitarian grounds and later sought extensions, citing the order passed by the high-powered committee constituted to decongest jails in view of Covid.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, whose court has been specifically assigned to hear the riot cases, said a specific trend has been noticed where a number of accused persons have been applying for interim bails on humanitarian grounds based on the order passed by the full bench of the high court.The court noted that if it grants interim bail on humanitarian grounds or some other urgency, then the accused, invariably file applications for extension of interim bail on the grounds that the full bench of the Delhi high court has extended the interim bails en masse from time to time and presently they stand extended till October 31.ASJ Yadav said that while the minutes of the meeting of May 18 of the high-powered committee, constituted to decongest prisons of the city, had excluded the category of under-trials whose cases are being investigated by CBI/ED/NIA/Special Cell of Delhi Police, Crime Branch, SFIO, terror-related cases, riot cases, cases under Anti-National Activities and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act etc, the full bench of the HC has directed to extend the interim bail granted to an accused at the end of the bail period.On July 13, a full bench of the high court comprising of chief justice DN Patel, justice Siddharth Mridul and justice Talwant Singh had extended till August 31 all interim orders, including bails, in cases being heard by it and district courts so as to ensure the safety of litigants, lawyers and under-trial prisoners during the pandemic.Later, in another order of the full bench of July 24, the court had clarified its order and said the order of extension of interim bail/parole shall be applicable to all under-trials/convicts, who have been released on interim bail or parole before or after March 16.On Monday, ASJ Yadav said in his opinion, interim bails are granted purely on humanitarian grounds for a limited period and hence it should not come within the purview of the directions of the HC directive because such category of under-trials (riot accused) are excluded from being entitled to bail by the high-powered committee.The court was hearing the interim bail application of 19-year old Suhaib Saifi, an accused in the northeast Delhi riots case who wanted to appear for his CBSE class 10 compartment examinations.In his plea, filed through advocate Mehmood Pracha, Saifi said he was arrested on March 10 before which he was appearing for his CBSE Class 10 exams. The plea said Saifi had to write the mathematics and social science exams in custody. He passed social science but could not clear math.The judge, on Monday, while directing that a copy of the order be sent to the Registrar for clarification, also said that all arrangements have been already made for Saifi in the jail for him to prepare for the examination. The court directed the jail superintendent to provide the necessary books to Saifi.Saifi was arrested in connection with the murder of one Mahroof Ali and his neighbour Shamshad during the north-east Delhi riots. The FIR was registered on a complaint by Ali’s brother, who alleged that the mob shot at the two people with the intention to kill them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/riots-delhi-court-seeks-clarification-of-hc-order-on-bail-extensions/story-c0cJUxdtVXUz6DGv0zqi3I.html
07-09-2020||City||Former NC MLA dies of Covid, politicos express grief||Senior National Conference (NC) leader and former legislator Thakur Rachpal Singh died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Reasi district here on Monday.The 69-year-old politician is survived by his wife, son and two daughters. “He was suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness and was hospitalised on September 5, but he died on Monday morning,” said the doctors of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality hospital, Kakriyal.Singh, a seasoned politician from Sialsui Kalakote, had won assembly elections twice from his home constituency in 2002 and 2008.NC president Dr Farooq Abdullah and vice-president Omar Abdullah expressed shock and grief over the passing away of the senior party member, describing his death as a great loss to them.In a tweet, National Conference leader former chief minister Omar Abdullah said, “Early this morning I lost my senior colleague and former MLA of Kalakote Rajouri Rachpal Singh to COVID-19. Only yesterday I spoke to him to wish him well. He was on oxygen support but in good spirits. Less than 24 hours later he is no more. My prayers are with his family”.J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina said he was saddened to hear the news about the death of Singh and noted that he was a courageous leader who served the people with utmost sincerity.Chief spokesperson of Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC), Ravinder Sharma, said the party held a condolence meeting and paid rich tributes to the prominent political figure and recalled his contribution to the society as a whole.Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha also extended his condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-nc-mla-dies-of-covid-politicos-express-grief/story-6bmrJSwSUIRbFllRHg1EDI.html
07-09-2020||City||Congress to hold protest against corruption, unemployment in Himachal||The state unit of Congress will be staging a protest against the alleged increase in corruption, unemployment, inflation and other grievances of the people here on Tuesday.Accusing chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led state government of turning a blind eye towards the problems being faced by people, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore said the party has decided to awaken the government about these issues.He said the current regime did not make a single achievement during its two-and-a-half-year tenure, and instead remained incompetent in managing the Covid-19 pandemic.At a time when farmers, orchardists, businessmen and others are in deep trouble, the government is trying to loot them by imposing taxes and inflated bills of electricity, water, house tax etc., instead of providing relief in such a time of financial crisis, the Congress said.Rathore said the central government had already destroyed the economy with demonetisation and implementing GST, and now it was pushing the country towards destruction as the GDP has reached minus 23.9%.He added that people of the state have understood that BJP is only good in making false promises.“Not only in Himachal, but Congress is going to launch a nationwide movement against the BJP government’s failures, anti-people policies and its authoritarian behaviour,” said Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-to-hold-protest-against-corruption-unemployment-in-himachal/story-w6WskPf6mbSjoGE51tAKiO.html
07-09-2020||City||Now, Jammu division recording more Covid infections than Kashmir||The Jammu division is witnessing more Covid-19 cases this month as compared to Kashmir which till August 31 was in the lead for number of infections and deaths.Officials have attributed the change in contagion trend to increased testing in Jammu division and relaxation in lockdown.As many as 600 people tested positive in Jammu division on Monday while 413 cases were reported from Kashmir.From September 1 to 6, the union territory has recorded 5,859 coronavirus cases, of which 3,037 (51.8%) pertained to the Jammu division and 2,822 (48%) to Kashmir division. In the last four days, the daily cases have hovered over 1,000, even touching a record high of 1,316 on Sunday.The higher percentage of cases in Jammu this month is in complete contrast to the overall distribution of number of Covid patients in the UT, majority of which have been found infected in Kashmir. Of the total 43,557 cases till September 6, Kashmir has contributed 31,739 patients (72.8%), while Jammu accounted for 11,818 (27%). If the comparison is made without including the cases in September, the Valley till August 31 has witnessed 76.6% cases, while Jammu has contributed to 23%.“The increase in cases in Jammu is due to two things – one that testing has increased and second is the increased public activities due to relaxation in lockdown,” said Dr ADS Manhas, epidemiologist and state surveillance officer of infectious diseases in Jammu.He said the rate of testing has increased by 100 percent since the rapid antigen tests (RAT) were introduced. “Earlier, we used to conduct some 4,000-5,000 RT-PCR tests, but now we are testing 10,000 to 11,000 people daily using RAT as well as RT-PCR,” he said. With RAT, the test results come within 15 minutes as against 1-2 days for RT-PCR.Of the 10 districts in Jammu division, majority of the cases have been recorded in Jammu district. Out of the total 3,037 cases in the region from September 1 to 6, over 2,065 were recorded in Jammu district alone.“Testing has been enhanced in every district, not just Jammu,” Manhas said.In terms of death rate, Kashmir has recorded seven times more fatalities than Jammu. Of the 784 deaths reported till September 6, as many as 686 patients died in the Valley, while 98 deaths were from Jammu.However, for the first time on September 5, Jammu division witnessed more number of daily deaths (10) than Kashmir (5). On September 6, seven persons died in Jammu and as many in Kashmir.“Things are under control and people are aware, but it is only that more people are undergoing testing,” Manhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-jammu-division-recording-more-covid-infections-than-kashmir/story-un7tJxFVYgCmnwaYNGac6H.html
07-09-2020||City||Udhampur infants’ death: NHRC issues show-cause notice to J&K admn for compensation to families||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday sought action in the deaths of 13 infants in Ramnagar area of Udhampur district against the delinquent officials.At least a dozen infants had died after consuming toxic syrup manufactured by a pharmaceutical company Digital Vision Pvt Ltd in Kala Amb area of Himachal Pradesh in January this year. Taking serious cognizance of the complaint made by social activist Sukesh C Khajuria, NHRC has reprimanded the J&K drug authorities.Issuing show-cause notices to the J&K administration, the NHRC has also sought action-taken report against “the delinquent officials, on account of whose negligence such a gory incident had occurred”.Khajuria in his petition to the NHRC had sought adequate compensation for the victims and their families and action against the negligent officials.The NHRC in its order has issued show-cause notices to J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam found the administration to be “vicariously liable for said negligence” and asked it as to why the Commission should not recommend compensation of ₹3,00,000 to the nest of kin of each deceased in the present case, who died due to the consumption of toxic oral syrup/medicine and whose human rights have been infringed upon.The complainant had sought for intervention of the Commission for action against the delinquent government officials and compensation to aggrieved families who have lost their children.NHRC has found that there was a procedural lapse on the part of J&K drug department wherein the authorities had failed to keep a regular vigil on the contamination and contents of medicines sold within its jurisdiction.“The authority is directed to file a report with regard to action taken against the delinquent officials, on account of whose negligence such incident had occur, which could otherwise be averted due to their strict vigil,” stated the NHRC order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/udhampur-infants-death-nhrc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-j-k-admn-for-compensation-to-families/story-A0NLARMCWGjhrKDEAOi6kK.html
07-09-2020||City||Covid scare in HP assembly: BJP MLA tests positive on Day 1 of monsoon session||Covid-19 threat sneaked into the monsoon session of Himachal Pradesh assembly on Monday as BJP legislator from Indora Rita Dhiman tested positive. Dhiman had attended the proceedings on the first day of the session today. The authorities have now started rigorous contact tracing. Gagret MLA Rajesh Thakur’s wife, daughter and two staffers have also tested positive. 245 fresh infections take tally to 7,660The state’s Covid-19 tally shot up to 7,660 on Monday with 245 more people testing positive for the virus. Of the new cases, 66 were reported in Solan, 55 in Mandi, 51 in Kangra, 27 in Una, 17 in Shimla, 11 in Lahaul-Spiti, seven in Bilaspur, six in Sirmaur, and five in Chamba.Active cases mounted to 2,234 in the state and 5,311 people have recovered. In Una district, a 34-year-old woman health worker and a revenue department employee were among the 11 new cases. The health worker came in direct contact with a Covid patient.Apart from this, two employees of Jal Shakti department have also caught the infection after coming into contact with a positive patient.In Amb sub-division, a 35-year-old woman, who returned from Chandigarh, tested positive. A Nagaland-returned man and another person who came from Leh were also found infected.Among the five people who tested positive in Chamba was an 80-year-old woman from Chamba town. A male health worker has tested positive in Kihar area.A 25-year-man from Tunda village and two women from Kakian village have also contracted the virus.The details of other cases are awaited.With 1,762 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 1,142 cases have been reported till date. Sirmaur has 1,052 cases, Hamirpur 660, Una 624, Mandi 542, Chamba 541, , Shimla 437, Bilaspur 419, Kullu 359 and 103 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported 19 Covid-19 cases till date.Death toll mounts to 56The virus claimed two more lives in Himachal today taking the death toll to 56.An 80-year-old woman died in Chamba. The deceased was suffering with co-morbidities. She tested positive on Monday morning and was being shifted to a Covid-care hospital in Dharamshala, but died on the way, said Chamba chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Guleri.Another person, a 57-year-old man, who was suffering from cancer, died at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla. Solan has recorded maximum 14 deaths due to virus so far, followed by 10 deaths in Kangra. Eight people have died in Mandi, five each in Hamirpur, Chamba and Shimla and Una and three in Sirmaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/74-new-infections-in-hp-case-count-now-7-489/story-IoN7ssQ0p58nad9qIYxnQI.html
07-09-2020||City||Delhi riots: Court extends by 3 days ED custody of Tahir Hussain||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Monday extended by three days the Enforcement Directorate custody of suspended councillor Tahir Hussain in a money laundering case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat allowed the ED’s application for Hussain’’s custodial interrogation considering the period of interrogation already done. The agency had sought Hussain’s custody for nine days, saying he was still needed to be confronted with other voluminous records and a substantial number of persons were yet to be confronted with him.“Considering the period of interrogation already done and as per the record, the further police custody remand of the accused Tahir Hussain is given for another period of three days from today. The Jail Superintendent shall immediately hand over the custody of the accused to the concerned investigating officer of the ED. The accused shall be handed over to the jail authorities by September 10,” the court said in its order.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is probing allegations that Hussain and some associates laundered about Rs 1.10 crore by using purported shell or dummy companies to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the subsequent riots in north-east Delhi in February.During the hearing, senior advocate K K Manan and advocate Uditi Bali, appearing for Hussain, opposed the application saying the 15 days period for grant of ED custody has to begin from the date of arrest, August 20, and thus, further extension of remand was not permissible in law.Central government’s standing counsel Amit Mahajan, appearing for ED, said the 15 days remand has to begin when his application was considered and allowed.Mahajan argued that the probe agency had obtained Hussain’’s physical custody on August 31 after the Jail authorities handed him over to the probe agency after performing the Covid-19 test.Special Public Prosecutor N K Matta said a complete and comprehensive investigation could not be completed within the custody remand granted by the court earlier.Hussain was arrested in connection with the riots in north-east Delhi. He has also been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a conspiracy case related to the riots. He was also arrested in connection with the alleged murder of Intelligence Bureau official Ankit Sharma during the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-court-extends-by-3-days-ed-custody-of-tahir-hussain/story-KF558l1sKkZH5UGi6AFNzJ.html
07-09-2020||City||Punjab allows eateries to serve food till 9pm, non-essential shops can open on Saturdays||Chandigarh Taking cognisance of the suggestions of several Congress MLAs and the advice of medical experts, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday announced some relaxations in the lockdown timings in urban areas and allowed opening of non-essential shops on Saturdays. The shops can now remain open from Monday to Saturday till 9pm. Night curfew will be in place in all cities and towns from 9.30pm to 5am. Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to remain open on all days, including Sundays, till 9 pm, after which home delivery of food will be allowed, as per the revised guidelines. It has also been decided to align opening of non-essential shops in Mohali with the rest of the tri-city (namely Chandigarh and Panchkula), said the chief minister. The decisions were announced by the CM during his second round of virtual meeting with party MLAs to discuss the Covid situation. Amarinder told the MLAs that Dr KK Talwar, who heads the state government’s expert group on Covid, had advised easing of the relaxations with precautions. Responding to complaints of shopkeepers getting inflated electricity bills even though their shops had remained closed for a long duration, the CM directed the electricity department not to charge issue bills on the average of the previous year and go by the actual meter reading. He also announced cash compensation of ₹1,500 for construction workers who test positive or whose immediate family members get infected. He asked the Congress MLAs to take the lead in distribution of free food packets to poor corona patients in quarantine and ensure such families have enough ration for at least 7-10 days. During the meeting, the CM directed the MLAs and ministers to aggressively counter the negative propaganda being spread by certain anti-social elements and AAP on Covid testing and organ harvesting. The chief minister also asked the MLAs to visit their constituencies and hospitals to boost the morale of the people. The meeting was attended by health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and rural development and Panchayats minister Tript Singh Bajwa, medical education minister OP Soni, around 25 MLAs and top officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-allows-eateries-to-serve-food-till-9pm-non-essential-shops-can-open-on-saturdays/story-uHlFbWOmZtuZtsqEnlO3fO.html
07-09-2020||City||Sonepat admn bans political gatherings in Baroda as 4 leaders who canvassed here test positive||Sonepat district administration on Monday announced a ban on political gatherings in Baroda constituency, a day after senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, who canvassed here recently, tested positive for Covid-19. Deepinder is the fourth political leader to be found infected after campaigning here. Earlier, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, agriculture minister JP Dalal and power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala also tested positive after holding gatherings in the constituency that is set to go for a bypoll soon. Talking to reporters, Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said the politicians have been flouting social distancing norms while holding gatherings and thus putting the lives of people at risk. “The gatherings will be allowed only if the organiser takes the responsibility of adhering to safety guidelines. Strict action will be taken against the organiser if any person is found positive after taking part in the gathering,” the DC added. Deepender had addressed two gatherings at Anwali and Sirsadh villages on Friday. Apart from him, two of his staff members had also tested positive for the virus. Abhay, Yogeshwar defy orders, continue public meetings Even after the district administration announced a ban on public meetings, Indian National Lok Dal’s senior leader Abhay Singh Chautala and wrestler-turned Bharatiya Janata Party leader Yogeshwar Dutt continued interacting with people in various villages of the constituency on Monday. Health dept announces report of over 900 workers in Murthal dhabas Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said they had received the report of 909 workers in Murthal dhabas, of whom 86, including 81 employees of Sukhdev and Garam Dharam dabhas, have tested positive for the virus. He further said that they had sent notices to the owners of the two famous dhabas and are waiting for their reply. “These eateries will be opened only if we get a satisfactory response from their owners,” Punia added. The health department had sealed Murthal’s Amrik Sukhdev dhaba and its adjoining Garam Dharam dhaba last week after 71 staffers of the former and 10 of latter were found infected with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sonepat-admn-bans-political-gatherings-in-baroda-as-4-leaders-who-canvassed-here-test-positive/story-vNJBgXFqXFHr3jJAXbf34H.html
07-09-2020||City||1,013 new virus cases detected in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 17 deaths and 1,013 fresh infections taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the Union Territory to 44,570. As many as 32,152 cases were reported in Kashmir and 12,418 in Jammu.The region has been recording around 1,000 fresh on a daily basis for the past five days. As many as 600 people tested positive in Jammu division, including 56 travellers; while 413 cases were reported from Kashmir, of which 31 were travellers. As many as 433 people were discharged from different hospitals, taking the overall recoveries to 32,760 and the recovery rate to 73.5%. At present there are 11,009 active cases in the Union Territory. As many as 10,88,652 tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Seven fatalities were reported in Jammu and 10 in Kashmir. So far, the virus has claimed 801 lives in J&K - 696 in Kashmir and 105 in Jammu.Jammu district reported 442 cases, the highest in the division, while 41 tested positive in Poonch. In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 136 people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 56.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-013-new-virus-cases-detected-in-j-k/story-6h3yVSHmysRkH4sw6PggHN.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Multani disappearance case: HC reserves order on two pleas of former DGP Saini||A Punjab and Haryana high court bench on Monday reserved order on two pleas of Sumedh Singh Saini, former DGP of Punjab police, including one for anticipatory bail in the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case of 1991. Punjab police special public prosecutor Sartej Narula said Saini had not been granted interim protection from arrest by the high court, with the anticipatory bail plea pending before it. During the hearing that started at around 11:30 am and continued till 4:30 pm on Monday, Saini pleaded that an FIR filed against him for the disappearance of Mohali resident Balwant Singh Multani in 1991 was the result of a mala fide act against him for launching probes against Congress leaders and their relatives to unearth scams. Punjab police have argued that fresh evidence has come on record on Saini’s alleged involvement in Multani’s murder case. Hence, question of political victimisation does not arise. The judgment in both the petitions from the high court bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh is likely to be pronounced on Tuesday. Two judges who had recused from hearing this case earlier were justice Suvir Sehgal from hearing the bail plea and justice Amol Rattan Singh from hearing the petition seeking quashing of the FIR on September 2. The additional district and sessions judge of Mohali had on September 1 dismissed Saini’s anticipatory bail plea and he had appealed to the high court against this order on September 4. Before this, Saini had approached the high court on August 19 seeking quashing of the FIR. The former DGP, whose whereabouts are not known at present, was booked in May this year in connection with the disappearance of Mohali resident Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco) in 1991. Multani had been picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, the then senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh and now he faces arrest because of murder charges.Initially the case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/multani-disappearance-case-hc-reserves-order-on-two-pleas-of-former-dgp-saini/story-37AeWtqUyGGKphKDoUo9IL.html
07-09-2020||City||23-yr-old man dies of bullet injury in Kapurthala clash; 4 booked for murder||Kapurthala A youth died of bullet injuries, while about a dozen others were injured in Bhandaal Bet village of the Kapurthala on Sunday in a clash between two families.Police came to know about 23-year-old Vishal Thakur’s death on Sunday night after which four people were booked for murder on statement of victim’s father Surinder Kumar.Those booked have been identified as Surti of Mehtabgarh in Kapurthala, his brother Raj, and latter’s friends Vicky and Vijay of Jandiala Guru in Amritsar.Superintendent of police (investigation) Sarabjit Singh said a clash occurred between families of Sikander and his sister Razia over use of land for tying cattle.The SP said before police came to know about the youth’s death, Surti had lodged a complaint and an FIR was registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and Arms Act against Razia, her seven family members and some unidentified people.“We were informed by locals that a man had also died and on the statement of his father, we booked four people for murder. It is still being investigated how the man died and who opened the fire during the fight. No arrest has been made,” SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-yr-old-man-dies-of-bullet-injury-in-kapurthala-clash-4-booked-for-murder/story-4QDxuYXhFTxm3rrjXb4k1H.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana plans to start paddy procurement from Sept 25||The Haryana government is planning to start paddy procurement for the public distribution system (PDS) from September 25, instead of October 1 and will seek permission from the Centre for this. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday reviewed the arrangements being made for the crop procurement. An official spokesperson said at least 200 additional procurement centres will be set up for paddy procurement, which will take the total number of procurement centres in the state to 400. These centres will be set up in eight districts which have high paddy production.At least 120 procurement centres will be set up for bajra, while 30 will be set up for moong, up from 15 earlier. An official spokesperson said the last date for farmers to register their crop online on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Boyra’ portal is September 10 in case of millet and September 15 for paddy, moong, maize etc. The deputy CM said a letter will be written to the Central government seeking permission to start paddy procurement for the PDS from September 25. He said every single grain of farmers’ crops will be procured by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-plans-to-start-paddy-procurement-from-sept-25/story-V87L8Jse8J1WRt41tccDOL.html
07-09-2020||City||Two accused in weapon smuggling case sent to two-day police custody||Faridkot A Faridkot court on Monday sent a Moga car dealer and a Chandigarh-based gun house owner to two-day police custody in connection with the 2014 inter-state foreign-made weapons smuggling case.The accused — car dealer Pankaj Bansal and gun house owner Satish Kumar — were produced in the court of duty magistrate Amandeep Kaur on production warrants. Both were lodged in Hoshiarpur jail.The Punjab Police’s organised crime control unit (OCCU) had arrested them for buying illegal weapons and forging sales bills. The OCCU had recently named six accused in the FIR registered in 2014. Seeking police remand, the OOCU claimed in the court that some case-related recovery is required from Bansal and Kumar. Defence opposed objected to the OCCU’s application, arguing that the accused had already been interrogated during their six-day police custody last month. However, the court allowed OCCU’s application and sent the accused to two-day police custody, while hearing on their bail applications was adjourned to September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-accused-in-weapon-smuggling-case-sent-to-two-day-police-custody/story-q3y98b6dRsDD6AFSKk78KK.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Work on Hisar airport taxiway has started, runway extension to begin soon: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has said that the work on the taxiway at Hisar airport has started and the runway extension work will also start soon.Speaking to reporters after presiding over a meeting with the officials of the civil aviation department on Monday, the deputy CM said that the no-objection certificate (NOC) from the environment department is expected to come this month. As soon as the NOC is received, the work on runway extension and construction of the terminal will be started, said Dushyant. “There will be a meeting with the central government officials soon to resolve all issues regarding the NOCs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/work-on-hisar-airport-taxiway-has-started-runway-extension-to-begin-soon-dushyant/story-B8sn5MJlZaeXqPxuXmHgoN.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Deserted platforms, closed eateries as Delhi Metro resumes services||Platforms and key hub stations, including Rajiv Chowk, wore a deserted look, eateries remained closed and the ambience far removed from the usual hustle-and-bustle as the Delhi metro services resumed on Monday after a 169-day hiatus triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Station employees frequently sanitised areas of the metro station and ensured social distancing norms, even as very few commuters opted for the metro services on the first day. Rajiv Chowk, which is one of the busiest stations of the national capital remained empty. At around 9 am, the usually busy entry point at Rajiv Chowk metro station was deserted with officials, wearing masks and face shields, ready with sanitizers to ensure a safe ride for passengers.After the entry point, there was a second layer of sanitisation process where thermal screening of passengers as well as their luggage was done.Imran Khan, who was travelling from Chattarpur to Barakhamba metro station, was on his way to attend a job interview.“The ride was smooth and there were hardly less than five commuters in my compartment. So, we had ample space to maintain social distancing even within the coaches. I’m glad that metro services have finally begun or I wouldn’t have been able to make it for my interview on time,” he said.Another commuter, Vishal Naik (21), a resident of Shastri Park, was relieved that now he would finally be able to reach office in Connaught Place on time.“Until now, everyday, it took almost two-three hours to reach office. Half of my time was spent in travelling. I had to start at least an hour early from home and wait for unusually longer hours at the bus stands and if the passenger count exceeded beyond 20, I had to again wait to catch the next bus, which is equally risky during pandemic,” he said.Asked if he was afraid to take the ride amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Naik said metro rides are much preferred than buses. Rajiv Chowk metro station, which serves as an interchange facility between the Yellow Line and the Blue Line, witnessed an unusually thin crowd between 9 am to 11 am. While many train coaches remained totally empty, some had hardly one passengers. Some others had less than 10 passengers on board.Deepika Nautiyal, a resident of Laxmi Nagar, said she is scared but has taken all the precautions. “I took an auto rickshaw from my home in Laxmi Nagar and reached Rajiv Chowk metro station. I am a bit scared but have taken all the precautions,” Nautiyal, who works at company in Gurgaon, said. Another commuter Mona Jha, who lives in Bhajanpura in northeast Delhi and works at Barakhamba Road, said she noticed that people are maintaining the norm of social distancing inside the metro train. “ I boarded the metro at Kashmiri Gate and have seen that people are aware. I am not scared. People are more concerned but we must follow social distancing norms. The situation will take time to become normal,” Jha said. At Kashmere Gate metro station, only two gates were opened. When people were entering the premises, they were seen getting their bags sanitized by the metro employees. Before contactless frisking, CISF personnel were also seen helping the commuters maintain social distance. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) were making several announcements about dos and dont’s during Covid-19. “If you have cold cough or fever, then please don’t take metro. Duration of opening and closing of metro doors have been increased for the convenience of commuters,” the announcer said.Trains were stopping at station with an extra time so that the passengers can easily board or de-board the metro without get in contact with anyone. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said all possible measures will be taken to ensure that services are smooth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/deserted-platforms-closed-eateries-as-delhi-metro-resumes-services/story-c6NRuXa4Q0gyeuVxMt7OkJ.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon session of Himachal Pradesh assembly begins under Covid shadow||The 10-day monsoon session of Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha, which commenced on Monday, is likely to be a stormy affair with the opposition planning to corner the government over several issues of public interest. The House will assemble in the afternoon to pay tribute to the former president Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away on August 31. It will also pay tribute to former MLA from Theog Rakesh Verma and former Dharamshala MLA Chander Verker.The opposition will try to pin down the government over issues such as corruption, ‘involvement’ of a BJP minister in dubious land deals, and increase in power tariff.The Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government will undoubtedly try to highlight its achievements, especially its handling of the Covid-19 outbreak, which the CM claims was better than other states and won accolades from the Prime Minister himself.The Congress will bring up the bribery scandal involving former health and family welfare director Dr Ajay Gupta, which had caused much embarrassment to the ruling party . In an audio-clip that was widely circulated on social media, Dr Gupta was heard demanding ₹5 lakh for clearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kit orders for the state health department.A sanitiser-purchase scam, which had involved some BJP leaders had also rocked the secretariat. The opposition has also alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 Response Fund. Allegations of social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary’s involvement in some questionable land deals in Kangra are also likely to be brought up. Former Congress minister Vijai Singh Mankotia had accused the minister of purchasing lands worth crores in the name of her family members.Though, the minister has denied the allegations, a preliminary probe by the state vigilance bureau had pointed out some irregularities in the purchase.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the government was ready to debate every issue. However, if the opposition creates unnecessary hullabaloo, it will get a befitting response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-monsoon-session-begins/story-WvzUDQE1rb7YgpcDyxmOhI.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Only 8 passengers on board 70-seater Alliance Air Chandigarh-Kullu aircraft as flights resume||Direct flight operations from Chandigarh to Kullu resumed on Monday with only eight passengers on board.Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India Limited, deployed its 70-seater ATR 72 aircraft on the route. The flight will operate every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.The flights were halted since March 23 due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.Flight 9I 805 departed from Chandigarh at 10am and arrived in Kullu at 11am.Flight 9I 806 that was to depart from Kullu at 11.30am and arrive in Chandigarh at 12:30pm was cancelled on Monday due to technical reasons. Airport officials said it will depart for Chandigarh on Tuesday.The airlines issued its flight schedule till October 24 and tickets can be booked from Air India’s official website.Alliance Air station manager, Kullu, Akhilesh Vijayi said that the airline is adhering to Covid-19 safety guidelines and following the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the ministry of civil aviation. “The aircraft are being rigorously disinfected after each flight to eliminate any risk of contagion,” he said, adding precautionary measures are being taken at the time of check-in, boarding and arrival at the destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alliance-air-resumes-chandigarh-kullu-flights-from-today/story-wK0iQ98gCOFgitZXqrlwZJ.html
07-09-2020||City||FIR against MLA Bains for deterring people from wearing masks||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) supremo and member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Atam Nagar constituency, Simajeet Singh Bains, landed in another controversy after Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga lodged a first information report (FIR) against him for misleading people about not wearing masks outside the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Sunday.Bains and his supporters were already booked for violating social distancing protocols and staging a protest despite a ban due to the coronavirus outbreak. Bains had on Saturday held a ‘Janta Darbar’ outside the DMCH and asked people to share their complaints with him. Most of the complaints the MLA had received were regarding fleecing of patients by private hospitals.The civil surgeon in his complaint stated that a video of Bains was being circulated on social networking websites. “In the video, the MLA is misguiding the locals over Covid-19. Bains has been asking people not to wear masks, while masks or face covers are necessary to avoid Covid -19 infection. Due to the statement of Bains, the people are confused,” the civil surgeon mentioned. Division Number 8 station house officer (SHO) Inspector Jarnail Singh said following the complaint of the civil surgeon, an FIR under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 505 (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community, shall be punished with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-mla-bains-for-deterring-people-from-wearing-masks/story-8OlP0MnfXg3K65ZOyLDenM.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid testing centres to be moved from Sector 11 market||The UT administration has decided to move Covid-19 testing centres from the Sector 11 market by Thursday as local traders were worried about spread of infection. UT adviser Manoj Parida assured market associations that the centres will move to the Parade Ground in Sector 17, Exhibition Ground in Sector- 34 and the Sector 10 wide road near the Government Museum and Art Gallery. Private laboratories will have to follow all precautions and safety measures.The decision came at a meeting of the Sector 11 market traders and representatives of Covid testing labs on Monday, which was chaired by Parida.The traders’ delegation was led by Diwakar Sahoonja, president, Market Welfare Association. He was accompanied by Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal and Maheshinder Singh, councillor of ward number 1. Last week the traders had held a demonstration to protest Covid testing in the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-testing-centres-to-be-moved-from-sector-11-market/story-blgiFoC7DbvpE1nqbJsD7J.html
07-09-2020||City||Chhattisgarh Police arrest diamond smuggler, seize 171 diamonds||Police have seized 171 pieces of rough diamonds worth around Rs 25 lakh from a smuggler in Chhattisgarh’s Gariaband district. Police said that the smuggler is part of an interstate gang working in the area and more arrests are likely.Police said though the smuggler, who belongs to neighbouring Odisha, was arrested, the other accused managed to escape. “We were keeping a tab on this gang for the last 10 days. The accused Nutan Patel (55) along with another smuggler was trying to sell these diamonds in the market. One of the policemen posed as a trader and laid a trap for him. Patel was arrested on Saturday evening near Kaitpadar village under the jurisdiction of Deobhog police station,” said Bhojram Patel, superintendent of police (SP), Gariaband.Patel was heading towards Odisha’s Nuapada district from Payalikhand, a diamond-rich belt in Gariaband, with a huge quantity of rough diamonds. Preliminary investigation has revealed that he had illegally brought the diamonds from Payalikhand area of the district and was going to sell them in Odisha. “In the last five months, four diamond smugglers in the district were arrested with 340 pieces of rough diamonds in three separate cases,” he said. The SP said that rough diamonds are found in mines in Deobhog and some people are engaged in illegal mining of the precious gemstones. “Some people are engaged in illegal mining of diamonds. Inter-state gangs engage labourers and locals for mining rough diamonds. Patel had also engaged some people for the mining of diamonds,” said the SP. The police official said the diamond smugglers operate through a network that spans across states in the country.“There are some inter-state smugglers. We have some leads as a follow-up investigation,” the SP said. “The area, where diamonds are found, is not given to any private company for mining operations. The land belongs to the state government. However, the terrain is hostile, which helps the smugglers to operate,” he added.Activists in Chhattisgarh claimed that diamond mining in the state has been marred in several legal battles since the 1990s. “The then Digvijay Singh-led government had sanctioned some permits to a private company but it was challenged by other parties. Chhattisgarh has been endowed with not only diamond, which is found in Devbhog area of Gariaband district, but also some other precious gemstones such as Alexandrite and Corundum,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, an activist and lawyer. Shrivastva said that the tribals are aware of presence of precious gemstones in certain areas of Devbhog region where Kimberlite, an igneous rock, is commonplace. “The traders in Chhattisgarh and adjoining Odisha have been buying these raw stones at throwaway prices. Besides, one in every 50-100 stones could prove to be a diamond that fetches a handsome sum,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-police-arrest-diamond-smuggler-seize-171-diamonds/story-lWA9sC5nqMztWpaXqOWW9M.html
07-09-2020||City||Punjab notifies admission process for MBBS, BDS||Faridkot The Punjab government has notified the admission procedure for admission to MBBS and BDS courses for academic session 2020-21 in all government, private medical, dental colleges, including private universities, in the state. The MBBS course fee has been hiked by over 75% from this year.Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in Mohali does not find a place in the notification as the state government is awaiting approval from the Medical Council of India (MCI). The recruitment process for this newly-constructed government medical college is yet to be completed by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS).Medical education and research director Dr Avneesh Kumar said due to the covid-19 pandemic, the Board of Governors had extended the deadline to issue the letter of permission (LOP) to October 15. “The ministry has not given permission for classes so far, that’s why Mohali medical college is not there in the notification,” he said.Director principal of the Mohali medical college Dr Manjit Kaur Mohi said the college was prepared and staff recruitment process was underway. She added that there was a lot of time before the LOP had to be submitted, and the college will meet the deadline. As per the notification, students in three government colleges – Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot - will pay Rs 7.8 lakh fee for MBBS, while students in Dayanand Medical College (DMC), Ludhiana; Adesh Medical University, Bathinda and Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences, Jalandhar will pay Rs 18.5 lakh for government quota seats (50%) and Rs 47.7 lakh for management quota seats (35%). Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences, Amritsar, can charge Rs 47.7 lakh from both Open merit and minority quota students. NRI quota fee will be $1.1 lakh (around Rs 81 lakh) for the full course. The notification reads that as per a Supreme Court order, Christian Medical College (CMC) and Christian Dental College (CDC), both at Ludhiana, will follow their own admission policy, as being done for the last 25 years. The CMC and CDC are allowed to charge Rs 6.6 lakh per year (around 35 lakh for five-year course) for admissions to MBBS course and Rs 2.2 lakh for BDS course from both open merit and minority quota students with 10% increase in fee every year.The fee for BDS courses in government colleges is Rs 3.9 lakh, while students in private colleges will pay Rs 7.6 lakh under government quota and Rs 10.3 lakh under management quota. NRI quota fee will be $44,000 (around Rs 33 lakh).Government Medical College, Amritsar, will offer 250 MBBS seats; GMC Patiala will have 225 MBBS seats. Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, will have 125 MBBS seats, including 10% EWS quota seats. The Mohali medical college will start with 100 MBBS seats, but will be upgraded to 220.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-notifies-admission-process-for-mbbs-bds/story-g8fwrCB6Se6M33nsNiSALJ.html
07-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh witnesses light to moderate rains along with thundershowers||A few places in Uttar Pradesh witnessed light to moderate rains along with thundershowers in the last 24 hours, the Meteorological (MeT) Department said on Monday.The chief amount of rainfall was recorded in Chanderdeepghat (Gorakhpur) 4 cm, Ghazipur 3 cm, Neemsar (Sitapur), Birdghat (Gorakhnpur), Churk (Sonbhadra), Basti, Saharanpur 2 cm each.Lucknow and Varanasi recorded 36.7 degrees Celsius, the highest temperature over the area, the MeT said. The MeT Department has forecast, rains along with thundershowers at many places over eastern Uttar Pradesh and at isolated places over western parts of the state along with light thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places over the state on September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-witnesses-light-to-moderate-rains-along-with-thundershowers/story-lgBbepqxU8CbaARSIBLOsJ.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||IIT-Delhi issues clarification over a job ad for the position of ‘dog handler’||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi issued a clarification after an advertisement for the position of a “dog handler” got published on its website and created an uproar on social networking sites. Terming it “inadvertent”, the institute has decided to scrap the recruitment process. The institute had published an advertisement on August 26 seeking applications for the post of a dog handler. It had stated that the eligibility criteria was “B.A/B.Sc/B.Com/B.Tech or any equivalent undergraduate degree” for the post. The notice was widely shared on social media and the public questioned the institute about it.In a statement issued on Sunday, the institute said, “In reference to a job advertisement dated August 26 for a post titled “Dog Handler” (on a contractual basis), IIT-Delhi would like to clarify that the minimum qualification as mentioned in the advertisement got inadvertently copied from another job post. The qualification intended in the advertisement was ‘Bachelor of Veterinary Science’.”“The institute has cancelled the recruitment process after the mistake was brought to the notice of higher authorities,” the statement added.The institute said that it would initiate a fresh recruitment process in the next few days. “A fresh process in due course will be initiated to hire a consultant (on a contractual basis) with suitable minimum qualification required for the job profile that involves proper care of a large number of stray dogs on the campus (providing them medical aid like vaccination, medicine, Intravenous therapy (IV) drip etc. and food), handling of issues and challenges relating to stray dogs, liaison with the campus community such as students, employees, construction workers etc., local government bodies and NGO (non-governmental organisation),” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/iit-delhi-issues-clarification-over-a-job-ad-for-the-position-of-dog-handler/story-XxRlYkhfjCmypiVVgBTJ3J.html
07-09-2020||Pune||1,564 safety violations in Lonavla on first weekend after e-pass rollback||A total of 1,564 cases of safety norm violations were registered in the Lonavla region by Pune rural police on the first weekend after the state government announced a rollback of e-passes for inter-district travel. It includes all kinds of cases - without mask, social distancing violation, and tourism violation. However, most of the cases were for not wearing masks, according to the police. “The floating population in Lonavla is very high. Since the e-pass was waived off, the rush was very much. Though we have stopped tourists from going to places like Tiger’s point, Sahara dam and Bushi dam - as was stated in the district magistrate (DM) order - the population in the market and other places rose up exponentially this weekend. And now the limited number of police personnel cannot do anything about it,” said Navneet Kanwat, the sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Lonavla division. The division includes Lonavla city, Lonavla rural, Kamshet and Vadgaon Maval police stations which have multiple tourists spots in and around the Lonavla hill station. The spots are accessible and frequented by people from Mumbai as well as Pune. However, crowds from nearby states could also be seen, according to police. “The people travelling in cars are resisting ₹500 fine. People have also grown smart and pull up their masks when they see police,” said DySP Navneet Kumar Kanwat. The local politicians and city council members are now working towards measures to reduce the number of cases with the flow of weekend tourists resuming, according to police. However, Kanwat stressed on the need for self-discipline and observation of state and central government guidelines. “The entire nation is facing a dilemma. Lockdown hurts tourism, economy and day-to-day needs and unlock increases Covid-19 cases. What we should learn is self-discipline. You come here only for two days, but you infect people who have to live here. In your enjoyment spree you should not forget to care for other human beings by wearing masks, even inside the car, and social distancing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-564-safety-violations-in-lonavla-on-first-weekend-after-e-pass-rollback/story-SB3OTup5mHDKKtFILdLslL.html
07-09-2020||Pune||Amid pandemic Pune records 10th organ donation since May||Despite various restrictions amid the pandemic situation the city registered its tenth organ donation on Sunday.The family members of a 41-year-old woman who died due to brain haemorrhage at Jehangir Hospital donated her heart and liver to hospitals in Pune and Mumbai.“The deceased was admitted at Jehangir hospital and died on Saturday. The donor was the mother of a school-going daughter,” said Aarti Gokhale, Pune zonal transplant coordination committee.“Her heart was sent to Mumbai via a private flight with green corridor made by Pune and Mumbai traffic police and liver to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital,” added Gokhale.“The deceased suffered from brain haemorrhage. It was a welcome gesture by the deceased husband,” said Vrinda Pusalkar, transplant coordinator, Jehangir hospital.The twitter handle of Pune airport said, “In its continued efforts for saving lives a green corridor was created to transport a live human organ from Pune airport to Mumbai by a charter flight today. Covid warriors at Jehangir Hospital, traffic police, ... joined hands for this task.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/amid-pandemic-pune-records-10th-organ-donation-since-may/story-yvcLMcUyb4RNXT2Mf7v96N.html
07-09-2020||Pune||PMC to deploy 50 doctors, 120 paramedical staff at jumbo facility||After 80 medical staff resigned from duty at the jumbo facility built on the grounds of the College of Engineering, Pune (COEP), Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to deploy 50 doctors and 120 paramedical staff at the facility.A team of senior civic officials took a review of the status at the jumbo facility and accordingly two cardiac ambulances have been made available here. “We have started deploying staff at this jumbo Covid facility from Friday, in which 50 doctors and 120 paramedic staff is being appointed. The recruitment process is carried out by the PMC and Pune district administration,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner PMC and executive head of the jumbo facility.“PMC staff is still working at the facility but some staff appointed by the agency have resigned. Officially the contract for running the hospital is with the Lifeline agency. In next two days the decision will be taken about what action is going to be taken against the agency, after that the operation work is going to be handed over to another agency,” said Agarwal.“Divisional commissioner has given orders that now the overall supervision and responsibility will be with the PMC. A 24 hours-notice has been given to the Lifeline agency and accordingly further action will be taken,” said Agarwal. Sujit Patkar, director, Lifeline agency, which is managing the operations of the hospital said, “A total of 80 medical staff which were appointed by our agency, which includes 40 doctors and other 40 medical staff have resigned till now since the operation started at the facility.”“The staff alleged they received threats from political workers and for safety reasons they resigned,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-deploy-50-doctors-120-paramedical-staff-at-jumbo-facility/story-Kzq0i3D7LZK3cJm86CysNP.html
07-09-2020||Pune||One person killed, four injured as retired cop rams car into puncture shop in Balewadi||One person died and four others were injured after a retired police officer rammed his vehicle into them in Balewadi on Sunday afternoon. The retired officer has been identified as police inspector (PI) Sanjay Vamanrao Nikam (58) and has been booked for drink driving.Nikam was caught by bystanders before the police was informed about the incident. The deceased has been identified as Santosh Bansi Rathod (35) a resident of Kalewadi, Pune, who was waiting outside a puncture shop to get a tyre fixed, when the retired officer rammed into the shop.The retired PI was driving a white Volkswagen Polo registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad. A complaint has been lodged by autorickshaw driver Yashwant Bhandwalkar (29) who has also sustained injuries on his foot, thigh, and elbow due to the accident.The injured have been identified as Rajesh Sarvesh Singh, Dashrath Baban Mane, Salman Lal Tamboli, and the owner of the puncture shop. “He was visibly drunk. The people around held onto him till the police arrived. There were many bottles of alcohol found in his car as well,” said Meghraj Bhandwalkar, brother of the complainant.“He is under arrest and is a retired police inspector. He was in the social security branch,” said senior police inspector Anil Shewale of Chatuhshrungi police station.A case under Sections 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 (rash driving), 185 (drunk driving), and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicles Act has been registered at the Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/one-person-killed-four-injured-as-drunk-retired-cop-rams-car-into-puncture-shop-in-balewadi/story-yJphFBpD4wAbKUqNkz90NO.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Thane police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar tests positive for Covid-19||Thane police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar has tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive and is admitted to Fortis Hospital. Hospital authorities said Phansalkar, who was suffering from a fever for the past three days, underwent a Covid-19 test on Sunday and later at night got admitted to the healthcare facility.His health is stable, they added. “Yes, I have tested Covid-19 positive. I am undergoing treatment in a private hospital. I have asked all members in my team to take extra care because of a recent spike in Covid-19 cases,” Phansalkar said.He was active in field operations since the lockdown restrictions were enforced in end-March in a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. He led the police force from the front by sharing standard operating procedures (SOPs) with the personnel, individually calling up those who had tested Covid-19 positive and giving them moral support until they recovered from their viral infection and resumed duties.He personally visited the residence of assistant sub-inspector Bhagatrao Salunkhe (55) from Rabodi police station recently to congratulate him after he recovered from his viral infection. Salunkhe battled the disease for 70 days.In Thane commissionerate, 1,312 police personnel, including officers, has tested Covid-19.So far, the contagion has claimed the lives of 17 Thane Police personnel and 1,175 have recovered from their viral infection. Before Phansalkar, Sanjay Kumar, the former commissioner of Navi Mumbai, was also found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-police-commissioner-vivek-phansalkar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-xgIoI2vj1JS5vE6Jbb0acI.html
07-09-2020||Pune||Unlock Pune: ‘Simulations, workshops for faculty, among measures adopted to revolutionise medical education’||The Covid-19 pandemic has ushered in a new paradigm in education. At a time when healthcare is in focus, HT reporter spoke to Lt Gen Nardeep Naithani, director and commandant, AFMC, to get an idea of what measures have been taken by the institute to ensure dissemination of medical education. How is AFMC looking at the Covid-19 situation and higher education in India? AFMC’s existing online learning management system (LMS) was adapted on priority for teaching undergraduates. As on date, four virtual classrooms are being used for students to conduct 12 classes per day. Online interactive sessions and learning modules have been started for all. AFMC also identified the need to empower faculty with recent educational tools. Small group faculty development workshops are being conducted to ensure that they become adept at using the available LMS. We are focussing on advanced skills required for online interactive teaching, including video making and editing workshops, and designing interactive presentations, among others. Also, a MOOCS (Massive Open Online Courses) platform is being built for sustainability of resource material. How negatively will Covid-19 impact the institute’s functioning and ability to deliver medical education? The pandemic has made teaching of medicine extremely challenging, since medicine essentially is a profession which requires personal contact between doctor and patient, both for training as well as treatment. While some things can be replaced by simulation and online demonstration, there cannot be a substitute for a doctor actually performing procedures. We are identifying the areas and using various innovative tools to bridge this gap. The theory and non-skill based practicals are being covered online using MOOCS/Moodle platform. Moodle has various modules which include: online ‘live’ share lectures, pre-recorded lectures, assignments, attendance log, online chat facility and a virtual quiz. The preliminary and internal assessments for the first time were conducted through video-conferencing. What new teaching methods have been devised? Are you planning to go online with classes or looking at staggered classes with limited students? The teaching methodology will be more focused on collaborative and immersive learning. AFMC started its online classes in the first week of April. Faculty is taking online classes, followed by discussion using case-based scenarios. This is supplemented with an actual off-site simulation of a scenario with mannequins and instruments required for a related procedure. In addition, there is a plan to start synchronous small group in-person teaching at multiple locations through ‘live’ streaming. Classrooms with required IT equipment have been created to enable streaming. Students would be attending same lecture at multiple locations, thus maintaining social distancing. Will AFMC look at changing its core syllabus given the delay in admissions this year? Medical curriculum is formulated and approved by the Medical Council of India and implemented by the respective medical universities. Keeping in mind the importance of competencies covered under UG/PG curriculum, AFMC would not recommend changing core syllabus. However, within the framework of current regulations, improvisations and innovations will be done to optimise the efficiency of training. The effective and early use of available resources at AFMC, has ensured that the college is in a position to complete the syllabus in the scheduled timeframe. The most crucial step is ‘timely planning’ and departments have already planned the year ahead, identified key areas which require frequent formative assessments and will be using an integrated trans-disciplinary approach to ensure better understanding and completion of the curriculum. Many Armed Forces Medical officers and post graduate students are being deployed at military healthcare facilities and even civilian hospitals handling coronavirus patients. Will this result in faculty shortage? The pandemic is presenting an opportunity for all of us to study various facets of communicable diseases like preventive measures, clinical aspects, lab services and others. Post graduate residents are getting hands-on experience in dealing with a pandemic. The students are actively involved in various duties pertaining to Covid-19 and we strongly believe that this would be a great learning experience for all of them. AFMC is striving to ensure that PG teaching is in continuum. Online classes and case-based discussions are an integral part of their training. E-mentoring is being done by postgraduate guides on a regular basis. How can AFMC help in bridging the gaps in the healthcare sector? The innovations cell has been actively working in clinical and medical fields and striving to develop solutions for safer environment and innovative medical equipment, like ventilators to tackle the pandemic. The best way of bridging the gap would be telemedicine, tele-consultation and e-delivery of drugs/medicines. Finally, what will your priorities be during this tenure at AFMC? The overarching theme would look at building infrastructure and resources for cloud-based or distance learning, setting standards for skill-based training of PG residents to improve quality of healthcare delivery and creating an ecosystem for quality research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unlock-pune-simulations-workshops-for-faculty-among-measures-adopted-to-revolutionise-medical-education/story-4aaYCz0C51VPPLh8sYLWSL.html
07-09-2020||Pune||Infant, grandmother killed after newly installed MSEDCL transformer explodes in Bhosari||A five-month-old girl and her grandmother succumbed to burn injuries sustained after a Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) transformer blew up near their home on Saturday at Indryaninagar in Bhosari. The transformer in question is situated at building number three, Rajwada, Indryaninagar and as per the Bhosari MIDC police, exploded on Saturday at 2pm. According to the police, Shivani Kakade, a five-month-old died on Sunday, and her grandmother Sharada Kotwal, 51, succumbed on Saturday. The infant’s mother Harshada Kakade, also sustained series burn injuries and is undergoing treatment at Sassoon general hospital in Pune. “The death of a maternal grandmother and a five-month-old girl has been reported. Treatment on the mother is on, as she has suffered 90 per cent burn injuries and is under observation,” said Satish Nandurkar, police inspector, MIDC Bhosari. According to Nandurkar, Harshada was giving her daughter a bath when the transformer situated near their house, exploded, causing a fire. The police have registered an accidental death report. “First Information Report (FIR) will only be registered after a report on whether there was a technical issue with the transformer is filed. Once we know the exact reason for the death, or a complaint from family members, an FIR will be lodged,” said Rajendra Kunte, senior police inspector, MIDC, Bhosari. MSEDCL forms 3-member probe team; Rs 4 lakh to kin of deceased Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited has initiated an inquiry into the incident and has promised it will provide Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased in Bhosari. “The MSEDCL has formed a three-member committee and the show-cause notice has been served to officials involved in setting up transformer and also to the manufacturer of the transformer,” an MSEDCL issued on Sunday stated. Deadly past April 2019 Three-and-half-year-old Aditya Gaikwad loses all four limbs after he comes in contact with a ‘live’ cable connected to a transformer December 30, 2019  Three youth electrocuted in Hinjewadi as eight- metre tall ladder used to set up street lights comes in contact with ‘live’ cable in Hinjewadi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/infant-grandmother-killed-after-newly-installed-msedcl-transformer-explodes-in-bhosari/story-aPOfL2WNIhWvI05mFyk0FL.html
07-09-2020||City||Delhi special assembly session to be held on September 14||A special day-long session of the Delhi legislative assembly will be held on September 14, the chief minister’s office said. Delhi’s Covid-19 management strategies are expected to be discussed during the sitting. Some ruling Aam Aadmi Party legislators are also expected to discuss the Delhi Model for the management during the session, people aware of the matter said.Also read: Delhi Assembly passes resolution against implementation of NPR, NRCThis will be the second session of the assembly to be convened during the Covid-19 pandemic. Another one-day session was held on March 23 to present the budget.Government officials said the upcoming session will be held with social distancing norms in place. The lawmakers will be seated at a distance of two yards from one another. Mask wearing, and thermal screening will be mandatory inside the assembly premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-special-assembly-session-to-be-held-on-september-14/story-fDmEsAhlOYKeCHCV1O51sM.html
07-09-2020||Pune||Unlock Pune: AFMC an ‘SMS’ away from students back on campus||The pandemic has altered all sectors of life, including education, wherein it has created a requirement for institutions to adapt to technology to ensure the flow of knowledge isn’t disrupted. Covid-19 has also brought into focus the healthcare system of the country, and its shortcomings, highlighting how medical education requires an innovative and prompt response from educators. With the National eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) scheduled for September 13, one of the premier medical institutes in the country, the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) in Pune, is all set to induct a new batch of students in October/November - keeping in mind the Covid-19 guidelines. “The admission process which includes computer-based tests, interviews, documentation and medical examination, will be undertaken keeping in mind all precautions against the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. A detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) has been designed enlisting all the necessary precautions required in the post-Covid world,” said Lt Gen Nardeep Naithani, director and commandant, AFMC. AFMC being a residential programme requires students to stay on campus for their duration of studies. In the post-Covid world, physical distancing is key and AFMC has ensured robust infrastructure is in place to comply with Covid-19 guidelines. A dedicated team is in place to make sure that SMS – sanitisation, mask and social distancing guidelines - are followed in letter, and spirit, on campus. “AFMC is concentrating on four verticals - preventive measures, clinical measures, developing testing capability and research - to tackle Covid-19. Preventive measures include IEC and disinfection; clinical verticals involves patient care and formulation of protocols/SOPs; along with developing the testing capacity and research. Hand sanitisation stations have been installed, staff members have been equipped with infra-red temperature monitoring devices at various locations and wearing of masks has been made mandatory,” read a statement from the AFMC on Covid-19 protocols. On plans to have students back on campus, the Commandant said, “Medical cadets at the beginning of the pandemic, as a preventive measure, were sent back to their hometowns. There is a plan to re-induct medical cadets in a phased manner. Such cadets will be screened, quarantined at a special facility on campus, be provided packed food in the rooms for first 14 days and also given housekeeping and laundry services, among others.” Such measures at the institute are already up and running as the AFMC inducted a new batch of PG residents (2020-23) into the college in the second week of June. “All the officers were placed in quarantine for a stipulated time and inducted into AFMC, thereafter,” added Lt Gen Naithani, who is hopeful that with the measures in place, the process of induction of medical cadets in the post-Covid world will reach a state of normalcy. The institute already has some experience handling candidates during the pandemic, as in the second week of July, AFMC undertook counselling for priority V (civilian) candidates for entry into post-graduation courses in armed forces hospitals. “Civilian candidates from across the country participated in the counselling, which included a thorough medical examination. This gave us an opportunity to audit our preventive measures and SOPs,” added an official from the AFMC, who is aware of the developments. The pandemic put the spotlight on the number of doctors and nurses in the country and AFMC is an apex training institute for MBBS, specialist, super-specialist doctors and paramedics. However, the institute is not looking at expanding its number of seats. “The college does not envisage increasing the number of seats at this point of time. The implementation of online and distance-learning courses has ensured that teaching reaches beyond the boundaries of AFMC. The online classes have been ‘live’-streamed to various armed forces hospitals across India and hence, expertise has not been restricted to limited numbers,” explained Let Gen Naithani. AFMC and Covid-19 research AFMC was part of the principal secretaries advisory panel for developing inventory for scaling of bedded hospitals for Covid scenario in the country. AFMC is also involved in national capacity building in collaboration with ICMR. The innovations cell at AFMC has been working in clinical and medical fields like innovative medical equipment (ventilators) to tackle the pandemic. The Ministry of Defence has begun work on setting up 10 new laboratories across the country, primarily to conduct research on viruses in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). One of these is proposed at AFMC. Dates for setting up of the lab at AFMC are currently under consideration at ICMR. AFMC is also part of the principal scientific advisor’s initiative on mental health which will be the national digital wellness programme. On campus Do Thorough medical examination for all inducted Cadets and after induction, 14-day mandatory quarantine ‘SMS protocol’– Sanitise, wear a mask and maintain social distancing on campus Don’t Socialise on campus or crowd classrooms Fail to declare if you are witnessing symptoms or have been in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient Know the Commandant Lt Gen Nardeep Naithani took over as director and Commandant of AFMC on December 1, 2019. Prior to the present appointment, he served as MG Medical, HQ Central Command. He is a graduate of AFMC and was commissioned in the Army Medical Corps on December 27, 1982. He is a physician and has done his post graduation in Gen Medicine from AFMC. Lt Gen Naithani was the professor and head of the department of internal medicine from 2012- 2014. Lt Gen Naithani had commanded Military Hospital, Wellington and Command Hospital (Northern Command) at Udhampur, J&K. Lt Gen Naithani has commanded Officers Training College, Lucknow wherein he was instrumental in formulation of doctrine on Tactical Combat Casualty Care. For his distinguished services he has been awarded the COAS commendation twice in 1988 (57 Engr Regt) and 2016 (MH Wellington) and GOC-in-C (SC) commendation in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unlock-pune-afmc-an-sms-away-from-students-back-on-campus/story-46Wui91sIHwI9oSBsFkJKJ.html
07-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police starts probe in rape case against BJP MLA||The Dehradun police on Monday said they have started a probe into the alleged rape and criminal intimidation case filed against ruling Uttarakhand Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Mahesh Negi.The lawmaker was on Saturday booked following directions from Dehradun’s Sessions Court. The case was registered after a 30-year-old woman moved the court seeking its directions to the police to book him. The lawmaker’s wife, Rita Negi, has also been booked for criminal intimidation.Also read: Dehradun doctor who went on the run 26 years ago nabbed in HaryanaSub-inspector Seema Rawat, who is the investigation officer in the case, said they have started the probe and contacted the 30-year-old woman to come to the concerned police station to record her statement. “... she is yet to come here.”Rawat said as per procedure, first, they have to take the statement of the complainant after which they will question the couple.In August, Rita Negi lodged a police complaint accusing the 30-year-old woman of blackmailing and attempting to extort Rs 5 crore from her husband by threatening to frame him in a false case. A case was then registered against the woman.The 30-year-old woman later released a video message, refuting the allegations. She accused Mahesh Negi of raping her for two years and fathering her child. She then lodged a police complaint. But no case was registered as the police claimed to have clubbed it with the extortion case as it pertains to the same matter. It was then she moved the court.The 30-year-old woman has also been demanding DNA tests of Mahesh Negi and her daughter to prove the allegations.Mahesh Negi said he is gathering evidence against the woman, which he will submit to the police. He said the allegations against him were part of a conspiracy to defame him and that some Congress leaders were also involved in it. The lawmaker said he is ready to face any probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-starts-probe-in-rape-case-against-bjp-mla/story-xwC3zKvywm6x3dnnCiVAJM.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Facebook ‘friend’ cheats Mumbai nurse of Rs 17.5 lakh in cyber fraud||A nurse working in a civic hospital in Malad lost Rs 17.5 lakh to a cyber fraud group who befriended her on Facebook with one of them posing as a doctor from London. The alleged doctor lured the victim under the pretext of sending her expensive gifts and jewellery worth Rs 49 lakh, and made her pay Rs 17.5 lakh for clearance of the gift parcel at the airport thus defrauding her, said the police.According to the Malad police, in March the complainant received a friend request on Facebook from Alex Wilfred, whose profile portrayed him as a doctor from London. The complainant accepted the request and started chatting with him after he shared his phone number. Since August 15, the two started chatting frequently.On August 17, Wilfred called her and informed her that he had sent her a surprise gift. After an hour, she received a call from a female, posing as a cargo official, named Anjali Sharma who said she is posted at the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi international airport.Sharma told the complainant that a parcel has come in her name and it contains Rs 35 lakh cash and gold jewellery worth Rs 14 lakh. But, to get the parcel cleared she will have to pay Rs 30,000 courier charges. She then shared bank account details with the complainant.The complainant transferred the money and next day Sharma again called her and told her that she will have to pay an additional Rs 1.10 lakh as a penalty as the parcel contains excess amount of cash. Thereafter, Sharma called her on multiple occasions and made her pay money for getting the Anti-Money laundering certificate, GST certificate and Income tax on the parcel, states the complaint.On August 27, the fraudster sent her an email showing it to be from the RBI and made her pay more money under the name of some code which is mandatory to claim the parcel coming from abroad. After the complainant paid the money, she again received another email supposedly from RBI which again requested her to make another payment to get mandatory tax code, the complaint states.This time the complainant didn’t make any payment as she had exhausted all her savings. She had also borrowed money from friends and relatives. “She yelled at Wilfred and told her to return whatever money she has spent. Wilfred told her not to worry as he would be coming to India with money on August 31 and will return all her money. He also sent her photos of his air tickets and photos of himself sitting in the flight,” a police officer said.On August 31, the complainant received a WhatsApp call from Wilfred informing her that he has been arrested at the Delhi international airport as he was carrying a huge quantity of cash. He requested her to help him get released by paying a penalty charge of Rs 5.40 lakh.The complainant sensed something was amiss and made a video call to him. But he didn’t receive the video calls. The complainant realised that she was duped by fraudsters after Wilfred cut all his contacts with her. But by then the complainant had already lost Rs 17.5 lakh, said the police officer. On Friday, she registered a complaint against the fraudster at the Malad police station.The Malad police have registered an FIR against Wilfred, Sharma and others under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and section 66c and 66d of the Information Technology Act.“The fraudsters used multiple bank accounts in New Delhi, Mizoram, Darjeeling and West Bengal, and it clearly indicates the involvement of a highly professional gang whose members are spread all over the country. The modus-operandi points out the involvement of Nigerian cyber fraud gangs who involve Indians in their teams offering them hefty money,” said the officer.Details of fraudster’s phone numbers, bank accounts are being analysed to find the whereabouts of the fraudster, added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/facebook-friend-cheats-mumbai-nurse-of-rs-17-5-lakh-in-cyber-fraud/story-mTpJ6Ct4Ngt1VQnwVaD4sI.html
07-09-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Police rescue 21 minor boys from traffickers||At least 21 minor boys, under 16, were rescued by the Kolkata Police while from traffickers. Three persons have been arrested, the police said. Acting on a tip, the police intercepted a bus around 5.30am at the Babughat bus stand on Strand Road in south Kolkata. They found the boys on the bus. “The boys were all residents of Samastipur in Bihar. We have arrested three persons. Further interrogation is going on. We need to find out where the boys were being taken and whether there are other members in the gang,” said a senior officer of the Kolkata Police’s detective department. The police said that the information had come from Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), founded by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi. The police identified the suspects as Md Ayshan (22), Md Afzal (28) and Md Chand (23). They were arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged by the state coordinator of BBA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-police-rescue-21-minor-boys-from-traffickers/story-L1cAS7lxwrrRpA5oDM4aDP.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ahead of Mumbai return, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut gets Y+ CRPF security cover||Kangana Ranaut has been given Y-plus category security and will be protected by 10 armed commandos, the Union home ministry said on Monday, prompting the Bollywood actor to thank home minister Amit Shah and declare that no one could crush a patriot. The decision to provide 24x7 security comes two days before Ranaut, who is in her home state of Himachal Pradesh and had likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, plans to return to Mumbai.Ranaut, whose comments led to a spat with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut over social media last week, said she felt unsafe in Mumbai after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and also spoke of drug use in a section of the film industry.SHE’S A DAUGHTER OF HIMACHAL, SAYS CMDescribing the Queen star as a daughter of Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur issued a video statement on Monday, welcoming the decision to provide her with CRPF security.He said the central and the state governments are providing security to the actor and would do whatever necessary for her security. “I have got information that an 11-member commando team of the CRPF has been provided by the ministry of home affairs for her security. I welcome this decision and also express my gratitude to the Union home minister. Her security is important for us,” he said. A Union home ministry official explained that Y-plus category central cover entails the deployment of about 10 armed commandos who will work in shifts around the clock, he said.Ranaut, often in the eye of the storm for her provocative comments, took to Twitter to express her gratitude for the security being provided to her. “This shows that no one can crush a patriot in the country. I am thankful to home minister Amit Shah,” she said.In his statement, the Himachal Pradesh chief minister said that the state police would provide security at the actor’s Manali residence and he had directed director general of police Sanjay Kundu to assess the security threat. “If it is necessary, Himachal Pradesh is ready to provide her security during her tours,” he said. On Sunday, he said his government had decided to provide the actor security after her father and sister sought protection for her.Kundu said that on the chief minister’s direction, an assessment of the threat perception to the actor was carried out. “We submitted our report to the home department. The ministry of home affairs has decided to provide the CRPF security to Kangana. The state’s intelligence agencies will be assessing the threat perception to her from time to time.”Though Kangana belongs to Bhambla village in the state’s Mandi district, she has constructed a house in the scenic tourist town of Manali, where she is staying with her family at present. She will be returning to Mumbai on September 9. WHAT TRIGGERED THE FACEOFFBJP leader Ram Kadam recently asked the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government to provide police protection to Ranaut since “she wanted to expose the Bollywood drug nexus”.Responding to Kadam’s tweet, the actor said she feared Mumbai Police more than the “movie mafia”, and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre.Reacting strongly to her comment, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut purportedly said, “We kindly request her not to come to Mumbai. This is nothing but an insult to Mumbai Police.” Hitting back, Ranaut tweeted, “Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir?” The actor also tagged a September 1 news report on Raut asking her not to return to Mumbai if she was afraid of the city police.Raut had on Friday urged the Maharashtra government to take action against people defaming the city police. He also asked Ranaut to tour PoK first to see the situation prevailing there.In a tweet stating that she would be returning to Mumbai on September 9, Ranaut had dared anyone to stop her. Sena MLA Pratap Saranik hit back with a slap threat and said she should be arrested for sedition.Ranaut also asked Raut to apologise for his remarks against her. Raut on Sunday said he would consider doing so only if she apologises for her “insulting” remarks against Mumbai and Maharashtra. SHANTA KUMAR WRITES TO UDDHAV Meanwhile, senior BJP leader from Himachal Pradesh and former Union minister Shanta Kumar has written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that the “brave daughter of Himachal” is the only actor who has been promoting nationalism in Bollywood. “She recently wrote that her agenda was nationalism only. In the political sphere, the Shiv Sena is the only nationalist party after the BJP,” Shanta wrote, adding, “So, I expect the Shiv Sena to support Kangana.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-mumbai-return-bollywood-actor-kangana-ranaut-gets-y-crpf-security-cover/story-2x2AdY2BcqABEfz2eIFGjM.html
07-09-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka minister calls for meet after Bengaluru reports first case of Covid-19 reinfection||After Bengaluru recorded its first case of a recovered coronavirus patient contracting the disease again, Karnataka medical education minister Dr Sudhakar K on Monday said he has called a meeting with a team of specialists to discuss the issue.“A 27-year-old woman has been re-infected with Covid-19 within a couple of months after she had recovered. Today, I have called a meeting of a team of specialists on this”, the minister told news agency ANI.The woman had first tested positive in July and was discharged later that month after recovering from the virus. However, on Sunday, Fortis Hospital, where she underwent treatment for Covid-19, said that in the last week of August, she once again tested positive for the disease.Karnataka is one of the worst-hit states in the country, with nearly 4 lakh cases of Covid-19 thus far. Till Sunday night, the southern state had reported 2.92 lakh discharges, 99,266 active cases and over 6,300 deaths.Most of the state’s cases are from its capital Bengaluru, with the IT hub also being among the worst-affected cities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-minister-calls-for-meet-after-bengaluru-reports-first-case-of-covid-19-reinfection/story-RCtmeTlsCGj6I7TMIB40oM.html
07-09-2020||Noida||NMRC resumes Metro services with improved safety measures||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Monday put in place arrangements for contactless frisking, thermal scanning, and sanitisation at all metro stations as it resumed services five months after they were suspended as part of efforts to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread. The day began with just two to four passengers on each train from 7 am to 11 am.Also read: In highest single-day surge, Noida records 213 fresh Covid-19 casesMetro staff and security personnel with safety gears were deployed to guide the commuters at the stations. Commuters are allowed to get tickets once their temperatures are checked. They can use smart card, or get tickets using NMRC mobile app or from counters. The commuters are now required to put all their belongings like bags, mobile phones, and any other metallic objects like keys in trays for checking like at airports. There is no manual frisking anymore.Meenu Singh, a commuter, said, “The Metro is always suitable for me to commute to Pari Chowk. I am happy that the service has resumed. But I feel there is still a sense of fear of the infection. Hence, many people hesitate to use public transport including the Metro.”Praveen Mishra, NMRC executive director, said the response has been satisfactory. “We will be able to share the details about total footfall in the evening.”NMRC officials said people will gradually get confidence and started travelling on the Metro again. They said businesses and offices have not resumed functioning fully and that is why they expect lesser footfall.NMRC, in association with an NGO, has also set up a stall at the Sector 51 Metro Station to sell mask made by women, who have lost jobs due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nmrc-resumes-metro-services-with-improved-safety-measures/story-LPnTKQMPWYIeOfAah7pFtJ.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Varavara Rao’s sons-in-law served notices to appear before NIA||National Investigation Agency (NIA) has served notices on two sons-in-law of outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist), or CPI (Maoist’s), ideologue and poet Pendyala Varavara Rao (81) asking them to appear before the probe agency authorities on Wednesday (September 9) in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. Rao’s second son-in-law K V Kurmanath, a senior journalist with a national business daily, and the youngest son-in-law K Satyanarayana, a professor of English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) in Hyderabad, received notices under Sections 160 and 91 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to appear before the NIA authorities in Mumbai at 10 am on Wednesday. Rao has been in jail for over 18 months after being arrested by Maharashtra Police on charges of links with the outlawed CPI-Maoist. Also Read: Varavara Rao released from hospital after Covid treatment; back in jail“In August 2018, Pune Police had raided my flat and that of Satyanarayana and seized the hard discs of our computers, pen drives, books and some other materials apparently in a bid to collect alleged incriminating evidence against my father-in-law. May be, the NIA authorities want to question us in connection with the same case,” Kurmanath told HT. Satyanarayana described NIA’s notice as distressing. “The NIA notice adds to our family distress at a time when my father-in-law’s (Rao’s) health condition is not good and the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is spreading at a rapid pace in Mumbai. I am summoned to Mumbai amid these terrible times,” he said. He stated that the Pune Police had raided his flat in August 2018 on the pretext of collecting evidence against Rao. “I had stated then that I was in no way connected to the Bhima Koregaon case. The fact that Rao is my father-in-law was the only reason to raid my house and cause mental agony.” Rao, the revolutionary poet, was arrested by the Maharashtra Police on August 28, 2018, in connection with the Bhima Koregaon clashes in January that year. Though he was released on bail later following a Supreme Court (SC) order, he was arrested by the Pune Police again in November on the charge of being a part of an alleged Maoist conspiracy to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rao and his family members have denied the allegation. Initially, Rao was lodged in Yerawada jail and later shifted to Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. In July, Rao had shown signs of loss of memory, hallucination and gave incoherent replies to his wife during his telephonic conversation from the jail. Also Read: P Varavara Rao’s neurological status unstable: Medical reportLater, on July 15, he had tested Covid-19 positive and was taken to Nanavati Hospital for treatment. His family members were permitted to interact with him through video call. “Later, we were told he was discharged from hospital and taken back to the jail,” his family members said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-varavara-rao-s-sons-in-law-served-notices-to-appear-before-nia/story-5cUc0jqgugVpC3tcFiFAZM.html
07-09-2020||City||Commuters protest at Mumbai’s Virar railway station, seek more local trains||Around 300 angry commuters, mostly office goers, staged a protest outside Mumbai’s Virar railway station demanding more local trains on Monday after buses could not reach the local bus stand to pick them up due to heavy traffic. The Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police and local police pacified the crowd as it created traffic snarls near the station during the morning peak hours. Also read: Maharashtra records 70,521 Covid-19 cases in first four days of SeptemberPrasenjeet Ingle, a commuter, said it takes around four hours due to heavy traffic on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway for him to reach office.On Monday, due to heavy traffic, the buses could not reach in time at the Virar bus depot and hence protestors marched to the railway station demanding more trains. On July 22, angry commuters in Nalla Sopara demanded that they be allowed to travel by locals as only essential services workers are currently allowed to travel on them. They broke barricades and stood on the tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commuters-protest-at-mumbai-s-virar-railway-station-seek-more-local-trains/story-BoKZydrn18TzbxQ3Z6KWRK.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Two suspected members of Babbar Khalsa International held in Delhi after shootout, six pistols 40 rounds seized||Delhi Police on Monday claimed to have arrested two suspected members of the banned militant outfit Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) after a brief exchange of fire near Nirankari ground in north Delhi.Police said the suspected BKI members had come to Delhi from Punjab late at night on Saturday to collect a consignment of illegal arms and ammunition. At least six rounds of fire were exchanged between the suspected BKI members and the police personnel. Six pistols and 40 cartridges were seized from the arrested duo, who have been identified as Bhupender alias Dilawar Singh and Kulwant Singh. Both the arrested accused belong to Ludhiana in Punjab, said Delhi Police’s special cell officials, who were involved in the operation. Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (special cell), Delhi Police, said that Dilawar is a key member of the BKI and he was deported to India from Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), last year in a terror-related case. “The arrested persons have revealed that they had planned to kill some politicians in Punjab and the arms and ammunition were being procured for the mission. We cannot disclose the names of their potential targets because of their safety and security,” said DCP Yadav. The special cell team had been intercepting telephonic conversations of an illegal arms supplier based in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and keeping a tab on their activities for the past few months. They came to know recently that two persons from Punjab would visit Delhi to collect a consignment of illegal arms and ammunition, the DCP said. Later, the special cell team learnt that the delivery of the consignment would take place near Nirankari ground in Burari, north Delhi, late at night on Saturday. Accordingly, a trap was laid in the area and two persons were arrested after an exchange of fire while they were walking to a taxi in which they had come from Punjab, the DCP said. “Nobody was hurt in the shootout. We are interrogating the arrested accused, who are wanted in some other cases in Punjab as well,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-suspected-members-of-babbar-khalsa-international-held-in-delhi-after-shootout-six-pistols-40-rounds-seized/story-5SrEN5GTaEwqXSrxtcdliN.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Unlock 4: Delhi Metro brings smiles back, but travel time increases with most gates remaining closed||The resumption of Delhi Metro services on Monday brought smiles back on the faces of commuters in the national capital, but many said the closure of most entry-exit gates caused delay and inconvenience.A Delhi Metro employee said he had to spend more time walking to the operational gate of the GTB Nagar metro station as the other gates were closed.“The gate nearer to my residence is closed. So, had to walk to gate number 5 which took extra 10 minutes,” he said.However, the journey remained smooth right from entering the metro premises to boarding the train and exiting the station at the destination, he added.Jyotsna Singh, 28, who travelled from HUDA City Centre station to Central Secretariat station, said she usually exits from gate number 1, but it was closed this time.“I had to take a detour and exit through gate number 3, which took 5-7 minutes extra. I was prepared for such minor delays considering the situation,” she said.Singh, who works at Shashtri Bhawan, said metro travel costs her just Rs 50 compared to Rs 350-400 spent on cab.Saurabh Roy, who boarded the metro from Jor Bagh and got down at Patel Chowk, said he entered from gate number 1 near the Lodhi Gardens. “It didn’t make any sense travelling 15 minutes by foot for an 11-minute journey. Anyone facing such problems will give priority to personal vehicles over the metro,” he said.The Delhi Metro resumed services in a graded manner on Monday, with elaborate measures for crowd management and ensuring hygiene to check the spread of the virus.The Yellow Line connecting Samaypur Badli and HUDA City Centre in Gurgaon was the first one to be opened.The services resumed at 7 am with strict safety and social distancing measures in place.The trains will operate in batches of four-hour each from 7-11 am in the morning and 4-8 pm in the evening.A number of passengers faced difficulty buying new smart cards or getting them recharged through cashless modes due to network issues.At a few stations, such as Central Secretariat, Chawri Bazar, and Chandni Chowk, passengers said there were hiccups while making payments for new smart cards or recharging them online due to non-availability of mobile network on the station premises. Luckshay Gupta, 28, said issues in online payment caused a minor delay during his travel from Chandni Chowk to Race Course.Rohini Bansal, 25, said she tried getting her smart card recharged online but it could not be done due to network issues.“Money got deducted from my account, but the transaction failed. I waited for 15-20 minutes at Central Secretariat metro station before I left the premises and took an auto to work,” she said. PTI GVS IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-4-delhi-metro-brings-smiles-back-but-travel-time-increases-with-most-gates-remaining-closed/story-F83TaBIBCiGLUZM83U7g6O.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Centre to provide ‘Y-plus’ category security cover to Kangana Ranaut||The Centre on Monday decided to provide ‘Y-plus’ category security cover to actor Kangana Ranaut following her spat with the Maharashtra government and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, officials familiar with the development said. Raut had warned her against returning to Mumbai from her home state Himachal Pradesh. Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the paramilitary force that also provides security to home minister Amit Shah, has been asked to take over Ranaut’s security. Officials cited above said a threat analysis was carried out and the Himachal Pradesh government requested the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to provide her security. Also Read: Let Kangana Ranaut apologise to Mumbai and Maharashtra: Sena MP Sanjay Raut on his ‘haramkhor’ commentUnder the ‘Y-plus’ category, 10 to 11 armed commandoes will guard Ranaut in three shifts, with two or three Personnel Security Officers (PSOs) accompanying her round the clock and one security personnel deployed at her residence. Ranaut compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) after Sanjay Raut warned her against coming to Mumbai. Also Read: Kangana Ranaut shares video message for Sanjay Raut: ‘Your men tell me they will break my jaw, kill me. I’ll see you on 9th’After the decision to provide her a security cover was taken, Ranaut tweeted – “This is proof that no fascist forces will be able to suppress the nationalist voices. I am indebted to Amit Shah Ji, who could have asked me to visit Mumbai later but he honoured the words and self respect of India’s daughter. Jai Hind”. On Sunday, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur had said that the state government will provide her security as she is the daughter of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-to-provide-y-plus-category-security-cover-to-kangana-ranaut/story-JcuXoQmAO82gMKo34osMNL.html
07-09-2020||Dehradun||Dehradun doctor who went on the run 26 years ago nabbed in Haryana||A 59-year-old doctor from Dehradun has been arrested from Haryana’s Palwal 26 years after he absconded when a case of fraud was registered against him in 1994 for forging a recommendation letter for gun license, the state police said on Monday. A local court had declared Sudhir Tiwari a fugitive in 1997.Sub-inspector Deepak Dhariwal, who led a four-member team that arrested Tiwari on Saturday, said the accused had attached a recommendation letter with fake signatures of then chief minister ND Tiwari’s personal assistant while applying for the license.“The letter later turned out to be fake and a case was then registered in Cantonment police station [Dehradun] and the probe was given to CBCID Lucknow branch [when Uttarakhand was part of Uttar Pradesh]. ... [a] charge sheet was filed in the case but Tiwari fled after knowing that a case has been registered against him,” said Dhariwal.A reward was also announced in 2006 for his arrest.Dhariwal said Tiwari was working as a public relation officer at a private hospital in Palwal. He added Tiwari first fled to Meerut, where he stayed or four years before moving to Haryana. “He was presented before a local court in Dehradun which then sent him to jail,” said Dhariwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/dehradun-doctor-who-went-on-the-run-26-years-ago-nabbed-in-haryana/story-JEiT8d1hrNBBhLfETdb0lM.html
07-09-2020||City||Bihar junior doctors seek denotification of medical colleges as Covid hospitals||Bihar’s junior doctors, who are postgraduate medical students, have pitched for de-notifying medical colleges in Patna, Gaya and Bhagalpur as dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals because of lack of patients and allow admission to non-Covid-19 patients.They have cited that the existing arrangement is hampering their curriculum and also expressed concern about academic loss. Also read: Covid-19: India’s death rate has reduced by 0.43% in a monthIt was impossible to achieve the goals and objectives of medical training in a hospital that allows only Covid-19 patients, the members of Junior Doctors Association (JDA), Bihar, highlighted in a letter to Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary, health, Bihar, on Monday. It also quoted extensively the regulations of the Postgraduate Education, 2000, of the Medical Council of India (MCI). “Designating medical colleges as exclusive Covid-19 care hospitals should be the last resort and not the first option. Non-teaching hospitals should be engaged first,” the letter stated. Conversion of a medical college into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital also renders a huge infrastructure and large pool of doctors, including specialists and super-specialists, useless, it argued. Dr Papu Kumar Safi and Dr Divyanshu Martand of Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) requested that admission of Covid-19 patients to medical colleges should be temporarily stopped and existing patients suffering from the viral infection be shifted to a ward with adequate oxygen beds.Earlier, though NMCH’s JDA had raised the issue of academic loss on June 3 and 24, their plea had allegedly fallen on deaf ears of the authorities concerned.The JDA, alternatively, suggested that the 110-bed Guru Govind Singh Hospital in Patna that has six intensive care unit (ICU) beds could be utilised as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital after equipping it with more ventillator-supported beds and operation theatre for emergency surgeries of patients suffering from the viral infection. It also suggested developing a joint pool of doctors from NMCH, Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) and Guru Govind Singh Hospital for clinical management of Covid-19 patients. “A medical college is bound to provide training as per curriculum prescribed by the MCI and failing to do so is a breach of contract by the institution. MD and MS (doctor of medicine and master of surgery, respectively) is a three-year course out of which we have lost six months. MBBS internship’s duration is one year. Half of it is gone and the students are suffering,” said Dr Martand, who is pursuing a postgraduate degree in medicine at NMCH. “Doctors with incomplete training can cause a serious threat to the patients they treat. No law of the land gives anybody the right to do so. If these incompletely trained doctors cause any damage to a patient after they pass out, the authorities must be held responsible for hampering their training for all these months,” alleged Dr Safi, who is also pursuing a postgraduate degree in medicine at NMCH.JDA members said the bed occupancy of Covid-19 patients at NMCH had never crossed 50 in the past month against a total capacity of 447 beds. Bed occupancy of the other dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, including the one made by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at ESI Bihta was also low. The Patna-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had 145 Covid-19 patients against 600 beds until Sunday. While the NMCH had 32 Covid-19 patients against 447 beds.Bihar has less than 3,000 Covid-19 patients in institutional quarantine against a total bed capacity of 54,126 of which 36,011 beds were in “ready to move in” as per the government data accessed by HT. There were less than 600 patients in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals against a total bed capacity of 4,024, said government officials. The state government has designated AIIMS and NMCH --- both located in Patna --- Anugrah Naryan Magadh Medical College Hospital in Gaya and the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital in Bhagalpur as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.The government has also created 100 isolation beds in each of the remaining six state-run medical colleges for Covid-19 patients. Bihar has reported 1,47,658 Covid-19 cases, including 754 deaths, until Sunday. At present, the state has 16,603 active cases and a recovery rate of 88.24%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-junior-doctors-seek-denotification-of-medical-colleges-as-covid-hospitals/story-RGDqFcJ5WHUx7XJn2p5D0L.html
07-09-2020||City||Grant of citizenship only after CAA rules notified, Centre tells HC||The Centre has told the Rajasthan high court that the ministry of home affairs (MHA) is in the process of framing of rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 and eligible people can submit applications for grant of Indian citizenship once the rules are notified. A division bench, comprising Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Rameshwar Vyas, is hearing a public interest litigation related to the issues of Pakistani immigrants living in India on long-term visas (LTVs).The amended Act aims to grant Indian citizenship to six minorities - Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhist, Christians and Parsis from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, who have faced or fled fearing religious persecution. The law, which ran into a controversy because it excludes Muslims, will be applicable to those who entered India before December 2014.Vipul Singhvi, counsel for the Centre, told the court on Friday that MHA received 20,370 applications from the Rajasthan government for issuing LTVs from January 1, 2015 to August 25, 2020, of which 20,080 have been disposed of. As many as 115 applications are currently pending and 239 have been sent back to the foreigners regional registration officer for clarification. Singhvi submitted that the return visa of LTV holders, who have gone to Pakistan on No Objection to Return to India (NORI) before the lockdown and have been stranded there due to travel restrictions, has been extended by the MHA for 15 days. The extension is effective from the date on which restrictions on travel from Pakistan to India are lifted by the Centre. The MHA has conveyed ‘no objection’ for return of 410 LTV holders whose details were received from the ministry of external affairs or the High Commission of India in Islamabad, Singhvi told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grant-of-citizenship-only-after-caa-rules-notified-centre-tells-hc/story-8eTM5orSANT7qyoEb1yKcK.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Happy to see commuters confident about travelling in Delhi Metro, says DMRC director||Director Operations, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), AK Garg on Monday expressed happiness over the resumption of metro services in the national capital and seeing passengers traveling confidently amid the Covid-19 crisis.“I travelled from Malviya Nagar to Rajiv Chowk, today. I am happy to see that the passengers are confident about travelling in Delhi Metro. We have made all arrangements to make travel safe for the commuters,” said Garg. “I interacted with the passengers and they are fully satisfied with our arrangements. Thermal screening is being conducted at the stations, sanitisers are available as well, we are also ensuring social distancing. We have also deployed our officers and supervisors for crowd management.CISF and Delhi Police, Haryana Police, Uttar Pradesh Police are also assisting us,” he added. Tokens are not allowed for metro travel for the safety of the commuters, only Smart Cards will be allowed for the same, Garg stated. “Smart cards can only be recharged via electronic mode,” he added. Delhi Metro resumed services from 7 am on Monday as the part of ‘unlock 4’, after being shut for 169 days due to Covid-19.In phase 1, metro services will be resumed on Yellow Line connecting Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre and Rapid Metro in Gurugram. The Home Ministry, in its Unlock 4 guidelines, gave nod to the resumption of metro services from September 7 in a graded manner. The guidelines gave more relaxations in the restrictions enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19. The metro services were suspended in March due to Covid-19.The DMRC had said that the carrying of Smart Card (with online recharge) was a must as tokens would not be available and all cash transactions would not be permitted, adding that it will not be providing services to stations that in containment zones for any given day in any of the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/happy-to-see-commuters-confident-about-travelling-in-delhi-metro-says-dmrc-director/story-G9oT21DUpf65grsFSM9VbO.html
07-09-2020||Patna||Ambulance rams truck, patient among four killed, three injured||At least four persons, including a patient and three of her family members, were killed and three persons were injured after an ambulance carrying them rammed a parked truck in Nalanda district on Monday morning. The incident took place on national highway 31 around 7.30am near Gaurapar village under the jurisdiction of Chandi police station, 110km southeast of the state capital Patna. The victims—all residents of Chainpura village—were travelling in the ambulance that was on its way to Patna from Nalanda, police said. Injured persons alleged that the ambulance driver was inebriated. They said that the patient was referred by doctors at Biharsharif Sadar Hospital to Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri. “But the driver was forcibly taking us to Patna,” they alleged. Confirming the four deaths in the mishap, Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar said, “The ambulance was carrying a patient (Sobha Devi), who was severely injured in the head after falling from the roof of her house late Sunday night. She was accompanied by six family members. The driver fled the spot after the accident and a manhunt has been launched to nab him.”He said four persons, including Sobha, her husband Viru Paswan, and her relatives Sudama Paswan and Asha Devi, died on the spot while Baleshwar Paswan, Sarita Devi and Sansar Devi were injured. All the injured have been admitted to the Biharsharif Sadar Hospital. Talking to mediapersons Baleshwar said the driver lost control over the vehicle and hit the parked truck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ambulance-rams-truck-patient-among-four-killed-three-injured/story-fNne6SuyqZBxxs54WDzasL.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Vikhroli Park Site accident: HC grants bail to BMC sub-engineer||The Bombay High Court (HC) last Friday granted anticipatory bail to a civic engineer booked in connection with the death of four persons, as a fully loaded truck got stuck in a manhole and toppled on them at Park Site in Vikhroli, Mumbai, in April 2019.Justice Sarang Kotwal granted pre-arrest bail to Ashish Amare, a sub-engineer employed with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), because he was shown as the accused in the case 10 months after the incident had occurred and also his custodial interrogation was not required.“The first information report (FIR) was filed in April 2019, but until February this year the investigating agency did not name the present applicant as the accused,” said the judge. “If the applicant is arrested, he would lose his job besides facing the trauma of arrest.”Four persons were killed after a truck transporting foodgrains fell on them at Surya Nagar, near Vikhroli’s Park Site, late in the evening on April 18, 2019. A culvert failed to hold the weight of the fully-loaded truck, which toppled after the driver accelerated the engine to move the vehicle out of the manhole, and crushed five people. Four of them had died on the accident spot, while the fifth person survived after being severely injured.Experts from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay investigated the accident and came to the conclusion that the newly laid concrete around the manhole cover had poor quality with very low strength and weak structural integrity. Due to heavy tyre load the concrete around the manhole failed in shear causing the collapse of the manhole cover and overturning of the truck. The report cited that the failure of the concrete could have been because of patchwork at the damaged location, as bonding between old and new concrete was not achieved adequately. The culvert should have been cast in a single pour, experts suggested.Though the experts blamed poor quality of construction work for the accident, the HC noted that the sub-engineer was appointed as the contractor because he had undertaken the emergency work of the stormwater drain manhole following persistent requests from a local councillor. Besides, the public did not allow the concrete to settle properly. They drove away an employee of the contractor who was watering the concrete, and opened the patch of the road for traffic without letting the concrete settle.In this backdrop, justice Kotwal said if the sub-engineer is guilty of any offence, as alleged by the prosecution, he would be convicted and sentenced after trial, but his custodial interrogation at this stage is not required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vikhroli-park-site-accident-hc-grants-bail-to-bmc-sub-engineer/story-vvAelPPQlqWleo0daincZO.html
07-09-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Metro resumes services||The Lucknow Metro resumed services at 6 am on Monday over five months after air, rail, and road transportation was suspended as part of measures to check the Covid-19 pandemic spread by ensuring social distancing.Also read: Centre approves urban mobility plan for 13 UP citiesUttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) managing director Kumar Keshav was present at the Amausi Metro Station when the first train left for Munshipulia with 17 passengers on board. Over 60 people boarded the train en route to Munshipulia.Keshav said, “ I am happy to see the trains running again. UPMRC has kept no stone unturned to make travel safe for the passengers. There was no flag-off ceremony because we do not want any sort of crowd collection at any spot.”He added the Metro is using advanced technology to make travel safe for passengers and their staff. “There has been an emphasis on contactless travel, sanitisation, social distancing, hygiene, and using ultraviolet lights for disinfecting surfaces and installing touch-free foot pedals,” he said. “I am confident Lucknowites will feel safe in the Metro and use it more than any other mode of transport.”He added initially trains will be available after a gap of 5 minutes and 30 seconds. “But when the ridership will increase, we will reduce the gap to around 3 minutes. Presently, 16 sets of trains would be running daily between Airport Metro Station and Munshipulia. The sets of trains would be regularly sanitised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-metro-resumes-services/story-nDix9fkOJpQzISfxJw0LlK.html
07-09-2020||City||Covid-19: At 235,857, Maharashtra has 1/4th of country’s active cases||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has been rising steadily. With 126, 523 cases and 2,205 fatalities reported in the last seven days, the state now has 235,857 active patients, more than a fourth cases in the country, leading to the fall in the recovery rate over last week. Also read: What you need to know today about Covid-19The rising number in the active cases is a cause of concern for the authorities as it would put an additional burden on the health infrastructure. In a few districts where cases are rising, the infrastructure has not been ramped up enought to be able to take the load of additional cases, officials feel. “From 171,542 cases two weeks ago on August 23, the number of active cases rose to 193,548 on August 30, and 235,857 on Sunday. The whopping rise in the cases over the past week is obviously putting the infrastructure under tremendous pressure. Some of the districts, like Sangli, Satara, Nagpur, have witnessed over a 40% rise in cases over the past week. The positivity rate of the state has jumped to more than 23% in the last few days from below 19% three weeks ago,” said an official from the health department.The officer said that they were concerned about the availability of sufficient number of beds with oxygen and ventilator supply. The officer said that the ramping up the infrastructure has not been met to cope with the rise of 90,000 active patients increase in the last one month.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the rise in the number of cases was owing to the unlocking. “We have lifted restrictions on inter-district movement, have increased workforce in offices and this has led to the spread of the virus. It is true that tracking of high and low risk contacts is just 10-12 against the expected number of up to 20 people. We are, however, prepared to take up the rise in the number of patients. District and corporation administrations have been directed to focus on tracking-testing and ramping up of the infrastructure,” he said. In the wake of the spike in the cases, state’s recovery rate also fell to 71.03% on Sunday from 72.58% on September 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-at-235-857-maharashtra-has-1-4th-of-country-s-active-cases/story-1KWDxjvrnUeGvriV7ItbYJ.html
07-09-2020||Lucknow||Expelled Uttar Pradesh Congress veterans asks Sonia to rise above ‘enchantment of the family’||A group of nine expelled veteran Congress leaders in Uttar Pradesh has asked party chief Sonia Gandhi to rise above “enchantment of the family” and run the party with “restoration of freedom expression, constitutional and democratic values” or else risk sullying “the glory of your great ancestors” and making “the party history”.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee’s (UPCC) disciplinary committee expelled 10 senior leaders after they held a separate event to celebrate late former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s birth anniversary in Lucknow on November 14 last year. “All of us are veteran leaders--former ministers, MPs [members of Parliament], MLAs [members of legislative assembly], and top office-bearers... We were AICC [All India Congress Committee] members and could have been removed only by AICC, not UPCC,” said former minister Satyadev Tripathi, one of the signatories of the letter, on Monday.Also Read: Salman Khurshid on key UP Congress poll team, ‘dissenters’ cold-shoulderedThe state unit revoked the expulsion of one of the 10, former minister Ram Krishna Dwivedi, days before his death in April.In their letter to Sonia Gandhi on September 2, the group said Congress and the nation were built under the guidance of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, upholding democratic values and ideals. “And you yourself adopted those values. None can deny the strength the Congress has gained under your leadership. But this is ironical that a sense of confusion and non-communication prevails among the Congress workers in view of the manner the party is running or being run.” The letter cited many defeats that the party has faced and added Congress workers have never been so hopeless and disappointed as they are now. “This is an issue of concern for the Congress for sure…..Those who are not even the primary members of the Congress have been working at the party’s headquarters [in states] on a financial package [salaries]. And such people now are reviewing the loyalties of committed and dedicated [leaders] who fought for the Congress from 1977-1980 and have occupied important positions in the party representing it in the Lok Sabha and the state assembly,” the letter said. “And It was under the pressure of such leaders that 10 leaders were expelled overnight from the Congress in an undemocratic, unconstitutional, and unjust manner.”The other signatories of the letter include former MP Santosh Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/expelled-uttar-pradesh-congress-veterans-asks-sonia-to-rise-above-enchantment-of-the-family/story-X5HKsFAW2oGDAP5WTQDAJP.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Fresh tremor rocks Maharashtra’s Palghar district||A fresh tremor measuring 3.5 magnitude on the Richter scale was recorded at around 8:07 am on Monday near Dhundalwadi at Dahanu in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, said Vivekanand Kadam, chief, disaster management cell, Palghar.However, no casualty of human lives or damage to properties was reported. Last Friday, four tremors, measuring 2.8, 4.0, 3.6 and 2.7 magnitude on the Richter scale, respectively, were recorded in villages in Dahanu. A few houses developed cracks because of the tremor.Monday’s tremor was also recorded by the National Centre for Seismology, Noida, in Uttar Pradesh, which comes under the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences, said Kadam.In the intervening night of September 4 and 5 September, the residents of Aaina, Dapcheri,Talasari, Dongripada, Amboli, Dhanivare, Osarvira, Kasa, Bordi, Dhundalwadi, Shisne villages had ran out of their homes in panic and spent the night in the open following the successive tremors.Talasari police station authorities had urged the villagers not to panic.On 23 August, at 11:39 am a mild tremor, measuring 2.8 on the Richter scale, was recorded at Aaina village in Dahanu.Since November 2018, villages around Dhundalwadi and other areas of Dahanu have been reporting mild tremors at regular intervals. In July 2019, Rishya Meghwali (55), a resident of Vasavalpada village in Dahanu, had died after a portion of the roof came crashing down on him, when a tremor had rocked the area. Meghwali’s wife had suffered minor injuries. Another tremor was recorded in February 2019, when Vaibhavi Bhuyal (2) of Haladwadi, Talasari, had died in a similar accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fresh-tremor-rocks-maharashtra-s-palghar-district/story-bhARuBicMRQKwSaqXSM6kK.html
07-09-2020||Bhopal||12-year-old girl gang-raped and killed in Madhya Pradesh||A minor girl (12) was allegedly gang-raped and killed in Madhya Pradesh’s (MP) Ratlam district late at night on Saturday. The body of the girl was recovered from a farm land on Sunday morning. Three suspects have been detained for their alleged involvement in the crime.“The girl went missing when she had gone to a shop in the vicinity to purchase tea and sugar late on Saturday evening. The shopkeeper informed her family members that she had come to the shop but left after purchasing the goods,” said Gaurav Tiwari, superintendent of police (SP), Ratlam. “Her family lodged a missing complaint with the police at night on Saturday. A search was conducted through the night. Later, the villagers and police found tea and sugar. They followed the trail and found the girl’s body on a farm land on Sunday morning,” said the SP.Also Read: Body of 13-year-old found in UP district“Four villagers used to create a nuisance whenever they would get drunk. One of them had tried to mislead the villagers when they were searching for the girl. He had said she was abducted by some people in a car. We have detained three suspects and an interrogation is in progress,” said the SP. “A first information report (FIR) has been registered under section 376 D (gang-rape), 363 (kidnapping), 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012. A post-mortem examination was conducted that confirmed that the girl was gang-raped and murdered,” he added. The girl’s body was handed over to her family members. Police personnel have been deployed in the village following the incident in a bid to pacify the agitated villagers, the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/12-year-old-girl-gang-raped-and-killed-in-madhya-pradesh/story-Drjpe878XV1pNzMRvUPPqL.html
07-09-2020||City||Intense overnight thunderstorm over south-central Mumbai, parts of suburbs||Isolated areas in south-central Mumbai and the suburbs witnessed overnight thundershowers with high speed winds on early Monday morning. The weather bureau had predicted the possibility of a thunderstorm late Sunday or Monday morning. From 3 am, flashes of lightning and thunder were witnessed with intense rain spells in some areas of the city. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a Nowcast warning at 3 am for thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and moderate to intense rain spells in isolated places in Mumbai over three hours. Between 2.30 am and 8.30 am, south Mumbai recorded 25.2 mm rain while 10.6 mm rainfall was recorded in the suburbs. Location-wise figures show Chembur recorded maximum rain at 67.8 mm followed by Worli 57 mm, Mazgaon 29.6 mm, Mahalaxmi 14 mm, BKC 12 mm. Navi Mumbai recorded 62.8 mm while Dombivali recorded 43.6 mm rain. Thane recorded 23.4 mm of rainfall.“Owing to land heating through the day on Sunday, there was formation of tall convective clouds that led to thundershowers on early Monday morning. Over three hours (4 am to 7am), Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai witnessed intense lightning and rain. Overall, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region witnessed 40-70 mm rain owing to convection currents which moved from over the land to Arabian Sea,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Mumbai suburbs and south Mumbai have so far recorded 37.3 mm and 52.4 mm rain over the first seven days of September. Other areas in the state that recorded overnight showers included Baramati 103.2 mm, Kolhapur 42.5 mm, Sangli 37.4 mm, Satara 25.7 mm, Pune 20.7 and Harnai (Raigad) 20.4 mm.IMD predicted a few spells of light to moderate rain for isolated areas in the city and suburbs through the day on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/intense-overnight-thunderstorm-over-south-central-mumbai-parts-of-suburbs/story-HRtDlwFHl1u8cj5BNiaZZO.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro resumes services with strict safety measures after 169-day Covid hiatus||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) resumed its services on Monday over five months after they were suspended as part of measures to ensure social distancing to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.The services began at 7 am on Monday on the 49-km-long Yellow Line (HUDA City Centre and Samaypur Badli), the first corridor opened as per the Centre’s guidelines easing the measures put in place in view of the pandemic.There was not much rush during the first hour of resumption of the services but commuters said they were happy to see this happen finally. Kumud Priya, a commuter at Rajiv Chowk Metro Station, said, “I left early to ensure that I do not get caught in queues. At least till early morning hours, there was no rush...people are also responsibly following directions. The opening is a huge relief.”Also Watch | Metro services resume with strict screening & distancing measuresAlso Read: Covid-19: As Metro services set to resume, air flow poses biggest health challengeCommercial activities and offices have been allowed to reopen in the Capital under the Centre’s Unlock guidelines, and commuters were facing a lot of problems in the absence of adequate public transport. The restrictions on the number of passengers in public transport had added to the problems.Extra staff has been deployed at stations, especially big ones such as Rajiv Chowk, to ensure commuters follow all the norms for safe travel.Security personnel were using metal detectors attached to rods to ensure social distancing during frisking at the stations after thermal scanning. People were allowed to enter stations after sanitising their hands.The services will be fully functional by September 12 and commuters have been advised to only undertake essential travels and “talk less” while travelling.Also Read: Delhi Metro says it is ready for Covid-19 challengeIn an interview to HT last week, DMRC chief Mangu Singh admitted that crowding is a concern and their efforts are to “break the peak”.“We want to ensure that there is no peak in crowding; that there is an even flow. We want people to support us and plan journeys accordingly because this is the best way to utilise the system. And we will also be able to provide the best service.”DMRC has issued a detailed advisory for commuters about the dos and don’ts while travelling in this new normal post-coronavirus pandemic. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “Besides ‘break the peak’, DMRC appeals to commuters to talk less during travel in the Metro to prevent the possibility of short-range aerosol transmission.”Follow precautions against Covid-19: Arvind Kejriwal Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Monday, expressed his happiness over the resumption of the Metro, adding there should be no negligence in following precautions against Covid-19.“I am happy Metro (services) starts today. Metro has made good arrangements. We also must not show negligence in following the precautions,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.मुझे ख़ुशी है कि आज से मेट्रो शुरू हो रही है। मेट्रो ने अच्छे इंतज़ाम किए हैं। हम सबको भी सावधानी बरतने में कोई लापरवाही नहीं करनी। https://t.co/bFUz9XXk74Various steps, such as strict adherence to wearing masks and using sanitiser, social distancing, using smart cards only and thermal screening have been put in place by the DMRC to ensure safe commuting amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The Home Ministry had recently issued guidelines allowing Metro services in the country to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC said it would do so in three stages from September 7-12.Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours, a DMRC official said.Trains will operate in batches of four hours each from 7 am to 11 am in the morning and 4 pm to 8 pm in the evening during the first stage, officials said.Metro services in the National Capital Region were halted on March 22 due to the pandemic. The DMRC has appealed to people to use the transport only if there is an urgent need. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-resumes-services-with-strict-safety-measures-after-169-day-covid-hiatus/story-vxzTZOhtAJZKTPZhjVhWVP.html
07-09-2020||Kolkata||Fire destroys 25 shanties in Kolkata||At least 25 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out at Narkeldanga in eastern Kolkata in the early morning on Monday.There were no reports of any injuries or casualties. At least 10 fire tenders were pressed into action. West Bengal fire minister Sujit Bose rushed to the spot. “The fire broke out at around 5:30 am. At least 25 shanties were destroyed. Now, the blaze is under control,” said Bose. Even though the minister said that the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained and it would take a forensic analysis, local residents said that there was a short circuit in a transformer that later exploded. “The fire spread fast because most the shanties had roofs made of plastic sheets,” said a fire brigade official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/fire-destroys-25-shanties-in-kolkata/story-3dBeSXn15oJ4nKwuQif7dJ.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro services resume as part of Unlock 4||Delhi Metro has resumed services from 7 am on Monday as the part of ‘unlock 4’, after being shut for 169 days due to Covid-19.In phase 1, metro services will be resumed on Yellow Line connecting Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre and Rapid Metro in Gurugram.“We have deployed police force at every metro station for crowd management and to ensure that people wear face masks and follow norms of social distancing,” Atul Katiyar, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) said.A commuter said, “I feel good that metro services are starting again. I had to book a cab for travelling to the place which was expensive for me but now I am able to commute at the reasonable fare.”Delhi Covid-19 case tally reached 1,91,449 with 3,256 new cases and 29 deaths reported on Sunday.The numbers of active and recovered cases are 20,909 and 1,65,973, respectively. Death toll rises to 4,567, according to the Delhi Government.The Home Ministry, in its Unlock 4 guidelines, gave nod to the resumption of metro services from September 7 in a graded manner. The guidelines gave more relaxations in the restrictions enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19. The metro services were suspended in March due to Covid-19.The DMRC had said that the carrying of Smart Card (with online recharge) was a must as tokens would not be available and all cash transactions would not be permitted, adding that it will not be providing services to stations that in containment zones for any given day in any of the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-services-resume-as-part-of-unlock-4/story-jfDWReGOAI8lE6aA5wA1ZL.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Trans person shot dead in east Delhi||A trans person was shot dead in Delhi’s GTB Enclave on Saturday evening by unknown assailants. Police officers said they’re trying to identify and arrest the suspects. The reason behind the murder is not known yet, senior police officers said. According to the police, the incident took place around 9pm when the trans person, locally known as Joshi, got off a car and was entering his house in GTB Enclave. Local residents and witnesses told police that some unknown men approached Joshi and opened fire.“He was shot thrice and left for dead. A police team that reached the spot rushed him to a hospital where he was pronounced dead. A post-mortem examination is being done and a case of murder has been registered,” said a police officer who did not wish to be named. Deputy commissioner of police, Shahdara, Amit Sharma said CCTV camera footage has been checked and his teams are close to nabbing the suspects. “We’re raiding the hideouts of the suspects and all possible angles are being probed,” Sharma said.His family members are being questioned to know more, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/trans-person-shot-dead-in-east-delhi/story-Sx7i1RTQiaFpNTUg3jNifJ.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Pvt school staffer ‘gangrape’: Karnal SP wants case transferred to other district||Nearly two months after the alleged gangrape of a private school staffer, the Karnal superintendent of police (SP) has urged the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Karnal Range, to transfer the case to another district. The development has raised serious questions as the woman complainant, who accused the school owner and a senior official of the revenue department of raping her, was also arrested for allegedly taking Rs 7.25 lakh to withdraw her complaint. She recently availed bail and presented some audio recordings, accusing the son of Nilokheri MLA of helping the police to ‘frame’ her in the case.As per the letter, SP Surinder Singh Bhoria said the cases were already under the investigation and two SITs have been formed for the same. “But these cases are being highlighted in the social media to a great extent and unnecessarily, district police are being dragged in the controversy by both the parties,” he said. “Many audio recordings are being used in the media, but these were never produced before the SIT during the course of investigation by the complainant,” read the letters.“It is requested to ensure the impartial image and working of the police and in the interest of justice that this case be transferred to some other district,” the SP mentioned in the letter. Karnal IGP Bharti Arora confirmed that she has got a letter from the SP and decision to transfer the case will be taken on Monday.It is pertinent to mention here that on the complaint of the woman on July 7, the police had booked the owner of a private school, a revenue official and the woman principal of the school under sections 376D, 506, 323 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the crime committed in 2018. The school management accused the woman of extortion and blackmailing for a hike in salary, leading to the registration of an FIR against the woman. Two SITs were constituted to investigate these cases.On August 22, the woman was arrested for taking Rs 7.25 lakh to settle the case. Now, the woman has presented recordings of her telephonic conversation with Nilokheri MLA’s son, accusing him of persuading her to settle the case. However, the MLA’s son has refuted the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pvt-school-staffer-gangrape-karnal-sp-wants-case-transferred-to-other-district/story-77vNKLmGI0u7iNPrNSHfqL.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kupwara truce violation: Slain Dadri sepoy’s family proud of his sacrifice for nation||Bhupinder, an Indian Army sepoy who laid down his life in a gunfight with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Nowgam, had become a father five months ago and met his wife and son just once after his birth.The soldier belonged to a farming family in Dadri’s Bass (Ranila) village.Bhupinder’s father Malkhan Singh said his son had got married 18 months ago.“He had come home only for one night when his son was born five months ago. He promised us that once the situation along the border eased, he would come to see his son Purva and wife Rekha. Five days ago, he had spoken to his wife and promised her to return soon, but now he will never come to see his son,” said the grieving parent.After completing Class 12 from a private school in neighbouring Ranila village, Bhupinder had joined the Indian Army in 2015.Deepak Kumar, Bhupinder’s younger brother, said despite the grief, his family was proud of his brother’s sacrifice for the nation.“We are proud of my brother for he laid down his life for the country. I too want to join the army, and if required, I will fight with the Pakistan troopers till my last breath,” he added.He said his brother’s body will be brought to the village on Monday..Dadri deputy commissioner Shiv Prasad could not be reached for comments regarding official communication with the army about the last rites of the soldier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kupwara-truce-violation-slain-dadri-sepoy-s-family-proud-of-his-sacrifice-for-nation/story-VgL1cMylQaAvYeeEFhfnQO.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda and his two staff members tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.Deepender announced his health status on Twitter and urged all those who had come in his contact to get themselves tested. A staff member of Deepender said he had undergone a Covid-19 test on Saturday after experiencing fever and cough.“Deepender has been admitted to Medanta hospital,” he added.The MP had been staying in Gurugram with his wife and son while his parents — father Bhupinder Singh, leader of opposition in Haryana, and mother Asha Hooda — live in Delhi.Two days ago, Deepender had addressed two gatherings at Anwali and Sirsadh villages of Baroda constituency while flouting social distancing protocol. He is the fourth leader after Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, agriculture minister JP Dalal and power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala to address gatherings in Baroda before testing positive for the virus. 25 deaths and 22,77 new cases in Haryana Twenty-five people succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Haryana and 2,277 new cases of the infection were reported on Sunday from across the state, according to the health bulletin. Four people died in Panchkula and three in Kurukshetra. In Faridabad, Ambala, Rohtak, Panipat, Karnal and Kaithal districts, two patients each lost their battle with the virus that also claimed the life of one patient each in Rewari, Hisar, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad. While the 25 fatalities due to the infection took place in 14 districts, fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded in 21 districts. There was no new case of the infection in Jind on Sunday. As per the bulletin data, six northern Haryana districts — Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Karnal — accounted for as many as 904 (40%) of the total (2,277) cases reported on Sunday. Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh and Gurugram, the four southern districts of the National Capital Region (NCR) recorded 27% (619) of the total new cases, while Bhiwani, Rohtak, Sonepat and Panipat, the districts spread across the central region of the state, saw 413 (18%) fresh cases. Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendergarh and Rewari reported 129 (6%) new cases. The viral load was 9.31% in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Hisar districts where 212 new cases were reported. Charkhi Dadri district has the lowest number of total Covid-19 positive cases (320) and active cases (84), besides one fatality ever since the pandemic broke out. With Sunday’s sharp rise in fresh cases and the fatalities, the number of people tested positive so far has reached 76,549 and the death toll has risen to 806 (570 men, 236 women). As many as 1,471 patients recovered on Sunday, pushing the recoveries to 60,051. The number of active cases on Sunday stood at 15,692. Gurugram saw maximum 306 new cases, Faridabad 276, Karnal 246, Kurukshetra 230, Ambala 190, Panipat 175, Panchkula 137, Hisar 120, Sonepat 76, Rewari 14, Rohtak 91, Palwal 15, Mahendergarh 65, Jhajjar 46, Bhiwani 71, Nuh 22, Sirsa 44, Yamunanagar 70, Fatehabad 48, Kaithal 31 and Charkhi Dadri 4. Khattar’s vital parameters are normal: DocsHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was admitted to Medanta hospital on August 25 for treatment for Covid-19, spent Sunday quite comfortably and took normal diet, according to the medical bulletin issued by the hospital. Medical superintendent Dr AK Dubey said that Khattar was well rested and his vitals parameters were normal. “There is no fever. The team of doctors treating the CM is satisfied with his progress,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rajya-sabha-member-deepender-hooda-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-nr6YIPLTezjnSTOfcQxRlN.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meera’s living history||She has lived through the Second World War, and through many other profound historical shifts. Including the Partition. Actually, she came of age in what is now Pakistan.She is 93.“No (public) event ever affected me as personally as the coronavirus pandemic,” declares the stately Meera Sachdeva.This evening, the woman who has seen so much is calmly chatting on WhatsApp video from her daughter’s home in west Delhi. She is a Gurugram dweller, however, and lives with her son in that city’s Mianwalli Colony. She arrived to visit her daughter’s family here in Tagore Garden a week ago, in the carefully sanitised family car.Because the coronavirus can be lethal, in particular to the elderly, Ms Sachdeva hadn’t stepped out of her house in all these months.“But I keep myself active.” She takes regular daily walks within her bungalow, conscientiously strolling from one room to another.Ms Sachdeva’s five children are scattered at various hoods across the Delhi region. Her (Tagore Garden) daughter Renu Kathuria, a retired English teacher, hugs Ms Sachdeva and says: “I hadn’t seen Bhabhi (all her children call her by this address) for such a long time.”“I’ve seen nothing like this,” Ms Sachdeva insists, referring to the pandemic. “Na kabhi pehele aisa dekha, na kabhi pehele aisa suna (never seen or heard something like this).” Showing the gold chain round her neck, she says—“it’s from before the batwara (Partition).” Looking back on various transformative events of her long lifetime, Ms Sachdeva recalls when she was a young mother and had to leave her home in west Punjab’s Mianwali for a new life across what would become the India-Pakistan border. “It was around Baisakhi, just when the first troubles were starting.” There was enough time for the family to transport all their valuable possessions, she explains, and that includes the chain she is wearing.Now surrounded by her daughter, her son-in-law, her grandson, and her great-grandchildren, Ms Sachdeva poses for a corona-era portrait through the phone screen that connects her to this reporter (the grandson’s wife is holding the phone). Her erect figure quietly stands out among her loved ones, as a living witness to all the histories that have unfolded since the 1930s, including the great pandemic that is still to become history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-meera-s-living-history/story-7V2Qn2tAAdZ1djPuthyEpL.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal launches anti-dengue campaign, urges all citizens to participate||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the second edition of the ‘10 Hafte-10 Baje-10 Minute (10 weeks, 10 o’clock, 10 minutes)’ campaign against dengue and other vector-borne diseases on Sunday.He said, “Last year, two crore people of Delhi joined hands to win a fight against dengue. In the next 10 weeks, we shall do it again. I inspected my home today for places where stagnant water could accumulate. I urge you to do the same. Let’s join hands to fight against dengue once again”.The CM also urged religious organisations, cultural groups and resident welfare associations (RWA) to endorse the campaign.The first edition of the campaign was held last year – which, said Kejriwal, help bring down the number of dengue cases and deaths. The campaign urges people to inspect their homes for any possible sources of stagnant clean water, which can lead to the breeding of Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes that spread dengue. In 2015, Delhi recorded 15,867 cases of dengue and 60 deaths. In 2019, the Capital recorded 2,036 cases and the number of deaths dropped to two, data shared by the Delhi government shows.On Sunday, all cabinet ministers in Delhi, Rajya Sabha MPs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), MLAs and other party leaders joined the drive, as they posted photographs on social media. Several volunteers and supporters of the party also joined the citizen campaign and posted their photos and videos on social media.“One should not be complacent assuming that there is no place in her house where clean water accumulate. If you invest 10 minutes, you are most likely to come across some place which went unnoticed. I urge more people to participate,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in a tweet.The participants, including the chief minister, pledged that they would devote 10 minutes at 10 am every Sunday for 10 weeks to inspect their residence for stagnant clean water and clean it to avoid breeding of mosquitoes and prevent the spread of diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya.In the coming weeks, doctors would be requested to endorse the campaign and more children would be encouraged to participate through homework assigned by schools. Government offices would also be asked to promote it, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said.BS Vohra, president of an umbrella group of RWAs in east Delhi said, “We shall endorse this campaign. It significantly contributes to generating awareness about fighting dengue. At this juncture, the government should consider designing a similar campaign to generate more awareness on sanitisation, social distancing and respiratory etiquettes in the light of the spike in Covid-19 cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-launches-anti-dengue-campaign-urges-all-citizens-to-participate/story-XR3tNRdam1tsA9GODFZgVP.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan’s mother passes away; her body donated for scientific research||Union health and science minister Dr Harsh Vardhan’s mother Snehlata Goel died on Sunday after suffering a cardiac arrest. She was 89. The minister rushed her to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after she collapsed suddenly, but she could not be revived. She died at 8.50 am“Heartbroken to inform that my dearest person on earth, my Mother, has left for heavenly abode. She was 89 & suffered a cardiac arrest today morning. A towering personality, my guide & philosopher, she has left a void in my life that none can fill. May her pious soul find peace,” tweeted the minister in the morning, with a photograph of him with his mother. Dr Harsh Vardhan, who is an ENT doctor by training, donated her eyes at the Organ Retrieval and Banking Organisation (ORBO) at AIIMS for people with corneal blindness to regain their vision. “After his mother passed away, the minister asked to donate her eyes and signed the consent form himself. It is a really great step and hopefully an inspiration for others,” said Dr Aarti Vij, chief of ORBO. Since his mother’s advanced age made her unfit for donating other organs, Dr Harsh Vardhan donated her body to Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) for the advancement of science to help medical students and researchers learn about the human anatomy.“Her body had been pledged to the institute earlier and was received today upon her death. She would live on after her demise and help in educating the future generation of doctors. Training of anatomy is an essential part of the MBBS course but rarely do we see people donate bodies. It was a courageous step taken by the minister,” said Dr Suresh Seth, director of the Lok Nayak Hospital that is attached to MAMC. Minister of state in the Prime Minister’s Office, Jitendra Singh, wrote in a tweet: “My sincere condolences to Dr Harsh Vardhan ji, with whom I share a long-time relationship as my senior, both in medical profession as well as in public life. Mother’s void can never be filled.” Condolences also came from the Congress MP Digvijay Singh, who said, “Very sorry to hear about the sad demise of Harsh Vardhan ji’s Mother. Our condolences to Harsh Vardhan ji and his family. May her Soul rest in Peace.” The Indian Medical Association also expressed sadness at the demise of the minister’s mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-s-mother-passes-away-her-body-donated-for-scientific-research/story-31N14cce1PZdIkbvv8qYTN.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi adds over 3k for the first time since June 26; positivity rate on steady rise||The national capital recorded over 3,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the first time since June 26 on Sunday, as per the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin.Despite a dip in tests — to 36,046 on Sunday from 38,895 the day before, the city added 3,265 cases of the infection. A bulk of the tests on Sunday were performed using the less-sensitive rapid antigen method — a trend that has persisted in the Capital since they were introduced in JuneClick here for full Covid-19 coverage The Delhi government last month said it aims to increase testing to 40,000 a day. The increase in the number of cases also resulted in a bump in the single-day positivity rate to 9.03%, as compared to the 8.68% rate recorded over the last week. The week before that, the average daily positivity rate stood at 8.66%, and just 6.85% two weeks ago. After seeing a decrease in the number of new cases in the first two weeks of August — with just 652 cases recorded on August 16, Delhi started seeing an increase in the number of new cases and the positivity rate from the third week of the month. “Not just the number of cases, but the positivity rate has also increased in the city, indicating an increase in the transmission of the virus,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said, “Its not just the numbers. We have to look at micro-level data to see whether the new cases are being reported from. From what I have seen so far, most of the cases are being reported from southwest and south Delhi now. In June, when there had been a surge in the number of cases, most new infections were being reported from central Delhi, from areas such as Chandni Mahal. This implies that the virus is now in transmission in areas where the infection had been low earlier.” He also said, “People have now become more relaxed or fatigued, and are not following simple preventive measures such as wearing masks in public places, maintaining social distance, and washing hands frequently. This has also led to an increase in transmission of the virus.” Delhi has also seen an increase in the absolute number of deaths, which has gone up from a low of eight in one day on August 16 to 29 reported on Sunday. On average, 20 people died of the infection every day in the city over the last one week. Despite the increase in the number of deaths, the surge in testing has resulted in a declining case fatality ratio (CFR) — the fraction of deaths among those who test positive. Delhi’s CFR stood at 2.39% as on Sunday, the lowest since May 31. The highest CFR in Delhi was recorded on June 16 — 4.11% — when Delhi reconciled the number of deaths, adding 437 deaths in a day to the total toll. “Even though the number of cases is going up, the mortality is likely to remain almost the same. This is because the doctors have a better understanding of the disease, the treatment protocols have been standardised, and there are more options for treatment such as plasma therapy and drugs like remdesivir. Also, with beds and infrastructure in place, people are being motivated to get admitted even when the disease is not very serious for better monitoring and management in case the condition deteriorates,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonology at Safdarjung hospital. “The only way I see the mortality going up is if our ICUs and isolation beds start running full and we are not able to admit patients early on. The case fatality ratio in Delhi is higher than the national average perhaps because people from neighbouring states also come to Delhi for treatment,” he said. The country’s average CFR stands at 1.7%. The other reason for the low mortality rate, experts suggest is that many asymptomatic and mild cases are also being detected. “Not only the number of tests have gone up since June, the criteria has also been relaxed and the government has now allowed testing on demand. People are now being motivated to get tested. This also means we are detecting many more asymptomatic and mild cases that were not being diagnosed back then. This also means the proportion of those tested who will have severe disease will be lower, and so will be the deaths,” said Dr Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-adds-over-3k-for-the-first-time-since-june-26-positivity-rate-on-steady-rise/story-LPRbkQPjX600f5COtx9jdP.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Belgian Malinois adds more bite to CISF canine squad||As the Delhi Metro prepares to resume operations on Monday, a brigade of 61 commandos are ready for deployment — the Central Industrial Security Force’s canine commandos, who will be back helping keep Delhi’s public transit lifeline.While most of the CISF’s four-legged squad comprises German Shepherds, Labradors and Cocker Spaniels, force’s “best” sniffer dogs, there is a special addition to the lot this — Khoj — their most sought-after dog, a Belgian Malinois. The breed shot to international fame after a member was speculated to have accompanied the US Navy Seal team that killed Osama bin Laden in 2011.Last year, a Belgian Malinois dog named Conan took part in a raid in Syria which resulted in the death of then Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.The 16-month-old Khoj — whose name means ‘search’ — joined the CISF’s dog squad two weeks ago, after completing her year-long training in Bangalore. She is the only dog with the force trained in attacking or neutralising “fidayeen attackers”, and is known to be an expert tracker — as her name suggests.“Khoj is the only tracking dog we have. She can track a scent for at least five kilometres. She can differentiate between multiple scents, and can clearly distinguish between a variety of explosives. But her best quality is that she’s an attack dog. She’s been trained to attack fidayeen attackers and pin them down,” said Raman Kumar, deputy commandant, CISF, who is in charge of the Quick Response Team, bomb detection teams and dog squad.Apart from Khoj, eight other dogs, five of them German Shepherds — Yoddha, Sarah, Dolly, Bella and Charlie, and three Labradors — Max, Johnny and Julie, joined the force two weeks ago.When Metro operations were shut and these dogs were not in service, they followed a strict training routine and were given a tailored diet to keep them in shape and keep their instincts active.Another official, who asked not to be named, said so far, over ₹1 lakh has been spent on buying and training the Belgian Malinois, making it the most expensive member of the CISF dog squad — funds for which came from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/belgian-malinois-adds-more-bite-to-cisf-canine-squad/story-dqMY4TzIrT6Qo6d6lH5b3K.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro says it is ready for Covid-19 challenge||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Sunday said it is all geared up to resume services, and meet all challenges including crowd management, after a five-and-a-half-month-long hiatus from Monday.With transport experts expressing concerns over the issue of crowding inside the network and outside the transit stations, DMRC officials said it has put necessary arrangements in place to maintain social distancing and hygiene, which is crucial to control the spread of Covid-19 infection. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn an interview to HT last week, DMRC chief Mangu Singh had said that crowding is indeed a concern and they will make efforts to “break the peak”. Singh had told HT, “We want to ensure that there is no peak in crowding; that there is an even flow. We want people to support us and plan journeys accordingly because this is the best way to utilise the system. And we will also be able to provide the best service.”The DMRC has issued a detailed advisory for commuters about the dos and don’ts while travelling in Metro in the new normal post-coronavirus pandemic. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, on Sunday said, “Besides ‘break the peak’, DMRC appeals to commuters to talk less during travel in the Metro to prevent the possibility of short-range aerosol transmission.”The other concern, raised especially by medical experts, is of strict enforcement of social distancing norms.Also read: DMRC conducts dry run on Yellow Line, Rapid MetroWith the Metro, which is the transport lifeline of Delhi and NCR, starting its services with reduced capacity –from 360-400 passengers to 50 passengers per coach—experts say crowding at stations and outside is bound to happen. The DMRC has decided that if the train is full or there is a crowd at the station, the train will skip the station.Experts say crowding is likely on stations which are immediately on the line after the point of origin. “Not many people take the Metro for short distances. The train is bound to be full at the starting point. So, what happens to passengers who will be waiting at the third or the fourth station?” said Mukti Advani, principal scientist, transportation planning division, CSIR-Central Road Research Institute.She added, “For this, the DMRC can spread out the starting point, that is the trains can start from multiple stations so that those on station falling in the middle of the corridor are also able to travel without waiting for too long.”DMRC officials say that a plan has been worked out to avoid such a situation. Dayal said, “To prevent crowding in trains/stations, we may have to opt for starting certain empty trains from terminal stations or short loop some trains to manage the crowded zones on a particular route/section.”He added, “This dynamic regulation of train movement will be based on the ground situation at given hours and one may have to skip a train or two, leading to extra time in completing the travel.”The measures planned by DMRC for crowd management inside the network, experts say, might result in congestion outside the station. While the situation inside might be good, transport expert Sewa Ram said, there could be chaos on the streets outside the station. “They should set up queuing areas outside the station so that people can wait in case the station gates have to be closed due to rush inside,” said Sewa Ram, professor at School of Planning and Architecture. To begin with, the DMRC is starting its service on the Yellow line (HUDA City Centre to Samayapur Badli) and subsequently open another line. By September 12, the entire network spread over 389 kms will be operational.This is when the DMRC’s crowd management plan will be put to test, especially at interchange stations. Transport experts say that it is impossible to know how many people at any given point of time will exit the trains at interchange stations.“To manage crowds at interchange stations will be a real challenge. For this, the DMRC can work out a service plan in which it can ensure that all trains might not stop at a particular interchange station. Also, the DMRC should open all the Automated Fare Collection gates,” said Amit Bhatt, director transport, WRI India.With DMRC increasing the dwelling time at each station by 10-20 seconds for boarding-deboarding and extra time to sanitise the trains at the terminal stations, the frequency of trains is likely to drop. Bhatt said, “The 5-7minute gap between trains can be counter-productive as it will result in crowding at stations. Efforts should be to increase the frequency of trains.”The DMRC has decided to push all the trains into service to minimise the frequency gap. Starting its services after a long hiatus, DMRC has advised passengers to keep 15-30 minutes of extra time while planning their journey.While the medical fraternity is divided over the decision to resume metro services, those in favour say that the DMRC should ensure strict enforcement of the safety norms needed to contain the spread of the infection.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said, “The most important thing is that people don’t take off their masks inside the trains. They should have one person deployed on trains to check that people wear masks properly. I personally feel that there is no need to leave a gap of one seat as long as people wear a mask. Those standing inside the trains will be touching multiple points and should be very careful.”Smita Nair, a resident of Janakpuri, said that the opening of Metro services will come as a huge relief to her, especially because of the nature of her work that requires her to regularly go to office. “I am an IT professional and I work in Noida. Our team was called back from June and ever since, I either have to pay a hefty amount for cab rides or depend on my husband to drop me. Metro station is barely two kilometres from my place and commuting now will be extremely convenient. It was inconsiderate for the government to have allowed offices to call its employees but not allow the most used transport mode in the city,” she said.Vighnesh Jha, secretary general, Federation of Richshaw Pullers’ Association of India, said the resumption of Metro services will boost the earnings of cycle rickshaw pullers by 40-50%. “With several commercial activities being allowed in June, cycle rickshaw pullers’ income had revived. But it wasn’t sufficient. Now, with opening of Metro, things will change for better. It will result in an additional 40-50% increase in their earnings, as a large number of Metro commuters prefer to take rickshaw for short distance travel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-says-it-is-ready-for-covid-19-challenge/story-7PDigkRkVRkc01FLsmIbsO.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||BJP appoints members to elections, disciplinary committees in Chandigarh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Arun Sood on Sunday appointed nine members to the election committee and three members to the disciplinary committee.Sood will be the chairman of the election committee, with MP Kirron Kher, general secretary Dinesh Kumar, former state president Sanjay Tandon, state vice-president Asha Jaswal, state general secretaries Chandrashekhar and Rambir Bhatti, state president of Mahila Morcha Sunita Dhawan and Scheduled Caste Morcha state president Krishna Kumar as the members.The election committee recommends the names of the candidates at the time of MC elections and for the post of MP during the Lok Sabha elections to the National Parliamentary Committee.Raghuveer Lal Arora, a senior party worker, Hitesh Pandit and Jagjot Singh, both lawyers by profession, have been appointed members of the disciplinary committee. Arora will be the committee’s chairman. On receiving any kind of disciplinary complaint, the party president sends it to this committee for investigation and after that, the committee member puts his report before the state president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-appoints-members-to-elections-disciplinary-committees-in-chandigarh/story-H5RIqRlE6tgXYynTL1eJUL.html
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing norms broken outside some NDA exam centres in Chandigarh||Social distancing norms went for a toss at some of the centres where the National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy (NA) examinations were conducted on Sunday.More than 26,000 students were set to appear for the exam that constituted a mathematics part from 10am-12:30pm and a general aptitude portion held between 2pm to 4:30pm. Due to lack of clarity on rules, however, the gates to the Sector-33 Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), one of the 65 designated centres, remained closed during the gap between the two exams, when the students were supposed to have their lunch.A total of 480 students were supposed to appear for the exam at the Sector-33 centre. Parents crowded around the gate on the outside, passing water bottles and food to their wards through the railings.Police posted at the gates said, “We did not receive any instructions from inside the centre, so the gates will remain closed.”Meanwhile, other centres operated normally and opened for lunch.Himanshu Mittal from Abohar at GMSSS, Sector 35, said the exam was generally easy. Most students said the questions on integration and probability were the toughest.Kunal Singh, who provides NDA coaching at Sector 34, said this year UPSC left out questions of general geography and focused on agricultural geography instead. “Phrases and idioms and reading comprehension were also missing from the English section. In math, around 19 out of 120 questions were of the advanced JEE-level while 17 questions were from previous years.”LESS THAN 50% ATTENDANCE IN CLASSROOMSMost of the classrooms registered less than 50% attendance. Aniket Singh from Mohali said although his classroom was supposed to adjust 24 students, only eight turned up. Other students also confirmed that the attendance remained low.For some students, both NDA and JEE Main exams were held on the same day. Arshdeep Singh of Amritsar had his JEE Main in Amritsar, but had instead chosen to travel to Chandigarh to sit in the NDA exam.Even though nine special trains were run to ferry students from various stations in Punjab, Haryana and even Himachal Pradesh to Chandigarh, most candidates preferred to travel to the centres themselves. Dipanshu from Jalandhar said he felt safere taking a taxi from Jalandhar rather than depending on the train. Jitender Bhaskar who came from Karnal added that the trains would have reached just hours before the exam, so many students had come to the city a day in advance to get proper rest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-distancing-norms-broken-outside-some-nda-exam-centres-in-chandigarh/story-7n5l3GScIYgfgGPGqKrPzM.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: On day one of DU entrance exams, special arrangements at centres, some students skip||Two months late, and with a hoard of precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19, entrance tests for admissions to Delhi University began on Sunday, across 24 cities.The test (DUET) is conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for admissions to nine undergraduate courses and all postgraduate and MPhil and PhD programmes in the Delhi University. Around 220,000 candidates are expected to appear in the examinations, which will be on till September 11, and DU officials said around 70% of expected candidates turned up on the first day.Candidates were, on day one, welcomed by a unique examination experience, even as cases in the city continued to creep up. For one, examination slots were staggered, to avoid crowds. Upon entering centres, candidates were asked to dispose of their face masks and handed fresh ones.Komal Chaudhary, 20, who travelled from Gurugram to Kalkaji in a taxi for the Zoology MSc entrance exam, said she was satisfied with the protocols followed at her examination centre. “I was initially scared for my safety, wondering if social distancing guidelines would be followed during the exam. Officials at the centre checked my temperature and asked that I sanitise my hands before entering the hall. There was a quick registration process, before we were given our room numbers,” she said.“We were made to sit on alternate seats and keep our masks on. After we finished the test, we were asked to leave the room one-at-a-time and were told to sanitise our hands before leaving the centre as well,” Chaudhary added.Entrance exams for 37 courses were held on Sunday in three slots — 8am to 10am, 12pm to 2pm and 4pm to 6pm.Despite the protocols, the fear of health risks persisted among aspirants across the country, some of whom skipped the tests entirely. Shalini, 23, a resident of Naraina, said, “Initially, I had decided to skip the exams because of the prevailing [Covid-19] situation. But my father insisted I appear in the entrance exam. I am still scared, and will isolate myself for a few days now.”Gaurav Rajput, 21, a resident of Uttam Nagar, said he had to return home before he reached the centre after developing a mild fever. “I had to appear for the MA political science entrance exam at the Mundka centre. I had a slight fever since Saturday night, and my temperature rose while I was on the way to the centre. Our admit cards said students with fever would not be allowed at the exam centres. I had to get off the bus mid-way. In normal circumstances, students with slight fever are allowed at the exam centres, but things are different amid the pandemic. I have informed my college teachers and will also write to the DU administration about my situation,” he said.Arpitha, a resident of Kozhikode in Kerala, had to appear for the LLM entrance test in Thiruvananthapuram — nearly 400km away, but had to give the exam a miss because of scant public transport options in the state due to the pandemic.“Four of my friends also decided not to appear in the exam on Sunday for the same reason. We were really scared because Covid-19 cases in Thiruvananthapuram are increasing with every passing day. We could not take the risk of travelling there,” she said.DU dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said the number of examination centres was increased this year in view of the pandemic. “While there were exam centres in 18 cities last year, this year we had centres in 24 cities. The NTA also shifted many students’ centres at their requests. At least 65% to 70% of students appeared in the DUET on the first day,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-on-day-one-of-du-entrance-exams-special-arrangements-at-centres-some-students-skipped-the-exam/story-bRs6qh04OdxhMXx6Fs4nxM.html
07-09-2020||Gurugram||Only 0.6 percent of recovered Covid-19 patients in Gurugram have donated plasma||Since its inauguration on July 30, the district’s plasma bank has seen only 75 patients come forward to donate blood after recovering from Covid-19, health officials said. That is only 0.6 percent of the 11,243 patients who have already recovered from the illness in Gurugram so far. The numbers, however, have started to pick up. With the number of reported infections in the district steadily rising — at a growth rate of about two percent, and clocking well over 200 new positives each day — the district health department over the weekend made an appeal to those who have recovered, to come forward and donate antibody-rich plasma, which be administered to moderate patients opting for plasma therapy, as a mode of treatment.Officials, however, said that over the past week the number of donors consenting to donate plasma has increased. By August 30, a month after opening, the bank had taken plasma samples from about 40 donors. The remaining 35 donors have come forward in the past week itself.“We are getting four to five new donors each day now, but it has taken a lot of effort. We make at least 150 calls per day, so that’s a conversion rate of about three percent. People are very hesitant, despite the fact that the blood bank is located nowhere near a Covid treatment facility,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, nodal officer in charge of the project.Kesarwani added that a team of 15 volunteers, belonging to organisations such as the District Red Cross Society and the Cannwinn Foundation, are involved “in some capacity or the other” in keeping Gurugram’s plasma bank running, including providing pick up and drop services to donors, and cold calling recovered patients to seek plasma donations. “We have also prepared a standard set of FAQs, which are provided to all recovered patients. It has helped to clear up some of their apprehensions,” Kesarwani added.While health department officials were reluctant to point to one singular reason as to why people are refusing to donate, they said that it is likely due to fear of revisiting hospitals and medical centres, particularly after having endured the ordeal of recovery. They also said that stigma associated around the illness could very well be holding back some donors. “For this reason we have put out an appeal through the public relations office over the weekend,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/only-0-6-percent-of-recovered-covid-19-patients-in-gurugram-have-donated-plasma/story-9UDdi20SnpFwZc9BnQxEyN.html
07-09-2020||Gurugram||DMRC conducts dry run on Yellow Line, Rapid Metro||In the run-up to the resumption of Metro services in a graded manner from Monday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) conducted a dry run on the Yellow Line and the Rapid Metro Line in collaboration with the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Gurugram Police on Sunday.The Gurugram police had deployed around 50 police personnel at the five Yellow Line Metro stations in Gurugram—Guru Dronacharya, Sikandarpur, MG Road, Iffco Chowk, Huda City Centre in the rehearsal. The Gurugram police said the police personnel will help in managing the entry of commuters, prevent overcrowding outside Metro stations apart from effectively managing parking areas. Everything would be done in coordination with CISF with whom the responsibility of providing security and managing crowd inside the stations primarily lies, said police officers how participated in the dress rehearsal.“A dry run was conducted on the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro, and trains ran on the two lines in the morning and evening to check the readiness of the entire system. The trains will be operational from Monday onwards,” a DMRC spokesperson said. The trains will remain run from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm, and the Metro services will be made fully operational from September 12 onwards, DMRC said.The primary job of the Gururam police would be to ensure commuters follow the prescribed safeguards against Covid-19 such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing .“For now, around 50 personnel will be deployed at the Delhi Metro stations who will work in coordination with CISF. During the rehearsal, markings were made at a distance of one-metre for commuters to stand on,” said inspector Ramesh Kumar, station house officer, Metro police station.“Personnel from nearest police station will control the crowd and manage the parking space outside the Metro stations,” said KK Rao, police commissioner, Gurugram. The police said personnel from the nearest Metro stations will also oversee crowds outside eleven stations of Rapid Metro, which runs from Cyber Hub to Sector 56 along the Golf Course road.The Gurugram health department, which will provide medical assistance to the commuters, said it has installed notice boards details of the nearest urban health centres on all five metro stations on the Yellow Line which are expected to see heavy rush. Chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said that as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) prescribed by the DMRC all commuters will be screened and those who have flu-like symptoms or higher than normal body temperature would be asked to visit the nearest public health centre.“We also held a detailed meeting in which the medical officers were told that they must provide assistance to commuters, and samples for Covid-19 testing should be collected of symptomatic passengers at the health centres,” said Dr Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dmrc-conducts-dry-run-on-yellow-line-rapid-metro/story-GV44l5ghWaDqykjcHTcXPO.html
07-09-2020||Gurugram||Illegal call centre promising false job offers busted in Gurugram||The city police on Friday night busted an illegal call centre, operating from a basement in Udyog Vihar Phase-4 that allegedly duped and misled job seekers by falsely promising them jobs and charging a registration fee from them. The police said a joint raid was conducted by a team of state crime branch and the Udyog Vihar police station, following which an FIR was registered against the main suspect, the mastermind running the business, on Saturday. Four employees of the call centre were questioned by the police while the alleged mastermind, whose name has been withheld by the police, managed to escape before the raid. The police have seized several computers, laptops and hard disks from the centre and have initiated a probe. A police official from the state crime branch, requesting anonymity, said, “During investigation of a similar case in June 2019, a suspect, identified as Naveen Kumar, was arrested for luring job seekers by making fictitious claims of getting them placements in leading companies and charging a recruitment fee from them. The suspect was taken on a five-day remand last week, and based on the inputs, the raid was conducted in Udyog Vihar Phase 4 in Sector 18.” The police said four employees, who were detained, told the police that their job was to “cold call” unemployed people and offer them a subscription, which would help them land a job. Satbir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Udyog Vihar police station, said, “Preliminary probe has found that the call centre charged ₹6,899 per person as a fee for registration on their job portal and promised them premium jobs to unsuspecting unemployed persons. They said that some seniors had shared with them a database of unemployed people over email, which they used for “cold calls”. The employees were let off after questioning. The prime suspect, who was running the company, escaped from the spot.” The police said the suspect also offered to “spruce up” the resumes of people with the promise of landing interviews at IT firms. The employees failed to produce any licence issued by the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) for running the call centre. A case was registered against the accused persons under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 66 b, 66 c and 66 D of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act at Udyog Vihar police station on Saturday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/illegal-call-centre-promising-false-job-offers-busted-in-gurugram/story-EoAx0aR5a8jtztqN7p9wJM.html
07-09-2020||Gurugram||45-year-old cyclist killed in hit-and-run in Gurugram’s Sector 10||Five days after a 45-year-old man was critically injured after the cycle he was riding was allegedly hit by an unidentified car near a factory on Basai road in Sector 10, he succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Delhi on Saturday. The Gurugram police on Sunday registered an FIR against the unidentified car driver. The suspect is yet to be arrested. The deceased has been identified as Raju Kumar, who is from Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh. Kumar worked at a factory in Sector 10 and had lived in a rented house in Ravi Nagar. According to the police, the incident took place on August 31, when Kumar went to Sector 10 on his cycle to run some errands around 6pm after returning from work. A police officer, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The incident took place near a factory opposite the auto market on Basai road. According to an eyewitness, an unidentified car rammed into the victim’s cycle and leaving Kumar with injuries on his head, face and body. He was rushed to civil hospital by passersby.” Kartikeya Singh, 18, who lodged the police complaint in the matter, said, “I was on my way to deliver groceries when I saw the accident. A car, driving at high speed, hit a cyclist and fled. I could not take down the registration number of the vehicle. The victim had fallen unconscious on the road, and with the help of some commuters we took him to a hospital in Sector 10.” Police said the victim was referred to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi, where he died during treatment on Saturday. “The accused car driver is yet to be identified. There are no CCTV cameras at the spot where the incident took place. We are trying to trace the suspect,” said the police officer quoted above. The police said the victim’s body was handed over to his family after an autopsy on Sunday. A case was registered against the unidentified suspect/s under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 9 A police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/45-year-old-cyclist-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-gurugram-s-sector-10/story-DFQIYPlrSV0ZfEGKMkLAcO.html
07-09-2020||City||With 306 new Covid-19 cases, Gurugram sees largest single day spike in over two months||Gurugram: The district reported 306 new positive cases of Covid-19 on September 6, it’s highest single day spike in well over two months, taking the total tally of reported infections to 13,321 cases, of which 12 percent (1686 patients) are classified as ‘active’. This is up from 965 active cases a week ago, on August 30. Since September 1 to September 6, Gurugram reported 1,517 new infections, an average of 216 new cases per day. This is significantly higher than the average of 119 new cases per day reported the week prior. The doubling-rate now stands at 36 days (down from 40 days on September 5). The doubling rate was 81 days on August 26. The test-positivity rate of the district on Sunday remained high, at 11.4 percent (with 306 positive results from 2661 new samples tested). A week ago, the TPR was at 6.9 percent.Of the current tally of 1686 active patients, 175 are currently hospitalised, while the majority (1486 people) are under home isolation. This is up slightly from 765 people under home isolation a week ago. Another 19 patients (up from 9 a week ago) are under observation at district covid centre centres.Gurugram on Sunday also recorded 140 new recoveries (up from 115 the previous day), taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 86 percent (down from 90 percent a week ago). The district recorded no new deaths on Sunday. The mortality rate in the district, thus far, is 1.05 percent with 137 fatalities so far. The district saw four new Covid-19 related deaths in the last week.Gurugram on Sunday also collected 2546 new samples for testing, up from 2661 samples collected on Saturday. Of these, 685 samples were taken by private labs for RT PCR tests, while the majority of remaining samples are those of RT PCR and antigen tests by the health department.DATA:Total cases: 13321New cases: 306Total deaths: 137New deaths: 0Mortality rate: 1.05%Recoveries: 11498Recovery rate: 86%Active cases: 1686Total cases in Haryana: TBA Total fatalities in Haryana: TBA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-306-new-covid-19-cases-gurugram-sees-largest-single-day-spike-in-over-two-months/story-Bc84QFHNPubfVkqoMqOTGK.html
07-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana Police inspector shot at in Palam Vihar||A Haryana Police inspector was allegedly shot at by at least two unidentified men outside a real estate office in Palam Vihar on Sunday night. Police said the police officer sustained one gunshot wound and was rushed to a private hospital in Sector 38, where his condition is stated to be stable. A family dispute is suspected to be the alleged reason for the shooting, investigators said after initial probe. Malik has previously been posted at the Special Task Force (STF) of Haryana police.According to the police, the incident was reported around 8pm when the victim, inspector Sonu Malik — who is presently posted in the Commando Complex in Newal, Karnal — was walking to his car after meeting a relative. Police said as he reached his car, at least two armed men intercepted and fired at him. The police officer suffered a gunshot wound in his right shoulder. In retaliation, Malik fired at the alleged shooters, who managed to escape. A police official from crime branch, requesting anonymity, said, “The shooters had come on a motorcycle. A family dispute could be the reason for the incident.” Police said in 2017, Malik’s uncle, Satyawan, was shot dead by some gangsters in Rohtak in retaliation to the killing of a gangster named Sandeep Badwasni in Sonepat earlier. In Badwasni’s murder, Satyawan, was one of the key suspects. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The accused managed to escape from the spot. The police inspector was rushed to a private hospital for treatment and is now stable. Prima facie, a family dispute could be the alleged reason. We are also probing the gang rivalry angle and checking if this incident was related to his uncle’s murder in Rohtak.” No case had been registered in the incident till the time of this report .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-police-inspector-shot-at-in-palam-vihar/story-pOz0I39oUmVYWeXQRaP6FM.html
07-09-2020||City||Two killed as car rams into pole in Jalandhar||Two persons were killed and one sustained serious injuries after the car they were travelling in rammed into an electricity pole on the Nakodar road in Jalandhar in the wee hours on Sunday. The impact of the collision was so strong that the front part of the car was completely damaged. Amit Chauhan, the only son of Baldev Chauhan, who runs Sekhon Grand Hotel of Madhuban Colony, and his friend Jaspreet Singh of Kamal Vihar, died on the spot. Police said they were on their way back home after closing the hotel and were accompanied by a waiter. While Jaspreet was driving the vehicle, Amit was sitting on the front seat and a waiter was on the rear seat. Sub-inspector Kuldeep Rai said the trio were rushed to a private hospital where Amit and Jaspreet were declared brought dead. The waiter’s condition is stated to be serious. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-killed-as-car-rams-into-pole-in-jalandhar/story-q78DQHg7wl0PEpnCgLYS6I.html
07-09-2020||City||Gurugram might witness another spell of light rain today||Gurugram: The city might witness another spell of light rain on Monday, after which rainfall activity is expected to decrease for the next few days in the region, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Tuesday. According to the agency, rainfall activity over northwest India is likely to decrease with light to moderate, isolated to scattered rainfall across the region after which it is expected to decrease further in the next four-five days.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi, said there is a possibility of light rain this week in the national capital region. “Gurugram and Faridabad saw more rainfall activity on Saturday but with the monsoon trough shifting around Meerut and surrounding areas, light rain can be expected in NCR,” said Srivastava. The minimum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 23 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature stood at 35.5 degrees Celsius — a marginal drop from Saturday’s 36.6 degrees Celsius. Gurugram’s maximum temperature is expected to stay around 35 degrees on Monday. As per the weekly forecast, cloudy sky with thundershowers and one or two spells of rain are expected on Monday. Air quality in the city remained ‘satisfactory’ on Sunday, recording 60 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was an improvement from the previous day’s recording of 74, in the ‘satisfactory’ category. The improvement in air quality was attributed largely to an increase in wind speed and light rainfall Saturday evening.The average daily concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s most prominent pollutant, on Sunday was 67.75 µg/m³, according to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘satisfactory’ category on Monday and Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-might-witness-another-spell-of-light-rain-today/story-fhj4lHNEiCYRuBZqdKYSIN.html
07-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Woman arrested for murder of husband||Two days after police arrested a 24-year-old man for allegedly kidnapping, killing and dumping the body of a cab driver, police arrested victim’s wife on Sunday. The woman was identified as 25-year-old Sunita, a resident of Sector 5. Sector 5 station house officer Rajender Kumar said she and the Sukhbir, who was arrested on Friday, had conspired to kill him along with his friend in Narwana town in Jind. “The accomplice is yet to be arrested but he is hiding in Jind area,” he said. Police on Friday had exhumed the body of the victim from a seven-feet long drain near Narwana in Jind, some 186 kilometres from Gurugram. The victim was identified by his first name as Suresh (27), and lived with his wife and two children. Suspecting Sukhbir and Sunita of having an affair, Suresh had earlier allegedly assaulted his wife and threatened Sukhbir. On April 12, in an apparent bid to sort out “confusion”, Sukhbir had called Suresh to Jind where he allegedly killed him with the help of his friend.Suspecting something amiss after not having heard from his son for almost five months, the victim’s father approached the police on September 1 and filed a missing person’s complaint. On Friday, police arrested Sukhbir who allegedly confessed to the crime. A case was registered against the accused persons under sections 302 (murder), 365 (kidnapping), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and sections of Arms Act of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-woman-arrested-for-murder-of-husband/story-jLJphpgAse5ooUMyel3W7M.html
07-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Why Golf Course Extension Road remains vulnerable to developing potholes||Gurugram: A high volume of heavy vehicle traffic as well as problems in the design of the Golf Course Extension Road (GCER) make it vulnerable to developing potholes frequently, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) officials said, adding that until a long-term solution is adopted, the problem will continue to persist.In October 2018, when GCER started developing potholes, GMDA did structural integrity tests on the 6.3-kilometre stretch between Ghata T-point and Vatika Chowk and found that the design was not sufficient to support the volume of traffic on it and the base of the road was weak, leading to its disintegration.Back then, V Umashankar, the then chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, had said that at the time of its construction, GCER was designed in a manner to sustain city-traffic. However, over time its role has become similar to a state highway and a lot of heavy vehicles ply on the road, which its surface is unable to withstand, hence the potholes. He had said that “re-carpeting is only staunching the wound; relaying is the larger, long-term solution,” adding that GMDA is working on a long-term road-widening project which will make the stretch signal-free.VS Kundu, the current CEO of GMDA, said the volume of vehicles on GCER is not an issue but it is the type of vehicles running on it that is the problem.“In terms of the total number of vehicles, GCER is not compromised. The problem is that the road was not designed to support the axle-weight of the heavy vehicles currently plying on it in large numbers. This is the case, especially with the carriageway carrying traffic between Vatika Chowk and Ghata,” said Kundu.Kundu said that an axle-weight capacity study of the stretch was done last year.“We found that vehicles, that are designed to carry a maximum load of eight tons, were generally found to be carrying four-five times this weight. Most vehicles were found carrying loads amounting to 30-40 tons. GCER is designed to sustain only 8-15 tons. It is being subjected to twice or thrice the total weight and the sub-surface of the road is unable to bear the load. Hence, the entire stretch crumbles quickly,” said Kundu.He further said that on the opposite carriageway, between Ghata and Vatika Chowk, the study found that most heavy vehicles travelled without any load and hence, the damage on the road-surface is comparatively lower.He added that hence, the strengthening of the stretch is needed for a long-term solution.Last year in September the Haryana government had approved GMDA’s detailed project report (DPR) for the redesigning of the stretch with two underpasses and three flyovers.“We wouldn’t be widening the six-lane stretch but redesigning it along with flyovers and laying a Pavement Quality Concrete (PQC) road to support the weight of the heavy vehicles. Initially, the total cost of the project was around Rs 281 crore but now it would go in excess of Rs 300 crore. In March, during a GMDA meeting, we decided to redesign the stretch from Vatika Chowk to Kherki Daula as well. Thereby the entire Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) would be redesigned,” said Kundu. Most national highways, state highways and airport runways across the country are designed with PQC roads as it is able to bear heavy loads.The 13 kilometre-long SPR includes the entire GCER and the stretch between Vatika Chowk and Kherki Daula toll.Kundu said that due to the coronavirus outbreak, the follow-up on the decision taken during the meeting in March was delayed. However, two weeks ago, an internationally certified road design company was allocated the task of reviewing the design from Ghata and Vatika Chowk as well as working on the redesign of the stretch from Vatika Chowk to Kherki Daula. He said the company has been given six weeks to complete both tasks and the entire initiative is being done through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. As changes have been made to the original project, an approval from the Haryana government will once again be sought, he added.A GMDA traffic study found that the average number of vehicles plying on GCER was around 4,100 per hour vehicles in June 2018, which rose to 4,600 vehicles per hour in June last year. The study further projected that by June 2028, the average number of vehicles per hour will be in excess of 7,000 while by June 2038 it will be around 11,500.Sarika Panda, a city road-safety expert with Naggaro, a software development and technology consulting company, said that until the redesigning is done, GMDA should divert heavy vehicles away from the road“Heavy vehicles can be easily diverted to the Sohna Road, Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway or Kundli–Manesar–Palwal Expressway that are all designed to sustain the load of heavy vehicles. Until then GMDA can fill the potholes across GCER and make it operational for only light-weight vehicles,” said Bhatt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-why-golf-course-extension-road-remains-vulnerable-to-developing-potholes/story-fzGJPJCK8cD61K9IeB6vqL.html
07-09-2020||City||Punjab reports highest single-day spike of 1,946 cases, 54 deaths||Punjab on Sunday reported the highest single-day spike of 1,946 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 63,473. The state also witnessed 54 more Covid-related fatalities, pushing the death toll to 1,862. Punjab had earlier reported its biggest single-day spike of 1,746 on August 27.Ludhiana again topped the chart with 13 deaths, followed by eight in Patiala, six in Kapurthala, five in Amritsar, three each in Faridkot, Moga, Jalandhar and Bathinda, two each in Pathankot, Muktsar and Hoshiarpur and one each from Barnala, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, according to a media bulletin released by the state government.Jalandhar reported highest Covid cases in the state at 261, followed by Pathankot 205, Gurdaspur 186, Bathinda 168, Ludhiana 161, Mohali 154, Patiala 150, Hoshiarpur 135, Amritsar 133 and Faridkot 88, the bulletin said. The state has being seeing a surge in the number of Covid cases and adding over 1,000 patients every day for the past few days.The bulletin said that 1,606 patients were discharged after recovering from infection. So far, 45,455 people have been cured of the contagion.There are 16,156 active Covid-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-1-946-cases-54-deaths/story-cKp0K47qTrzEuSE6bbUOiO.html
07-09-2020||Gurugram||Over 350 potholes on Golf Course Extension Road make life difficult for commuters||A 6km stretch of Golf Course Extension Road (GCER) — between Vatika Chowk and Faridabad Road — is riddled with at least 350 potholes, making this stretch risky for commuters and motorists, said the police. At least, six accidents have been reported on this stretch in the last two days. Two people were severely injured, after a motorcyclist lost control of his vehicle and rammed a jersey barrier on Saturday night, said police officials. According to police officials, this year 14 accidents have been reported so far on this stretch. In 2019, 46 accidents were reported. Most accidents involve two wheelers, said the police, adding that four people have died so far this year on the GECR. In 2019, a total of 16 people died, while in 2018, 14 fatalities were recorded. Commuters allege that the stretch is particularly unsafe for two-wheelers and is in the urgent need of repair. The traffic volume on the road is also high as many residential societies, corporate offices and high-end automobile showrooms are located on this stretch. A large number of commuters from Delhi and Faridabad also use this road to reach Sohna Road and other parts of the city. The road also has several junctions with traffic merging from various directions, such as sectors 56, 57, 49, 50, 51 and 61 and Gurugram-Faridabad Road.Commuters allege that, during peak hours, it takes around 20 minutes to cross the stretch due to the presence of the potholes. The road also serves as an important link for commuters travelling towards Delhi and Faridabad from the Golf Course Extension Road, the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Sohna Road. Commuters say this stretch provides an easier access to Faridabad, Golf Course Road, MG Road, DLF Phase-1, Sector 54, Aya Nagar and Chattarpur in Delhi, and helps them to bypass other congested stretches of the city such as the Mehrauli-Gurugram (MG) Road and the Golf Course Road. According to safety experts, the presence of potholes, some of which are as large as three or four feet, coupled with lack of streetlights have added to the unsafety of the stretch.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a city-based road safety expert, said, “Cities are focused on building more roads but maintaining the infrastructure of the existing roads should be the first priority. This is because inadequate maintenance often results in jeopardising the safety and security of road users. This is the exactly what the issue in Golf Course Extension Road is. Potholes and blind spots are leading to frequent accidents.”“This stretch houses some of the most high-end liquor stores, along with the swanky drinking places, called ahataas. It is risky to drive at night as the stretch is full of potholes and requires immediate repair,” said Nitin Sirohi, a senior MNC executive and a resident of Emaar Palm Drive. According to the police, most of the commuters drive at high speeds during the night, which often leads to accidents when motorists lose control of their vehicles. “Mostly, bikers suffer accidents as the potholes are not visible from a distance. Only daily commuters are aware of it,” said Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar). “We have asked the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) officials to repair the road as soon as possible. We have also deployed six constables on each side of the stretch, apart from the night patrolling team,” Yadav said. Commenting on the condition of the stretch, Aman Yadav , ACP, said the police had temporarily repaired the bigger potholes during water logging in August to evade accidents. “There are nearly 350 potholes on both sides of the stretch of various sizes. Some of them are dangerous and need urgent repair”, he saidWhen asked about the issue, GMDA officials said the repair work has slowed down because of the arrival of the monsoon season. However, they are taking all necessary steps to ensure the safety of commuters. The officials added that repair work will restart from Monday. GMDA is also working towards relaying the entire stretch of the road entirely. However, until then, it is carrying out temporary repair work, said officials.Jitender Mittal, executive engineer of GMDA, said that have allocated a tender of ₹40 lakh for repairing the potholes permanently. “Presently we are repairing potholes temporarily but due to heavy rainfall, the road gets damaged time and again.Starting Monday, we will repair all the existing potholes to ensure that commuters do not suffer while travelling on the stretch,” he said. Earlier in November 2018 and March 2019, GMDA carried out extensive repair work on the stretch. However, within a few months the potholes reappeared again, said officials. A road structure test recently carried out by the GMDA officials found out that the damage of the road was extensive.Work on filling up the potholes will be completed by the second week of September. However, officials added that this is only a temporary fix and the authority is working towards a more permanent solution. A tender has already been alloted for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-350-potholes-on-golf-course-extension-road-make-life-difficult-for-commuters/story-jTzKUBz5RFbO82uJHiv71H.html
07-09-2020||Noida||Two robbers injured in police shoot-out in Noida||Two suspected criminals wanted in multiple robbery cases in the district were injured in a shoot-out with Noida police near Sector 98 on the intervening night of September 5 and September 6.The suspects, who are both in their late twenties, were identified by their first names as Pushpendra, from Aligarh, and Javed, from Dankaur. Police officers said they have identified at least 16 cases of robbery, theft, gangster act, arms act against Pushpendra and 20 similar cases against Javed across the district. A third suspect managed to flee during the shoot-out.According to police officers, the suspects were in an SUV and were stopped for checking near Sector 37 during a routine patrolling exercise. “However, they got down from the vehicle and started fleeing towards Asgarpur village and were chased by a police team. Feeling cornered, they fired at the police. There were three men in the car initially, two of whom were injured in their legs in the retaliatory firing and the third managed to flee. The injured suspects were taken to the district hospital for treatment,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.“The suspects were responsible for robbing a Fatehpur Sikri-based trader near Mahamaya flyover of ₹1.5 lakh on July 28 along with their accomplices at gunpoint on the pretext of providing the businessman a lift. The trader was on his way to Gandhinagar and was waiting for public transport when the incident had taken place. Apart from this case, their gang had been involved in several cases,” said Singh.Police officers said they are looking for other members of the gang including the man who fled. The SUV, a country-made pistol, and ₹25,000 were recovered from the suspects, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-robbers-injured-in-police-shoot-out-in-noida/story-ePnY1oEKcnjW9uAUnyTMyL.html
07-09-2020||City||Noida: Plantations along Eastern Preipheral Expressway reviewed||Noida: Senior officials of the district forest department inspected the health of planted laid during plantation drives held last month in the city and reviewed the green patches along the expressway.Officials from the state forest department visited the sites along the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, and inspected the plants, planted by the forest department over a patch of five hectares there. Stating that the plantation and saplings of over nine species, all of them over seven to eight feet tall, were found in good health, officials suggested bringing elements such as landscaping and gardens in future plantations.“It was a routine inspection to inspect greenery along the expressways. While the plants were in good health and would take next four to five years to develop crowns and contribute to the green cover of the city, there could be some elements that should be added in the future,” said NK Janoo, chief conservator, state forest department, Meerut. The inspection was held by RK Garg, principal chief conservator of forest, Lucknow, and Janoo, along with officials from the district forest department. Officials said future plantations drives, especially those along the expressways, should be done keeping aesthetics in mind, with elements such as landscaping. “It had been recommended that in future, plantations should have elements like landscaping, Vatikas or traditional gardens like Nakshatra Vatika, Panchvati Vatika and Dhanvantari Vatika, etc. These are gardens with specific patterns of certain species of plants that are aseptically good and reflect traditional heritage. For instance, in Nakshatra Vatika, there are plant species associated with constellations. We need to see beyond regular plantations in the future,” said Janoo. Earlier in August, the district saw massive plantation drive where, as per official records, over 9,62,000 saplings were planted through the help of various staff, paramilitary and hired help.“The patch inspected was developed for green cover along the expressways. There are different green patches along the expressways as well as other parts of the city. The area inspected was of five hectares and had 17,800 saplings of species like Arjun, Kanji, Kadamb, Rosewood, Jamun, etc. As suggested by the head of the department, in future we will add elements such as Vatika and landscaping in our plantations,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. Of its total geographical area of 1,282 sq km, Gautam Budh Nagar has 19.99 sq km (1.56 percent) of the area under green cover, while Noida city has a total of five moderate dense forests, (density 70%-40 %), while 15 are open forest (39%-10% density).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-plantations-along-eastern-preipheral-expressway-reviewed/story-7PrUfyqjBBoQ7a2eW5DZuK.html
07-09-2020||City||Three children injured in stray firing by 10-year-old boy in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Three children were injured on Sunday afternoon when a 10-year-old boy allegedly opened fire at a wall with a licensed revolver of his father in Dankaur. Some bullets ricocheted off the wall and the three children were injured from the splinters, the police said, adding that they were admitted to a private hospital where their condition was stable. According to locals, two boys aged 13 and eight years, and an eight-year-old girl were injured in the incident that took place in Dadopur village. Rishipal Nagar, one of the injured boys’ grandfather, said that a girl came from a neighbouring house and called all these children inside her house to play. “Some other children were already present in her house. The children were playing when a 10-year-old boy from the same house started displaying his father’s licensed revolver. He suddenly started firing on the wall. The bullet splinters hit the children who were present in the house,” Nagar said. The police said that at least two bullets were fired during the incident.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3, said that a team from Dankaur police station and some forensic experts reached the spot for investigation. “The children were already admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida when the police arrived. Primary investigation revealed that some children were playing in the house when a child from the same house opened fire in which three children were injured. The children are out of danger,” he said. Authorities at Kailash Hospital, where the injured children are admitted, said that one boy has injuries to his head, another has injuries to abdomen while the girl has received injuries in her thigh. “All the three children are conscious and responding to medical treatment,” said Dr Pradeep Bansal, chief medical officer, Kailash Hospital, Greater Noida. The police said that the minor used his father’s licensed revolver in the firing. “We have not received a written complaint in this matter. We are trying to recover the weapon used in the firing,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-children-injured-in-stray-firing-by-10-year-old-boy-in-greater-noida/story-S5a2fbJh7XrAE2hSiXv7tK.html
07-09-2020||Noida||Two Noida cops ride motorcycles without helmet, traffic police to issue fines||Two Noida policemen were caught on camera allegedly riding two sports motorcycles in Noida without helmets on Saturday. The police personnel purportedly entered the premises of the Sector 20 police station in their motorcycles in speed, as per the video which was shared on social media.The Noida traffic police said that they will identify the two policemen in question and issues fines for not wearing helmets and speeding.The video was shot sometime in the evening by a person who was driving a car in the same direction as the two motorcyclists in police uniform. In the footage, the two men are purportedly seen coming from taking a turn at the Rajnigandha Chowk after coming from Sector 16 and speeding towards the Sector 20 police station. The car driver also allegedly sped his car and captured the two men on the sports motorcycles entering the Sector 20 police station.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Traffic, said in the footage the motorcycles’ registration numbers are not clearly visible. “The identity of the two policemen and the man driving in his car (who shot the video) is not established yet. We will get the matter investigated and issue fines to the two policemen (for not wearing a helmet and speeding). We have found that the person who made the video was also speeding, and a fine will be issued to him as well,” he said. RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station, said that he had not received any information from anyone about the incident. “We will investigate the matter and take suitable action. We will find out who were the policemen, and why were they riding the motorcycles without wearing a helmet,” he said when HT reached out to him for comment. Meanwhile, the Noida traffic police also said it plans to put end to the two-wheeler race which takes place on the Yamuna Expressway. Saha said that a group of Delhi-based motorcyclists organise a race on the Yamuna Expressway every Sunday.On Sunday, teams of Noida traffic police personnel were deployed at DND Flyway, Noida Entry gate in Sector 14A, and also at Zero Point in Greater Noida. “The teams were stationed at the three spots from 7 am. The police stopped 15 motorcyclists and asked them about their purpose of coming to Noida. They said they were planning to go for a race on Yamuna Expressway. The police team counseled them and asked them to return as racing is not permitted on the expressway,” he said. The bikers agreed and returned, said the Saha.“We had received information about the planned race, and some good Samaritans had also shared photos of such bikers before. Racing on Yamuna Expressway is unsafe and hence we decided to check them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-noida-cops-ride-motorcycles-without-helmet-traffic-police-to-issue-fines/story-fD0MLRr4IZKoimkLOT19fO.html
07-09-2020||City||Noida: NMRC to fine ₹500 for not wearing mask at Metro stations||Noida: Passengers found travelling without face masks will have to pay a fine of ₹500 and those caught spitting in trains or platforms will have to cough up ₹100, as the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) will resume its services after more than five months on Monday amid the Covid-19 pandemic.NMRC runs the Noida-Greater Noida metro rail link, which is known as Aqua Line. NMRC officials said that all 21 Metro stations of Aqua Line will also have stalls where commuters can buy masks.“Passengers will not be allowed to enter without mask. If passengers are found unmasked, later on trains or at stations, they will be fined ₹500. Passengers found spitting inside metro stations, trains or any other metro premises will be fined ₹100 for the first offence and ₹500 for any subsequent occurrence,” said Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC.The penalties will be imposed strictly by the NMRC staff to prevent the Covid-19 spread, the officials said. However, NMRC has not planned any fine in case people break social distancing norms.As per current plan, NMRC will run trains from 7 am to 11 am and 5 pm to 9 pm with a frequency of 15 minutes from Monday to Saturday. On Sundays, the services will be available from 8 am to 11 am and from 5 pm to 9 pm.On Sunday, NMRC held a detailed inspection of the Aqua Line to avoid any last-minute glitches in its operation. Senior NMRC officials travelled in a rail motor trolley to check the tracks and signalling from the Depot station in Greater Noida to Sector 51 station in Noida. Sharma said that NMRC is also spreading the message of using cashless ticketing options among its commuters. “NMRC currently has three ticketing options -- smart card, QR code generated by NMRC’s mobile app, and paper generated QR code purchased from the Metro stations. We are encouraging commuters to use the first two options as much as possible to help in minimising human contact,” she said. Passengers will be screened by thermal sensors at the entry gates. “People having high temperature or fever will not be allowed. Each station has been given some PPE kits. In case, commuters need any medical help, the metro staff will call the health department and get them admitted in the nearest hospital,” Sharma said. To ensure adequate social distance, markings for standing of passengers have been made at one metre spacing in frisking zones, and at ticket counters and platforms. NMRC has a fleet of 19 trains, each with four coaches. However, only eight trains will run from Monday, the officials said, adding that two trains will be in standby mode and others have been kept in reserve. According to the officials, only 50 passengers will be allowed in a coach from Monday. Normally, a coach can ferry 250 commuters – with sitting and standing capacity. Meanwhile, Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC, urged passengers to follow the guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government. “I request passengers to follow social distancing norms. They should not sit on the seats where prohibitory stickers are pasted. They should use cashless mode for tickets. They must wear mask while commuting in Metro,” she said.Around 300 personnel of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC ) will be deployed for the security of all stations and trains. “Six personnel, including one sub-inspector rank official, will be deployed at each station. We will also make coordination with the city police and seek their help if there is a crowd,” said Kalpana Saxena, commandant of 49th battalion PAC. NMRC also provides free e-rickshaws to connect Aqua Line’s Sector 51 station to Blue Line’s Sector 52 station of Delhi Metro. An e-rickshaw will ferry a maximum of two persons in one trip, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-nmrc-to-fine-500-for-not-wearing-mask-at-metro-stations/story-wM0aDNlst9BaJ0iN4ThWuI.html
07-09-2020||City||Covid-19 patient tries to end life at hospital in Maharashtra’s Palghar district||A 38-year-old patient, who was undergoing treatment at a Covid care centre in Palghar, tried to end his life on Sunday morning. He was rushed to Mumbai’s Nair Hospital after sustaining major injuries. The patient a resident of Jambivli, Bhiwandi, and was admitted to the Covid care centre at Wada. After his condition worsened, he was shifted to a centre at Vikramgadh on Saturday night, where he tried to end his life the next morning. “He has been shifted to Nair Hospital for specialised treatment. We are probing the reason behind the step,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patient-tries-to-end-life-at-hospital-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-district/story-wEBgIIjLLKiOIa3UBcNFQJ.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Crawford market accident: Car was not in accused’s name||Investigation into the Crawford market crash, which left five dead, has revealed that the driver had purchased the car online for ₹28,000 did not have the registration certificate (RC) in his name. The car had been sold twice before the accused, Ali Ibrahim Sayyed alias Diggi, 46, bought it. Sources from regional transport office (RTO) said the original owner may face legal problem for not transferring the vehicle’s RC to Sayyed’s name.According to RTO rules, when an owner sells a motor vehicle (two-wheeler or car), it is important to get the RC and insurance policy transferred in the name of the buyer. If he fails to do so, the owner runs the risk of facing legal problems if the vehicle is involved in any accident or is used in any criminal activity.An officer from Pydhonie police station said the car used by Sayyed changed hands twice this year but none of the buyers transferred the car documents in their names.As per RTO record, the owner of the vehicle is still Jyoti Babaria, a Parel resident. Babaria sold it to one Taufuq Taj and his friend Sunny Rajput in January.Rajput, who works at a private hospital, said, “We (Taj and Rajput) were looking for a car to learn driving. We found this car on an online exchange site and purchased it from Babaria for ₹32,000 on January 9.”“As lockdown started in March, we were unable drive it and decided to sell it. We posted an online advertisement for the same and we got call from Diggi in June. We sold the car to him for ₹28,000,” Rajput added.An officer said, “Jyoti didn’t transfer the RC in Taj or Rajput’s name, and they have submitted evidence to show they sold the car.” In the accident earlier last week, five people lost their lives and three people sustained grave injuries. All the injured are undergoing treatment and are said to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crawford-market-accident-car-was-not-in-accused-s-name/story-pIIO5umvt4a6yBwyp3hBEP.html
07-09-2020||City||Administration to hold meetings with DMRC officials for opening of metro stations in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad district administration will soon meet with officials from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) before the resumption of Metro services in the district on September 9 (Blue Line) and 10 (Red Line). The two authorities will decide on which of the 10 stations will be allowed to operate considering the prevalent Covid-19 situation.A point of discussion will likely be on the presence of containment zones.According to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) protocol, stations in containment zones will not be opened. Nearly all of the 10 stations in Ghaziabad are close to containment zones.Ghaziabad has 284 containment zones, according to the list on the district administration’s website. HT had earlier reported that these zones were not fully contained with many residents and ward councillors saying that there were no restrictions on movement of people. The Blue Line between Dwarka and Vaishali has two major metro stations in Ghaziabad -- Vaishal and Kaushambi that serves residents in Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Vaishali and Kaushambi, among others, that fall under the police stations of Kaushambi, Indirapuram and Link Road . According to the official figures, the three police station areas comprise about 31% of the containment zones in Ghaziabad with Indirapuram police station having 60, Kausambi 24 and Link Road five. Many residents under these police stations areas make use of two stations at Vaishali and Kaushambi. “It is a major challenge for local authorities in Ghaziabad to ensure that movement of people from containment zones is restricted as per norms. There is hardly any restriction on ground level nowadays. The only way of restricting people from containment zones from moving to metro network is to ensure strict enforcement is taken up in containment zones,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments RWA. The Red Line stations -- Shahid Nagar, Rajbagh, Shyam Park, Mohan Nagar, Arthala, Hindon and New Bus Stand -- are better placed as, unlike the Blue Line stations that are located very close to containment zones, these are further away and located on the median of the Grand Trunk Road. The police stations closest to the Red Line are Kotwali and Sahibabad that have only 27 containment zones under their jurisdiction. However, a lot depends on the enforcement of the containment strategies.Containment zones are areas where fresh Covid-19 cases emerge and strict perimeter control is enforced for a period of minimum of 14 days during which the movement of people, except for essential services, is restricted. “There are chances of spread of infection once people mix more and take up travel with any transport system including metro. The administration should take up enhanced screening and surveillance in containment zones and also spread more awareness. We are hopeful that metro will minutely screen passengers at stations. Finally, it is also up to residents to follow health protocols,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta declined comments over the issue. “The issue of closing/opening of stations with regard to containment zones will be discussed with the respective station in-charges of metro stations. We will soon be holding meeting with them over the issue and thereafter a decision will be taken up,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. A DMRC spokesperson did not offer any immediate comment over the issue but said that the list of stations (in Ghaziabad) which will be opened for operation will be issued in advance. An official in DMRC said that it will not be possible for them to check whether a passenger arriving at a station was from a containment zone or not. “We expect the local authorities to ensure residents in containment zones do not move out,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/administration-to-hold-meetings-with-dmrc-officials-for-opening-of-metro-stations-in-ghaziabad/story-Q4VjFA7O4CJ1Tm2biWbQVO.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||52-year-old molests minor in Mumbai, arrested||The Mankhurd police on Saturday arrested a 52-year-old scrap dealer for allegedly kidnapping and molesting a 5-year-old girl. According to the police, incident took place on September 4 at around 7pm when the survivor was playing outside her house. The survivor’s mother in her statement, said, “My daughter was playing when someone kidnapped her. We found her after an hour. She later said narrated the ordeal and pointed towards her uncle.” An officer from Mankhurd police station said, “The family later caught him and brought him to police station. While questioning he confessed his crime.” Police booked the accused under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment) , 354D (stalking) 366A (procuration of minor girl) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/52-year-old-molests-minor-in-mankhurd-arrested/story-vDKvujCyabwS4JO3xKviFM.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Only 19% Indians willing to travel this festive season due to Covid-19, finds survey||Only 19% citizens are willing to travel this festive season (October-December), and of those who travel, only 23% are willing to commute by a flight, car or taxi, reveals a survey by a social media and community platform. The survey of 25,000 people from 239 districts of India, also stated that most people do not want to make their bookings till they get closer to their travel date.The survey conducted by LocalCircles, (a community social media platform that enables citizens to escalate issues for policy and enforcement interventions) revealed that 66% of their respondents were men while 34% respondents were women. 61% respondents were from tier-1 cities, 28% from tier-2 and 11% respondents were from tier-3 and 4 cities and rural districts.With Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Chhath festival, all incidentally falling between October and November, people in many parts of India usually plan their travel back home or vacations during this time every year. However, this year seems to look drastically different due to Covid-19.When asked about the kind of travel they plan to undertake in the upcoming festive season, 69% respondents in the survey said that they will not be travelling this year and would stay at home, 3% said they will travel to a holiday destination, 13% said they will visit family and friends, while another 3% said they will do both. The remaining 12% said that they were unsure about what they would do and hence were yet to make a decision.Nishant Pitti, co-founder of EaseMyTrip said, “This year travel booking will be completely different unlike last year for the festive season. Currently people are not booking tickets in advance due to flight ticket prices being capped and uncertainty for refunds. Airlines like Vistara and GoAir have not refunded money to customers for tickets that were booked during the nationwide lockdown and have asked them to reuse the same money for travel later. As flight business is picking up, we feel that during festival times flights will get good responses as consumers think that airfares won’t increase due to cap on them.”Though India opened domestic air travel on May 25, daily Covid-19 cases have continued to rise during this period. The Unlock 4.0 came into effect on September 1 with relaxation in quarantine restrictions by most states, however, airline officials say that people are being cautious and unwilling to travel.MakeMyTrip, however, said that they have seen an increase in the number of flight searches for flights between metro to non-metro and metro to metro routes. Its spokesperson said, “As the festive season begins October onwards, people who could not travel back home in the earlier phases of the unlock –are now looking forward to visiting the home to celebrate festivities with their loved ones. We are already noticing an increase in searches for flights between metro to non-metro and metro to metro routes. Some of these routes include Bengaluru–Kolkata, Mumbai–Varanasi and Bangalore-Patna among others. However, as caseloads continue to rise in the country, the majority of travellers are preferring to book closer to the date of travel depending on various factors such as quarantine guidelines, number of cases in a particular state etc.”“With the recommencement of flight operations, the demand for domestic routes is picking up. We are witnessing more bookings being made for near future i.e., next two weeks. Popular metro and non-metro routes in demand include Patna, Varanasi, Lucknow and Bangalore. We can expect booking enquires to have a double-digit growth during the festive season of October-December this year,” said a spokesperson for Yatra company, a travel web portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-19-indians-willing-to-travel-this-festive-season-due-to-covid-19-finds-survey/story-VkbGbD1KviM04z4FcIJKgP.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||200 Afghan Sikh families put up in gurdwaras across Delhi||Close to 200 families belonging to the Sikh community who have arrived here from Afghanistan have been put up at gurdwaras that are run by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).“Close to 200 families have come here and are staying in gurdwaras. We are making arrangements for their accommodation till the time they do not get permanent citizenship. We are also providing them assistance in getting employment,” DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said. He added that all the cost would be borne by the management committee. He also thanked the Central government, particularly home minister Amit Shah, for facilitating visas for these families.“There are 138 persons in 31 rooms living over here. We are providing them with all the basic amenities. We will also try to have the children enrolled in Guru Harkishan Public Schools and will teach them free of cost if the need arises,” Harjit S Bedi, chief VC, gurdwara, Motibagh, said.Bedi said that the persons could stay in the gurdwara for as long as they need to. “In the case of earning bread and butter, they need to be emotionally secure. In the case of residential, they are secure over here,” he added.Balbir Singh, 63, one of the Afghan Sikhs who along with his family were brought here by the Union government following attacks faced by minorities in the country, said that he was grateful to the gurdwara for looking after him and his family.“We left everything, including our houses in Afghanistan. Our lives were in danger, but now, we feel safe here,” he added.The ministry of external affairs recently announced that India has decided to facilitate the return of Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members facing security threats in Afghanistan to India.The decision comes after a terror attack at a gurdwara in Kabul’s Shor Bazaar in March killed at least 25 members of the community.Once a community of nearly 250,000 people, the Sikh and Hindu community in Afghanistan has endured years of discrimination and violence from extremists, and the community is now estimated to comprise fewer than 100 families across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/200-afghan-sikh-families-put-up-in-gurdwaras-across-delhi/story-Shz4zNlOL5HCLWuzMaa2NO.html
07-09-2020||City||Lab says result of 10-year-old from Thane district came positive for Covid; her family says she didn’t take the test||The parents of a 10-year-old girl from Thane’s Murbad town were surprised to learn on Saturday that their daughter had tested positive for Covid-19, because, according to them, she never went for the swab test. The family, from Nahacha Khadak village, decided to undergo rapid antigen tests after the result of one of their neighbours came positive on Saturday morning. The girl’s father went to the zilla parishad’s lab testing centre to inquire about the process. As he was asked to take an appointment for the tests, the girl’s father registered the names of his family members and left. In the evening, the family received a call from the centre to inform them that the girl was Covid-positive. They then immediately informed the authorities concerned that she never underwent testing. During inquiry, the authorities learnt that the lab technician at the centre had used the empty vial with the girl’s name to store samples of another person. S Bansode, Murbad’s medical officer, said, “Most of our staff have tested positive for the virus and we are short-staffed. The person on duty registered the names of those who had to undergo tests at a later slot directly on the vials instead of writing them in the register. He first stuck the name stickers on the vials and then added the samples when the patients visited the centre. This caused a lot of confusion as the samples were misplaced or put in wrong vials. Some other patient’s samples were added to the vial with the girl’s name.” Bansode said that the lab in-charge has been transferred with immediate effect after the incident came to light. The girl’s father, aged 42, said, “A lab employee was taking down the names of everyone who wanted to take the test and allotting time slots. I was asked to come at 4pm and he took the names of my family members who had to undergo the test. We could not go on Saturday and decided to go on Monday instead, as none of us had any symptoms. But on Saturday evening, we got a call from the lab saying that my 10-year-old daughter had tested positive and an ambulance would be coming to our home to take her to a Covid-19 facility.” The family panicked after the call as their daughter never got tested. “I immediately called the local medical officer and informed them about the incident. He promised to investigate the matter and we were later told that the lab had made a mistake,” the girl’s father said. Murbad, a small town about 50km from Thane, had begun to witness a sudden spike in Covid cases after Ganeshotsav, following which the local governing body has initiated antigen testing at the centre. Until August 22 (Ganesh Chaturthi), there were 478 cases. However, as locals came together for the festivities, the figures surged, said authorities. In the past 10 days, the cases rose to 679. At least 60 to 80 tests are conducted every day in the village, of which 25 to 30 come positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lab-says-result-of-10-year-old-from-thane-district-came-positive-for-covid-her-family-says-she-didn-t-take-the-test/story-wQH4OBZr2Rt0RrphzJIhtM.html
07-09-2020||City||57 mobile phones stolen from a shop in Navi Mumbai||The Turbhe MIDC police have booked an unidentified persons for stealing 57 mobile phones worth ₹5.87 lakh from a mobile phone store in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The accused broke the shop shutter and decamped with new phones along with the old phones kept for repairs at the shop. According to the police, the store - New Baba Communication is located on the Thane-Belapur Road. The shop owner Gangasar Halwai, 21, said he had brought new mobile phones for sale and were kept in racks at the shop. “Unidentified persons broke through the main shutter and entered the shop by breaking the locks. They managed to steal 57 mobile phones from the store and fled,” said an officer from Turbhe MIDC police station. Halwai repairs the old phones at his store, which the accused stole as well at the time of burglary. The Turbhe MIDC police have registered a case of house break-in theft against unknown persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/57-mobile-phones-stolen-from-a-shop-in-navi-mumbai/story-BkSzFRyJCRGiXuXABGpYvO.html
07-09-2020||City||Bodies of Covid-19 victims swapped at Meerut medical college, probe ordered||The bodies of two Covid-19 positive patients, who succumbed to the virus at the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College (LLRMMC) at Meerut, allegedly got swapped and were sent to the wrong addresses at Modinagar in Ghaziabad and Kankarkhera in Meerut, in an alleged case of negligence that has prompted an enquiry.Officials said that by the time the matter came to light, the funeral of the 85-year-old Modinagar resident had already been completed by the other family in Meerut. After the family in Modinagar alerted the medical college, Meerut district magistrate Anil Dhingra initiated an inquiry, which will be fast tracked and a report submitted by Monday. A number of district administration officials and health department officials were also dispatched to probe the incident. The Modinagar resident was identified as Gurbachan Lal, 85, while the Kankarkhera resident was identified as Yash Pal, 55. Dr Raj Kumar, chief medical officer of Meerut confirmed that both had died on Saturday and were Covid-19 positive patients. “My father was admitted to a private hospital in Meerut and he was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. From there, he was referred to the medical college at Meerut. On Saturday, we got a call from the medical college that my father had succumbed. We reached the hospital and brought the body. On Sunday, when the funeral was about to start , we opened the body bag for one last time, only to figure out that it was someone else’s body,” said Naresh Kumar, Lal’s son. “The documents attached with the body mentioned the correct name and address, but the body in the bag was of someone else. We were shocked. We immediately called up the staff at Meerut Medical College and mentioned about the gaffe. The staff, instead of admitting their mistake, questioned us as to why we opened the bag. We then decided to call up senior officials and brought the incident to their notice. They admitted their mistake,” he added. The family said they were distraught as they could not see Lal for one last time. They also came to know that body that had gone family in Meerut, who had performed the funeral by then. “We acknowledge that the bodies got swapped due to the alleged negligence on part of our staff. I received the preliminary inquiry report on Sunday evening in which it has been mentioned that there was laxity on part of one nurse and she has been removed from duty and attached to another department. The final report of the inquiry committee will be received on Monday. We will take strict action against anyone found who is found negligent,” said Dr Gyanendra Singh, principal of LLRMMC. He also confirmed that the funeral of Lal had been performed by the other family in Meerut, by the time authorities were alee\rted.. “Our officers spoke to both the families. The body with the family in Modinagar was brought to Meerut where the actual family then performed the funeral. The ashes of the deceased from Modinagar were handed over to his family . It is a serious lapse and should not have happened,” he added. Ajay Tiwari, additional district magistrate (city) at Meerut, said that an inquiry has been initiated on directions of the district magistrate. “The complete report of the inquiry committee has been sought on Monday. We are ensuring a transparent probe and it is being done by senior officers of the non-Covid wing of the hospital along with officials of the involving district administration officers,” he said. As per the initial findings, the goof up took place as the slips/tags attached to the bodies got exchanged somehow and the bodies were sent to Modinagar and Meerut in bags along with the incorrect slips, said officials from the health department at Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bodies-of-covid-19-victims-swapped-at-meerut-medical-college-probe-ordered/story-bH7QqUD5pU9HG7W68uSD0K.html
07-09-2020||City||22-year-old man arrested for vehicle theft in Navi Mumbai, 3 bikes recovered||The Vashi police have arrested a 22-year-old man for stealing scooters and recovered three two-wheelers from his possession. He changed the number plates of the stolen bikes to hide the crime. The officials were investigating multiple cases of bike thefts in Vashi. The accused Shoaib Ansari alias Anis, 22, was arrested based on a CCTV footage. Following his arrest, Ansari confessed to stealing three bikes from Vashi. Ansari, a Koparkhairane resident is unemployed, said police, adding that he has no prior criminal records. “Ansari used a master key to steal the bikes from Vashi. After stealing the bike, he would fix a fake registration number plate on the bike. After interrogating him, we recovered two bikes and a scooter valued at ₹1.2 lakh from his possession, along with three extra number plates,” said an officer from Vashi police station. Ansari has been booked under section 379 (punishment of theft) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-man-arrested-for-vehicle-theft-in-navi-mumbai-3-bikes-recovered/story-jDpNGzEzE2vxF3vMgMQQFL.html
07-09-2020||City||Mumbai civic body says despite relaxing rules, citizens still don’t get tested for Covid-19 on their own||Two months after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) allowed anybody to get tested for Covid without a prescription, the civic body said it was challenging to get citizens to do a test on their own. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in its revised testing advisory to states on Saturday, too paved the way for walk-in tests. Starting July 7, BMC relaxed the testing norms, removing the clause that made prescription from a registered medical practitioner mandatory. BMC officials, however, claimed the number of people getting tested in private laboratories on their own is not substantial.The civic body has been under pressure to increase the number of tests being undertaken daily to get an accurate estimate of the spread of the infection. According to BMC officials, nearly 60-70% of the patients, who test positive for Covid-19, are found through their contact-tracing efforts. So far, BMC has not segregated data on those who have got tested on their own and those tested by the civic body. BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal told HT, “People are reluctant, and many are not ready to take the test. This is a big challenge and a major hurdle too. However, we have been taking all measures to increase testing by organising camps and door-to-door screening. I have also set targets for ward officers.” Chahal added, “On Saturday, we did around 12,000 tests and this was one of the highest single-day testing until now. We have conducted testing of more than 8 lakh samples, and maximum are by using the RT-PCR method.”“Till now, around 90,000 tests have been conducted using the rapid antigen kits,” he said. In the past five months, BMC has traced over 20 lakh citizens, which includes both high- and low-risk contacts. As of Friday, BMC had conducted 8.13 lakh tests. The one-lakh-test mark was crossed on May 6, two lakh on June 1, three lakh on June 24, four lakh on July 14, five lakh on July 29, six lakh on August 9, seven lakh on August 22 and eight lakh on September 03. Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant from Mumbai, said, “There will be some reluctance or opposition from citizens over getting tested for Covid-19, and this is solely out of fear. But the authorities had to relax the testing guidelines, which has been done now in case of ICMR. Also, the authorities need to ensure they reach out to maximum citizens in a focused manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-says-despite-relaxing-rules-citizens-still-don-t-get-tested-for-covid-19-on-their-own/story-iLJLHZeveixcakwriZ8WyJ.html
07-09-2020||City||With Covid-19 on priority, Ghaziabad’s focus off other seasonal diseases||Cases of seasonal diseases such as typhoid, malaria, dengue and swine flu, commonly reported from the district during the monsoon and the months after, have come down drastically in eight months of the current years as compared to the same period in 2018 and 2019. The health department records reveal that there were 637 cases overall of dengue, malaria, swine flu and typhoid in the first eight months of 2018. The figure shot up to 1,722 during the same period in 2019, but in 2020, only 88 such cases were reported so far. Officials of the district health department attributed the fall in numbers to regular sanitisation and fogging drives, as well as restricted movement of people during the lockdown months from March to June. The health department data for 2020 stated that there were only three cases of swine flu and 66 cases of typhoid in the month of January and no case of either disease in the seven months since then. But, upon further enquiries about the number of samples tested for the four ailments, district malaria officer GK Mishra provided data of six more cases of dengue and 13 more cases of malaria, but did not specify the month. The overall figure, accordingly, stood at 88 for the eight months in 2020. “Extensive sanitisation, anti-larvae and fogging activities have been taken up and these have resulted in fewer cases. The anti-larvae treatment is taken up regularly while fogging drives took place in March and April and will resume in September. Regular chlorination is also taken up which helped in reducing cases of typhoid, a water-borne disease,” Mishra said. According to records kept by the district fire department, the sanitisation activities started from April 2 in order to check spread of Covid-19. “Since then, we have taken up sanitisation of about 5,200 places which include 487 Covid hot spots, 923 market places, 1,355 high-rises and residential areas and about 2,350 other public places such as bus stands, banks, police posts and police stations. This activity has also helped in keeping a check on other infectious diseases,” Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer, said. Medical experts, however, raised questions over the low count of dengue, swine flu, malaria and typhoid during the current year. “The figures are very less when compared to previous years and it is unlikely that typhoid and malaria cases have drastically reduced this year. Either the testing was low or cases went unreported as health care workers were busy dealing with Covid-19. We can say that may be, an “outbreak” of swine flu and dengue has not happened so far this year,” Dr VB Jindal, president, Indian Medical Association, said. “But cases of malaria and typhoid have been reported to private hospitals although in fewer numbers,” he said. Dr Gyan Bharti, consultant, internal medicine, Columbia Asia Hospital in Ghaziabad, said, “Since everyone is focussed on Covid-19, people have also adopted better hygiene habits such as frequent washing of hands, use of sanitisers and masks etc. Also, the movement of people was restricted during the lockdown, which meant less physical interactions. All these factors may have helped reduce the number of infections but we cannot say that cases have stopped coming in,” said “In August alone, we had 10-12 patients diagnosed with dengue and another two or three patients with typhoid. So, the overall figures in the district could be higher ,” he said. Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, admitted that there was less focus on other diseases owing to Covid-19 activities which are ongoing. “The reduced number for seasonal diseases could be result of lower testing. These four diseases are common in the district but numbers seem fewer as our focus is on Covid-19. I have directed the health department to ramp up testing of the four ailments as they may prove life-threatening if treatment is delayed. I have directed that all patients of severe acute respiratory illness be tested for H1N1 (swine flu) as well as Covid-19 as symptoms are similar for these diseases,” he said. “The cases have started coming in and six cases of dengue and 13 of malaria were reported in the past couple of days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-covid-19-on-priority-ghaziabad-s-focus-off-other-seasonal-diseases/story-VecU1bU7auInBXDizxuiuI.html
07-09-2020||City||Lightning kills 2 farmers in separate incidents in Palghar, 6 injured||Two farmers were killed, six others were injured after being struck by lightning in two areas of Palghar district on Sunday afternoon.One of the victims, Sagar Diwa, 17, was a resident of Ambiste village in Wada, and another, Nitesh Tumbda, 22, was a resident of Tava in Dahanu. Six tribals who suffered burns are admitted to government hospitals.In the first case, lightning struck around 3.30pm. Tumbda was hit by it and died on the spot. Anil Bhinda, 19, who was with him, received burns and is undergoing treatment at Vedanta Hospital, said Rahul Sarang, tehsildar of Dahanu. In the second case, Diwa succumbed on the spot after lightning struck, while five others – Sandip Diwa, 25; Ananta Wagh, 24; Ravindra Pawar, 18; Nitesh Diwa, 19; and Sunny Pawar, 18 – sustained burns. They are being treated at Khanivli Public Health Centre, said Uddhav Kadam, tehsildar of Wada. The state revenue department has announced ₹4 lakh compensation to the victims’ families. “We will also take care of medical treatment of those injured,” said a government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lightning-kills-2-farmers-in-separate-incidents-in-palghar-6-injured/story-P7W5POczSm52dZG8mDDHDP.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Sharpest spike: 511 Maharashtra cops test positive for Covid-19 in 24 hours||In a sharpest one-day spike of Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra police force recorded 511 fresh cases among its personnel in the past 24 hours. This is the first time that the fresh cases of infection in state police force in one day breached the 500-mark. Earlier, the highest number of Covid cases among police personnel was on September 2 with 424 cases. Seven policemen also succumbed to the infection over the past couple of days, taking the state police’s toll to 173. State police officers said Covid-19 fatalities were reported in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur city, Nagpur Rural, Kolhapur and Satara district police.According to the statement issued by Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), the number of infected state police personnel has reached 16,912. Of the infected cops, 13,719 have recovered and many of them have joined duty.In Nagpur city police, a sub-inspector died of Covid-19 infection on Friday. 52-year-old Suresh Madhavi attached to Ganeshpeth police station was undergoing treatment at Indira Gandhi Hospital in Nagpur. Another policeman from Nagpur city, a naik, succumbed to the infection on Saturday. Pravin Shurkar, 43, attached to Sakkardara police station, had been undergoing treatment at Care East Hospital.Nagpur rural police also recorded a Covid fatality after a 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector died of the infection. Sunil Shelukar was given duty at police control room due to his age. After testing positive, he was admitted to Radhikabai Meghe Hospital on Friday where he succumbed on Saturday.Kolhapur city police also recorded a fatality as 53-year-old head constable Sarjerao Babu Khot attached to the police control room died of the infection on Saturday. Khot tested positive for Covid last month and was undergoing treatment at Siddhivinayak Hospital since August 25. In another fatality, a 56-year-old head constable from Satara’s Dhebhiwadi police station also died on Friday. Kuber Maruti Chavan was undergoing treatment since August 14 at Krishna Hospital in Karad.In the sixth death, a 39-year-old naik from Navi Mumbai died at Dr DY Patil Hospital on Friday. Sandesh Gaikwad of Panvel city traffic police was detected as Covid positive in the third week of August and was admitted in hospital since.In the seventh casualty, a 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector of Mumbai Police died. Maruti Achare, attached to the special branch of the intelligence wing. Despite getting exemption from the duty due to his age, Achare contracted the virus in the second week of August. He was admitted to Vedanta Hospital in Thane on August 16 and succumbed on Friday.In Mumbai, so far 70 Covid warriors in khaki lost lives due to Covid-19 infection. Mumbai Police spokesperson, deputy commissioner of police N Ambika, has confirmed that the Mumbai Police’s total number of Covid infection has crossed the 5,000 mark on Sunday with a total of 5,060 cases. She has also said that of these cases, 4,489 personnel have already recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharpest-spike-511-maharashtra-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-24-hours/story-jJY7uLZGMrA1oqqxxX2BHO.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Class 10, 12 supplementary exams may be postponed: Maharashtra education department||The state education department is likely to push the supplementary exams for Class 10 and 12 students to November, considering the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state and the resultant lockdown. While the department is yet to come up with a circular to that effect, officials said that a postponement is likely. “While the earlier plan was to conduct these exams in October, it is being reconsidered given the ongoing pandemic. With cases in the state growing, it might not be safe to conduct the exams soon. Discussions are on to see if they can be conducted post the Diwali break in November,” said an official from the education department. In August, as per a letter sent to the secretaries of all divisional boards, the Maharashtra State Board has proposed to hold supplementary exams from October 6 to 23. The proposed schedule for Class 12 exams was October 6 to 29. However, till date, the board has not made any official announcement regarding the issue. “A decision will be announced soon,” said a board official.Every year, the state board allows students who have failed to clear their Class 10 and 12 board exams, to appear for supplementary exams, which are held in July. The results of these exams are declared in August and students who pass can join junior colleges in the same academic year. The move is to ensure that students do not lose out on a year. However, this year, due to the delay in declaring board results due to the Covid-19 situation, these exams have not been announced so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/class-10-12-supplementary-exams-may-be-postponed-maharashtra-education-department/story-4Sp0Xdqwhjto1IS0fHv5pJ.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon session of Maharashtra Legislature begins today; 2 MLAs, 35 employees test positive for Covid-19||Amid growing Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, a two-day monsoon session of the state Legislature will commence on Monday. Senior Vidhan Bhavan officials said that so far two MLAs and around 35 employees have tested positive for coronavirus in the tests carried out for legislators, their staff and Mantralaya employees.The numbers of people who test positive may go up as the final data is still being tabulated, said the Vidhan Bhavan official.The previous session of the Legislature held in March had to be curtailed due to the start of the pandemic in Maharashtra.The brief session will take up supplementary demands and seven Bills and an appropriation Bill. There will be no question hour, calling attention motion and debates in the session.Over the weekend, over 2,200 antigen tests were carried out in the city for the MLAs, MLCs and staff of the legislators and ministers. According to a Vidhan Bhavan official, two members of the legislative assembly have tested positive testing drive undertaken by the state government.Only the ones who test negative for coronavirus will be allowed to enter the legislature complex, as per the decision taken by the Business Advisory Committee for the safety of everyone.“So far two MLAs have tested positive. Among the employees around 35 have so far tested positive. These people, as per the decision taken, will not be allowed inside,” the official said requesting anonymity.State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Yesterday around 450 VIPs were tested, none of them has tested positive. Besides that, 11 employees have tested positive, they will be excluded. All precautions will be taken to have safe proceedings.”Three days ahead of the session, Vidhan Sabha speaker Nana Patole tested positive for coronavirus. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal is expected to conduct the proceedings in the Lower House.The seating arrangements of some legislators have been made in the visitors’ gallery and the student gallery of the House to comply with social distancing norms. “As a safety measure, each legislator will be given a safety kit. The kit will include items such as face shields, masks, hand gloves, sanitisers, etc,” the official added. The legislators’ personal assistants (PAs) will not be allowed into the House.Meanwhile, the state cabinet on Sunday gave its nod to Agro-Tourism policy. State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said that the policy will “invigorate” the rural sector. He added that the agro-tourism will also provide another source of income for farmers across the state.“This will invigorate the rural sector and Agro practitioners with a steady source of alternate income and alternate employment through tourism like farm stays etc. Local cuisine and cultural aspects can be enjoyed. Although many countries around the world have such enabling policies to assist tourists with homestays in the farms and orchards, Maharashtra has taken the lead today to establish it in India,” Thackeray tweeted after the Cabinet meeting.According to the policy, those who wish to register for the agro-tourism will need to have two to five-acre land, with a place to stay, a kitchen and facility for meals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-session-of-maharashtra-legislature-begins-today-2-mlas-35-employees-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-35RQp6SqjRKVy9Dt6i2kuK.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Awaiting Maharashtra government policy for final-year exams: MUHS tells Bombay HC||The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it is awaiting the policy of the state government for conducting final-year exams of postgraduate medical students after a student approached the HC seeking directions to the authorities to declare dates and conduct final-year exams of MD and MS courses. The state on Thursday informed the court that as students and examiners were involved in Covid duties, a policy was being framed to ensure that the future of the students did not suffer.A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice VG Bisht while hearing a petition filed by Dr Nishant Gabbur through video conferencing was informed by advocates Vishwanath Patil and Kewal Ahya that Gabbur, who is from Akkalkot, Solapur and is pursuing MS (general surgery) at Seth GS Medical College in Mumbai, had appeared for the entrance test held for DM/MCh conducted by the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh on June 21. Patil submitted that Gabbur had stood second in all India ranking in general category for neurosurgery and had been granted a provisional appointment/ admission letter by the institute on June 30. After Gabbur informed the institute that he was facing a difficulty in joining the course, it allowed him to join by July 6.Patil further submitted that Gabbur and another student Ajinkya Rewatkar who had secured a seat in AIIMS, Delhi for MCh Neurosurgery wrote to MUHS seeking to secure their future, but as there was no response Gabbur was left with no option but to approach the HC. “The petitioner is caught in a dilemma and a situation beyond his control as the MUHS has decided to postpone graduate and PG examinations that were scheduled on June 18. MUHS has not resolved the situation, thereby hanging the career of petitioner at jeopardy with risk of losing one precious year and the entire process of preparation and reappearing for entrance tests.”Patil submitted that there were hundreds of postgraduate medical students like Gabbur who were placed in a similar situation, and hence the court should issue directions to MUHS to ensure that the future of such students was secured.Assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan submitted that as postgraduate students were involved in Covid-19 duties, the government was framing a policy for conducting final-year exams for them and meetings are being held for the same. Chavan then sought time on the grounds that the process involved preparation of schedule ensuring that all safety norms were adhered to and said the state would inform the court about it in the next hearing.After hearing the submissions the court observed that all steps taken by MUHS and PGIMER would be bound by the decision of the court and posted the matter for hearing on July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/awaiting-maharashtra-government-policy-for-final-year-exams-muhs-tells-bombay-hc/story-XH6BpXjdBD35134kGONuuO.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid patients aged between 50 and 60 can be in home quarantine in Mumbai, says BMC||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s decision to mandate institutional quarantine for Covid-19 patients above the age of 50 drew criticism, the decision has now been revoked. Patients in the age group of 50-60 can be permitted home quarantine. However, the earlier decision to institutionally quarantine patients over the age of 60 will still prevail. The decision was made in a state review meeting headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday.“A circular regarding the amendment in quarantine rules will be issued in a day or two,” said a senior civic official.A circular issued by BMC’s health department on August 20 said that Covid-19 patients over 50 or anyone with co-morbidities, irrespective of their age, will now have to go to Covid care centre-2 facilities (institutional quarantine) for treatment and isolation. Till then, the earlier guidelines allowed home isolation for asymptomatic patients below 60 with no co-morbidities and those having separate toilet facilities in their homes.However, the amendment to the earlier guideline led to criticism as patients above 50 who showed no symptoms and could have been home quarantined still had to be admitted to institutional quarantine. This issue was brought up in the state review meeting wherein directions to revoke the quarantine rules were given.Even though the decision has been revoked, BMC has now decided to consult the family physicians of patients above 50 who test positive. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Our ward war rooms will now collect additional details from these patients about their family physicians who will be consulted with on a daily basis. Patients over 50 will be institutionally quarantined after their family doctors opine or if their condition worsens.”Kakani added that this is to ensure that the patients over 50 get immediate medical attention when needed.Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultants, said, “I am yet to see the circular. However, the BMC needs to appoint health professionals to check on patients above 50 years of age. Patients should also be given pulse oximeters and their readings should be checked twice every day. A lot of health resources, such as beds, would be saved [more severe patients] if BMC invests in oximeters.”Meanwhile on Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,910 Covid-19 cases, following which the total tally reached 155,622. Of these, 23,939 are active cases. The death toll stands at 7,869 after 37 new deaths were reported. As per BMC’s data, of the 37 deaths, 10 were of patients between 40 and 60 years, while the remaining 27 patients who died were above 60 years of age. The case fatality ratio of the city is 5%, while the recovery rate stands at 79%. The fatality rate of Mumbai is way above the national mortality rate of 1.8% and Maharashtra’s average mortality rate of 2.97%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/patients-in-mumbai-aged-between-50-and-60-years-can-be-in-home-quarantine-says-municipal-corporation/story-ORulbuHbEsosm7vodvHvzJ.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Let Kangana Ranaut apologise to Mumbai and Maharashtra: Sena MP Sanjay Raut on his ‘haramkhor’ comment||After Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut’s “haramkhor ladki” comment regarding actor Kangana Ranaut drew criticism on social media, the former said that he would apologise to her if she first apologized to Mumbai and Maharashtra. “As someone who has used unparliamentary language, let her [Ranaut] apologise to Mumbai and Maharashtra first,” Raut told media persons on Sunday. Sena has been miffed with Ranaut after she said that Mumbai feels like Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). On Sunday, Ranaut also posted a video on Twitter stating that she will come to Mumbai on September 9, despite receiving threats. “In a country where women are being tortured and raped every day, a parliamentarian using such language shows this society’s mentality. No one called Aamir Khan or Naseeruddin Shah ‘haramkhor’ when they said that they are scared of living in this country,” she said in her video. Ranaut’s comments about Mumbai and the city police had sparked political outbursts and controversy on Friday, with the parties in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) slamming the actor. State home minister Anil Deshmukh had also said that Ranaut does not have any right to stay in Mumbai or Maharashtra. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had also been forced to distance itself from the actor’s remarks and said they do not support her statements made against the city or the state. Ranaut had reacted by posting a series of tweets challenging the state government to try and stop her and referring to the MVA as the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/let-kangana-ranaut-apologise-to-mumbai-and-maharashtra-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-on-his-haramkhor-comment/story-axoe0wGPbrMdBfMt4pOZbL.html
07-09-2020||City||Covid patient kills self at Thane hospital||A 70-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly died by suicide on Sunday at a Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) Covid hospital, where he was undergoing treatment. He was admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital and his condition was stable, said civic officials. Kapurbawdi police are investigating the matter. The deceased, uncle of a Thane-based BJP corporator, was admitted to the hospital four days ago and was shifted to ICU after he developed breathlessness. S Patil, crime inspector, Kapurbawdi police station, said, “The patient was on ventilator support as he had breathing problems. There were eight other patients in the ICU. Around 3.15pm when doctors did the routine check-up, he was normal. Doctors said his health was improving. However, around 3.30pm two ward boys found him lying in a pool of blood on the ground floor. We have registered an accidental death report and sent body to the civil hospital for post-mortem.” Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner of TMC, confirmed the incident. “The patient tested positive four days ago. Though he was in ICU, his condition was stable. He died around 3.30pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patient-kills-self-at-thane-hospital/story-TPHL4jo4WWai37NgTnFU6K.html
07-09-2020||Delhi||Central team to assist Punjab reduce Covid mortality rate||The Union health ministry has decided to deploy a central team in Punjab to assist it in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of Covid patients with an aim to reduce the mortality rate.Punjab’s Covid-19 tally till Saturday was 61,527, and 15,870 active cases. The state has registered 1,808 deaths till Saturday.“The testing per million figure for the state is 37,546 (India’s average figure is 34593.1 at present). With 4.97%, it hovers at the lower spectrum of cumulative positivity,” the ministry said.“The high-level team will assist Punjab in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of Covid patients with the aim to reduce mortality and save lives,” the ministry said.“They shall also guide the state in effectively addressing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up,” it said.The two-member teams will comprise a community medicine expert from PGIMER, Chandigarh and an epidemiologist from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).These team shall be stationed in Punjab for 10 days to provide extended guidance in managing coronavirus infection.The Centre is actively supporting the states and UTs that are seeing a sudden surge in the number of cases and those that are reporting high mortality by deputing multi-sectoral central teams.Many such teams have visited several states and UTs in the past few months. The teams interact with the field authorities to get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them.The Union health ministry has been engaging with several states and UTs that are witnessing a surge in Covid cases and high mortality in some districts during the past two days.Those states and UTs have been advised to proactively undertake comprehensive measures to break the chain of transmission of the infectious disease and lower mortality, such that it eventually dips below one per cent, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/central-team-to-assist-punjab-reduce-covid-mortality-rate/story-KJv1eAPwGGITd7268DIbLL.html
07-09-2020||City||Senior excise officials among 7 more booked in GST scam||Punjab vigilance bureau, probing a multi-crore tax evasion racket, has booked seven more persons, including a divisional excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) and four assistant excise and taxation commissioners (AETC). As per vigilance officials, the racket has brought to the fore the rampant corruption in the excise department as it involves a number of officers who are allegedly taking monthly bribes from businessmen and transporters for ferrying goods in and out of the state without paying the goods and services tax (GST). The bureau had registered an FIR in the case on August 21 after the arrest of six persons, including four excise officers. The VB has now added seven more names to the FIR, as per the documents accessed by HT. These include BK Virdi, DETC, posted as joint director, investigation, Jalandhar; HS Bajwa, AETC, excise wing, Amritsar; Manjit Singh, AETC, mobile wing, Amirtsar; Harmeet Singh, AETC, audit, Bathinda; Harjinder Singh Sandhu, AETC, Ferozepur; Tarlok Singh posted as ETO mobile wing, Amritsar; Pushapdeep Singh, superintendent, central GST, Amritsar, and two private persons, including Kailash, a transporter from Jalandhar. With these fresh FIRs, half of the 16-member mobile wing of the excise department --- that is responsible for tracking GST evasion --- has been booked. Many more are under the VB lens. “The racket is widespread. We suspect involvement of many officials. A raid at a house of an AETC in Pathankot left vigilance officials in a tizzy. The palatial house had imported wood and marble. The bungalow of AETC Bajwa had a climate-control swimming pool. An AETC from Patiala, who is under arrest has invested money in Canada ,” said a VB official, who is part of the probe, pleading anonymity. “During custodial interrogation, an ETO told us that all ETOs used to give Rs 25,000 per month to the DETC,” said another VB official, who did not want to be named. “We have proposed to open disproportionate assets case against most accused,” said officials. The names of three top officials of the taxation department have also come to the fore and process has been initiated to collect evidence,” they added, Vigilance DSP Iqbal Singh said he was not authorised to speak, but added that many officials have been named in the scam, and they all will be quizzed after due approval from top officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-excise-officials-among-7-more-booked-in-gst-scam/story-0EsklhAgodCA5a9vf7aEKL.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh probe: Rhea quizzed for six hours by Narcotics Control Bureau||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is looking into allegations of drug use by the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his actor-girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, questioned Rhea for nearly six hours on Sunday. Rhea was allowed to leave the NCB office around 6.15pm. Meanwhile, NCB arrested ninth person, Khar resident Anuj Keshwani, in the case on Sunday. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra home on June 14, leading to doubts about whether it was a suicide. His father, KK Singh, filed an FIR with the Bihar Police, alleging abetment and suspicious money transfers. The arrests of two drug peddlers on a specific input led NCB to Rhea’s brother Showik, bringing in the drug angle. Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of NCB, said, “The investigation has not been completed due to her late arrival. We will summon her again tomorrow and the investigation will continue.” Also read: Taapsee Pannu, Swara Bhasker react to Rhea Chakraborty being mobbed at NCB office: ‘Witness our lowest, shameful witch hunt’Rhea’s advocate and senior counsel Satish Maneshinde said, “Rhea is ready for arrest as this is a witch hunt and if loving someone is a crime, she will face the consequences of her love. Being innocent, she has not approached any court for anticipatory bail in all the cases foisted by Bihar Police, now with CBI, ED and NCB.” Meanwhile, Keshwani was arrested for allegedly supplying drugs to Kaizan Ebrahim, who was arrested on Friday. “During interrogation, Ebrahim confessed that he used to buy drugs from Keshwani,” said KPS Malhotra, deputy director of NCB. In the search at Keshwani’s residence, officials seized 590gm of hashish, 0.64gm of LSD sheets, 304gm of marijuana, including imported marijuana joints and capsules, and ₹1,85,200 and 5000 Indonesian rupiah. “The quantity can be termed commercial under the NDPS Act,” said an official. Also read: ‘Will Sushant Singh Rajput be pleased with treatment given to Rhea Chakraborty?’: Shatrughan Sinha asks actor’s fansEarlier in the day, NCB produced Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant, who was arrested on Saturday, before a magistrate’s court. He has been remanded in NCB custody till September 9. NCB on Friday arrested Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, and two Bandra residents and drug peddlers – Abdel Basit Parihar, 23, and Ebrahim. The other three arrested for drug peddling are Zaid Vilatra, 20 (arrested on Thursday), Abbas Lakhani, and Karan Arora (arrested on August 27-28). NCB officials told the court they wanted Sawant’s custody to confront him with other suspects, including Showik, Miranda and Vilatra. According to NCB officers, on March 17, on Showik’s instructions, Sawant went with Miranda to get 5gm of marijuana from Vilatra. On April 17, Rhea and Showik instructed Sawant to receive a delivery of 10gm of hashish from Ebrahim near Mont Blanc building, said NCB officials. On May 1, Showik had reportedly asked him to receive marijuana from a person named Dwayne, and had received 50gm of marijuana from Dwayne on May 2. NCB officers claimed that in the first week of June, Sawant received 100gm of marijuana from a delivery boy, Rishikesh Pawar. However, Sawant’s lawyer Rajendra Rathod argued that he was just an employee of Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-rhea-chakraborty-quizzed-for-six-hours-by-narcotics-control-bureau/story-KF28XKOSn3eL00QoyQ789O.html
07-09-2020||Mumbai||Indian Institutes of Technology students stare at uncertain times: Firms withdraw job offers, defer joining dates||With recruiters rescinding offers and delaying joining dates owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the graduating batch of students from various Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) is facing an unprecedented situation. Students of IIT-Madras are among the worst-affected, as almost eight companies withdrew as many as 28 job offers during the lockdown. “Several companies also ended up postponing the date of joining for many other students,” said Professor CS Shankar Ram, advisor (training & placement), IIT-Madras. At IIT-Bombay, 22 students lost the job offers made to them during the placement drives. “Some of these students have secured employment elsewhere and steps are being taken to reemploy them in other companies,” BV Ravi Shankar, training and placement officer, IIT-Bombay, said. At IIT-Mandi and IIT-Roorkee, only one company each pulled back the job offers made. Only one student lost the job in IIT-Mandi but at IIT-Guwahati, three students’ job offers were revoked during the lockdown. A senior official from IIT-Delhi confirmed that the number of job offers being revoked by companies this year were in two digit numbers. While some other IITs refused to divulge the exact details on the number of job offers revoked, they confirmed that their respective placement cells are working on ensuring that affected students are helped with other job offers in the second phase of placements. Meanwhile, deferred joining dates by employers have also added to students’ woes. “The pandemic has affected the joining date of several students. Usually, the graduating students from IIT-Mandi join companies in July. But this year, with a slight delay in the final semester completion, the joining date was postponed to August for most offers. A few companies also deferred the joining date to January 2021. We are in touch with the companies and are confident that our students will join them by January,” said Dr Sunny Zafar, advisor (career and placement cell), IIT-Mandi. “Given that the pandemic has hit the country’s economy and that some companies have withdrawn offers, there is a lot of anxiety on whether my recruiter will make good on the promise,” said a student from IIT-Bombay, whose joining date has been deferred. Vinayak Narayan Kulkarni, head (centre for career development), IIT-Guwahati, said that owing to the extended lockdown, several recruiters have requested students to start work in virtual mode for the time being. While most IITs recorded a notable increase in offers received during the first phase of placement drives in December 2019, the second phase that kicked off in January has not been very successful. At IIT-Bombay, 1,171 students were placed in the first phase — the highest in the past couple of years. In comparison, only 36 students were placed in the second phase. “The second phase was impacted due to Covid-19. We have conducted more interviews online this year due to pandemic and fewer selections were possible,” said Shankar. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation, almost all IITs are planning to conduct placement drives virtually this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indian-institutes-of-technology-students-stare-at-uncertain-times-firms-withdraw-job-offers-defer-joining-dates/story-yXkJYLPW1b6JCpuG11AzMK.html
