09-09-2020||City||20 mobile phones recovered from snatcher, two aides in Ludhiana||Police claim to have recovered 20 stolen mobile phones with the arrest of a snatcher and his two accomplices on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Hardeep Singh, alias Chacha, of Street No 3, Rahon Road; Kuljit Singh, alias Shenty, and Rohit Kumar, both from Subash Nagar. Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO at Division Number 6 police station, said the trio was stopped at a police checkpost near Partap Chowk. On frisking them, the police team recovered five mobile phones from their possession. During questioning, accused Hardeep confessed that he targeted pedestrians. After snatching their phones, Kuljit sold them to Rohit. On their disclosure, police recovered 20 mobile phones that they had snatched from Bahadurke, Noorwala, Kakowal, Guru Vihar and Kali Sarak areas. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said owners of the mobile phones had been contacted about the recovery of their devices.Hardeep, a school dropout, took to crime to meet his daily dose of drugs, he added. The accused were presented before a court on Wednesday and sent to police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-mobile-phones-recovered-from-snatcher-two-aides-in-ludhiana/story-HtvD4W8JH9YUo0Fzk9TpaL.html
09-09-2020||City||Armed with gadgets and apps, schools gear up for online term-end exams||Gurugram: After conducting classes virtually for roughly six months, schools across the city are now gearing up for online half-yearly examinations. Aided by myriad tech and online platforms, schools are pivoting towards newer ways of examination and assessments. Schools have been experimenting with online tests for the past few months and will using them for the term-end assessment tests that start by next week in most places. At Kunskapsskolan International, tests are being conducted through a web platform. The portal works across browsers and devices and can be accessed by students through an exam key. It allows teachers to check answer sheets online if it has been typed or make corrections alongside scanned answer scripts shared by students. “The students get an exam key through which they log in to the platform. They can choose between doing the exam on the platform by typing it out or doing it on pen and paper and uploading the answer scripts after scanning,” said Ramanjit Khinda, school headmistress. Khinda said the school was mostly using the pen and paper option to ensure students improve their handwriting. Manav Rachna International School, whose half-early examinations are slated to take place in October, will use MS Teams. Surabhi Joshi, vice-principal, said the online exams had facilitated a constant cycle of feedback and provided results at a short notice. “There are options through which we can take regular shorts tests. In the MCQ-based test, we can pre-feed the answers due to which students get instant results,” Joshi said. At Heritage Xperiential Learning School, assessments -- a blend of questions that require both long and short textual input from students -- have been place taking through the school’s online Learning Management System. The completed answer sheets are submitted to teachers as PDF files which students generate using readily available scanning applications. “Each segment of assessment has time assigned for reading, writing, and uploading of answer scripts separately. Two teachers invigilate each testing session and monitor the students closely,” said Neena Kaul, school principal. While most online testing platforms offer certain safety features to ensure unfair means are not used, school administrators said that they were not fool-proof. “There is a safety feature in the platform being used by us. If the student clicks on any other window during the exam, the exam gets locked for the student. However, there are times when students are thrown out due to connectivity issues as well,” said Khinda. In view of these challenges, most schools are relying on academic trust and sincerity, and making students and parents sign undertakings. Lotus Valley International School has taken an undertaking from parents for examinations that start next week. “While cameras will stay on during the exam, a little monitoring at home also helps. We have taken an undertaking from parents to monitor their children from home. Teachers will be monitoring the exams as they take place,” said Anita Malhotra, school principal. Khinda said school holds discussions prior to the exams to reiterate the importance of academic sincerity. “We have discussions with the students wherein we share our thoughts and motivations about conducting exams. Students are encouraged to be fair to themselves and the examination process,” she said. Rashmi Malik, principal, Salwan Public School, Sector 15, said online exams came with a gamut of options ranging from Google forms to quizzes to more sophisticated platforms, which could eventually way for a blended model of education. “If there’s an 80 marks paper, we divide it into 40 marks of MCQ and 40 marks of subjective answers or other combinations. Testing can also be made interesting,” said Malik. The school has also undertaken a new initiative wherein students have been asked to create five questions whose answers cannot be found on Google. “If children are able to create such questions, they may get some extra marks. Due to initiative, children are going into the depth of the topics to come up with unique questions. At the same time, a bank of such questions is being formed for teachers,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/armed-with-gadgets-and-apps-schools-gear-up-for-online-term-end-exams/story-CltC0JYiB64EqBp172b9BK.html
09-09-2020||Gurugram||Joint survey of Gurugram-Faridabad metro project conducted, station near Ghata to be proposed||Keeping in mind future population growth, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) will propose an additional metro station near Ghata village to the 32-km Gurugram-Faridabad Metro project that will connect the twin cities. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, Gurugram, said they had conducted a field survey from Vatika Chowk to Bata Chowk along the entire alignment of the project, studying location of stations, how much land was required for these stations and other related aspects. “We have decided to propose that an additional station be included in the alignment near the confluence of Golf Course road and Ghata village as the population is expected to rise significantly and the metro station is needed there,” he said. The survey, following directions from the Haryana chief secretary, was jointly done by HSVP, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation (HMRTC).The Gurugram-Faridabad light metro rail project -- between Vatika Chowk on Sohna road with Bata Chowk in Faridabad-- will cost Rs 5900 crore and was initially planned to have 11 stations, five in Faridabad and six in Gurugram. The stations planned are at Bata Chowk, Aravali Golf Course, Badkhal Enclave, Pali Stone Crusher Zone, Police Chowki Manger — all in Faridabad — and Mandi village, Sector 56, Rosewood city, South City 2, Sushant Lok III and Vatika Chowk along Golf Course road in Gurugram, said a senior HSVP official.. Six of these metro stations will be elevated while two would be underground, they added. HSVP Gurugram administrator Yadav also said they would also look into a demand from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for eight to 10 acres to build a metro depot near DLF Golf Course. “We will look into the ownership of the land and take steps to make it available to DMRC,” he said. The Gurugram-Faridabad metro route will be constructed on the central verge of Golf Course extension road and on major parts of Gurugram Faridabad road as a result of which the requirement of land is minimal for the track and would be needed for construction of metro stations and the train depot, said officials. The Gurugram-Faridabad metro project was announced by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in 2016. The detailed project report has been prepared by DMRC and was handed over to HMRTC in June this year. The metro corridor will boost public transport between the twin cities in a major way and also reduce the road traffic on Gurugram Faridabad road. When asked about the proposed survey, a DMRC spokesperson said that the Delhi Metro was a contractor for the project and was not authorised to comment on the matter.Nadim Akhtar, advisor, planning, HMRTC did not respond to phone call and messages to seek a response in this matter. Box The proposed Light Metro rail between Gurugram and Faridabad will be 32.14 KM long. It will have eight stations but HSVP has decided to propose an additional station near Ghata village. The metro depot in Gurugram is being planned near DLF Gold Course. Five stations will be located in Faridabad and four including one proposed in Gurugram. The train will start from Bata Chowk in Faridabad and it will conclude at Vatika Chowk on Sohna road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/joint-survey-of-gurugram-faridabad-metro-project-conducted-station-near-ghata-to-be-proposed/story-UwKCz0H5lyKSja1YDyOHfP.html
09-09-2020||City||Gurugram: MCG plans to adopt measures taken by Indore civic body||Gurugram: To improve the city’s cleanliness and hygiene, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to adopt several measures taken by the Indore Municipal Corporation, said officials on Wednesday. For the purpose, MCG will be conducting a workshop on Swachh Survekshan 2021 at the Sector 27 community centre on Thursday where a few examples of the Indore model would also be shown to the officials and councillors.In the 2020 Swachh Survekshan, Gurugram finished with a rank of 62 out of 382 cities across India. Indore was ranked first for the fourth consecutive year. In February, a team of MCG officials and councillors had toured Indore to study its cleanliness model. Mayor Madhu Azad said that MCG had planned to introduce various measures in the city soon after. However, due to the coronavirus outbreak, these plans had to be deferred.“Our visit earlier this year gave us first-hand experience of Indore’s cleanliness model. We had planned to introduce several measures, which the Indore Municipal Corporation had adopted, into Gurugram right away, but these had to be put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, we are looking to introduce these measures once again,” said Azad.Azad said that one of the key learnings for MCG was regarding the cleanliness measures adopted at the household level.“In Indore, waste is segregated at source. There are different bins in each household for organic and inorganic waste, and incorrect dumping invites heavy penalties. The city also has a strong mechanism for composting organic waste. If these are followed by all Gurugram residents, then the city’s cleanliness levels will improve drastically,” said Azad. The fine in Gurugram for this violation is only Rs 100. In Indore, it is Rs 1000 for households and Rs 5,000 for commercial buildings, the officials said.As per the MCG officials, Thursday’s workshop would be carried out in two batches. The first half would be for officials of the MCG, municipal committees of Sohna, Pataudi, Farrukhnagar and Hailey Mandi, while the other would be for councillors from these areas.Harbhajan Singh, a consultant with MCG, said that few examples of the Indore cleanliness model will be shown to the officials during the workshop while ways to improve various criteria such as door-to-door collection of waste, waste segregation, construction and demolition waste, plastic waste, composting, and cleaning of roads and markets would also be discussed extensively.The officials said that MCG is looking to also replicate Indore’s practice of taking attendance of sanitation workers through biometric machines, keeping a track on waste collection, cleaning of roads and markets at night, processing gas from waste which can be used as fuel in public buses, and removing large garbage bins from public spaces. Another key feature the officials said that MCG wants to replicate is to charge Rs 2 for every guest during weddings. “The rationale behind charging fees for weddings is for municipal workers to pick up all the garbage and clean the wedding premises. Barring the making fuel from waste, all the remaining measures can be achieved in a short duration and MCG has also introduced a few measures towards this end,” an MCG official privy to the matter said.The official said that in February, MCG introduced the Swachh Nagar app in Sector 38, in which barcodes were installed outside a few selected households. In this model, a sanitation worker after collecting waste scanned the barcode outside the house and filled details such as the type of waste collected, the time of collection, whether the household owner was absent or if the door of the house was locked. These information would then immediately reach the senior officers of the civic body. The official further said that MCG is yet to take a final call on whether the fines for the dumping of waste incorrectly would be increased in the city. However, he said that the matter is under consideration.Last month, on a pilot basis, MCG had handed out smart hand bands to a few sanitation workers to keep a track on their whereabouts. In regards to the cleaning of roads and public places at night, on August 31, MCG officials said that a target of daily cleaning of more than 200 kilometres of roads had been set, for which 10 sweeping machines were recently procured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-mcg-plans-to-adopt-measures-taken-by-indore-civic-body/story-yD0E4PuEgPwhQawevUdwrO.html
09-09-2020||City||Drinking in public places: Gurugram police forms teams to check menace||Gurugram: Acting on complaints against open drinking in the city, the police on Wednesday formed special teams that will conduct raids to crackdown on people drinking in public spaces. The police said that anyone who is found consuming alcohol in public will be arrested on the spot. The police said they have received over 200 complaints against people drinking in the open from different areas in the city in the last one month. Many residents and market associations of different sectors have complained to excise officials and the police against the menace in markets at different areas that include sectors 56, 30 and 14, Golf Course Road, and Golf Course Extension Road. The menace has become more rampant since the lockdown norms were eased, the police said, adding that the areas have been identified and they plan to start raids from Wednesday night. KK Rao, commissioner of police, Gurugram, said that eatery shops in HUDA sector markets now receive high footfalls during the evening. The liquor shops have also opened but the ahataas (drinking places along with liquor vends) are still shut, due to which people buy liquor and either consume it in their cars or near the roadside food carts, he said. “We have already booked around 200 people under the Excise Act in the last one-and-a-half months, but people are still violating the rules leaving other visitors in distress,” Rao said.The police commissioner said they have formed three teams from each police station to visit markets in plain clothes to check the situation and to take prompt action against the violators. “Those found drinking will be arrested on the spot and will have to spend a night in police lock-up. We will share the offenders’ pictures on social media if found creating any nuisance in public places,” he said. The liquor shops reopened in the city on May 6, after the state government announced a series of relaxations in the wake of the Unlock 3.0 guidelines issued by the Centre. The drinking places (ahataas) near liquor vends, however, are still shut across the state. The Haryana excise and taxation department on August 27 had allowed restaurants and hotels to serve liquor at tables along with food, though bars continue to remain closed. In an order issued by the department, restaurant and hotel owners have been asked to get their liquor licences renewed for the current financial year. The police said they have directed the shopkeepers and cart owners not to allow people to drink in open near their outlets, but some shop owners are encouraging open drinking and also serving them. Sumeet Bhatnagar, a shopkeeper at Sector 56 HUDA market, said that the market association has complained to the police against the drinking menace that has become rampant in the last one month. “The families visiting the market do not feel comfortable crossing the stretch due to the open drinking here. This is a major security concern for most of the residents and shopkeepers,” he said. Ashmi Saini, a dentist who runs a clinic in Sector 56 market, said that families have stopped visiting the market after sunset as there are usually some inebriated men who create a nuisance. “These men order for snacks and sit in the open on the stools provided by the cart owners who serve them food, and soda, water and glasses to consume liquor,” she said. Residents said that drinking outside shops and in cars creates a sense of insecurity while visiting residential markets, particularly when they are out with their families. In Sector 14, residents alleged that the crowd after 8 pm in the market consists of mostly men who park their cars and drink inside. “The waiters are familiar with them and quickly take their orders and serve them food. Such people also play loud musing in their cars and they are many times seen scuffling with each other after several drinks down,” said Yajuvender Kadiyan, a former captain of Indian Army. The residents alleged that those indulging in such practices take to residential areas as these are safer and the police do not check all the parked vehicles. “Besides consuming alcohol, some men are often seen getting into fights over the bets. They often abuse each other and create a nuisance, making it difficult to even cross that stretch. They mostly sit outside the shops and have no fear of police patrolling,” said Kavita Yadav, a resident of Sector 23. The residents alleged that they have complained to the police in person and also informed them on the police helpline, but no action has been taken. However, the police said they are taking action against these illegal activities which have reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drinking-in-public-places-gurugram-police-form-teams-to-check-menace/story-Y2GnXkjcG99K8qwAzc23TL.html
09-09-2020||City||Gurugram: To bring down case count, admin, health dept focus on families living with Covid-positive patients||Gurugram: In light of the district having the highest number of Covid-19 patients recuperating in home isolation in Haryana (according to the state health department data), health officials said complacency in following home quarantine and isolation norms is one of the main factors leading to further transmission of coronavirus to other members of an infected person’s family.As the number of active cases is climbing, the health department, as part of its revised strategy to curb the same, is now focusing on proper quarantine of the family members of infected persons as many people are getting infected within their homes after one family member tests positive. Till August 29, at least 81% of the people infected in Gurugram were under home isolation. This increased to 89.45% on Wednesday. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that health care workers as well as ASHA and Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) workers have started house-to-house surveillance to create awareness and identify symptomatic cases. “Our ground team is active again to create awareness among people, especially in congested areas to follow basic norms for preventing coronavirus infection,” said Yadav. In the last week of August, the union ministry of health and family welfare released a manual for surveillance teams. It stresses upon house-to-house search for suspected cases and contact tracing, information to be given to the community on hand and respiratory hygiene, physical distancing and stigma. “People are no longer following basic health hygiene even if they are home isolated. Others within the same family are also not focusing on quarantine, which is leading to rapid transmission of infection. Most of the new cases that are being reported are those where the entire family is infected,” said Yadav.As per the health department’s strategy, family members of an infected person have to be kept under home quarantine for 14 days and high-risk contacts (with co-morbidities) suspected of contracting the virus are to be shifted to Covid care centres to prevent mortality, Yadav said.To facilitate awareness, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, on Wednesday flagged off three battery-operated rickshaws, which will move around the city and announce messages on quarantine, isolation, social distance, wearing of masks and sanitisation. He said that awareness generation is critical to counter Covid-19. “All over the country and in the region we are noticing a resurgence in coronavirus cases. There are multiple aspects to it such as movement having increased, and even people are complacent in following the basic norms to prevent infection. To address such issues the focus is now on creating awareness,” said Khatri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-to-bring-down-case-count-admin-health-dept-focus-on-families-living-with-covid-positive-patients/story-KhVoMrnDdAhaclZNXvL8RO.html
09-09-2020||Gurugram||Weak foundation, inability to bear load led to tilting of HSVP buildings after rain, finds probe committee||Weak foundations and the inability to bear the structural load led to three houses in HSVP sectors to tilt after spells of heavy rain on August 19 and 20, a probe has found. A five-member technical committee — that visited the site on August 21 for an inspection of damaged structures — has said in its report that there seemed to be no failure of structure but it seems that load bearing capacity of the site had not been tested. Dr Abhay Shrivastava, disaster management expert, who was a member of the committee, said that it was observed that foundation of the buildings were not laid at hard form strata and erection was not done under technical supervision. “A visit to the sites and discussion with locals revealed that heavy waterlogging has been witnessed in Sector 27 in the past also. There was a need to do a more thorough micro-level zoning, while plotting such areas. Also it was observed that all three plots, where the structures had got tilted, had a vacant plot adjacent to them where waterlogging had taken place that damaged the foundations of these four-storeyed houses. Simply put, these structures did not have enough strength to bear the load,” said Srivastava. The committee in its report has said that keeping in view the sensitivity of the matter and possibility of damage to the adjoining houses, its members visited all the sites on August 21 and minutely studied the structures and took photographs of the tilted buildings. The survey of the house in sector 27 revealed that there was no damage to its structure but the building had collapsed due to foundation failure. In sector 46 also, the team found no cracks in the structure but observed that tilt was caused either due to weak foundation or it was not designed in respect of load bearing capacity. The report further said that the structure in sector 47 was also found damaged due to weak foundation. Jitender Yadav, HSVP, administrator, Gurugram said that he has received the report and it will be studied in detail. “The recommendations will be implemented after discussion with all stakeholders to prevent such incidents in future,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/weak-foundation-inability-to-bear-load-led-to-tilting-of-hsvp-buildings-after-rain-finds-probe-committee/story-6vWpXZXgvkdiTdXa9fuJbK.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Over 500-kg plastic bags seized from Kharar, Kurali||Teams of Kurali and Kharar municipal committees have seized over 500kg plastic bags during surprise checks, issued challans and fined violators, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Wednesday.He said on the reports of usage of plastic carry bags in various parts of the district, teams of municipal committees were asked to conduct surprise checks.The municipal team from Kurali issued five challans under the Punjab Plastic Carry Bags Control Act at Main Bazaar and Railway Road market. They confiscated 82kg of plastic bags and collected fine to the tune of ₹7,000.Earlier, a team from Kharar municipal committee raided a bulk plastic distributer, Singla Traders, in Sunny Enclave and confiscated 250kg plastic bags. They seized the second cache of 220kg plastic carry bags from Kingsway company on Desumajra Colony road.The deputy commissioner said that as per Section 7 of the Punjab Plastic Carry Bags (Manufacture, Usage and Disposal) Control Act, 2005, the state government has completely prohibited manufacturing, stocking, distribution, recycling, sale and use of plastic carry bags in Punjab.He said that despite the ban, usage of plastic carry bags was still being reported.“This is a gross violation of the law and a serious environmental hazard. So, such surprise checks will continue and will be held more often,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-over-500-kg-plastic-bags-seized-from-kharar-kurali/story-oAVftSVkX6f5XKJtBLsWjJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid toll climbs to 535 with 13 deaths, 243 test positive||As many as 13 Ludhiana residents succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the district’s toll to 535. Notably, 124 (23%) of the total fatalities were recorded in the first nine days of September.Wednesday also saw the patient tally reaching 12,565 with 243 fresh infections.Of the total cases, the district now has 1,819 active cases with 10,208 people recovering from the virus. The latest fatalities are a 79-year-old man from Dhandari Kalan, a 78-year-old man from Kichlu Nagar, a 75-year-old woman from Purani Madhopuri, a 70-year-old man from Salem Tabri, two 67-year-old men from Durgapuri and Omax Residency, a 59-year-old man from Vishwakarma Colony, a 57-year-old woman from Pratap Chowk, a 55-year-old woman from Dhandra Road, a 49-year-old woman from Jawahar Nagar Camp, a 48-year-old man from Rahon Road, a 45-year-old man from Sahnewal and a 42-year-old man from Tibba Road.Among those who tested positive are 34 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 82 are contacts of infected patients and 80 people were referred from outpatient departments (OPDs). These patients included 11 healthcare workers, a pregnant woman and a policeman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-toll-climbs-to-535-with-13-deaths-243-test-positive/story-fvmHlBfKsXJ5krIuVqzXQM.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali to be transformed into model constituency: Punjab health minister||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said that Mohali will be transformed into a leading constituency in the state in terms of development. The development works in urban areas and villages will not be allowed to halt, Sidhu, who was speaking during the foundation-laying ceremony of panchayat ghars, said. The centres will come up in five different villages at a cost of ₹1.25 crore under the Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan. The minister said that at a cost of ₹25 lakh, each modern panchayat ghar will be constructed on 2,300 sq ft area and will have a hall, sarpanch’s office, IT room, and kitchen among other facilities. Sidhu, who is also Mohali MLA, said a separate ramp would also be built at the centres in order to facilitate the movement of people with physical disabilities. He said the authorities concerned have been directed to ensure high-quality material for the construction purposes and ensure completion of the project within stipulated time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-to-be-transformed-into-model-constituency-punjab-health-minister/story-4ExQUBHuWE3h4tiBvbgMVK.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh smart grid project remains a non-starter, officials blame pandemic||Even after the central government sanctioned ₹241 crore for the pan-city smart grid project, it remains a non-starter in Chandigarh. After missing several deadlines, even the pilot project to install 30,000 smart meters in the city made a little headway.After failing to appoint a consultant for the smart grid project, the UT administration has now again invited applications for the same. It was in July when the UT power department had invited firms to provide consultancy for the project. The ‘Project Design and Management Agency’ is to be appointed for the implementation stage and for the post-implementation handholding, capacity building and vendor management support.The smart grid project entails full automation ranging from power distribution to bill generation. Under it, all ordinary electricity meters in the city will be replaced with about 2.25 lakh smart meters, the existing grid substations will be renovated and upgraded with equipment which is compatible with the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) centre, besides modernising power lines and transformers. The Centre had sanctioned ₹241 crore in March this year after several rounds of meetings spanning over last one year. The project will allow the power department to monitor, gather and process real-time electricity data and directly interact with devices such as sensors through human-machine interface software. It will help department employees sitting at the centre to access live information on power cuts, outages and manage emergent power needs of a locality. Bills will be also be generated from this centre. Fresh deadline for pilot projectCurrently, the UT electricity department is undertaking a pilot smart grid project covering city’s 30 sq km. But after failing to complete the project by June this year, the department has now set a fresh deadline of December-end.After much delay in starting the implementation of the project, the department finally had in October last year allotted the work for installing 30,000 smart meters in four sectors (29, 31, 47, and 48), six villages (Faida, Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, Raipur Kalan, Makhanmajra, and Daria), and the industrial area.But so far, only around 4,500 smart meters have been installed. SCADA centre, which is also a part of the pilot project, is yet to become operational as well. Even though a SCADA centre has been set up in Sector 18, it is yet to become operational. “The installation of all required machinery and other equipment is yet to be done at the SCADA building. Without an operational SCADA centre, the smart meters are of no use,” said a department official who is not authorised to speak with media.Department officials blamed the coronavirus pandemic for the delay in the completion of the pilot project and commencement of the pan-city smart grid project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-smart-grid-project-remains-a-non-starter-officials-blame-pandemic/story-ahvm971EsufE7360IfYjbL.html
09-09-2020||City||Yuvraj intends to play for Punjab in T20 tourney||Chandigarh Cricketer Yuvraj Singh’s fans could be in for a pleasant surprise in the coming domestic season if he walks in to bat for Punjab in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament. The swashbuckler southpaw, who led India to the 2011 World Cup triumph, is considering to come out of retirement on Punjab Cricket Association secretary Puneet Bali’s request.The Chandigarh-born 38-year-old cricketer had quit the game in 2019, but remained associated as mentor with Punjab. In the last two months, Yuvraj conducted two long camps with young cricketers, including Shubman Gill, Abhishek Sharma, Anmolpreet Singh and Prabhsimran Singh in Mohali and Mullanpur.Yuvraj batted fluently with the youngsters. During one of the T20 practice games, Yuvraj smacked a 36-ball 81 and one of his sixes covered 140 metres over the long-on. “He batted superbly. I could see a glimpse of young and dashing Yuvi in those sixes. He was batting like a dream. The boys were so excited,” said former cricketer and Punjab team manager Girish Bhanot.This knock prompted PCA secretary Puneet Bali to ask Yuvraj to re-consider his retirement and play for Punjab. “It would be great to have him play for Punjab again and also mentor the team. The way he played was very impressive during the practice games,” said Bali. Yuvraj had expressed his desire to play for international leagues like Canada League and T-10 Dubai League but due to the pandemic, they have not been organised. On Wednesday, Yuvraj expressed his desire to get back in action for Punjab in the T20s as he could not refuse Bali’s request. In this regard, Yuvraj has written a letter to BCCI chief and his former captain Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah, seeking permission to make a comeback.The BCCI’s reply on Yuvraj’s request is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yuvraj-intends-to-play-for-punjab-in-t20-tourney/story-8mjCdQQ8Msn8aKfjyMhgzJ.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ask depts to ensure no mass gatherings are held: Chandigarh adviser to Haryana chief secy||UT adviser Manoj Parida on Wednesday shot off a letter to Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora asking for instructions to be issued to all state departments to ensure that no mass gatherings are held.The letter comes after 691 candidates selected as clerks gathered outside Haryana’s new secretariat building in Sector 17 on Tuesday. Social distancing norms were flouted and masks were not wore by many of those gathered in the ground in front of the building. Police had a tough time in managing the crowd.Parida, in the letter to Arora, wrote, “As you are aware, there has been an extraordinary surge in the number of Covid cases in Chandigarh. Such gatherings will lead to spread of infection, resulting in serious administrative challenges in Covid Management.”“I therefore request you to issue suitable instructions to all departments to ensure that such mass gathering may not take place, and, if required, the candidates be called in phases,” Parida further wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ask-depts-to-ensure-no-mass-gatherings-are-held-chandigarh-adviser-to-haryana-chief-secy/story-ytxpa5JQbJZ7CNtNMJB7lI.html
09-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Man found hanging in Sector 7 park, probe launched||The body of a man, estimated to be in his late thirties, was found hanging from a tree in a park in Noida’s sector 7 on Wednesday morning. The man was later identified as a Delhi resident.According to police officials, they had received a call from a passerby around 5am about the body.“There was no identity card on the victim’s body. When we first got the information, a police team rushed to the spot. The body was later brought down and sent for an autopsy,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.He said that locals were questioned. However, no one had any idea about the man. It was later in the day as word spread that the family of the victim came to know about it and stepped forward.“The man lived with his family in Delhi. The family has claimed that the man had left home on Tuesday evening and had been missing since then. They had no information about his whereabouts until his body was found in the morning,” said the SHO.Police officials said that the family said that he had been upset over his loss of employment and lack of finances, which might have prompted him to kill himself. However, no suicide note was recovered from the spot or on the body.Singh said that the man’s family hailed from Bihar and worked as daily wage earners. “The autopsy report is awaited which will confirm whether this was a suicide or not after that. No complaint has been filed by the family yet,” a police officer said..Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-man-found-hanging-in-sector-7-park-probe-launched/story-NmqLUoocrlvUgumcJURFkN.html
09-09-2020||City||Mohali grapples with shortage of beds for critical Covid patients||As Mohali struggles to stem rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which went past 5,500 on Wednesday, the district reels under acute shortage of beds for critical patients who fall under the Level-3 category. At Gian Sagar hospital in Banur — the designated Covid facility of Mohali — only 10 beds have been dedicated to critical patients, while for others with less-serious condition, 300 beds have been allocated. The Mohali civil hospital does not have ventilator facility.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “We have few beds for L-3 patients in Gian Sagar. We have been referring critical patients to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala and PGIMER and GMCH-32 in Chandigarh. In case the need arises, we send such patients to private hospitals in Mohali as well.”However, most of the private hospitals in Mohali have five to six beds for L-3 patients and all of them are occupied. Mohali has already logged 124 deaths in past five months. Among those who succumbed to the virus were 70 senior citizens, while 116 people had comorbidities. According to data provided by the administration, 80% of the victims suffered from diabetes and hypertension. Other had liver infections, kidney failures, cancer, heart diseases, asthma and respiratory problems.How are Covid facilities categorisedThe Mohali administration has created a dedicated chain of Covid-19 hospitals in the district — L-1, L-2 and L-3. Facilities under L-1 category deal with uncomplicated cases of Covid-19, such as Chandigarh University in Gharuan that has 100 beds. Cases which require more attention are sent to L-2 category hospitals, such as Gian Sagar that has 300 beds, whereas critical patients are shifted for specialised treatment to hospitals equipped to handle L-3 category cases. Gian Sagar hospital medical superintendent Dr SPS Goraya said they have only 10 beds for L-3 cases, 50 for L-2 and at least 250 for L-1 category patients. “We have requested the authorities concerned to add more beds for L-3 patients,” he added. A senior doctor of the Mohali civil hospital, who was not authorised to speak with media, said they were facing issues due to the admission of L-3 patients. “L-2 patients are generally bedridden and put on drip or need oxygen support. Patients of L-1 category, meanwhile, are generally asymptomatic and have a tendency to roam around the ward. So, we need to make extra efforts to control them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-grapples-with-shortage-of-beds-for-critical-covid-patients/story-WrTDQ1pyUrFGrPKVLBOSYP.html
09-09-2020||Noida||Temperature will rise over the week in Noida, Ghaziabad, predicts IMD||With no rains in the region expected for the next five days, areas including Noida and Ghaziabad will see rise in temperature over the next two days, the weather department said. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the skies will remain partly cloudy and there are no chances of rains until September 17. The direct sunlight and lack of moisture in the air due to unfavourable weather conditions will lead to more heat, with the mercury likely to soar by around three degrees.“Weather conditions for rains are highly unlikely. It’s not just the national capital region or western Uttar Pradesh but entire north-west India. The moisture is also low because there are no favourable easterly winds. Due to this, cloudiness will drop over the region over two-to-three days and mercury will rise,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added that while the mercury will rise, the humidity will drop from present 90 to 80% to around 70%. “The maximum temperatures are likely to spike to 38 degrees Celsius in next two-to-three days. However, respite is likely next week, as there could be light rain showers in the region between September 16 and 18,” Srivastava added. The region, including parts of Noida and Ghaziabad, saw drizzle towards September 7. Heavy rain, around 70mm, was last seen on August 28. According to weather analysts, though the rainfall is dropping, the withdrawal of the monsoon will be clarified by September 17.“For now there are no signs of monsoon withdrawal, however, rainfall has dropped in the rest of north-west India. Usually, the withdrawal starts from the second half of September and it starts from Rajasthan. Even in Rajasthan areas, the rainfall has dropped but we will be in clear position to predict monsoon withdrawal by September 16 to 17,” said Srivastava.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature of the region was recorded at 35.6 degrees, two notches above the season’s average, against 35.3 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 26.1 degrees, same as a day earlier. The humidity oscillated between 85 to 61%, with day getting drier towards the afternoon. The air quality of the region has also deteriorated over the past three days, with Wednesday recording an Air Quality Index (AQI), on a scale of 0 to 500, of 119 against 113 on Tuesday both considered ‘moderate’ against ‘satisfactory’ AQI earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/temperature-will-rise-over-the-week-in-noida-ghaziabad-predicts-imd/story-2JUpZOGozr0bFncahnoL1I.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dr Kang tipped to be Chandigarh’s next director health services||Dr Amandeep Kang, in-charge, department of gynaecology, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, is tipped to be UT’s next director health services.Though formal appointment orders are awaited, senior UT officials confirmed that Dr Kang has been selected from the panel of three doctors recommended by the Punjab government.Incumbent director, Dr G Dewan, is retiring this month after a three-year stint.The interviews for the post were held on August 8, following which the UT administrator gave the go-ahead for Dr Kang’s appointment.Dr Kang was recently given the commendation certificate by UT administration for her services while on front-line duty amid the Covid pandemic. Officials said the other two doctors who are in the running for the post are Dr Andesh Kang, deputy director of food cell, Kharar, and Dr Balwant Singh, director of Punjab Health System Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dr-kang-tipped-to-be-next-ut-director-health-services/story-koQNZGj1jubbBA4FxDAOuK.html
09-09-2020||City||Over 45K applied for quarantine exemption at Delhi airport, 27K allowed||New Delhi: As many as 890 international passengers were exempted from institutional quarantine every day upon their arrival at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport, the airport operator said on Wednesday.Of the total 45,288 incoming passengers who applied for exemption through the Air Suvidha facility -- which the operator launched on August 8 -- 27,705 were allowed to continue with their onward journey or go home till September 8, the Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) said in a statement.At present, all international passengers arriving in Delhi need to go for a compulsory institutional quarantine.Air Suvidha is a first-of-its-kind portal where international passengers can apply online for exemption from the mandatory institutional quarantine process, but only in certain categories.A passenger can be granted exemption only in five conditions -- pregnancy, serious illness, death in the family, travelling with a child below 10 years or having a negative RT-PCR report of a test conducted a maximum of 96 hours prior to the journey.According to airport officials, at least 5,000 international passengers arrived at the Delhi airport every day last month, totalling around 1.5 lakh.The Air Suvidha portal also allows passengers to fill the mandatory self-declaration form online in order to save time after landing.The airport operator said that between August 8 and September 8, a total of 78,700 passengers filled their self-declaration forms online, through the portal, of which only 77 passengers were found symptomatic and were handed over to Airport Health Organisation for necessary assistance.DIAL said the highest number of applications received in past one month was from the United States at 15,027 followed by the UAE (4,512) and then from the United Kingdom (4,094). 3,416 requests were received from Canada and 2,687 from Australia till September 8.Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO DIAL, said having an approved exemption form or a self-declaration form submitted through the Air Suvidha portal not only improved the quarantine process but also proved to be time-efficient.“The portal has mitigated the problem of inordinate delay while queueing up for quarantine process. Passengers can also avoid the hassle of filling physical copies of self-declaration,” he said.DIAL said passengers seeking exemption under the five specific categories will need to fill the forms available on the Delhi Airport website -- www.newdelhiairport.in.Supporting documents along with a copy of their passports have to be submitted at least 72 hours before boarding their flights. However, this time cap does not apply to passengers submitting the self-declaration form.The online forms have been developed in collaboration with the ministry of civil aviation, ministry of health and family welfare, ministry of external affairs and governments of various states and union territories, including Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh, DIAL said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-45k-applied-for-quarantine-exemption-at-delhi-airport-27k-allowed/story-wEJ2iwiFgg88vX6t8bZsHK.html
09-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Health dept issues guidelines for disposal of bio-medical waste for patients in home isolation||Following reports of hazardous bio-medical waste disposal in rural areas, the health department has issued guidelines for patients in home quarantine and their caretakers. A letter issued by the health department said there was no facility to dispose of waste of home-isolated patients in rural areas and therefore the department had decided to issue guidelines to ensure safe disposal of bio-medical waste. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the patients’ and their caretakers’ waste should be kept wrapped in newspaper for 72 hours and disposed of like normal waste after that. Dishes and clothes should be washed by the patient himself with hot water and soap and dried in the sun. Masks, gloves and other disposable items should be heated and washed with soap and dried in the sun and then disposed of along with general waste. Instructions have been issued to registered respiratory therapists’ (RRT) team to guide patients. Khanna civil hospital senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Rajinder Gulati said, “The municipal committee will collect the waste in rural areas and give it to the company assigned with the task of disposing of waste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-health-dept-issues-guidelines-for-disposal-of-bio-medical-waste-for-patients-in-home-isolation/story-1AV9zMEPWmUnayJkWRBKnJ.html
09-09-2020||Noida||Noida police nab two men from Bihar for duping former state DGP of nearly ₹75,000||Two men were arrested by the Noida police from Bihar on September 7 for allegedly duping, along with two accomplices, the former Uttar Pradesh director general of police OPS Malik in 2018 in a case of cyber fraud.Police said the suspects had allegedly got Malik to share an OTP number with them, which was then used for shopping of nearly ₹75,000, on September 14, 2018. On the next day a case of cheating (IPC’s section 420) and IT Act had been registered at the Phase 2 police station.“Four names had been found during investigation. Three of them were from Bihar while one was from Jharkhand. Two of them were arrested on December 21, 2018 while the other two had been absconding since then,” said Farmood Ali Pundir, station house officer, phase 2 police station.The district court had released a proclamation for the two absconding suspects. A police team had gone from Noida on September 4 and the next day, the team arrested one suspect, Bam Bam Goswami, from Jharkhand while Kanhaiya Jha (34), from Lakhisarai district in Bihar, was nabbed Monday.“With the permission of a Bihar magistrate, he was taken on transit remand and was brought to Noida Tuesday night. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail,” said the SHO.Police said that the gang has allegedly been involved in hundreds of cyber fraud cases across the country. However, there was only one registered case from Gautam Budh Nagar. Police are looking at other cases as well in which the suspects may have been involved.The gang has allegedly been defrauding people for years through various online schemes, said police. Malik did not respond to multiple calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-nab-two-men-from-bihar-for-duping-former-state-dgp-of-nearly-75-000/story-o4TLdcTKLvzAhL99KOg0uJ.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||2 days on, car that injured Panchkula traffic cop yet to be traced||Even after two days have passed since a speeding car injured a traffic cop in Panchkula, police are yet to identify the vehicle. The complainant, special police officer Chandra Bhan, said the accident took place around 7pm when the victim, SPO Raj Kumar, was crossing the road while on duty near Welcomhotel Bella Vista in Sector 5. He added that the speeding car coming from Hafed chowk hit Kumar and sped away towards Shakti Bhawan.The cop was injured badly and taken to civil hospital and then shifted to a private hospital where he is currently undergoing treatment. The case was registered at Sector 5 police station on Tuesday. “We will probably trace the offending vehicle by tomorrow,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-days-on-car-that-injured-panchkula-traffic-cop-yet-to-be-traced/story-e7Fe3cpyfsySGkIAmP13zL.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle lifting: Chandigarh cops recover 7 two-wheelers from accused duo||A day after two 18-year-old youths were arrested for stealing two-wheelers from different locations, police here have recovered seven vehicles, including five motorcycles and two scooters, from their possession.They were produced before a court on Wednesday and remanded to one day police remand.Both the accused, identified as Vishal and Chirag of Rally village in Panchkula, are school dropouts and used to ride the stolen two-wheelers to impress their friends and girls, police said.Their crimes came to light after one Man Bahadur of Baltana reported the theft of his Activa scooter from the parking of Shivalik Garden in Manimajra, Chandigarh, on September 4. As cops swung into action, they caught the duo riding the stolen scooter on Tuesday.During interrogation, the accused told the police that they used to commit the vehicle thefts for joy rides and making an impression among their friends and girls.A case has been registered against the accused under sections 379 and 411 of the IPC.Police said the seven stolen two-wheelers were recovered from different locations. The accused were active in Manimajra, Panchkula, Derrabassi and Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicle-lifting-chandigarh-cops-recover-7-two-wheelers-from-accused-duo/story-ylPi6VC1WH0WC7hYNCNM2K.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Education via virtual methods is way forward: Punjab CM||Chitkara University on Wednesday organised “Recalibrate 2020 – Getting the youth of Punjab industry ready for the post-Covid world”, a virtual round table discussion, chaired by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.The one-hour discussion revolved around ideas to prepare graduating students of the state for the post-Covid world in which industrialists from across sectors and senior Punjab government functionaries spoke on strategies to help pupils from various institutions adapt to the new normal.Captain Amarinder Singh highlighted the Covid situation in Punjab and said that the number of cases may reach its peak in the next two weeks, following which the curve will flatten. He also spoke about employment schemes and other plans that will be stared soon.“We need to focus on the people living in villages, where 65% of the state’s population resides,” he added.Discussing the New Education Policy, the CM said, “Education via the virtual method has helped students and Punjab is now becoming an educational hub. Various foreign universities from countries such as USA and UK are showing interest in setting up campuses here.”Speaking about the economy, he said, “There are two ways for the economy to flourish, industry and agriculture. We need skilled people and New Educational Policy is a good idea which will help.”Thanking Captain and the other participants, Madhu Chitkara, pro chancellor of Chitkara University, said, “India’s biggest strength is its youth, and as educationalists, we have a huge responsibility to show the right direction to this young, innovative and intelligent brigade.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/education-via-virtual-methods-is-way-forward-punjab-cm/story-WzfGWjSV2jwxe3uBbdVCIO.html
09-09-2020||City||6 executives of Ferozepur division to provide 24x7 services||To make railway transportation hassle free in six business clusters of Punjab, the Ferozepur division has set up a dedicated team of six executives to provide round-the-clock services to the public. Teams have been deputed to handle queries from Amritsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Gurdaspur. Ludhiana commercial inspector Ajay Pal Singh has been appointed cluster head. Ferozepur division senior divisional commercial manager Chetan Taneja said, “Felicitation teams have been formed so that businessmen and companies use railways to transport their goods and parcels. They will be able to avail round-the-clock services.” CONTACT NUMBERS:Ludhiana and SBS Nagar: 97792-33954 Amritsar and Tarn Taran: 97792-33962 Faridkot, Mukstar and Fazilka: 81466-34022 Ferozepur and Moga: 97792-33933 Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala: 97792-33932 Pathankot and Gurdaspur: 81466-33340||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-executives-of-ferozepur-division-to-provide-24x7-services/story-9QLVFJkkMupJKUEE6Ob2DN.html
09-09-2020||City||Empanelled private hospitals can conduct rapid antigen tests: Mohali DC||To ensure aggressive testing, early detection and treatment of Covid-19, deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said the Punjab government has allowed private hospitals/clinics/labs to conduct rapid antigen tests (RAT) after getting empanelled with health department.Giving details, Dayalan said the RAT kits would be provided free of cost by the health department to the empanelled institutions, and the latter can charge maximum ₹250 per test.He said these private hospitals/labs must have a separate isolated area for the suspected Covid-19 patients where their samples can be collected.The DC said the person taking the samples will have to ensure complete personal protective gear, while the institution should have the facility of biomedical waste management as per the guidelines.Dayalan said all RAT results must be entered into the ICMR portal using the login ID credentials provided by the health department. He said these private institutions must maintain confidentiality of the patients’ records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/empanelled-private-hospitals-can-conduct-rapid-antigen-tests-mohali-dc/story-8qdZat7JmVNGuVxK8IMR3O.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees record single-day rise of 2,227 Covid-19 cases||Mumbai on Wednesday recorded the highest spike of 2,227 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count of infections to 1,60,744, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said.The cumulative toll mounted to 7,982 with 43 fatalities.Earlier, Mumbai had seen the highest single-day rise of 1,929 cases on September 4.A total of 839 patients were discharged after treatment on Wednesday, taking the number of recoveries to 1,26,745, he said.Mumbai’s current recovery is 79 per cent, he said.The city now has 25,659 active cases, the highest number since more than a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-record-single-day-rise-of-2-227-covid-19-cases/story-PjiS144W07rTfbdHGxWdyJ.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University online exams: Get admit cards from Sept 12||Students of outgoing batches of Panjab University’s undergraduate and postgraduate courses appearing for the online examinations from September 17 can get their admit cards from September 12.PU on Wednesday issued instructions for the students taking the exams. According to an official communiqué issued by the varsity, regular students of the college/regional centres can get their admit cards from their respective colleges/departments. Also, private or University School of Open Learning (USOL) eligible candidates can download the admit card from UG/PG exam websites from September 12.Visually-impaired or disabled students are allowed to take assistance from a writer as per university rules without taking prior permission.In case of any issue, candidates can communicate with the varsity on ugexam@pu.ac.in or pgexam@pu.ac.in.A high-tech control room has been set up by the university for the conduct of the examinations to ensure smooth technical support. The varsity is planning to conduct its trials from September 12. The duration of each exam will be two hours. Instructions for candidatesCandidates have been directed to attempt the question paper with blue ball-point pen on A4 size printable sheets (preferably lined). The maximum page limit is 12 sheets and only one side is to be used.After taking the exam, candidates are required to scan all sheets in serial order and merge them into a single PDF file, the first page of which has to be the admit card.Answer-sheet submissionRegular candidates are required to send the PDF file of the answer-sheet to the college e-mail/website or hard copy through registered post or speed post to their respective college/department/regional centre within four hours from the start of the examination. Private candidates can also submit it to the nodal officers of their area within four hours of the start of the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-online-exams-get-admit-cards-from-sept-12/story-eNSEhW8wR37RmMXrYj3jMP.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Hospital occupancy by outsiders a worry as cases surge in Chandigarh||Amid the steep surge in coronavirus cases in the city, the occupancy of critical care beds in dedicated Covid hospitals has set the alarm bells ringing for health authorities as more than half of them are taken up by outsiders.The UT health authorities said they have made a provision of around 700 beds for moderate and severe patients in three hospitals — Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi-specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.However, as many as 381 beds are currently under use, and 162 of these are occupied by local patients.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said they have 251 Covid patients in Nehru Hospital Extension, out of which only 79 belong to Chandigarh, as 82 are from Punjab, 43 from Haryana, 27 from Himachal Pradesh, and eight from Uttar Pradesh.Similarly, out of the 130 bed occupants in GMCH-32, nearly one-third are from Punjab.Detailed discussion on issueDuring the review meeting of UT administration, health officials and PGIMER authorities, a detailed discussion was held on the issue.The PGIMER director said they had set up a 300-bed facility for Covid patients in Chandigarh, however, most of it has been occupied by outsiders reporting in the emergency ward who turn out to be infected when tested.Stating that they are actively considering to expand the Covid facility, Dr Jagat Ram said being a central government institute, they cannot deny treatment to people from other states.“Non-Covid healthcare system cannot be ignored any more. We have to strike a balance between the virus patients and those coming to the hospital with other ailments. We will see what can be done amid the rising cases,” he said.PGIMER told to prioritise locals: UT officialA senior UT official said, “PGIMER has been told to take up the matter with the central government and also augment the facility by turning Infosys Sarai into a hospital.” The officer added that it has been clarified to PGIMER that priority must be given to Chandigarh patients, while non-critical patients should be made to avail facilities locally in districts and that the patient inflow from neighbouring states must be regulated.Additional beds in the pipelineUT health secretary Arun Gupta said they are trying to increase Covid testing and add more beds for patients needing hospitalisation.“Around 150 beds with oxygen supply will be readied in GMSH-16. Similarly, more beds will be made available in GMCH-32 and Sector 48 civil hospital, but the area of concern remains that patients from outside the city are also getting admitted here, which is beyond our control,” Gupta said.He added that though most infected persons are in home isolation and very few are requiring hospitalisation, the rise in active caseload will also increase the need of beds.Out of 2,484 active cases in Chandigarh, 1,614 are in home isolation, while the remaining are in city’s four Covid care centres — Ayurvedic College in Sector 47, two hostels of Panjab University and Sood Dharamshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hospital-occupancy-by-outsiders-a-worry-as-cases-surge-in-chandigarh/story-G1UdP9BzbMtmsymCoreIrO.html
09-09-2020||Noida||Integrated control room launched for better waste management in Noida||The Noida authority on Wednesday launched an integrated control room for the better management of solid waste in the city. The objective of the ‘Integrated Control and Command Centre’ is to monitor the waste collection, transportation, and remediation of the waste at Sector 145 plant located off the Noida-Greater Noida expressway, said authority officials.“We want to provide a clean and healthy environment for all who visit and live in this city. This centre will increase the effectiveness of our efforts multi-fold and help our employees improve the quality of life for residents,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority, said after inaugurating the facility.The authority has built the control room with the support from HCL Foundation in its Sector 39 building.“HCL is committed to support the Noida authority in its mission of creating a clean, safe, beautiful and pollution-free city for every resident. To make this a reality, the state-of-the-art Integrated Control and Command Centre will help streamline city’s solid waste management mechanism. This is in continuation to our efforts to raise awareness among residents around proper waste disposal and segregation,” said Alok Varma, director, Project Clean Noida of HCL Foundation.The authority has also started a mobile application -- ‘Citizen Grievance Redressal’ -- to address issues raised by the residents. The application has identified 18 grievance categories as defined by the Swachh Bharat Mission.“The grievances, such as including open dumping, dead animal management, open urination and defecation, among others, will be addressed via this mobile application. With the help of this app, any citizen can register a complaint and get the issue related to sanitation resolved,” said a Noida authority official, on condition of anonymity.According to the officials, the authority will deploy six staff members at the control room to coordinate with the employees working at the ground. As per the authority, at least 4,000 sanitation employees work daily to keep the city clean. The authority has started the integrated control room to further improve the sanitation services in the city as the health department is upbeat after securing 25th spot in swachh survey in 2020 and wants to win first position in Uttar Pradesh. Noida has 165 sectors and 65 villages, where 900 metric tonne waste is produced daily. The authority started door-to-door waste collection with the help of 250 vehicles and 21 compact machines that crush the waste to transport it easily for remediation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/integrated-control-room-launched-for-better-waste-management-in-noida/story-iVDffqVRnQpTSOx1TfD91I.html
09-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad scores high in implementation of home isolation protocols||A weekly state report for monitoring the home isolation protocols in Ghaziabad said that the district was performing well as far as implementation of home isolation was concerned but has some shortfalls when it comes to provision of supplies to the patients who are isolated at home. According to official records of the district health department, till the evening of September 9, the district had 9,950 Covid-19 cases. Of these, 1,596 were active patients till September 9. Of the total number of active patients, at least 674 are in home isolation. The weekly survey was conducted with feedback from 88 patients in home isolation. The weekly state monitoring report, from September 1 to September 7, shared by the district officials on Wednesday states that the Ghaziabad district saw 94% of its Covid patients had been visited by rapid response team of the health department. Also, of the total number of patients surveyed, at least 83% said the rapid response teams had physically checked their health status.“Our home isolation setup is getting better day by day and Ghaziabad figures among the top districts in the Meerut division when it comes to implementation of home isolation protocols. Our rapid response teams are ensuring that patients in home isolation strictly follow protocols and remain safe when it comes to their health . We are constantly trying to improve,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. The home isolation facility was initiated by the UP government on July 21 for asymptomatic patients, who were allowed to remain at home if they fulfilled certain conditions like having pulse oxi-meter, thermometers, besides having availability of a care giver and adherence to other health protocols. The weekly survey report has indicated that only 88% patients had oxi-meter while 95% patients had thermometers. It also said that only 86% and 89% had been provided hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and Ivermectin tablets by the health teams, respectively. The state government in its protocols had mandated that patients in home isolation as well as their family members including the care giver should be provided with HCQ and Ivermectin as prophylactic medicines to fight Covid-19. The district health department officials said that they have sufficient stock of both the medicines and the rapid response teams had been instructed to ensure that every patient in home isolation had a pulse oxi-meter as well as thermometer. “During visits, our rapid response teams check if patients have thermometers and pulse oxi-meters available with them. It is on this basis that teams stationed at the integrated control and command centre take daily feedback and note down the health status of patients. We have sufficient stock of HCQ and Ivermectin and it will be provided to all patients,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Every small detail is checked with the patients and it is only after this that they are allowed home isolation. Since this survey is based on tele calls to patients, it is possible that some details sometimes get omitted or not mentioned. Otherwise, our patients in home isolation are doing well,” he added. After getting the nod last month, home isolation has been the preferred choice for asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 and it has led to reduction in number of people admitted to L1 category Covid-19 hospitals in Ghaziabad. According to official records on September 9, there were 1996 patients who were allowed home isolation and 1,322 had been discharged as per norms. About 136 of the home isolated patients had also been referred to various healthcare facilities after they developed health complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-scores-high-in-implementation-of-home-isolation-protocols/story-EUMEbJPf3tgbLfgL3fzveL.html
09-09-2020||Noida||From first Covid-19 positive case, GB Nagar reaches 9,000-mark in 184 days||After the first Covid-19 positive case was reported in Gautam Budh Nagar district on March 8, it took another 184 days for the overall positive tally to reach 9,000-mark on September 8. The first 1,000 positive cases were recorded in 99 days while the last thousand took just seven days. According to official figures, with 238 new positive cases (beating the previous highest number of cases in a day on Tuesday) and one death reported on Wednesday, GB Nagar’s overall tally has gone to 9,356. In March and April, 38 and 100 cases were reported in the district, respectively. In May, 315 positive cases were recorded and 1,759 in June. The surge began in July, when 2,794 cases were reported in a month followed by 2,864 in August. In September, the Covid-19 infection appears to be moving in top gear with 1,486 new cases in just first nine days. Covid-19 deaths peaked in July with 20 fatalities. While no death was recorded in March and April, there were seven deaths in May, 15 in June, three in August and three in September till Wednesday. District magistrate Suhas LY said with all economic activities coming back on track, the main aim of the administration is to reduce the case fatality rate (CFR) to the minimum possible level. “We have got success in this connection. GB Nagar district’s CFR is 0.51%, which is much better than the national CFR of 1.72% and the state CFR of 1.44%. It clearly indicates our sampling rate and recovery rate are increasing. Not only that, GB Nagar has the lowest mortality rate among the districts of the state,” he said. The DM said the administration is leaving no stone unturned to implement stringent containment rules. “We have ramped up testing and started effective monitoring of patients under home isolation. Early hospitalisation for patients needing medical support and efficient infection control in healthcare facilities are our top priorities.” The district administration, on Wednesday, declared a fresh list of 384 containment zones, including 362 in category-1 (where there is only one case) and other 22 in category-2 (more than one case). Under category-1, a containment zone in urban areas will have a 250-metre radius or the entire mohalla (floor, in case the patient resides in a society), while in category-2, there will be an added 250-metre buffer zone (tower and common facilities, in case of a society). “In rural areas, the village will be taken as a containment zone if there is one case. If there is more than one case, the adjoining village will be a buffer zone,” said the DM. GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said several measures were being taken to increase surveillance and minimise the fatality rate. “Due to the continuous effort of our doctors and paramedics, GB Nagar has one of the lowest case fatality rates (CFR) of 0.51% in the country. Less than 19% of our cases remain as over 81% of the total positive cases have been cured. We are trying to give best possible drugs and treatment to all patients, irrespective of their financial position. Plasma therapy has been used successfully by GIMS and recently, a private plasma bank has been set up in Noida, which will provide free plasma to poor patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/from-first-covid-19-positive-case-gb-nagar-reaches-9-000-mark-in-184-days/story-oAzPAYTLgyIDsIzoAwIs4K.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||UILS five-year law entrance: Conducting exam not possible amid pandemic, says PU panel||A Panjab University (PU) panel on Wednesday recommended that conducting the entrance examination for the five-year law course in the present circumstances is not possible by the varsity.The panel, headed by PU law department dean and syndicate member Anu Chatrath, was constituted after the Punjab and Haryana high court had asked the university to reconsider its decision on scrapping the entrance test for the law course run by University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS).The recommendation, which was made during an online meeting on Wednesday, is subject to approval by PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.The high court had asked PU to take a decision by September 15 and upload it on its website.A panel member requesting anonymity said, “It was observed in the meeting that owing to the continuous spread of Covid-19 it will not be possible to conduct any entrance test as the university does not have the required infrastructure for the same.”“We have already carried out admission on merit basis for BPharma, BSc (Honours) and a few other courses,” said a other member of the panel.Apart from this, it was also recommended to not hold entrance tests for PG courses if the pandemic situation did not improve. PU has already decided to scrap the undergraduate entrance tests that were scheduled for October this year.The decision to scrap the law entrance, which was taken on August 11 in view of Covid-19 outbreak, was challenged by two aspirants Navya Raj and Saurav Rao. They had argued that the premise not to hold the entrance is not valid when PU was taking such exams for other courses. Class 12 marks as a sole criterion for determining the suitability of a candidate for admission to the course would be neither reasonable nor reliable, they had contended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/uils-five-year-law-entrance-conducting-exam-not-possible-amid-pandemic-says-pu-panel/story-88ogJf3jd99Jt62goAAHoJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Lured by online iPhone deal, Panchkula woman duped of ₹30,000||The police here have registered a cheating case after a Sector 17 resident alleged of being duped of ₹30,000 by a man who claimed to be an online seller of iPhones.The complainant has been identified as 34-year-old Tanvi Kathuria.In her complaint to the deputy commissioner of police, Tanvi mentioned that a fraudster posing as an online seller of iPhones, lured her with a lucrative offer on WhatsApp only to dupe her of ₹30,000 which she paid via Paytm.“He uses a policy of 10% advance and 90% cash payment upon delivery of product. I am sure many people would be falling for the offer as I did too. He offered me a very good deal – a combo offer of phone, watch and earphones – if I made an upfront payment of ₹30,000 via Paytm,” she stated in her complaint.She deposited ₹30,000 on July 16, however, the product was never delivered. Later, the accused blocked her contact.She said when she somehow found the accused’s alternate number and asked for her money, he “promised to refund the amount, provided she told him who shared his contact information with her”. The woman alleged that there must be many others duped by him and demanded police action against the fraudster.The police have filed an FIR under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lured-by-online-iphone-deal-panchkula-woman-duped-of-30-000/story-c2jtk83HNaXJQ48JsLDW2I.html
09-09-2020||City||PAU to hold virtual kisan mela on September 18, 19||Ludhiana GS Buttar, additional director of extension education, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), on Wednesday informed that owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the kisan mela (farmers’ fair) will be held online on September 18 and 19. Buttar was speaking during PAU’s Facebook live programme wherein experts interacted with farmers and addressed their queries. During the mela, the farmers will be provided an opportunity to take part in a question-answer session through social media, he added. Informing them about seed availability, he said, “PAU has an exemplary linkage with the farmers of Punjab and its adjoining states and every effort is being made to solve their problems at their doorstep.” SK Thind, additional director communication and in charge, Plant Clinic, said, “With the guidance of JS Mahal, director of extension education and Kamal Vatta, comptroller, PAU has started the online sale of University publications.” “The farmers can make the payment online in Bank of Baroda (account no. 29380200000002, IFSC-BARB0PAULUD). The receipt of the transaction money along with the name, village, tehsil, district, pin code, mobile number, and email should be sent on 82880-57707 or email: businessmanager@pau.edu for the regular supply of PAU publications,” he added. Thind also provided tips for the management of sheath blight and false smut of rice, pea root rot, and various other diseases of different crops. SS Walia, senior agronomist, dwelt on the integrated farming system model and said it was beneficial for the small farmers from a nutritional and economic point of view. Vijay Kumar, senior entomologist, advised the farmers to follow PAU recommendations for pink bollworm management in cotton. Keshani, assistant microbiologist, while explaining the cultivation practices of dhingri and button mushrooms, said, “PAU urbanites can also grow mushrooms by purchasing the mushroom package, developed by PAU, for Rs 50/- only.” Harpreet Kaur, assistant entomologist, asked the farmers to monitor their maize crop to prevent the attack of fall armyworm while KK Gill, assistant agrometeorologist, shared the performance of monsoons in 2020 and weather forecast to be followed for various crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-to-hold-virtual-kisan-mela-on-september-18-19/story-FATooKWeik4tTVRpzi1PpK.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Record 23,816 new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, 325 deaths||Maharashtra reported a single-day highest spike of 23,816 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday which took its tally to 9,67,349, a health department official said.The death toll rose to 27,787 with 325 patients succumbing to the viral infection, he added.The number of recovered Covid-19 patients increased to 8,86,462 with 13,906 patients being discharged from the hospitals during the day.As per the state government’s data, Mumbai also recorded its highest single-day spike of 2,227 which took its coronavirus tally to 1,60,744, while the death toll in the state capital rose to 7,985 with 43 new fatalities.Maharashtra’s recovery rate is 70.96 per cent.Over 48.83 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted so far in the state, of which 9,67,349 or 19.81 per cent tested positive.As many as 16,11,280 people were home quarantined, while 37,644 are in institutional quarantine.Presently Maharashtra has 2,52,734 active patients, including 65,361 in Pune alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/record-23-816-new-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-325-deaths/story-fXA4sZBOP7Jg9wLREKv0uL.html
09-09-2020||Noida||Akshay Kalra murder case: Residents’ associations in Noida demand arrests||A group of residents on Wednesday held a meeting at Stellar Park Society in Noida’s Sector 62, demanding that arrests be made in the murder case of Akshay Kalra, the 24-year-old student who was critically injured while resisting car robbery outside his house in the area on September 2 and died two days later at a private hospital. Residents said that even after a week, the Noida police have not been able to find a concrete clue in this case.S K Gupta, the convener of the Coordination Committee of residents’ welfare association (RWA) federation Sector 62, said that 47 high-rise societies are members of this committee. “All members and residents are concerned over the safety and security of residents since Kalra’s death. So we planned the meeting wherein members of some societies shared their opinions on phone and through whatsapp. Members of 25 residential societies participated in the meeting in person,” he said.Gupta said that the police did a good job by rushing Kalra to a hospital. “However, they should have immediately sealed Noida’s borders and launched a manhunt. But they did not do so and the suspect(s) managed to escape with the car. The police have not shared with us any concrete clue they got in this case. We are planning to meet the Noida police commissioner over the issue,” Gupta said.Pradeep Mishra, RWA president of Stellar Park, said residents also demand that the police install CCTV cameras at various places to ensure safety of commuters. Kalra’s father Gulshan also attended the meeting. “Police had earlier assured us that the case will be solved soon. But they have not made any arrest. We hope the criminals are brought to book,” he said.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, meanwhile said that the police have mapped the city and already made a project to install CCTV cameras at different places under the Safe City Project. “The Central and state governments will fund the project at a 60:40 ratio. The police have also improved night patrolling in Noida. We are also changing the patrolling routes and improving the presence of police personnel on roads,” he said.On investigation in the Kalra murder case, Singh said 50 personnel in ten teams are conducting searches in western Uttar Pradesh district such as Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Meerut, as well as in neighbouring Delhi, Haryana and Jaipur. “We have scanned about 30 cameras from the route Kalra took that night. We hope to solve the case soon,” he said. The student was left critically injured after resisting unidentified carjackers who fled with his SUV just about 100 metres from his home in Sector 62. He had left his house in Stellar Park, a housing society in Noida’s Sector 62, in a white Hyundai Creta car at 10.45pm. However, sometime later, a police team found him unconscious on the road with several injuries. His wallet was also missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/akshay-kalra-murder-case-residents-associations-in-noida-demand-arrests/story-avs9RkWopFiM3uXdIj0kpN.html
09-09-2020||City||Parents’ association claims their fee protest sabotaged, cops lodge FIR||The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday cleared a parents’ protest outside the district headquarters, claiming they had to test them for Covid-19. Other parents, however, claim that the test was just an excuse to prevent them from making their “legitimate” demands heard.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday had lent her support to the protest and, in a Facebook post, asked that the government intervene.The Ghaziabad parents’ association had been on a hunger strike since September 2, demanding the waiver of school quarterly fee for the lockdown period when many of them had lost their jobs or suffered a pay cut. They also demanded that school fees should be based on online education and not regular fees.On Tuesday, its president Seema Tyagi was admitted to hospital after her health deteriorated. On Wednesday 7am, police picked up the four protesting parents, including a woman, and took them to MMG Hospital for the test. “We suspected that the protesters had come in contact with a circle officer who was posted on duty at the site and tested positive for Covid-19. So, we took them for Covid-19 testing. Further, since the protest was in violation of prohibitory orders, the district officials gave a police complaint on the basis of which we registered an FIR,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). The FIR included IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). GPA members, however, suspected the removal was planned and said they could not contact those who had been picked up.“One of the four is a woman who is diabetic and her husband was frantically searching for her to give her medicines but none of them could be found at the police station, police line or the MMG Hospital. Once the parents were picked up, the cops also took away our tents, generators sets and other items which we had hired. It is a planned action against the parents as the district officials have no answers to our demands,” said Seema Tyagi from a private hospital in Kavi Nagar. She said that it was surprising that the administration woke up to their protest only on Wednesday. “We had given the administration a written intimation of our protest about 15 days ago. Suddenly, they found our protest illegal on Wednesday. It is also surprising that the police took away only four parents for testing and no other persons or police personnel deployed at the site. There were hundreds of people who had come to the site to support us,” Tyagi said. “In case any of our four members turn positive for Covid-19 we will get them retested. We have lost trust in the health department’s reports.”When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey referred the matter to Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate (city) who did not respond to repeated calls for comment. Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr. NK Gupta said that the district administration sought his opinion for testing the protesters. “I opined that everyone must be tested and not specifically just four persons,” he said. MMG Hospital chief medical superintendent Dr Anurag Bhargava said, “All four were tested negative on the TrueNat machine. Till the time their test reports came, they were made to stay in holding area,” he said. A holding area is where people who are awaiting their test results are made to wait. Till Wednesday late evening, HT could not reach the four persons for comment.Congress supportThe Congress in the afternoon gathered near Ghanta Ghar and tried to block the road in protest. “We came to support the parents’ protest. The action against them is totally unacceptable,” said Bijender Yadav, Ghaziabad district president from the Congress. SP (city)Verma said that the police so far did not lodge any FIR against the Congress protesters but may act if the administration complains. “They were trying to block the main road at Ghanta Ghar but were from doing so. About five or six of them were picked up and later let off. As of now there is no FIR lodged,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-association-claims-their-fee-protest-sabotaged-cops-lodge-fir/story-Ysjc5WWAdKkc3wclPaDJpI.html
09-09-2020||City||NCRTC finalises outer structure of all elevated rapid rail stations||The Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project has started taking shape with the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) placing of segments on the pillars. It has also finalised the outer structure of all its elevated stations in the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor. The 82km RRTS route will connect the three cities through 24 stations, 21 of which are in Uttar Pradesh. The project will run high speed trains and estimates to have ridership of about 800,000 daily passengers. “The contours of the outer structure of the stations have been finalised. The buildings will be environment friendly and sustainable while giving a unique look,” said Sudhir Sharma, chief public relations officer (PRO) of NCRTC. The officials said that the RRTS station facade will be modular, easy to fabricate and erect. They will comprise of diamond shaped panels to give 3D effect to the external facade. “Each station will be energy efficient with availability of ample natural sunlight and equipped with solar panels besides having exquisite aesthetic appeal. It will have diagonal structure in the facade which signifies mobility, a sense of motion which is the basis of high speed RRTS trains,” said an officer from NCRTC. Officials added that the outer design was finalised for all 20 elevated stations, the rest are underground stations with one in Delhi and three in Meerut. They added that the aesthetically appealing external envelope will be combination of perforated metal sheet, louvres, corrugated sheet, glass panel and polycarbonate roofing which will give unique identity to RRTS stations. All the stations will be designed with solar panels on roof and will be energy efficient and studded with environment friendly lighting fixtures will full compliance to Indian Green Building Council guidelines “The RRTS stations will be unique and bigger than the metro stations as we will be deploying nine coach trains to the network. The work for construction of stations has started and the project has started taking shape at ground level as we have started with placing of pre-cast segments over the pillars (like in the metro network) with the help of two launcher machines,” the officer said. The pre-cast segments for the RRTS project are being constructed at a site in Vasundhara. The entire RRTS project is pegged at Rs 30274 crore and proposed to run high speed trains between Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut with a speed of about 180kmph. The NCRTC has already identified a priority stretch of 17km in Ghaziabad (Sahibabad to Duhai) for which the work started initially while the works have also started for the other 33km connecting stretch from Duhai to Shatabdipuram in Meerut. The priority section is scheduled for commissioning in March, 2023 while the entire 82km long corridor (Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut) will be put into operations by March, 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncrtc-finalises-outer-structure-of-all-elevated-rapid-rail-stations/story-ybuK9hIRCmS1W9fxrVnRsJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Commuters cautious, virus vigil strict as Blue Line comes back to life||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday, after a near six month pause, reopened services on its Blue line network, which connects multiple stations in Noida and Ghaziabad and caters to a large passenger base. Blue Line, which runs from Dwarka Sector 21 to Noida Electronic City and Vaishali, experienced low ridership on Day 1 of its reopening, something that Metro officials had expected. Officials and passengers, however, hoped that the ridership will pick up once the frequency of trains increase and other lines in the network open up.At present, the Blue line has been opened for graded passenger operation only between 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm. The DMRC has so far opened up the Yellow line, Pink line and the Blue line of the Metro system which together witnessed a total ridership of about 33,000 between 7am to 11am. A DMRC spokesperson said that the Yellow line accounted for 21,900 passengers, Blue line 9,600 and the Pink line saw a ridership of 1,800 between 7am to 11am on Wednesday. At the Blue line’s Electronic City station in Noida, security personnel and Metro staff could be spotted armed in safety gear, marshalling passengers or checking them in. At the entry gates, the temperature of every passenger was checked, with the travellers also being required to compulsorily sanitise their bag/luggage before being allowed to get on trains. As part of the travel guidelines issued for reopening of Metro systems, commuters are also required to sanitize their hands via an automatic machine and then be frisked before being given entry to stations. On Wednesday commuters expressed satisfaction and said they were happy that the Metro services had finally resumed.hubham Kumar, a resident of Delhi, said that he faced absolutely no inconvenience in commuting on Wednesday. “I had boarded the Metro at Rajiv Chowk and came to Noida’s Sector 61. The commute was smooth and hassle free,” he said. Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Sector 49, said “I boarded the Metro at City Centre and got down at Electronic City. There was absolutely no crowd and the safety measures in place are satisfactory,” he said. The other branch of the Blue line network terminates in Ghaziabad, with two stations at Kaushambi and Vaishali. At the Vaishali station in Ghaziabad, the day started on a dull note with only a handful of passengers using the Metro in the morning hours. The number, however, picked up significantly later with passengers spotted waiting in long serpentine queues that snaked their way almost to the main road outside the station.“The long queues were result of strict checks being done at the station. All social distancing norms were in place and every passenger while entering the station was asked to sanitize their hands. So, this led to the delay and queues started forming,” said Saurabh Kumar, one of the passengers who boarded the Metro train at Vaishali. Anuj Agarwal, another commuter, said that Metro was the lifeline of NCR and now that it had been reopened it would solve the issue of commuting between Delhi and Gurugram. “I am going to Gurugram to join my office. All these days I had opted to work from home as commuting would have been difficult. But with the Metro open now, I can go to my office. This will benefit thousands of residents who commute daily,” he said. At the station, many passengers on Wednesday were spotted downloading the ‘Arogya Setu’ app, which has been made mandatory by the DMRC in its guidelines issued for safe travel. Ghaziabad city is also connected to the Red line network of the DMRC, that has eight stations in the city. The DMRC on Wednesday said that they will be running 35 trains on Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda in Ghaziabad) and performing around 413 train trips during morning and evening hours from September 10 onwards. “The trips will be subsequently increased as the operational timing of services get extended on September 11 and September 12 with the opening of other Lines in a graded manner,” the DMRC spokesperson said in a statement. DMRC’s Blue line Sector 52 and Aqua Line’s (of the Noida Metro Rail Corporation) Sector 51 serve as interchange stations where free e-rickshaw service is provided for commuting. On Wednesday, as the Metro services reopened, there were very few takers for the e-rickshaw service. Shiv Kumar, an e-rickshaw driver, said that only two passengers can sit in a e-rickshaw at a time due to Covid safety norms. “We have separated the seats with a plastic sheet. This was the first day, hence we got about 10-12 commuters for interchange in the first half,” he said. Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said that NMRC does not keep a record of e-rickshaw commuters. Aqua Line had started its services on Monday registering ridership of 600 passengers on the first day. On Tuesday, it had recorded 725 passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commuters-cautious-virus-vigil-strict-as-blue-line-comes-back-to-life/story-skaj03fCeVYtUeBTtQfycI.html
09-09-2020||City||Don’t wait till Oct-end to declare results, Delhi HC tells DU||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked Delhi University (DU) to clarify its stand on the evaluation process of final-year undergraduate students who had appeared in the first phase of the online open-book examination (OBE). It said there was no reason for the varsity to seek time till October-end to declare the results if comparative grading of the students was not required to done.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad asked the varsity to submit information on the number of students, and their subject streams, who have requested for comfort letters to travel abroad for studies. In the CGPA system, students are evaluated on the basis of the average of grade points obtained by them for all semesters after the completion of the course. Under the SGPA grading system, the students are graded on their performance in a single session or semester.The court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Joginder Sukhija, who sought early declaration of results as his daughter was seeking admission in a foreign university. The application was filed in a pending petition by a law student Prateek Sharma, who had sought better facilities for physically disabled students in the online examination.In his plea, Sukhija said the draft comfort letter that the varsity had mailed him, during the course of the hearing, will not suffice. He said the last date for enrolment at Cambridge University is October 10 whereas the draft letter refers to declaration of results by the end of October, 2020.On Wednesday, senior advocate BB Gupta and advocate Kamal Gupta, members of the Grievance Redressal Committee (GRC), said the Cumulative Grade Point Assessment (CGPA) and Semester Grade Point Assessment (SGPA) do not require any comparative grading of students, and there does not appear any clarity in this regard from Delhi University.Senior advocate Sachin Datta said final-year postgraduate students are assigned marks on a percentage basis and not through grading. Professor Ajay Arora from the university, who is the grievance officer, told the court he received mails from 47 students for expeditious declaration of results. He said in his estimate, not more than 400 final-year students, both in undergraduate and postgraduate courses, would plan to travel abroad for further studies.The court then asked the varsity to clarify its stand on the evaluation process, while suggesting that the results should be declared by September 15 if the comparative method is not being used. It asked the university to file an affidavit and posted the matter till September 15.Delhi University acting dean (examination) DS Rawat wrote to all colleges on Wednesday, asking them to expedite the evaluation process. “I’m to inform you that the examination branch is in receipt of requests from students who have appeared for the first phase of OBE for an early declaration of results for the different undergraduate courses. Some students have taken up the matter with the court ...you are requested to advise your teachers to expedite the evaluation process so that the same is completed within 5-6 days. This may be treated as urgent since the examination branch has to produce the tentative schedule of the results before the court on 22.09.2020,” the dean said in the letter sent to all the principals of DU colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-wait-till-oct-end-to-declare-results-delhi-hc-tells-du/story-QmaGowTAe9RI7EOjHvHtOJ.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh curbs planned in Chandigarh: UT adviser||The Chandigarh administration is unlikely to impose fresh restrictions to break the chain of coronavirus infection in the city.The issue of imposing fresh lockdown curbs was discussed in the Wednesday’s war room review meeting, but a decision was not reached.UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “We have been following directions of the Government of India. At this stage restrictions are unlikely to help.”Earlier, on Tuesday, with record 377 Covid-19 cases surfacing in the city, the administration had declared 24 areas as micro-containment zones. UT administrator VPS Badnore on Wednesday expressed grave concern over the rising number of cases. He suggested that for early detection of symptomatic persons, the help of municipal councillors should be taken.Municipal commissioner KK Yadav was directed to set up a control room where councillors could call to share information about patients in their areas to facilitate testing, quarantine and transportation and admission to hospitals. Yadav assured it will be made operational within a day.Badnore also appealed to the councillors to collect information about symptomatic and suspected cases in their areas and inform the health authorities to ensure early detection and treatment and reduce fatalities. “The onus also lies on the citizens to join the battle against Covid. They should join hands with the administration and co-operate,” Badnore said.Meanwhile, Badnore was informed that acting on the UT’s request, the central government has supplied 30 additional ventilators to the city: 10 for the PGIMER and 20 for GMCH-32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-fresh-curbs-planned-in-chandigarh-ut-adviser/story-kOt2DqjViS70h4tq9SgEeJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Panchkula’s Covid death toll doubles in 10 days||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases in Panchkula district, casualties have also shot up with the death toll doubling in just 10 days.As many as 19 people have lost their life to the virus between August 31 and September 9, which is equal to the number of those who died since the infection was first reported in the district in March. This month, on an average, two people have succumbed daily, including two who died on Wednesday, taking the toll to 38. Even as the health authorities have been reiterating that their main focus is on bringing down the mortality, the alarming figures present a different picture. The district had recorded only two deaths till July 31. August saw 18 fatalities, same as in the first nine days of September.At six, maximum deaths have been recorded in Pinjore this month, followed by four in Sector 9. Those who died include a 14-year-old boy from Kundi village and a 90-year-old man from Sector 21. 143 fresh cases, two deathsThe two people who died on Wednesday include a 67-year-old woman from Sector 19, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease. The other, a 52-year-old man from Raiwali village in Barwala, had diabetes and hypertension.Meanwhile, 143 people tested positive for the infection, taking the case tally to 3,458. Among them is Aman Chaudhary, who is the son of Kalka MLA Pradeep Choudhary. He shared the information on social media and asked those who came in his contact to isolate themselves.Nine cases pertain to ITBP personnel. In Panchkula city, cases have been reported from Sectors 2-4, 7, 8, 10-21 and 23-25.While there are 1,266 active cases in the district, 2,154 patients have been discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-covid-death-toll-doubles-in-10-days/story-CrE0UfYPsjXKizbM9n191O.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity count goes past 15,000 with record 782 cases||The number of Covid-19 cases in the tricity remained above 700 for the second consecutive day, as record 782 people tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. As many as 714 cases had surfaced on Tuesday.The fresh cases also took the total past 15,000. While 15,748 people have tested positive so far, 5,904 (37%) of them have not been cured yet. In fact, 9.4% of the total cases have been reported in just the past two days.Mohali district, too, recorded its steepest surge with 307 cases. Chandigarh and Panchkula reported 332 and 307 infections, respectively. With 12 people succumbing to the virus, the tricity’s toll has climbed to 239. 332 test +ve, 2 succumb in UTA day after recording its steepest surge of 377 cases, Chandigarh reported 332 infections on Wednesday, while two people succumbed taking the toll to 722.The UT’s tally has increased to 6,704 infections, 2,484 of which are still active.Both of those who died — 30-year-old man from Dhanas and 76-year-old woman from Khuda Jassu — were comorbid.Seeing the surge, UT Administrator VPS Badnore in the daily review meeting directed the health department to create more Covid-19 care centres.“The administrator directed all three medical institutions to ramp up testing, enhance beds and take personal care of critical patients,” an official release stated.Record spike, 8 deaths in MohaliWith eight more people losing battle against Covid-19, the toll in Mohali district has reached 124. Also, the steepest single-day spike of 307 cases took the tally to 5,581. However, with 351 people being discharged, including those in home isolation, the number of active cases came down to 2,154. As many as 3,303 patients have recovered so far. Those, who died on Friday included five men, aged 45, 48, 58, 59 and 66, and three women, aged 57, 59 and 70. These deaths were reported from Majatri, Sohana, Banur, Gilco Valley in Kharar, Balongi, Zirakpur and Phase 4 in Mohali. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all of them had comorbidities and had been hospitalised for more than a week. Among the fresh cases, 157 are from Mohali city, 65 from Dhakoli, 45 from Kharar and 25 from Gharuan. The district had seen the previous biggest surge of 272 cases on September 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-tricity-count-goes-past-15-000-with-record-782-cases/story-GPNUse4PBdz5hk7tQ9bQiK.html
09-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 5,092 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, 68 deaths on Wednesday||Pune district reported 5,092 fresh positive Covid-19 cases and 46 deaths on Wednesday, according to the state health department. This takes the progressive positive count to 2,12,563. Of the total cases, 1,42,618 have recovered, 4,584 were declared dead and 65,361 are active cases. Wednesday’s total positive cases of 5,092 in a day is one of the highest reported so far as per the state health department. PMC reported 2,340 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,19,291 and 28 deaths in the last 24 hours till Wednesday evening took the death toll to 2,845. PCMC reported 1,215 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 57,105 and six deaths in the last 24 hours till Wednesday evening took the death toll to 875. Pune rural reported 1,573 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 36,167 and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours till Wednesday evening took the death toll to 864.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-5-092-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-68-deaths-on-wednesday/story-MgEL7rIXF6FmM4cJ4wB81J.html
09-09-2020||City||Police get 108 social media accounts blocked over rumour-mongering||Chandigarh As part of its crackdown against those inciting the public with malicious content on organ harvesting, and other misinformation with regard to Covid-19, the Punjab Police has got 38 Facebook, 49 Twitter and 21 YouTube accounts/links blocked. The police had flagged 151 accounts/links of Facebook, 100 of Twitter, four of Instagram and 37 of YouTube with the organisations running the platforms. Also, 121 FIRs have been registered so far across Punjab. State police chief Dinkar Gupta said the Punjab Police’s Bureau of Investigations (BoI) had taken up the matter of blocking the spiteful accounts/links with the cyber law division, ministry of electronics and information technology. Gupta said the authorities of the social media platforms had also been requested to provide information about such users, so that suitable legal action can be taken against them. Director BoI Arpit Shukla has also appealed to the people not to share any kind of unverified/unauthentic posts, news, videos or stories regarding Covid on social media platforms. The Chief Minister had ordered the crackdown amid widespread rumour-mongering and fake news on the social media to spread hatred, misinformation and disaffection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-get-108-social-media-accounts-blocked-over-rumour-mongering/story-mt8sU1SA1QI2lpeRR67VbJ.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Parents request CBSE to waive off registration fee of classes 10,12||The All India Parents Association (AIPA) has written to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), requesting it to waive off the registration fees for classes 10 and 12 this year in view of the financial problems due to the Covid-enforced lockdown. In CBSE-affiliated schools, students of classes 10 and 12 have to pay between Rs 2,000 and Rs 2,500 registration fee, including practical charges and others. Students also have to pay Rs 500 as fine in case they do not pay the registration fee within the deadline.In a letter sent to CBSE on Tuesday, AIPA president Ashok Agarwal said, “In the unprecedented pandemic that this country is facing, many parents have lost their jobs and source of livelihood. However, instead of being considerate and helping the students and parents, the CBSE has chosen this time to put the parents and students under more duress by levying registration charges of approximately Rs 2,450 per student.”“Most of the students in government schools are from underprivileged backgrounds. Many parents are pulling out their kids from private schools as they are not being able to pay their tuition fees. Putting them under more financial stress will result in large scale exodus by students from schools… We hope that you will understand the enormity of this problem and withdraw the order (asking for the registration fee)” the letter added.Anu, a class 12 student at a government school in Delhi, said, “Both my brother and I are in Class 12 this year and have been told to submit Rs 2,500 each as the CBSE registration fee. Our father, who was working as a mechanic, lost his job amid the lockdown. We do not know what to do now.”A senior official at the CBSE said, “The board doesn’t receive any money for the exams from the government or any other agency. It won’t be possible for the board to waive the registration fee. How will we conduct the exams then? We work on a no profit and no loss basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parents-request-cbse-to-waive-off-registration-fee-of-classes-10-12/story-oW0gjygJ2CkZs08oYFnSQN.html
09-09-2020||City||Over 1k fined for Covid norm violations so far: NDMC||New Delhi: The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Wednesday said it has issued over 1,000 fines for violations of Covid-19 norms, including for not wearing face masks and spitting in public places over the past two months. The civic body, which administers the Lutyens’ Delhi area, has been running a drive against Covid-19 norm violations under the Swachh Bharat Mission. “We have issued 991 fines for not wearing face masks, and 17 for spitting in public places between July 2 and till date. An enforcement team is on the ground to keep a vigil in public parks, markets and roadsides,” an NDMC spokesperson said. The civic body on Wednesday also conducted an awareness drive in Nehru Park and Lodhi Garden along with the help of the Delhi Police on the precautions to be taken when stepping out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-1k-fined-for-covid-norm-violations-so-far-ndmc/story-kEEXqmogb90gbfmQZKzebP.html
09-09-2020||City||Sisodia announces relief for artisans, cuts rents at govt tourism complexes||New Delhi: In a relief to artisans and craftsmen in Delhi, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the Delhi government will cut rents at its tourism complexes and Dilli Haats and give concession in the pending amount. He said stalls at government tourism complexes will provided to artisans for just ₹500-600 a month. The decision was taken during the board meeting of the Delhi Tourism and Transport Development Corporation (DTTDC). “Due to the Covid-19 epidemic and lockdown, artisans who could not manage to get stalls at Delhi Haat and other places because of high rentals will be provided slots at an economical rate. Under the regular course, anyone wanting to set up a stall would have to spend thousands or at times even a few lakhs, but now the same would be available only for ₹500-600 a month,” Sisodia said in a statement. He said it has been decided to waive off the entire rent amount for the lockdown months of food stall owners and vendors at Dilli Haat and other such complexes. “DTTDC is of the view this at this point, it is necessary to retain those vendors/operators who have been associated with it for a long time by giving relaxations to them,” Sisodia said. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, all properties leased by DTTDC were shut down from March 20. The institutions, including Delhi Haats (INA, Pitampura and Janakpuri), Garden of Five Senses, and Nature Bazar, among others, were thrown open from July 4. However, a lot of artisans set up shop only later. In Delhi Haat INA, 166 craft stalls have been allotted to artisans from across the country. It was also decided to distribute the 46 commercial stalls among the local craftsmen on a first-come, first-served basis, to allow business to pick up, it said. Artisans said the rents for craft shops range from ₹ 15,000-₹30,000 while for food stalls it ranges between ₹50,000 and ₹60,000. “We are not aware of the decision regarding the relaxations yet. Though consultations have been going on for long, we are yet to be communicated the same. Business is still slow, but if we get discount on rents, it will help us survive in a major way,” said a crafts stall owner at Dilli Haat, INA, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-announces-relief-for-artisans-cuts-rents-at-govt-tourism-complexes/story-6BZ0E4BAtZlarzYnF0yWXI.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Man murdered by two friends over Rs 1,000 he loaned to one of them||An altercation over ₹1,000 cost a 19-year-old man his life as he was stabbed nearly half a dozen times by his two friends in north-east Delhi’s Welcome on Tuesday evening, police said. The two fled the crime scene but were caught late Tuesday night along with the murder weapon, said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya.Surya said the arrested men, identified by their first names as Sohail and Farhan, both aged 19 years, told the police that they murdered their friend Amaan over a monetary dispute. “Sohail had borrowed ₹1,000 from Amaan and was not returning it despite Amaan’s repeated demands. They often had arguments over that. Some days ago, Amaan had also assaulted him over the same issue,” the DCP said.On Tuesday, Sohail and Farhan called Amaan out of his home to sort out their differences. “An altercation broke out between them and the duo stabbed Amaan five to six times and fled. Amaan was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” a police officer said, requesting anonymity.A murder case was registered and the two suspects were caught after multiple searches in north-east Delhi late evening, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-murdered-by-two-friends-over-1-000-he-loaned-to-one-of-them/story-y1TJBPCGqwvEyX8WUdBfFJ.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Two held for abducting and killing man, fleeing with his phone, wallet to buy drugs||Two men, one of them an auto-rickshaw driver, have been arrested for allegedly abducting, robbing, and murdering a 48-year-old man, whose decomposed body was discovered from a drain in outer Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy a fortnight ago, police said Wednesday.The two allegedly strangled the man, who worked as manager at a weighing scale shop in Alipur, just to rob him of his cellphone and wallet containing ₹200 to buy narcotic substances, a senior police officer, associated with the case, said. The police have recovered the manager’s stolen wallet and phone that the two had sold to a truck driver. The arrested men were identified as auto-rickshaw driver Mohammad Shakeel,30, and his friend Rinku,33, said deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma.Police said on August 25, Shekeel was driving his auto along with Rinku when they spotted the manager, Kale Shah Khan, waiting for public transport near the Bhalaswa dumping yard.“The manager asked them to drop him to Azadpur and they agreed. On the way, they allegedly stopped the vehicle, overpowered Khan, and strangled him with a towel. They dumped Khan’s body in a drain in Bhalswa Dairy area, took his cellphone and wallet, and fled, the DCP said.Sharma said on August 28, Khan’s employer Mohammad Abdul Ahmed filed a missing person complaint over Khan’s disappearance. Police inquiry revealed that Khan was untraceable since August 25, when he left his workplace for home. After finding that Khan’s cellphone was switched off, police put in on surveillance.While checking the list of unidentified bodies found in Delhi, the Alipur police learnt that a man’s body matching the descriptions of Khan was found in a drain in Bhalswa Dairy area on August 27. A murder case was already registered in connection with the recovery of the body at the Bhalswa Dairy police station, police said.As Khan’s wallet and cellphone were missing, the case was probed from robbery and personal enmity angles. Last week, the police got the first breakthrough when technical surveillance led them to truck driver Param Singh from Wazirabad, who had Khan’s stolen phone. Singh told them that he had purchased it from two men, but did not know their names or addresses, the officer said.“We kept our eyes on Singh. The trick worked as he searched for the suspects in Wazirabad and returned the phone to them, saying he wanted its original bill receipt. We laid a trap and caught the duo with the phone and also recovered Khan’s wallet,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-held-for-abducting-and-killing-man-fleeing-with-his-phone-wallet-to-buy-drugs/story-0uvJLae2Rk0I703Tgl47jL.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Woman arrested for cheating brothers on the pretext of providing govt jobs||Police on Wednesday said they have arrested a 57-year-old woman for allegedly cheating job aspirants in the name of providing them government jobs in Delhi. The woman, investigators said, has previously been involved in five similar cases of cheating and was arrested in these cases in the last one decade and let out on bail.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said that on Tuesday afternoon, the Hazrat Nizamuddin police received a call that “a woman cheat has been caught in Bhogal market.” A police team reached the spot and found that one Anita Dhiman alias Anita Panikar had been ‘caught’ by two brothers, who alleged that she had duped them of Rs 4.45 lakh in the name of providing government jobs to his daughter and son, said the DCP.The brothers alleged that in June 2020, they came in contact with Dhiman, who had convinced them that on payment of a certain sum of money, she could get jobs for their son and daughter in Delhi government, through VIP quota.“The brothers fell for her trap and gave her R4.45 lakh on the promise that she would get them the promised jobs. However, the woman neither kept her promise nor returned their money back. During enquiry, we learnt that she had also duped another person, one Kishan Jaiswal, of R1.35 lakh using the same modus operandi. Accordingly, we registered a case of cheating and arrested Dhiman,” said DCP Meena.During interrogation, DCP Meena said, the woman, who lives alone in a rented flat in Safdarjung Enclave area, told them that she needed the money because there were many criminal cases pending against her in a Delhi court.“She was earlier arrested in a cheating case registered with the Economic Offences Wing in 2009,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-arrested-for-cheating-brothers-on-the-pretext-of-providing-govt-jobs/story-Wx63xVXKNHajHhKYq6phmI.html
09-09-2020||City||14 children trafficked from Bihar to be employed at factories rescued in Delhi||New DelhiThe railway unit of Delhi Police on Wednesday said they had rescued 14 children, aged between 12 and 14 years, who were allegedly being trafficked to Delhi from various parts of Bihar and were to be employed as labourers in factories in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. Ten members of an interstate child trafficking racket were also arrested during the rescue operation. The children were trafficked to the city from Bihar in a train, police said.“The children have been taken to a quarantine facility in Lajpat Nagar as per the protocol,” deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Kumar Singh said.DCP Singh said the railway police received information from an NGO on Monday that nearly 14 children were being brought to Delhi from Bihar in a train that reached the Old Delhi railway station. The police team along with two NGOs kept a vigil on the passengers after the train arrived.“Ten men were caught with 14 trafficked children, who were rescued, medically examined and taken to a quarantine centre in Lajpat Nagar. They were produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) through video conferencing. Based on their statements before the CWC, a case of trafficking was registered and the ten men were arrested.During interrogation, the accused said the children belong to different districts of Bihar. Among those rescued, nine children are from Katihar, two from Begusarai, two from Kishanganj and one from Purnia. They had planned to take them to different places including four to Azadpur and two to Seelampur in Delhi, two to Faridabad in Haryana and six to Punjab, the DCP said.“Due to the shortage of labourers amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the traffickers saw an opportunity to get the children employed in factories and targeted poor families in Bihar,” he added.The arrested persons were identified as Mohammad Akbar (35), Mohammad Manzoor Alam (25), Naushad (36), Tasuvil (30), Mohammad Naseem (35), Aman Kumar Sharma (21), Noor Alam (32), Mohammd Mehraj (24), Maskhur Alam (23) and Mahesh Lal Kewat (33), all residents of Bihar, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-children-trafficked-from-bihar-to-be-employed-at-factories-rescued-in-delhi/story-oGmIsPAFIg7UeQJVmfiMoO.html
09-09-2020||City||Beginning today, it’ll be raining projects for Bihar||PATNABeginning Thursday, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi digitally launches fisheries and agriculture related schemes worth Rs 294.53 crore in different districts of the state, it will be raining projects for poll-bound Bihar till September 25, with around 30 projects worth Rs 4,400 crore lined up either for inauguration or for foundation laying, it’s learnt.The projects to be launched Wednesday are part of the Rs 20,050-crore Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), which is aimed at sustainable and responsible development of fisheries. “The PM will inaugurate and lay foundation of different projects worth Rs 294.53 crore related to animal husbandry, fisheries and agriculture on Thursday,” said BJP’s state unit president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal. “Most of these projects are coming up at Sitamarhi, Madhepura, Samastipur, Patna, Kishanganj, Purnia, Begusarai, Khagaria, Nalanda and Gaya districts.” A statement issued by the PMO office said the prime minister will also launch e-Gopala app, a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for direct use of farmers. Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said the PM will be inaugurating and laying foundations for a slew of projects till September 25 in five phases. “All in-charge ministers have been deputed in these districts,” said Modi.Bihar elections are expected to take place in October/November and the Election Commission (EC) has indicated that the process would get completed before the tenure of the current legislative assembly ends on November 29.BJP sources said the PM will inaugurate/lay foundation of approximately 30 projects. These include 12 projects related to railways, three of petroleum and natural gas, eight related to housing and urban affairs ministry, three of animal husbandry and four of fisheries. The total cost of railway projects, which will benefit at least 10 districts, comes to Rs 2,720 crore. It includes long-awaited bridge over Kosi built at a cost of Rs 516 crore. The foundation stone of this bridge was laid by late PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and railway safety commissioner had recently given its nod to run trains. Petroleum and natural gas projects are coming up at Banka and East Champaran. The launch of schemes comes three months after launch of the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan by the PM, which was aimed at providing employment to migrant workers who returned to their villages during the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/beginning-today-it-ll-be-raining-projects-for-bihar/story-gATWY0MAOataqPrNFb4LfK.html
09-09-2020||City||2015 Behbal Kalan firing: Faridkot sessions judge asks IG to appear in person today over ‘plea for pardon’||Faridkot Ahead of taking a decision on the plea of special investigation team (SIT) to pardon a cop accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case, the district and sessions court here on Wednesday directed SIT member, inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap, to appear in person on Thursday. Last week, the SIT had approached the court with a petition seeking pardon for prime accused inspector Pardeep Singh, the then reader to former Moga SSP Charanjit Sharma, as he wanted to turn an approver in the case. Later, Pardeep also recorded his statement before the duty magistrate.District and sessions judge Sumeet Malhotra on Wednesday directed IG Pratap to assist the court before a decision can be taken on the plea.Victim’s brother says ‘plea against public policy’Resham Singh, one of the prime witnesses and brother of firing victim Krishan Bhagwan Singh, on Wednesday filed an application, seeking permission to assist the court in proceedings initiated by prosecution to grant pardon to inspector Pardeep Singh. He said the prosecution application is “against public policy” and is likely to destroy the case completely.“The witnesses have given clear account of the role of all the accused at the place of occurrence. It is clearly deposed by the witnesses like DSP Harjinder Singh that it was Pardeep, who started the action at spot by slapping and abusing the protestors and subsequently giving kick blows to the peaceful protestors. Had Pardeep not resorted to slapping, abusing and giving kick blows the situation would not have turned violent at all. Also there were accounts of his role in fabrication of FIR and gunshots on the escort vehicle of SSP Sharma,” he added.“Witness Beant Singh in his statement said that it was Pardeep who fired at him on the direction of Sharma,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2015-behbal-kalan-firing-faridkot-sessions-judge-asks-ig-to-appear-in-person-today-over-plea-for-pardon/story-kqL00FHDqyR0rQRoEZtSIK.html
09-09-2020||City||Kashmiri Pandits show support to Kangana||The Reconciliation, Relief and Rehabilitation of Migrant Kashmiri Pandits, an organisation of the internally displaced community, has condemned BMC’s action against actor Kangana Ranaut.“We extend our support to Kangana in this hour of concern when her house in Mumbai has been bulldozed in her absence. It is disheartening that Maharashtra government acted in such haste. This action, no doubt stems from political vendetta. Bulldozing her house when she was away and without adequate notice period is unbecoming of a government,” said union chairman Satish Mahaldar.“Since the Maharashtra government has ill-treated her, we the Kashmiri Pandits request her to live with our community as our daughter,” he added.Kangana had said that she can empathise with Kashmiri Pandit refugees who lost their homes and hearth three decades back. She had added that she can understand the pain of being uprooted.“Ranaut is one of the actors who have spoken up about our plight. We are thankful to her,” Mahaldar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-pandits-show-support-to-kangana/story-TvpLFiYqjxzfCwYB5sKpXK.html
09-09-2020||Pune||COEP jumbo Covid facility implements ‘positive’ changes after new agency takes over||Sagar Daundkar was finally able to speak to his father-in-law on Wednesday, who had been admitted to the jumbo Covid-19 facility at COEP grounds two days ago. Over the past week, the jumbo facility has seen multiple complaints of mismanagement and witnessed numerous deaths including that of a TV9 Marathi news channel journalist Pandurang Raykar. Since then, the Pune district administration changed operating agency of the hospital and senior officials like divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar are daily conducting a review of the centre and visiting it. “Over the last couple of days, we were calling him, but he was not receiving our calls, so today I personally came to check his health status at the COEP Covid hospital. Here I got to know that a new system has been introduced wherein we can video call the patient. I spoke to him over video conferencing and appreciate the changes made at the facility for the relatives of the patients,” said Daundkar. On Wednesday, HT visited the facility to review the changes in place and how it is benefiting patients as well as their relatives. Bouncers have been removed from the security system and PMC security staff has now been deployed at the entrance gates. A dedicated cell of ‘patients enquiry room’ has been set up just next to the entrance gate, so that any relative can get proper guidance regarding patient treatment and other facilities. From the enquiry room, a video call is made and then relatives can directly see and talk with the patient. Another important thing which is started at the facility is the ‘help desk’ which guides relatives about the admission process or any other issues which they face. Also, a small counter has been established at the entrance gate where relatives can now give submit their food or any other parcel and luggage for their patients. Earlier, there was no such system in place and relatives had to fight with the security guards to give their belongings to the patient. Now to streamline the process this counter has been set up, proper details of the patient are mentioned on a coupon which is stuck to the parcel and then, sent inside the facility. Appreciating the changes made at the facility, Namrata Bhangale, a relative of a patient admitted at the facility, said, “Our patient has been admitted at the facility since the last eight days. In the initial days, we faced a lot of difficulties right from contacting the patient, what exact treatment has been given and also to give any parcel to him. As our patient is a senior citizen, he doesn’t have a mobile phone and so, we were not able to contact him inside the facility. We used to have daily arguments and fights with security guards at the gate. Now, all things have changed and we have been able to talk to him over video calls and can easily send our parcel to him.” However, there are some things which still need to be replaced at the facility. Construction material like drainage pipes, wires and other construction material has been lying all over the facility. Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner, said, “The earlier, Lifeline agency, was unable to handle the operations at the COEP Covid hospital and Medbros agency is incharge now. Additional staff from the Sassoon hospital has been deployed and our focus is to follow the treatment protocol properly so that there are good recoveries. The facility is very new as it was started around 10 days ago and some patients are still facing certain issues. But now we are streamlining all the things and soon there will be many changes including treatment protocols, reporting and data analysis. So, we are working on multiple things comfort, treatment and curing the patient, and most importantly complete facelift of the facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/coep-jumbo-covid-facility-implements-positive-changes-after-new-agency-takes-over/story-MKlhnJatXpoYhb8fueKVZP.html
09-09-2020||Pune||DCGI serves show cause notice to Serum as Oxford vaccine trials in India continue without trouble with volunteers showing no side effects||Even as AstraZeneca has paused trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate after one of the participants in the United Kingdom developed an unexplained illness, at least 100 volunteers in India have completed the crucial week after receiving shots in the phase 2 human trials, without showing any adverse reaction. However, the central drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) issued a show cause notice to Serum institute of India (SII) for not informing them about AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials in other countries and also for not submitting casualty analysis of the “reported serious adverse events”. Dr VG Somani, the Drugs Controller General of India in his show cause notice has asked SII as to why the permission granted for conducting phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country be not suspended till patient safety is established. On the show cause notice issued by the DCGI, SII, said, “We are going by DCGI’s direction and so far were not told to pause the trials. If DCGI has any safety concerns, we will follow their instructions and abide by the standard protocols.” Pune-based Serum institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. AstraZeneca announced a pause on clinical trials after a volunteer developed an unexplained illness in the UK, just hours after it joined eight other drug makers to make an unusual safety pledge. Earlier in the day, while clarifying on AstraZeneca putting on hold trials, SII clarified that the Indian trials of the Covishield vaccine candidate are continuing without any problems. Commenting on the reports of AstraZeneca putting on hold trials in UK, SII in a statement said, “We can’t comment much on trials in the UK. But they have been paused for further review and they hold to restart soon. The Indian trials are continuing and we have faced no issues at all.” Of the 100 volunteers, 34 were from Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and hospital in Pune, who have been administered vaccine shots after trials for phase 2 began in India on August 26. According to doctors at the medical college and hospital, none of the 34 volunteers have shown any sign of health-related complications, with all their vital parameters appearing normal. Besides Bharati Vidyapeeth, two other hospitals in Pune are carrying out trials, including the KEM. “We have completed the phase two trials of 100 enrolments in India, of which 34 were from Bharti Vidyapeeth. It’s been a week after the shots were given to 34 volunteers at our institute and none of them showed any adverse reaction,” said Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director at Bharti Vidyapeeth medical college and hospital. The KEM hospital, which carried out trials at its Vadhu campus, has also completed the process. A senior doctor at the hospital said, “We have given shots to some volunteers and none have shown any side effects so far,” said the doctor declining to share exact number of volunteers undergoing trial. Besides KEM, CS Medical College and hospital has been selected for Phase-2 trials. The entire data about volunteers and the results of trials, according to Lalwani, has been submitted to SII. The data in turn will be picked up by Data System Monitoring Board at Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) level for further review. “We have submitted the data about all the participants. We are now awaiting directions from SII. If there is any official communication, we will start enrolment for third phase,” said Lalwani. (With PTI inputs) Eligibility criteria for volunteers during Phase 2 trials Person is aged between 18-99 years No co-morbidities He or she has to be tested negative for the SARS-CoV-2 virus He or she should not have antibodies of the virus Administered how? The 0.5 ml dose is given intramuscularly Who bears the cost of trials? While candidates will not be given any compensation for trails, hospital borne the cost of tests and trails along with any medical treatment to volunteers, if necessary Phase -3 trial Over 1500 people across India to be administered Covishield vaccine if results of Phase -2 are as per standards laid out by Oxford. Phase -3 trials will determine if the vaccine can induce immunity Vaccine production at SII SII has already started producing vaccine at its plant in Manjri near Pune Earlier this week, SII stated filling up doses in glass vials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/oxford-vaccine-trials-in-india-to-continue-without-trouble-volunteers-show-no-side-effects/story-QyEVulwhMzeunhnKZKaBTN.html
09-09-2020||City||Family of SFJ’s Gurpatwant Pannun migrated from Pak to Amritsar village during Partition||The family of US-based Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) leader Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, who was declared a designated terrorist by the Union home ministry under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in July, had migrated from Pakistan to Amritsar’s Khankot village during the Partition in 1947. The Centre on Tuesday ordered attachment of Pannun’s 57 kanal land at Khankot and Sultanwind area of Amritsar under Section 51-A of the stringent UAPA Act. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing a case against Pannun over a campaign launched by the SFJ under the banner of ‘Referendum 2020’, sealed 46 kanals of agriculture land and a residential plot in the village on Monday, a senior police official said.Pannun, who was designated a terrorist along with eight other men, has been running a campaign against India and motivating the Sikh youth in Punjab to join militancy, according to the government.Though Pannun is little known in the village, his family still owns property worth crores, including agriculture land, besides a school and a college, in the village.“We came to know that Pannun belonged to the village after his property was sealed. I never heard in the village about him before this,” said Subash Sehgal, a social activist from Khankot. The village’s former sarpanch Gurdarshan Singh Sandhu, 68, said, “I never saw Gurpatwant in the village, but his family migrated from Pakistan along with 35 other families. Our family was also among those.” He said, “Gurpatwant’s father Mohinder Singh Pannun had two elder brothers—Mohan Singh and Bhagwan Singh. Mohinder was a senior officer in the Punjab Mandi Board in Chandigarh. Mohinder Singh has two sons—Gurpatwant and Magwant. Mohinder’s family rarely visited the village. But Mohan and Bhagwan lived in the village. Mohan had two sons while Bhagwan was issueless. Mohan also left the village around three decades ago while Bhagwan died here around 20 years ago. We came to know that Mohan’s both sons had also died.”Sandhu, who remained the village sarpanch from 2003 to 2008, said, “Gurpatwant and Magwant have around 18 acres of land in our village while Daljit’s sons hold the possession of the around 30 acres. The two sons of Daljit, who also served as an ambassador in a foreign country, are also running a private school and a college in the village. But they have no contact with the local residents.”He said the 18-acre land belonging to Gurpatwant and Magwant was being tilled by one Bikramjit Singh of the village for the last 30 years. “Gurpatwant’s mother Amarjit Kaur had been collecting the land rent from Bikramjit. After Amarjit’s death, the rent was being paid to Magwant’s account,” he said.He said Bikramjit was unaware that the land which he had taken on rent belonged to Gurpatwant.A senior police official said, “Dalit’s sons (Gurpatwant’s cousins) have leased out land in Amritsar on which a shopping mall and a luxury hotel are built. A daughter of Pannun’s cousin is married in one of the influential political families in Amritsar. The family also has property worth crores in other areas of Punjab.”In a press release, the NIA on Tuesday said the SFJ was trying to hold meetings at certain places in the US and other countries to mobilise the Sikh diaspora for its illegal activities. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has repeatedly said Pannun has been operating at the behest of Pakistan’s ISI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurpatwant-pannun-s-family-migrated-from-pak-to-amritsar-village-during-partition/story-JM8U3NRLas5SjMNWLqlMAN.html
09-09-2020||City||L-G reviews security arrangements along the Indo-Pak border||Amid spike in ceasefire violations along the 744km-long Line of Control (LoC) and terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir, lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha visited the forward defence posts of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district to assess the security scenario. “The L-G visited Bobiya border outpost on and reviewed the security setup. He was accompanied by IG BSF NS Jamwal, Jammu divisional commissioner Sanjeev Verma, IGP Jammu zone Mukesh Singh and other officers of the civil administration and BSF,” a BSF spokesperson said. Jamwal briefed him about border domination grid, assessment on threat perception and measures undertaken to strengthen the border protection grid. Sinha interacted with BSF officers and commanders, and stressed that government recognises their unparalleled contribution towards national security. “He was satisfied with the measures taken by BSF to safeguard life and property of people and to prevent trans-border crimes. IG BSF requested the L-G to help BSF in clearing wild growth through MNREGA, and to urge farmers to carry out agricultural activities along the zero line ahead of fencing and timely completion of projects under the border works,” he said. Jamwal requested him to look into the matter of erratic power supply and prevent frequent breakdowns because it hampers border domination. Visits AIIMS site, inspects pace of workThe L-G also visited AIIMS site at Vijaypur in Samba district and inspected the pace of ongoing construction work. He directed the executing agencies to stick to the timeline and ensure completion of work within the stipulated time.“Government is working on upgrading healthcare infrastructure, rationalising the available staff, filling up vacancies of doctors, nurses and other health workers, retention of doctors (especially in rural areas), availability of adequate medical facilities and bringing in new innovations, which will play a major role in providing quality and accessible healthcare services to people of J&K,” he said.He was informed that the project is expected to b completed by August 21, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-reviews-security-arrangements-along-the-indo-pak-border/story-r5QTxNjg5EovKkxdpsrJqJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Temples in Himachal to open on September 10, only 500 pilgrims to be allowed daily||Temples in Himachal Pradesh will open on Thursday after remaining shut for almost five months due to the Covid-19 outbreak.As per the guidelines, only 500 pilgrims will be allowed to pay obeisance daily at the shrines.The temple doors were shut for general public on March 17. On Tuesday, Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar had issued detailed guidelines for regulating the movement of pilgrims and other activities at the Chintpurni Temple premises. Similar SoP’s have been issued for Naina Devi Temple in Bilaspur, Baba Balak Nath temple in Hamirpur and other major shrines of the state. Most of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are in line with those issued by the language, art and culture department, except for a few for which the concerned deputy commissioners have been authorised. As per the guidelines, only 500 pilgrims (asymptomatic and after proper medical screening) will be allowed in the shrines daily. It is compulsory for all pilgrims to download the Aarogya Setu App. The symptomatic pilgrims will be isolated in the hospital and discharged only after they test negative for Covid-19. In case of Chintapurni shrine, the devotees will report at the Chintpurni Sadan from where they will be sent in groups through the two main gates in a staggered manner by strictly following the protocol. Pilgrims coming from outside the state are required to have valid booking for durations not less than two nights, either at a single location or multiple locations along with a Covid-19 negative report, RT-PCR, TrueNat or CB NAAT test, not older than 96 hours from an ICMR approved laboratory. Any person who has fully recovered from the infection and possesses a negative report will also be allowed to pay obeisance at the temple. Rules for priests The priests will not offer ‘Prashad’, tie ‘Moli’ (sacred thread) or perform any puja for individuals or groups. ‘Kanya Pujan’ will remain strictly prohibited. Only two priests will sit in the sanctum sanctorum at a time. ‘Mundan Sanskar’ (haircut ceremony) will not be done in the temple premises. The administration has marked the Chintpurni Sadan for the ritual. Money matters Six people will be allowed at a time to count cash offerings of the temple. They will maintain social distancing and wear gloves while counting the cash. All offerings will be sanitised before and after counting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/temples-in-himachal-to-open-on-september-10-only-500-pilgrims-to-be-allowed-daily/story-6nSRRUV3ujwxNmuTgyrXKI.html
09-09-2020||City||Jakhar, two ministers visit flood-hit villages in Fazilka, Muktsar||BATHINDA Eighteen days after a large number of villages in Fazilka and Muktsar districts were flooded, a group of ministers and top state officials visited the affected areas on Wednesday. State Congress president Sunil Jakhar said about 1-lakh acres were affected in the two districts. He said the faulty design of the drain channel built during the previous SAD-BJP government was responsible for the flooding. Jakhar told reporters that chief minister Amarinder Singh had asked a ministerial panel to visit the affected areas. On Wednesday, HT had reported that standing cotton crop on about 17,000 hectares in Abohar area of Fazilka district was severely hit due to waterlogging. Abohar is Jakhar’s hometown and it was his first visit to the villages since the fields were deluged on August 21-22. Revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar said the assessment of crop loss and damage to houses has been ordered and the affected people will be duly compensated. He said the officials have also been instructed to provide more MGNREGS works to the eligible villagers as an additional measure to support them. Water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said the district authorities have been directed to appoint nodal officers to dewater the fields. “Instructions have been issued to install more transformers to expedite the dewatering exercise. It is important to ensure that sowing of wheat is not affected,” he said. Sarkaria said a long-term plan will be devised to strengthen the drainage. Sukhbir laments delay in relief Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal also visited several affected villages on Wednesday. He lamented the delay in announcing compensation to the flood-hit villagers. “No officer has been deputed to listen to the grievances of the people. There has been a delay in draining out water from the fields,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jakhar-two-ministers-visit-flood-hit-villages-in-fazilka-muktsar/story-GjRrn3hdOgv4bqv8wkZIQP.html
09-09-2020||City||Soldier who died in Nowgam gunfight cremated with full state honours in Dadri||The last rites of slain army gunner, Bhupinder Chauhan, were performed at his native village in Dadri on Wednesday. The soldier, who had died in a gunfight with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Nowgam sector last week, had become a father seven months ago and had met his son only once.Scores of villagers joined the funeral cortege and raised slogans such as ‘Bhupinder Amar Rahe and Bharat Mata ki Jai’ as the soldier was cremated with full state honours in Bass village.The wife and parents of the 23-year-old soldier remained inconsolable. “My son had come home only for a night to see his newborn child seven months ago. He had promised us that as soon as the situation improves at the border, he would come home,” said the grieving father. “Five days ago, he had spoken to his wife and promised to visit home soon but now, we will never see him again,” he said, adding, “I am proud of my son. He is the first from our village to sacrifice his life at the border.”Bhupinder had joined the Army in 2015 after completing his schooling from a private school in the neighbouring Ranila village.His younger brother, Deepak Kumar, said, “We are proud of my brother. I too want to join the army, and if required, I will fight the Pakistan troopers till my last breath.”Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, former minister Satpal Sangwan, Dadri deputy commissioner Shiv Prasad and several other distinguished personalities were among those bid farewell to the soldier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soldier-who-died-in-nowgam-gunfight-cremated-with-full-state-honours-in-dadri/story-XxvCXENEWH4aYtgVWCNN5I.html
09-09-2020||City||Himachal assembly monsoon session: CM slams Congress for playing cheap politics amid corona crisis||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday slammed the Congress for ‘playing cheap politics’ during the Covid-19 crisis.“The Congress will be punished by the public for acting inappropriately in the times of this pandemic,” the CM said while replying to the adjournment motion moved by the opposition to discuss the situation arising amid to Covid-19 pandemic including rising unemployment and corruption in the state.Uproarious scenes were witnessed in the House as the Congress MLAs moved into the well and raised slogans against the state government.In his reply, the CM said while the BJP workers were moving door-to-door distributing masks, sanitizers and food, the Congress found an opportunity in disaster and sent fake details of funds worth ₹12 crore spent during the Covid times to its high command.“Even during a pandemic, the Congress leaders did not hesitate in robbing their own party, he said, adding that the assembly held discussion on Covid-19 crises for two days but the opposition did not make any positive suggestions to deal with the situation.The CM said the notice of adjournment motion was moved by the opposition party and for the first time in the history of the assembly, the proposal was accepted, but the opposition started running away from debate.The opposition did not raise a single problem related to corona and instead started discussing roads, water and other issues, he added.“We will apprise the public about the opposition’s attitude in the House and in 2022 the Congress will have lesser numbers in assembly compared to what it has today,” the CM said, adding that “the people are watching and will question the opposition as to what they did during Covid-19 crises.” Thakur said had the Congress been in power in the country and the state during the coronavirus times, they would not have let a chance to loot the public.He said the battle against Covid-19 was not over yet and precaution is the only way to deal with it. “Also, everyone needs to cooperate and contribute his bit in this battle but the opposition members are behaving irresponsibly,” he said.Thakur said the state government has got public support at every step. “If we are successful in this battle it is because the government has done a better job,” he said.The CM said a strong leadership like Prime Minister Narendra Modi was needed during this difficult period. “At the time of virus outbreak in Himachal, there was no testing facility in the state. Today, the testing capacity here has crossed 5,000 per day. The state had only 60 ventilators and now has 640 ventilators, 500 of which were given by the Centre,” the CM said, adding that Himachal ranked 25th among the states in terms of total cases. He said even a small state like Goa had 21,500 and 16,254 in Tripura. There are 6,372 cases of corona infection in Chandigarh. He said the worst situation in the whole country is Maharashtra.He said that the low number of fatalities in Himachal was because the number of cases was less and that was due to better strategy and management by the government.The CM said rapid antigen testing has also been started in the state. “At present, 1.60 lakh PPE kits and 3.5 lakh N-95 masks are available in the state. Our treatment and quarantine system was robust compared to other states,” he added.“The state also took the initiative of Active Case Finding which won accolades from the Prime Minister,” he said. The state government also facilitated the return of 4.53 lakh people who were stranded in the other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-assembly-monsoon-session-cm-slams-congress-for-playing-cheap-politics-amid-corona-crisis/story-wmSC4LwgfKaWr2DkwKYOCN.html
09-09-2020||City||Himachal assembly monsoon session: Congress stages walkout as Speaker refuses debate on Covid crisis||Noisy protests and anti-government slogans disrupted the Himachal Pradesh assembly on the third day of the monsoon session on Wednesday as opposition members staged a walkout after the speaker turned down the point of order made by Congress MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan. The opposition was demanding a discussion on the adjournment motion moved to discuss the Covid-19 crisis. As the House assembled for the day, Chauhan raised a point of order demanding speaker Vipin Singh Parmar to give opportunity to the Congress members to express their views on the crisis. However, the speaker turned down the request and called chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to reply on the adjournment motion. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri repeatedly objected to the speaker’s move who tried to pacify the opposition saying that the day’s proceedings will be winded up by 5:00pm. Parmar said it is for the first time that an adjournment motion by the opposition has been accepted and discussion has begun on it. He said the adjournment motion under Rule 67 has never been discussed in the past. The adjournment motion of opposition on discussion of mismanagement, corruption and unemployment during the Covid-19 was accepted. As many as 28 members participated in the discussion which continued for 6 hours and 25 minutes. Agitated, the opposition raised slogans against the ruling and later trooped to the well of the house while the CM continued to reply. Amidst the disruption, Parmar asked the opposition to withdraw its resolution moved on the opening day of the session. However, the opposition members walked out from the assembly.While condemning the opposition’s behaviour, the CM said, “We will not only expose the Congress within the House but also outside the Vidhan Sabha. People will definitely punish them for the way they have been behaving during the Covid-19 crisis.” In his address to mediapersons outside the House, Agnihotri said, “We only tried to show mirror to the government. Instead of accepting the resolution, they tried to throttle the voice of the opposition.” He said the government should have adopted the resolution and the CM should have tendered the resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-assembly-monsoon-session-congress-stages-walkout-as-speaker-refuses-debate-on-covid-crisis/story-csEPIj7xLZavoikpA7YllJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Hotels in Kullu district’s Parvati valley to reopen from September 15, offer 50% discount to tourists||To revamp the tourism sector which has been badly affected during the last six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, hoteliers in Parvati valley of Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district have decided to reopen hotels from September 15 with an offer of 50% discount to attract tourists.Manikaran Hotel Association president Kishan Thakur said around 300 hotels and homestays will reopen for tourists and all preparations are being made by the hoteliers. He said the hotels will be operated as per the Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) issued by the government and it will be compulsory for tourists to provide the Covid-19 negative report.Besides, hoteliers have also demanded the state government to open a bank in Kasol and let tourists enter the state without any pass. The hotel association has also suggested that the state government should start plying deluxe buses to Kullu-Manali from Delhi, Chandigarh, Dehradun and Shimla to attract tourists.The hospitality and tourism sector has suffered huge losses amid the pandemic. However, many locals are against the idea of reopening hotels since the state has been witnessing a surge in infections daily and allowing tourists might make the situation even worse.Hotels and homestays had reopened for tourists in Jibhi and Tirthan valley on September 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotels-in-parvati-valley-to-reopen-from-september-15-offer-50-discount-to-tourists/story-ydNmCFsCCSLr2B21kGQIuL.html
09-09-2020||City||Himachal tally climbs to 8,147 with 316 new Covid-19 cases||Himachal Pradesh registered 316 fresh coronavirus infections on Wednesday, taking the state tally to 8,147. Of the new cases, 69 were reported in Solan, 49 in Una, 48 in Chamba, 40 in Sirmaur, 36 in Kangra, 28 in Hamirpur, 19 in Shimla, 15 in Bilaspur, seven in Kullu, 4 in Mandi and one in Kinnaur Active cases in the state stand at 2,487 and 5,586 people have recovered so far. The virus has claimed three more lives in the state, taking the death toll to 61. A 41-year-old man from Sirmaur died at the Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. He was suffering from chest infection and difficulty in breathing. Another person succumbed in Solan district while one death was recorded in Shimla district. Chamba chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Guleri said 36 workers of a hydro power project tested positive in Bharmour sub-division of the district. In Shimla, a CID official on duty at the Himachal Assembly complex has tested positive. He was staying at Kali Bari temple premises with 36 others including 32 police personnel. In Una, five journalists have tested positive. TruNat test of a 30-year-old scribe came out positive. His sample has been sent for retesting. With 1,839 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 1,232 cases have been reported till date. Sirmaur has 1,110 cases, Hamirpur 708, Una 686, Chamba 599, Mandi 558, Shimla 481, Bilaspur 440, Kullu 371 and 104 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported nineteenCovid-19 cases till date. Community spead in Shimla, claims official Recent data of Covid-19 cases established community spread of the virus, Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra said in a statement. “The coronavirus cases are increasing daily and neither their index cases nor travel history is being found which establishes its community spread,” she added. That was why, the monthly meeting of doctors with ASHA workers was held under the open sky in Shimla on September 7 as open air and sunlight help in reducing the spread of the virus, said the health official. The CMO said wherever possible, the meetings and other programmes should be held in the open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-tally-climbs-to-7-908-with-77-new-covid-19-cases/story-cOTqoyilPWQ61yzbgMYKBI.html
09-09-2020||City||Mankotia demands CBI, ED probe into land deals by HP minister Sarveen Chaudhary||Former Congress minister Vijay Singh Mankotia on Wednesday demanded a CBI and ED probe into the land deals involving Himachal social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary. In a press conference held here, Mankotia said he has again written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. Mankotia said he had hoped that the chief minister will respond to the letter written earlier by him by ordering a CBI investigation. “However, the CM said that no vigilance probe was being carried out which contradicts his own statement in which he stated that the vigilance bureau was looking into the allegations against the minister,” Mankotia alleged. He said only a thorough investigation can reveal the truth. “The minister and her family had purchased land measuring 1,000 kanal in Fatehpur area of Kangra district. Besides, her family had bought several lands in Shahpur, Dharamshala, and also in Una district. She also owns a house in Shimla and a luxury flat in Panchkula,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mankotia-demands-cbi-ed-probe-into-land-deals-by-hp-minister-sarveen-chaudhary/story-27TCixit17mAIrze6KgZJI.html
09-09-2020||City||J&K’s Gandh Top landslide: Villagers live under constant threat, demand rehabilitation before winter||Residents of Rasleek Gaderan village have been living under constant threat since a massive landslide last week damaged at least a dozen houses in Gandh Top area on Ramnagar-Basantgarh axis in Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur district.A local said, “The area has become a sliding zone and the hill is still sinking. At least 12 houses were damaged on September 5. Those who have lost their houses and belongings are very poor and mostly work as labourers in Himachal Pradesh and other states.”The villagers have urged lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to compensate and rehabilitate the families, who have lost their houses and fields to the landslide. The Udhampur district administration has evacuated 40 families so far. Basantgarh sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vivek Modi said, “As many as 12 houses were damaged in the landslide. We have prepared 12 files for necessary action. Majority of those affected have been accommodated by their relatives and friends. The administration has also accommodated a few families at a government school and a community hall.” The SDM said the authorities are assessing the damages. “The district commissioner will look into all the cases pertaining damage to houses, agricultural and horticultural land. At least a square km has come down,” he added. He said the villagers have proposed a survey of the entire area by experts from the Geological Survey of India. “Once the debris is cleared, experts will be roped in for the purpose. It was not a sliding zone and even the locals are shocked about what unfolded on September 5. Experts will trace the root cause but for now the restoration of the affected stretch is our priority,” the SDM said.The road link between Ramnagar to Basantgarh, especially from Majori onwards near Gandh Top remains snapped since September 5. “Though buses are plying on either side of Gandh Top, commuters have to cross one km long affected stretch on foot,” he said.“Regular traffic is affected because the road is sinking. Once debris is cleared, the PMGSY will restore the stretch,” the SDM added. According to a rough estimate, around 300 kanals of land (15 hectares) has been destroyed in the landslide. In 2014, as many as 40 villagers were buried alive in a landslide following incessant rains at Saddal village in Panchari Hills of Udhampur. Former MLA RS Pathania said, “A constant threat looms large over the remaining houses in the area and I fear that it is another Saddal in the making. Around 20 to 30 houses have developed cracks and hence cannot be used. The administration has so far not acted promptly. I have taken up the issue with the DC and lieutenant governor with a request to provide them an alternate land where they could be rehabilitated before the onset of winter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-s-gandh-top-landslide-villagers-live-under-constant-threat-demand-rehabilitation-before-winter/story-IUxfVWOKJwb3eA9ymqGDhN.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to lease out mines where work was suspended||Haryana government has planned to lease out stone and sand mines in the state that have no pending appeals and where mining activities were suspended or cancelled. While this move will provide construction material at reasonable rates to the public, it will also curtail illegal mining activities, said an official spokesperson quoting mines and geology minister Mool Chand Sharma. “Besides, it is also going to lend a hand in pulling up the contractors and leaseholders who have not cleared the lease money for years,” the minister said during a review meeting, directing the officers to recover the payment of dues from the leaseholders. The minister took a stock of the mining blocks which have been leased out or given on contract from November 2019 till now and the status of the mines opened during this time. “Several other important issues, including contracts and leases granted through auctions, lease granted through applications, stone crushers, mineral dealer licenses, short-term permits, illegal mining cases and vehicles seized during this time frame were discussed,” the spokesperson said. The minister was informed that during the current tenure of the state government, the department has received revenue of about Rs 574 crore from mining activities. This year alone, it has received a revenue of Rs 254 crore so far. Among others present in the meeting were principal secretary, mines and geology department, Anand Mohan Sharan, and director general, mines and geology, Amitabh Singh Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-lease-out-mines-where-work-was-suspended/story-ZuNcWrBaLTxUkw18KSxhKK.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-CM Hooda lends support to farmers’ agitation against Central ordinances||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday announced his support to the farmers’ agitation against three agriculture-related ordinances promulgated by the Central government. The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) has decided to hold protests against the ordinances at Kurukshetra from September 10.In a statement, Hooda said that three ordinances-- Farming produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) ordinance, the Farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement on price assurance and farm services ordinance and the Essential commodities (amendment) ordinance-- seek to remove protection given to the farmers. He said not only farmers but labourers, trade agents and small traders will also be impacted by them.“Everyone believes that without the protection of the minimum support price (MSP), these ordinances are against the interests of farmers. If the government wants to implement them, then it should ensure that no purchases are made below MSP,” said Hooda. The government should bring in a fourth ordinance to ensure that if any agency buys the crop of the farmer below the MSP, then legal action will be taken against it, said the leader of opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-cm-hooda-lends-support-to-farmers-agitation-against-central-ordinances/story-pgwt3xP38x5rFqL0CkNTSO.html
09-09-2020||Pune||Woman, cousin in police custody for allegedly killing ‘abusive’ husband in Pune||A woman and her cousin were remanded to three days in custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Tuesday for allegedly strangling her husband to death. The woman allegedly killed the husband at their house in Jadhav vasti area of Haveli, Pune, at 10 pm on Sunday . The arrested woman was identified as Anita Lakhichand Sharma (35), while her cousin brother was identified as Tukaram Bhimashankar Natekar (29), both residents of the same area. The deceased used to drink and beat her up while suspecting her of having an affair, according to police. On the night of the murder, the woman strangled him while the cousin held his legs on the floor, as per the complaint. The deceased, a daily wager hailing from Uttar Pradesh, and the woman, who worked as a domestic help, had a love marriage, according to police. The couple has five children - one daughter is married while the others are under 10 years of age, according to police. “He was in an inebriated condition when it happened. Their children saw it all. The woman and her brother pushed the body out of the house and slept off. In the morning she cried and gathered people around who took him to the hospital. The doctors told us that he was strangled and a case was registered,” said senior inspector Rajendra Rajmane of Ravet police outpost in the jurisdiction of Dehu road police station. A complaint was lodged by Premchand Prabhudayal Sharma (58), a resident of Moti Chowk in Satara, the elder brother of the deceased. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dehu road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-cousin-in-police-custody-for-allegedly-killing-abusive-husband/story-WNspBrIE0jjFtnFcLpvKcK.html
09-09-2020||Pune||Kabir Kala Manch: A cultural outfit ever in the cross hairs of law and order||The allegations against members of Pune-based Dalit-culture group Kabir Kala Manch in cases related to “Naxalism” have remained a constant regardless of which government is in power. Three Kabir Kala Manch members were arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for their links with “absconding accused” Milind Teltumbde and the Communist Party of India (Maoist). The NIA arrested three members - Sagar Gorkhe (32), Ramesh Gaichor(36), and Jyoti Jagtap (33) - in the Bhima Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case. The men were remanded to four days in police custody by a local court in Mumbai on Tuesday. Jagtap will be produced in court on Wednesday. So far, in addition to the nine activists, lawyers arrested by Pune police in the case, NIA has arrested Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha and Hanybabu Musaliyavirtil Tarayil. “The accused are members of Kabir Kala Manch, a frontal organisation of banned terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist). Also, it is established that during their visits (of members) in the jungle, they underwent weapon and explosive training and awareness programme on various topics related to the Maoist movement”, read a statement from NIA. However, manch members have said that the two men had willingly responded to NIA calls for questioning on Saturday itself. Moreover, Jagtap was allegedly arrested from a street near her house without notice, according to a KKM member. “They (Gaichor and Gorkhe) were threatened, “You have to become witness for the state under CRPC clause 164 and admit (falsely) that you went to the jungle in Gadchiroli and met Naxals there and that you have connections to Naxalites unless you agree to this we will arrest you,” read an earlier statement issued by the manch. “The government is once again starting an ‘arrest series’. In this case, police never had any evidences nor does it have today,” read another statement issued by the group. However, the group, which was formed 18 years ago - has witnessed such allegations in the past as well; the state government was that of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Indian National Congress (INC) was in power at the central government. In 2011, two members of KKM - Siddhartha Bhosale and Deepak Dhengle - were among six people arrested under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Following their arrest, six more manch members were booked - Sachin Mali, his wife Sheetal Sathe, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor, Prashant Kamble, and Santosh Shelar. In 2013, Bhosale and Dhengale were granted bail along with four others they were arrested with. Until then, Mali, Sathe, Shelar, Kamble, Gaichor, and Gorkhe remained underground. Weeks after Bhosale and Dhengale were released; Mali, Sathe, Gaichor and Gorkhe surfaced and were arrested. While Sathe was released owing to her pregnancy, the three others spent almost four years in jail. After their bail was rejected multiple times, the Supreme Court granted bail to the KKM members in January 2017. By the end of 2017, Elgar Parishad was followed by Bhima Koregaon violence where KKM members were booked in a second case. Kamble and Shelar are yet to be found. Gorkhe and Gaichor, meanwhile, have appeared in the Pune police charge sheet in 2018 Elgar Parishad case with allegedly strong evidence that shows their connection to Naxalites, according to police officials. “No matter who is in power, the ruling government becomes regressive. The likes of Bhide and Ekbote have been granted a safe haven. Be it by Pune police, Maharashtra state, or NIA. The picture is pretty clear. And if we really went to the jungles, why not prove it in the earlier case that is still awaiting trial? We Dalit Bahujan are soft targets,” said Rupali Jadhav of KKM. In a documentary made by an FTII student based on their work, Gorkhe is heard saying, “When we (wife) first met, we discussed that this (activist) life is tough. One can go to jail, there’s a struggle, protest, marches.” Another documentary by noted film-maker Anand Patwardhan and an internationally acclaimed film “Court” also tried to showcase the issue. While the documentary showcases a vulnerable side of the organisation, the police officials close to the case have a different narrative to present. “Angela Sontakke, wife of Milind Teltumbde, had held a training camp in a village in Pune in which KKM people had participated. There is a recorded statement by Amarnath Chandaliya (founding member of KKM) describing how Sudhir Dhawale (arrested earlier in Elgar case) infiltrated the group and pivoted it towards Naxal activities. Along with seized literature, there were statements from surrendered Naxalites that mentioned Gorkhe and Gaichor,” said an official close to the investigation. The 2011 case is awaiting trial in a court in Mumbai. The two people named in that case who is now absconding - Shelar and Pawar - are believed to have joined the CPI(M) force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kabir-kala-manch-a-cultural-outfit-ever-in-the-cross-hairs-of-law-and-order/story-Ikx2ufyyFDNnbPTst1cTKP.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||If granted bail, former Punjab DGP likely to stifle fair probe: High court while dismissing Saini’s plea||Chandigarh: Dismissing the anticipatory bail application of former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini on Tuesday, the Punjab and Haryana high court observed that if granted bail, there’s likelihood of him stifling a fair investigation and trial into the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case of 1991. Saini, whose whereabouts are not known, had approached the high court on September 4 after a Mohali court had dismissed his plea. The detailed judgment was released on Wednesday. “The investigating agency has woken up and gathered courage to investigate its own officer and therefore, the vital pieces of evidence that would come handy in leading to leads would inch towards unravelling this puzzle which too has baffled the citizenry who are looking upon the justice system as a last resort to get justice,” the bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh said, observing why Saini’s custodial interrogation is warranted. Saini had claimed political victimisation and also that he was granted bail when the offence under kidnapping was registered in May. Hence, it should continue. FRESH EVIDENCE YET AT LARGE On the other hand, the prosecution said that fresh evidence had come to the fore and Saini had violated the condition set out in the bail that he won’t leave his Chandigarh house without intimation, but he is at large, leaving behind his security cover. The bench observed since the day of his disappearance, the Multani family has been making every effort to initiate the judicial process, which remained in oblivion to the constitutional rights of the family. “These things certainly are of much relevance and also substantiate the state’s allegations that he enjoyed unbridled powers,” it added, observing that there are many cases, which for political reasons or otherwise, remain buried for long and are unearthed with the passage of time. “…therefore, (it) does not discourage the investigating agency from laying off its hands from such grave crimes against humanity,” the bench said. ‘BLUE-EYED BOY WITH POLITICAL PATRONAGE’ The court took note of the state’s accusations that Saini had been a “blue-eyed boy with political patronage” and was “law unto himself”. It also took note of allegations against Saini in the abduction case of Vinod Kumar, a businessman, in 1994, for which trial is underway in a Delhi court. In that case, he is accused of ‘intimidating’ judges, and the investigating officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), who turned hostile. The bench observed that much evidence has come out in public due to the bail plea proceedings and there’s a need to “preserve the same from the prying eyes of Saini”. It added that in crimes such as those reported in the “dark days”, it would be committed with utmost secrecy and coming across witnesses would be a Herculean task. The court also did not accept the argument that the Supreme Court had already quashed a 2008 first information report in this case, observing that the family was given liberty to approach the authorities afresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/if-granted-bail-former-punjab-dgp-likely-to-stifle-fair-probe-high-court-while-dismissing-saini-s-plea/story-IAnjxtZPb9cstqqrZqnQhI.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal orders hospitals to ramp up ICU beds; residents can now get tested for Covid-19 without prescriptions||With the number of Covid-19 cases continuing to rise in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday sought suggestions from all state government hospitals on increasing the number of beds, especially ICU beds. The chief minister also took stock of the city’s testing strategy, after which the state health department issued an order removing the need for prescriptions to get a Covid-19 test. During the meeting, Kejriwal directed all medical superintendents to further improve facilities in government hospitals. “Increasing the number of beds in hospitals was also discussed. The chief minister has asked all medical superintendents to suggest ways in which beds can be increased—with a focus on ICU and ventilator beds. The chief minister also directed officials to ensure hospitals do not err and prevent Covid-19 deaths as much as possible,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 43 lakh mark, Centre says 60% cases from five states aloneSoon after the meeting, special secretary (health) Udit Prakash Rai issued an order to simplify testing in the Capital and encourage more people to get tested. “Test-track-treat has been adopted to ensure early detection and containment of Covid-19 pandemic. In continuation of various measures undertaken by the Delhi government to augment Covid-19 testing and to ensure that it is more accessible than ever, it has been decided that henceforth there will be no requirement of a prescription from a qualified medical practitioner for Covid-19 testing in Delhi,” the order read. On Tuesday, the Delhi High Court said that a doctor’s prescription is not required for asymptomatic patients to get a Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test anymore. Until now, if an asymptomatic person wanted to get an RT-PCR test (which is considered the gold standard in Covid-19 testing) in Delhi, they had to produce a doctor’s prescription. Delhi residents, however, could get rapid antigen tests without a prescription. After the court order, Kejriwal had tweeted that he also had issued similar directions to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. Also Read: Maharashtra Police records 533 fresh Covid-19 cases among its ranks, cases cross 500-mark in a single day for the second timeAs per the court order, of the 14,000 RT-PCR tests administered daily in the city, 2,000 will be administered to asymptomatic patients on a trial basis. The Delhi government on Wednesday said it will follow the strategy ordered by the court. Wednesday’s meeting came a day after Delhi recorded 3,609 new Covid-19 cases on a single day—the highest single-day case count since June 24, 76 days ago, when 3,788 fresh cases were reported. Over the past week, Delhi has recorded 2,868 fresh cases every day on average. According to the government and experts, the spike in cases is primarily because of increased testing. The Delhi government conducted a record 45,797 tests for Covid-19 on Tuesday — days after Kejriwal announced that the number of tests will be ramped up to 40,000 a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-orders-hospital-chiefs-to-ramp-up-icu-beds-residents-can-now-get-tested-for-covid-19-without-prescriptions/story-4EHiI23GJhuyaoZuCz7ohK.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain moves Delhi high court against 3-day ED custody||Tahir Hussain, a former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor who was arrested for his alleged role in the communal riots in the national capital in February this year, moved the Delhi high court (HC) on Wednesday, challenging a trial court’s order that had sent him to a three-day custodial interrogation of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). ED is probing Hussain for his alleged role in laundering money that was used during the Delhi riots.Hussain has denied the charge and called it a political conspiracy. Also read: Court declares 2 accused as ‘proclaimed offenders’ in cop’s murderHe challenged the ED’s remand through his advocate Uditi Bali. He cited that his remand was given to ED on August 28 for six days and he was required to be produced before the court on September 3. The plea cited that he was produced before the court on September 5 and again two days later when he was sent to judicial remand for another three days.Justice Yogesh Khanna will hear the case on Thursday. On Monday, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat had extended Hussain’s custody by three days and allowed ED’s application of nine days for his custodial interrogation. The agency had earlier got Hussain’s custody for nine days. ED had sought Hussain’s custodial interrogation for another nine days because he had to be confronted with “a substantial number of persons” and voluminous documents related to the case. ED had raided Hussain’s premises in June. The agency is probing two separate cases regarding mobilising funds related to the Delhi riots. One case is linked to Hussain and the other is against Kerala’s Popular Front of India (PFI), known for its controversial and fundamentalist linkages.Delhi Police and ED have accused Hussain of laundering around Rs 1.10 crore via shell companies to fuel protests against the Citizen (Amendment) Act, (CAA), 2019 and also engineering the Delhi riots. Police have claimed that Hussain was also involved in mobilising funds to buy ammunition and rope in more rioters in the communal conflagration that had claimed over 50 lives. Police have also claimed to have seized petrol bombs and stones from the terrace of his house.Hussain has denied police’s allegations. He has pleaded innocence and has maintained that he has been framed for his links with the ruling AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-former-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-moves-delhi-high-court-against-3-day-ed-custody/story-Gf7NPEdac63gOK7UGWL7GL.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal directs authorities to take steps to prevent spread of Covid-19 in Delhi||Amid a rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed medical superintendents and senior officials to take every possible step to prevent the spread of the virus in the city.The chief minister held a review meeting with Health Minister Satyendar Jain, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, senior officials and medical superintendents of Delhi government-run hospitals.“Had a review meeting with Health Minister, Chief Secretary, senior officials and MS of govt hospitals. I have directed all MS and authorities to take all possible steps to prevent the spread of Corona and assured the hospitals of full support in this regard,” Kejriwal said in a tweet. Had a review meeting with Health Minister, Chief Secretary, senior officials and MS of govt hospitals.I have directed all MS and authorities to take all possible steps to prevent the spread of Corona and assured the hospitals of full support in this regard. https://t.co/JV3KkYE7wAOn Tuesday, Delhi recorded 3,609 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike in 76 days, as a record over 45,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the city.The single-day case count on Tuesday was the highest since June 25, when the city had recorded 3,390 cases. On June 23, Delhi had recorded the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases so far.   The figure on Tuesday also surpassed Sunday’s figure when the national capital had recorded 3,256 cases.  In an interview to PTI, Jain had said that the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital will “plateau” after ten days or so.  “One of the main reasons why we are seeing such a rise in the number of fresh cases is because we are going aggressive as far as testing is concerned. We have been conducting tests in markets, crowded places, mohalla clinics, hospitals, and many other places,” Jain had said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-directs-authorities-to-take-steps-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-in-delhi/story-9iu8IGd9ICrNsrrLl4xWVI.html
09-09-2020||City||New generation of locusts may attack crops in UP after monsoon||Experts have warned that a new generation of locust swarms may attack crops in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Rajasthan after the monsoon retreats even as the toxic insecticides sprayed to kill them might have caused adverse environmental and health consequences.They have cautioned that a new generation of locust swarms might come out of eggs laid by the desert pests and these could attack the crops after the monsoon. In India, locusts have a single breeding season that spans between July and October. While the insect’s life cycle has three distinct stages— egg, hopper and adult.“At present, there is no information about any locust swarms in UP. But it is possible that female locusts, during their stay in UP or Rajasthan, had laid eggs and a new generation of the insects may create a fresh menace,” said CP Srivastava, deputy director, agriculture, Lucknow.Locust swarms had invaded UP in end-April. Initially, the insects had invaded Bundelkhand and kept on hovering from one district to another until the last week of July. Though locusts invade Rajasthan every year from neighbouring Pakistan, UP had to contend with their attack for the first time in the past three decades or so.As per a recent report sent by the state agriculture department to the Centre, the locust swarms attacked 61 of the 75 districts in UP between April and May and later again in July.“The locust swarms did night stay in 42 districts. While the insects only flew from one place to another without night stay in another 19 districts,” the report stated.The UP government had to deploy 127 officers, 325 staff, 217 fire brigade personnel, 224 tractor-mounted sprayers, the Central government’s three mobile vans and as many drones in spraying insecticides to either kill or chase away the invading insects.The report stated that no significant crop damage had occurred in any district because of the locust swarms’ invasion. The report revealed that 5,702 litres of chemicals were sprayed over an area of 7,021 hectares (ha) to kill the locust swarms in 42 districts, where they had stayed at night. The state authorities used three drones to spray pesticides in Agra, Farrukhabad, Pilibhit, Bareilly and Rampur districts.Sources said the Centre had asked the UP government to specify whether the spray of chemicals for locust control had led to any adverse environmental and health impacts.“We told the Centre that no immediate harmful effects were noticed. However, it may take a while for the harmful consequences, if any, to come to the fore,” a source said.The pesticides that were spread to control the spread of locust swarms mainly consisted of chlorpyrifos and lambda-cyhalothrin, the chemicals that are considered as harmful for humans due to their acute toxic content.“The chemicals used to eliminate locust swarms pose a risk to humans and terrestrial non-target fauna aquatic ecosystems,” sources said.KC Khulbe, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research in Lucknow, said insecticide sprays are harmful for both environment and humans.“But much depends on the amount of spray, area covered, nature of chemicals used, exposure duration and safety precautions taken,” he said.“However, we have done no research with regard to locust control,” he added.A state agriculture official said the use of chemical sprays to control locust swarms could have adverse effects. However, he still justified their use.“Spraying the chemical was essential. Else, the locust swarms could have caused a bigger harm,” he added.BoxDesert locust the deadliest pestAccording to the Jodhpur-based Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), desert locust, migratory locust, Bombay locust and tree locust are found in India. The desert locust is the most important pest species in the country and also in the intercontinental context.Historically, the desert locust, according to the LWO, has always been a major threat to humans. The desert locust is mentioned as a curse to mankind in ancient texts such as the Old Testament of the Bible and the Holy Quran. The magnitude of the damage and loss caused by the locusts is beyond imagination. The locusts have caused starvation due to the insects being polyphagous.On average, small locust swarms can eat as much food in one day as about 10 elephants, 25 camels or 2,500 humans. Locusts cause damage by devouring leaves, flowers, fruits, seeds, bark and also by breaking down trees because of their weight when they settle down in masses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-generation-of-locusts-may-attack-crops-in-up-after-monsoon/story-ST61pgheuKwpTfxqpHhVIJ.html
09-09-2020||Pune||‘In post-Covid scenario, FTII doing all it can to excel in the digital domain’||At the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), situated as it is, a Pune landmark on Law College road, with a rich and varied history and legacy, the lockdown opened up in July. That is, in terms of evaluating joint entrance test (JET 2020); in terms of structure and method of teaching for the three-year courses; and in terms of fees, India’s premier autonomous organisation, run under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, has been at work preparing for a year under the cloud of the Covid-19 pandemic. The JET results are expected to be announced by September 15, 2020. Other than that, Bhupendra Kainthola, director, FTII, believes the institute is ready to ensure quality education in cinema in the year to come. The entrance exam has already been affected? How will you manage the intake of the next batch of students? JET evaluations began began after a gap of nearly three months. We are continuously assessing the external developments in our plans to build our approach towards resumption of academic activities. What kind of changes are we going to see to the course structure in the coming months for the next academic year? FTII will take all steps to help put the academic calendar back on track as soon as possible and in complete compliance with the norms established by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. It goes without saying that social distancing will be maintained during exercises and projects, and necessary safety and preventive measures will be taken. Although the lockdown prompted us to launch the first online course - the introduction to the film production process in May, which comprised online classes for three hours in the morning for three days- free for 25 students. FTII now offers an online series of short courses in various streams like basic smartphone film making, writing for film and web, digital cinematography, foundation course in video editing, and basic orientation of sound in cinema. These have got quite a good response. Is going online something you are looking at, in terms of courses related to film-making? Not film making, per so, but we have already announced several short courses in online mode. Several courses will run parallel with subjects like film appreciation, documentary film Appreciation, and screenplay writing. The response is huge, from as far as the United States, Canada and Kenya. Let us take, for example, the film appreciation course, as well as the newly introduced mobile journalism course, both taught online. How will you keeping track of students? There is a surge in demand for FTII short courses. The digital space has opened up new possibilities and in the post-Covid scenario we are doing all we can to excel in this domain too. As FTII needs to have physical interaction for students, - shooting, for example - what are the steps taken by you for them to complete assignments? We are awaiting a nod from the ministry about the changes in the curriculum and we will see when we actually open the campus to students (as of now, there is not a single student on campus), about how to begin the classes. There will be no change in the fee structure, it will remain as it is for the next academic change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/in-post-covid-scenario-ftii-doing-all-it-can-to-excel-in-the-digital-domain/story-2p657NouzSkFhiLVKAUZcL.html
09-09-2020||Lucknow||Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s daughter placed under house arrest in Lucknow||Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s daughter Sumaiyya Rana was placed under house arrest on Wednesday in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, over her call for an anti-government protest, the police said. Sumaiyya, who had led the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) (CAA) Act, 2019, in Lucknow earlier this year, had urged the public to beat ‘thalis’ (plates) outside Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s official residence on Tuesday. She had exhorted the public to raise their voices against a host of issues, including the UP government’s mishandling of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“The UP government has failed in containing the contagion in the state. Private hospitals are fleecing the public because the state government is turning a blind eye on them. The Covid-19-related high mortality rate has further worsened the healthcare crisis in UP. Besides, the state government has also failed in curbing unemployment that has started taking a toll on the state’s youths. I had given a call to make our voices heard,” said Sumaiyya, who lives at Qaiserbagh in Lucknow. However, the police didn’t allow the protesters to gather outside the CM’s residence.“The district administration and the police didn’t allow us to assemble outside the CM’s residence on Tuesday. On Wednesday, they put me under house arrest,” Rana said. She said she saw heavy deployment of police personnel outside her residence and later she was told to stay indoors for another couple of days. She said she had also called a press conference to highlight the apathy of the UP government and how it was trying to muzzle the public’s “voices”. Another anti-CAA activist Uzma Parveen was also put under house arrest.Naveen Arora, joint commissioner of police (law and order), Lucknow Police, said, “A two-day restriction has been imposed on Sumaiyya Rana as a precautionary measure in order to maintain law and order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/urdu-poet-munawwar-rana-s-daughter-placed-under-house-arrest-in-lucknow/story-U8Ktw5688GaHGhvSO1PDUP.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Shiv Sena’s existence is over, says Himachal CM after demolition at Kangana’s property||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday condemned the demolition at Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut’s property in Mumbai by the Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), terming it unfortunate. “The Shiv Sena has shunned the principles for which it was formed. Its existence is over ever since it tied up with the Congress to form the government in Maharashtra,” Thakur, who heads the BJP government in the hill state, said on the sidelines of the assembly session in Shimla. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena, particularly its MP Sanjay Raut, and the actress have been engaged in a war of words after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said she feared Mumbai Police more than the movie mafia. On Wednesday, while she was travelling from her hometown, Mandi, in Himachal Pradesh to Mumbai, a BMC team reached Kangana’s bungalow in Bandra with a bulldozer and excavators and demolished alterations carried out on the premises till the Mumbai high court stepped in and stayed the demolition. Thakur, however, declined comment on the editorial in Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece, Saamna, that targeted Kangana. “I cannot comment on it. I have not read it,” he said. The Centre provided Y-plus security to Kangana on the recommendation of the Himachal Pradesh Police after she complained of threats to her life following the spat with Raut. The Himachal police provided security to her during her stay at Manali and later at her native village at Bhambla in Mandi district. State education minister Govind Singh Thakur expressed solidarity with Kangana and described the Maharashtra government’s action as unfortunate. Senior state Congress leader Ram Lal Thakur also said that the security provided to Kangana was the responsibility of the Maharashtra government. “She is the daughter of Himachal Pradesh and we are concerned about her security,” he said. Kangana left Mandi for Chandigarh by road early on Wednesday to catch a flight to Mumbai after testing negative for Covid-19 on Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-s-existence-is-over-says-himachal-cm-after-demolition-at-kangana-s-property/story-4mo4ZvZLwhlsC5uSBtqWgL.html
09-09-2020||Pune||Students call cut on FTII plans for online teaching||The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) may be emerging from the Covid-19 lockdown carefully, with online courses the new first take; however, even before the academic year has begun, students and management are already on a collision course, par for the annual script at the world-renowned organisation. Bhupendra Kainthola, director, FTII, has proposed mandatory online classes for first year students, which the students have opposed. In July, heads of some departments had enquired, by method of a form, of the availability of resources for online classes. Many students expressed concerns about non-availability of required resources. “Most departments did not even circulate the topics to be covered. There is no assurance from the administration to provide all resources, devices and uninterrupted internet facility, so students are on the same page, learning with equal opportunity,” said Aadhith V Sathvin president, FTII students association, currently in Tamil Nadu, from where he hails. Students also allege there is no official circular from the director, dean or office coordinator. “When we sent a letter to the institute administration about the inabilities of the students to attend online classes, the departments called the students personally and asked them to attend online sessions. We are always interested in online classes or sessions in a suitable situation, provided equal opportunities for everyone. When such an idea is implemented it is very important to brief all students on the overall plan of curriculum and pedagogical methodology. Considering the current circumstances there should have been proper planning and briefing about the online classes,” added Aadith. “The most important aspect of our current syllabus is that, according to the pedagogy of learning, the modules are designed into theoretical and practical classes. It would badly affect the learning curve if we totally ignore the practical learning and only continue with the theoretical classes. The learning objective of every module in the syllabus totally depends on the process of gradual progression from topic to topic with both theoretical and practical inputs,” he added. “We students, together, took this decision to oppose the proposal of online learning as there is no access to resilient digital infrastructure for all students, especially from remote regions. We cherish inclusivity at our campus. Also, the online mode wouldn’t guarantee the cohesive sync between theory and practical thus affecting the overall quality of film education. Students are awaiting a conducive environment to resume classes in the institute,” said FTII student, Ajinkya Ghule, a Pune resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/students-call-cut-on-ftii-plans-for-online-teaching/story-AkdfOqgtJkLjynqZCorFNN.html
09-09-2020||City||Three ATMs shut after Rs 10 lakh siphoned off in Jamshedpur by hackers||Cyber criminals hacked into at least three bank ATMs (automatic teller machines) in Jamshedpur and siphoned off over Rs 10 lakh, following which the police have closed down these ATMs and started investigating several others, police said on Wednesday. “We have closed down State Bank of India (SBI) ATMs at Circuit House (CH) area petrol pump and road no 15 Jawaharnagar (Mango) on Purilia Road and the Axis bank ATM at Karandih Chowk. Our investigation showed that cyber fraudsters had replaced the card readers in these hacked ATMs with their own card readers and could have cloned ATM cards,” Upendra Kumar Mandal, Jamshedpur cyber police station officer-in-charge (OC), said.The officer said Axis Bank provided them with the CCTV camera footage of their ATMs on Wednesday while CCTV footage and other details were still awaited from SBI. “We have sent notices to both the bank authorities as most of these ATMs did not have guards, despite clear guidelines. We are going to hold a meeting with the bank authorities soon and ask them to close ATMs without guards and secluded locations by 8pm,” said Mandal. Mandal said in one case, Rs 6 lakh was withdrawn in three ATM transactions and 61 online withdrawals from the SBI account of a district police personnel Upendra Nath Mahato, posted with Sitaramdera police station in the city. Mahato had withdrawn Rs 20,000 from an SBI ATM with guards at Mango Chowk on July 10, after which cyber criminals withdrew Rs 6 lakh from his account in three ATM withdrawals and 61 online transactions.“We are investigating 11 more complaints by city residents involving such ghost withdrawals amounting to another Rs 3 lakh. In most cases, withdrawals were made from ATMs in Dhanbad, Gaya and Patna. There was a lull after we arrested Nawada-based fraudster Ritesh but the cyber gangs in Jamtara, Deogarh and Nawada have become active again,” added Mandal.Rupees 24, 000 were siphoned off from the bank account of another complainant through an Axis Bank ATM on Old Purulia Road on September 2. Rupees 50, 000 were withdrawn from the account of a Sonari resident Suraj Kumar on August 3 and 4 through ATMs in Dhanbad. Rupees 30, 000 were withdrawn in five instalments from the account of UCIL employee Shashi Mugnekar on September 7.In March last year, nine SBI ATMs—three in Mango, two in Sakchi, one each in Sonari, Kadma, Pardih and Hata Chowk—had to be closed after they were hacked, triggering suspicion of hundreds of ATM cards having been cloned by the cyber criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-atms-shut-after-rs-10-lakh-siphoned-off-in-jamshedpur-by-hackers/story-YeKV2ilL2JIAREaaL03UhP.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC stays Rs 75 lakh compensation to man who drove into chained police barricades||The Delhi high court on Wednesday stayed the payment of a compensation of Rs 75 lakh to a man, who is in a vegetative state after crashing into chained barricades placed on a road while riding a motorcycle. The stay was granted after the city police challenged the May 18 order of a single judge granting the compensation.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan admitted the appeal by the Delhi police, filed through advocate Gautam Narayan, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government (ASC) (civil), which had challenged the May 18 order of justice Navin Chawla, directing the Delhi Police to give Rs 75 lakh to Dheeraj Kumar, who was 21 years old at the time of the incident in December 2015.The accident took place on an early December morning in West Punjabi Nagar area when Kumar and his father were returning home on a motorcycle and rammed into police barricades, which were chained together to cordon off a road completely. The victim was admitted at Safdarjung Hospital and after undergoing multiple surgeries and treatment, he was discharged in a state of unconsciousness.Challenging this decision, ASC Narayan, on Wednesday, told the court that to curb law and order problems, address security concerns, especially keeping in mind that Delhi is the national capital and the seat of the central government, houses sensitive establishments, is home to embassies and high commissions of several countries across the world and since top functionaries of the central government and the judiciary etc., reside here; the police actively takes several measures, including the placing of barricades from 12 am to 5 am in various parts of Delhi, including residential areas, to restrict and check movement.He said that the barricades are a common enough sight on the roads of the city and the normal and expected reaction of any law abiding member of the public, on coming across a cordoned of stretch of road, ought to be to respect the said measure and turn away and not to attempt to maneuver through, thereby defeating the very purpose of the security measure.Also Read: Complaint against Alt News founder frivolous, says counsel; arrest barred till Dec 8The plea contended that the single judge, however, accepted the case set up by the petitioner, in toto, despite the fact that it is not supported by any evidence with regard to the factors that caused the accident, and vicarious liability has been placed on the police on the basis of presumptions and assumptions.“The fact that the accident could not have occurred without contributory negligence on part of the motorist has been totally lost sight of,” the plea read.Also Read: No need for prescription for asymptomatic patients to undergo Covid-19 test: Delhi HCFollowing this, the court stayed the order of the single judge even though the counsel told the court that the money has already been deposited in the Registry of the Delhi high court.The youth and his father had earlier approached the high court seeking compensation towards the refund of medical expenses, loss of income/dependency, loss of prospects, continuing future needs as also for the pain and suffering suffered due to the accident.The high court, in its verdict of May 18, said the barricades were chained and therefore, did not allow vehicles to pass through and such chains could not have been visible to the motorist from a distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-stays-rs-78-lakh-compensation-to-man-who-drove-into-chained-police-barricades/story-q7grSqb3bRLPD1kWZ5Il5M.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Police records 533 fresh Covid-19 cases among its ranks, cases cross 500-mark in a single day for the second time||Maharashtra Police has recorded 533 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the past 24-hours.Besides, three new fatalities—one each in Mumbai, Thane and Gadchiroli districts—were also reported, as the toll in the state police department rose to 180.This is the second time that the fresh cases of the viral outbreak have crossed 500 in the state police department on a single day.Earlier on September 5, Maharashtra Police had reported 511 new Covid-19 cases.The state police department has reported 17,972 Covid-19 cases until Tuesday.Also Read: Maharashtra added over 150,000 Covid-19 cases in first eight days of SeptemberVinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector-general of police (AIGP) (law and order), Maharashtra Police, said, besides Mumbai, the maximum number of fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Thane city.Thane city police chief Vivek Phansalkar had tested Covid-19 positive last Sunday. Former commissioner of police, Navi Mumbai, Sanjay Kumar; and former additional director-general of police (ADGP) (law and order), Mumbai Police, Vinoy Kumar Choubey; were among the senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officials, who were found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2 that causes the disease. So far, 14,269 Maharashtra Police personnel has recovered from their viral infection. Also Read: Nearly 90,000 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 4.3 million; active cases close to 9 lakhAt present, the number of active Covid-19 cases among the state police department is 3,523.In Mumbai, Sutyakant Shankar Mohite (54), a constable, had died of the viral infection last Saturday. He was posted in the city’s RAK Marg police station and had undergone Covid-19 test after he complained of a high fever. “He had realised rather later that he was suffering from the contagion and got admitted to Sion Hospital on Saturday. Later, he died on the same day, even though he had no comorbidities,” said Sunil Sohoni, a senior inspector of RAK Marg police station. Mohite, a resident of Matunga, is survived by his wife, a son (22) and a daughter (13).Sachin Madansingh Pardeshi (33), a police naik, who was posted at the Hill Line police station in Thane city, died due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. Initially, he was admitted to Central Hospital, Ulhasnagar, but later was shifted to Venus hospital in Gujarat on August 23, as his condition had worsened.Ravindra Diwaji Gedam (52), a head constable, who was posted at Mulchera police station in the Left-wing extremist (LWE)-affected Gadchiroli district also died of Covid-19 in Nagpur on Tuesday evening. He was admitted to Nagpur’s Government Medical College and Hospital on August 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-records-533-fresh-covid-19-cases-among-its-ranks-cases-cross-500-mark-in-a-single-day-for-the-second-time/story-oErmIdHJta3if5QqCyuIVM.html
09-09-2020||City||Chhattisgarh Covid-19 tally crosses 50K mark||Chhattisgarh’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 50,000-mark and reached 50,114 with 2,545 fresh cases. The toll from the pandemic has gone up to 407 in the state, which now has 26,915 active cases.According to state health department data, 24,388 samples are being tested per million population in the state and the number of new infections has grown by an average of 6% daily.Also read: ndia’s Covid-19 tally crosses 43 lakh mark, Centre says 60% cases from five states aloneAround 40% of cases were reported from rural areas until August 30. “The number of cases in rural pockets has steadily increased in the last month,” a health department official said. “Initially the coronavirus outbreak was mostly limited to urban areas but the return of migrants led to an increase in cases in rural areas .”Around 637,000 migrant labourers have returned to Chhattisgarh after losing their jobs due to the Covid-19 lockdown.With 21,177 cases, the Raipur division is worst-hit by the pandemic in the state.Health minister T S Singhdeo said there has been a spike in cases because of increased testing. “...by the end of September, we would start to see a decline in the cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-covid-19-tally-crosses-50k-mark/story-GfVOlmPi0LOpgPylEobJjK.html
09-09-2020||Bhopal||Same-sex couple lived as heterosexuals for 8 years, reveals autopsy||In the small town of Sehore in Madhya Pradesh, a same-sex couple lived together as husband and wife for eight years, till the death of the latter by suicide revealed that she was not a biological woman.The wife’s autopsy report was received by the police last week.The duo, who got married in 2012, presented themselves to their family and neighbours as a heterosexual couple and adopted a child two years after their wedding.Additional superintendent of police, Sehore, Sameer Yadav said that on August 11, the couple fought, following which the wife attempted to immolate herself.“Both were badly injured in the fire. They had been admitted to a district hospital and were referred to Bhopal in serious condition on August 12,” Yadav said.While the wife died on August 12, the husband died on August 16.“In the initial autopsy report, the doctors wrote that they were both men. When we asked the family, they said they had no idea about it,” Yadav added. “We waited for the detailed autopsy report. Last week, when we received the detailed report, we found that [the wife] was a male,” Yadav said.Transgender is an identity, and it is independent from a person’s biological sex. An autopsy cannot determine a person’s gender identity.The husband’s older brother, who did not wish to reveal his name, told Hindustan Times that his brother lived separately in Sehore.“He used to support the LGBT [lesbian gay bisexual transgender] movement, saying that one of his friends is gay and wanted to live a fear-free life,” the older brother said. In September 2018, the Supreme Court struck down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalised adult consensual intercourse between two persons of the same sex. There is no legislation that either prevents or criminalises same-sex marriages in India.A case seeking the recognition of same-sex marriage is currently pending before the Kerala high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-same-sex-couple-lived-as-heterosexuals-for-8-years-reveals-autopsy/story-AkFUjLfwNDYERNgdIxUrHK.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Complaint against Alt News founder frivolous, says counsel; arrest barred till Dec 8||The Delhi high court on Wednesday said no coercive action would be taken against Alt News founder Mohammad Zubair till December 8, while it heard a plea seeking quashing of an FIR registered against Zubair for allegedly threatening and torturing a girl child through Twitter.Justice Yogesh Khanna also asked Delhi police to supply the copy of the FIR to Zubair and directed it to file a status report in the case, registered under provisions of the Information Technology Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) on a complaint received against Zubair from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR).The NCPCR complaint refers to the photo of the girl and her grandfather, shared by Zubair on Twitter during an online spat with the minor’s father. Though the girl’s face was blurred out in the photo, she said she could get identified as her grandfather’s face was recognisable.The NCPCR said it took cognisance of the complaint received under section 13 (1)) and (k) of CPCR Act, 2005, as a minor girl’s picture is seen to be circulated and posted by various Twitter handles with indecent and disgraceful remarks/comments, which seems to be a cognisable offence and requires immediate registration of an FIR.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for Zubair, said that based on a frivolous grievance of the complainant and biased and prejudiced directions of the NCPCR, an FIR was registered against his client at Raipur, Chhattisgarh, under section 509, Information and Technology Act, 2000 and section 12 of the Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. He said that Zubair is a dedicated citizen who, through his news outlet, debunks misinformation put out by individuals and by political parties without any bias. Due to the nature of his work, he is often abused, threatened and demeaned by people, who the website exposes or by their blind supporters.Also Read: Supreme Court dismisses plea against rising fuel pricesAdvocate Rahul Mehra, the standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal) told the court that even though he does not have any instructions, it would not be a problem for the department to share the copy of the FIR. He said that generally the FIRs are uploaded online except for the heinous cases or those relating to POCSO.Also Read: Delhi Metro returns with its fun factors: Doodles, books as surprises to be expected soon“This is not a nuclear secret of the state which cannot be shared,” Mehra said, while stating that the investigation in the matter is on. He submitted that prima facie, the FIR has been registered on the basis of the complaint. He also said that the city police have written to Twitter India to gather credentials of a third person who had posted an objectionable comment on the tweet.Following this, the court directed Twitter to extend its co-operation to the city police after Mehra sought that direction be issued to Twitter for expediting the information which otherwise takes a long time.The court will now hear the matter on December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/complaint-against-alt-news-founder-frivolous-says-counsel-arrest-barred-till-dec-8/story-S5BB6qUtO4C4vidDN5u48L.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport receives over 45k applications from intl flyers for quarantine exemption||Delhi airport’s online portal has received approximately 45,288 applications from international passengers since August 8 to avail exemption from seven-day institutional quarantine, said its operator DIAL on Wednesday.The government had said last month that from August 8, if any arriving international passenger has a negative report from an RT-PCR test done 96 hours prior to the journey, he or she need not undergo institutional quarantine in India. Delhi airport had launched an online portal for this purpose.Over 78,700 international passengers submitted their self-declaration form through the portal, the DIAL said in a press release. It added that 77 out of over 78,700 flyers were found to be symptomatic and were escorted to the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) for “necessary assistance and support”. The “Air Suvidha” portal received the highest number of quarantine exemption applications from the United States (15,027), UAE (4,512), UK (4,094), Canada (3,416) and Australia (2,687) till now, the DIAL noted.As per the health ministry rules, incoming international passengers need to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven-day home quarantine in India.Moreover, every passenger has to submit a self-declaration form that they have not tested positive for Covid-19 three weeks prior to the flight, as per the rules.The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) had launched the portal on August 8 so that arriving international passengers can fill mandatory self-declaration forms and eligible passengers can apply for exemption from compulsory institutional quarantine. “Based on the applications received for Delhi as first (entry) airport, approx. 45,288 forms for exemption from institutional quarantine have been submitted by international passengers through this portal. A majority of the applications were approved in a timely manner,” the DIAL noted.The Civil Aviation Ministry had last Wednesday said that international passengers, who have to take connecting domestic flights after landing in India, will have the option of getting themselves tested for Covid-19 at the entry airports.If the RT-PCR test result is negative, international passenger will be allowed to board his or her connecting domestic flight and he or she will not need to undergo any institutional quarantine, the ministry’s order said.Delhi airport is likely to start this on-arrival testing facility from mid-September.An international passenger who does not have a Covid-negative result certificate from a test done not more than 96 hours prior to the journey, and does not opt for an on-arrival testing facility at the entry airport, will have to compulsorily undergo seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven-day home quarantine.Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements between India and other countries since July.Domestic flights resumed in India after a gap of two months on May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-receives-over-45k-applications-from-intl-flyers-for-quarantine-exemption/story-gqmVaZg6ayT9anKV10T8UK.html
09-09-2020||City||Uniform in Rajasthan government schools to change again||The uniform for students of government-run schools in Rajasthan will change again, three years after the former BJP government introduced one that was identical to the RSS uniform. State education minister Govind Singh Dotasara said the decision to change the school uniform was taken on the recommendation of a six-member committee. “The committee considered complaints of parents and school teachers about the uniform introduced during the BJP government in 2017, to recommend a change,” he said. Also read: So far, Rajasthan has recorded normal rainfall during this monsoon, says reportThe committee was yet to recommend a colour but the new uniform will become applicable from next academic session (2021-22), officials said. Since 1997, the uniforms in the state’s government schools had been blue shirt and khaki shorts or trousers for boys and blue kurta and white salwar or skirt for girls. In 2017, this was changed to light brown shirt and brown trousers or shorts for boys, and light brown kurta or shirt with brown salwar or skirt for girls. A senior government functionary said the colour of the trousers and salwar was identical to the RSS uniform introduced in 2016 and the Congress government’s decision to change it was a political agenda. As a matter of fact, the education department had collected samples from Bhilwara, the textile town that supplied cloth for the first lot of new uniforms of the right-wing organisation, to ensure that the shade of brown matched exactly with that of the RSS uniform. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani had said that the decision to redesign the uniform was taken to make children of government schools as “elegant” as their private school counterparts, and added that the objective was to boost their confidence. The Congress government decided to change the RSS-like uniform for a political reason, said an officer of the department who was present in the meeting with the education minister on Tuesday, requesting anonymity. “Some of us suggested to the minister that it was not an appropriate time to effect a change in uniform when there was so much uncertainty about reopening of schools. But the minister persisted, saying the government could give the relaxation of not making the new uniform mandatory for a year,” the officer said. The six-member committee that recommended the change was headed by joint secretary Rajesh Verma; the members were Munni Ram Bagaria, additional state project director of Samgra Shiksha Abhiyaan; Mukesh Sharma, deputy director in Bikaner; Ramchandra Pilania, district education officer of Jaipur; Annu Choudhary, principal of Mahatma Gandhi English-medium School in Mansarovar, Jaipur; and OSD to education minister. The change in uniform will affect about eight million students in 64,000 government schools. Devnani slammed the decision, calling it shameful. “It is shameful to change a uniform which was introduced after discussion with students and teachers and to give students a sense of pride, only to please one’s high command,” he said, adding that the decision will put financial burden on parents some of whom have lost their livelihoods during the Covid-19 pandemic. The education minister was made the president of Pradesh Congress Committee during the political turmoil arising out of rebellion by 18 Congress legislators led by Sachin Pilot. Political observers said in keeping with the one-man-one-post principle, he may be moved out of the cabinet so Dotasara seemed to be in a hurry to make political decisions in the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uniform-in-rajasthan-government-schools-to-change-again/story-wSKnmj1QHnZcAp8JdyX2EP.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||BTech, MTech final exams as scheduled from September 22: Himachal Pradesh University||Himachal Pradesh University on Wednesday clarified that the final exams of bachelor of technology (BTech) and master of technology (MTech) courses will be held as scheduled from September 22. The university issued a notification in this regard to counter a fake report being circulated on social media that claimed the exams had been cancelled due to a spike in Covid-19 cases. Controller of examination JS Negi said students should rely only on information provided on the official website. “The exams will be conducted as scheduled from September 22. There is no change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/btech-mtech-final-exams-as-scheduled-from-september-22-himachal-pradesh-university/story-OV4l6YTZ4Bcqrtm27r9XsI.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||BMC’s demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s office: All you need to know||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday started the demolition of alleged structural violations carried out at actor Kangana Ranaut’s office a day after issuing her a notice over them. It had asked her to respond within 24 hours, take corrective measures, failing which “the illegal portions” would be demolished amid a bitter war of words between Ranaut and Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena, which also controls the BMC. Here are details of BMC’s action against RanautWhy did the civic body take the action?The BMC on Tuesday issued the notice to Ranaut citing illegal structural violations under section 354A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act, 1888. The BMC had sought a reply to the notice within 24 hours, as per the Act, and warned of action. Ranaut, through her lawyer, sought seven days to reply to the notice. However, the BMC on Wednesday initiated the action saying they were not satisfied with the reply.Also Read: Bombay HC begins hearing Kangana Ranaut’s plea seeking stay on demolition at her Mumbai homeCan the civic body take drastic action like demolition?Section 354A of the MMC Act gives powers to the BMC to stop and demolish an illegal construction after 24 hours of issuing notice at the expense of the violator.What are the exact violations?In its notice, the BMC pointed out 14 violations at Ranaut’s Pali Hill office. They included a toilet converted into an office cabin, a kitchen constructed in the storeroom, an illegal pantry on the ground floor, a wooden partition in the living room, a change in staircase orientation, balcony enclosure, change in position of the main gate among others. Any kind of structural change or deviation from the plan cleared by the civic body can lead to action.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut vs Shiv Sena latest updates: Actor says ‘Mumbai is PoK now’ as BMC carries out demolition work at her propertyIs this the same action the BMC takes in all such cases? Is demolition only action?Section 354A empowers the BMC to issue a notice to the violator. It can take action after 24 hours of the notice if the reply is not satisfactory. The competent officer is authorised to take action that she thinks is fit.What next?A civic squad finished demolition of illegal structures/extensions by Wednesday afternoon. The BMC said further legal action will be taken. It could also charge a penalty even as Ranaut has approached moved court against the action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-bmc-s-demolition-of-kangana-ranaut-s-office/story-gCm1J7Y24dXgaxgj5RWW3O.html
09-09-2020||Education||Amid lockdown, Lucknow school brings musical event online||Most of the schools in Lucknow, which have been shut since end-March because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak that is showing no sign of abating, have decided to organise extra-curricular activities online amid the pandemic. “Extra-curricular activities are an integral part of our school curriculum. Initially, organising extra-curricular activities on a virtual platform was a challenge. However, we are ready to take the plunge. Celesta, an international event of dance and music, is slated to be organised online from October 16 by City Montessori School (CMS) Aliganj campus-1. Besides teams from India, schools from the United States of America (USA), Russia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Sri Lanka and Saudi Arabia are expected to take part in the event,” said Geeta Gandhi Kingdon, president, CMS, Lucknow. “Our global contacts over the past 50 years have enabled wide international students’ participation for the upcoming events,” she said. “The school has received entries in the form of pre-recorded videos of dance and music from the participating teams, which are being shortlisted. The inaugural event will be streamed live in the evening on October 16. The programme will be held in the evening because of the difference in international time zones,” said Jyoti Kashyap, principal, CMS, Aliganj campus-1. The remaining two days will see the winning entries being played via the Zoom application (app). All participants will be in attendance. “Invites have been sent out. Social networking sites were extensively used to connect with the international participants,” said Kashyap.“We have restructured the event’s format because it will be held on a virtual platform. We have included individual performances such as folk dance, solo singing, instrumental, freestyle hip-hop, jingles, stand-up comedy and also Celesta Got Talent . We will shortlist the participants on the basis of the videos sent by them. Selected videos will be judged on the day of the event,” she added. Similarly, CMS’s RDSO campus will host Spardha, an international sporting event, where students are required to upload their pre-recorded videos up to a duration of two minutes that will showcase a host of physical activities such as rope skipping, push-ups, sit-ups, freestyle football and Zumba. A Google spreadsheet has been created to receive the entries, a teacher said. “Spardha will help enrich our students’ body and mind,” said Jyotsna Atul, principal, CMS’s RDSO campus.Somdeaw Ket, a school team leader from Thailand, said, “Spardha is not just a competition. It’s an opportunity and friendship that inspires all participants to feel empowered.” The competition is open for students from the primary to the senior levels. Entries have been invited for four categories, including the primary section (from classes III to V), the junior section (from classes VI to VIII) and the senior section (from classes IX to XII). Altogether, 34 schools from India and abroad have sent their entries, including the Ban Pak Gsak School in Thailand, to date. Entries are awaited from schools in Singapore, Sri Lanka and South Africa, Atul said. The winning students would receive e-certificates, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/amid-lockdown-lucknow-school-brings-musical-event-online/story-oSqgZuNHFkwP8nplhsznKK.html
09-09-2020||Dehradun||Retired female professor murdered in Dehradun, killer entered through window||A 66-year-old retired female professor, originally from Kolkata, was allegedly murdered by unidentified accused at her Dehradun house in the wee hours of Wednesday in Doiwala area of Uttarakhand’s capital, said police. According to local Doiwala police, the deceased was identified as one Putup Ghosh who hailed from Kolkata and used to live alone in her house in Dehradun. Senior sub-inspector Mahavir Singh Rawat, who was probing the incident on the spot, said, “The incident seemed to have happened at night as police were informed by a local on Wednesday at around 7 am after which it rushed to the spot to initiate an investigation.” Rawat added, “Prima facie it was found that she was strangled to death by an unidentified person who entered from a window from the backside of the house. A probe has been started in the case.” Meanwhile, another police officer privy to the investigation, said on the condition of anonymity: “The deceased was a highly qualified person and often used to go abroad on professional tours and lectures. She sometimes also used to visit some Dehradun based institutions for giving lectures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/retired-female-professor-murdered-in-dehradun-killer-entered-from-window/story-MMQJ3R4Vs8wrVE0g1zx15N.html
09-09-2020||City||UP: 5-year old girl molested in Lakhimpur; accused held||A five-year-old girl was saved from being raped by her alert parents in Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Lakhimpur Kheri district. Parents are keeping a strict vigil on their young daughters in the district amid at least three recent incidents of rape and murder of minor girls. Also read: 36-year-old arrested for sexually assaulting minor in MumbaiThe parents identified the culprit as Sonu (22), who had allegedly tried to molest their young daughter in a village that falls under the jurisdiction of Mailani police station in the district. The incident occurred on Tuesday evening.Sonu was arrested shortly after the parents informed the police.Circle officer (CO) Ravindra Kumar Verma of Mailani police station said “a case under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 has been lodged against Sonu.”Verma said the accused lived about 100 metres away from the girl child’s house and knew the victim. On Tuesday evening, while the girl child was playing near her house, the accused lured her and tried to molest her. However, Sonu’s bid was thwarted by her alert parents. The district has been in the news following several incidents of rape and murder of minor girls.On August 14, a girl (13) was strangled to death in a village under the jurisdiction of Isanagar police station. Two persons were arrested within hours in connection with the alleged crime.Another rape and murder of a girl (18) was reported under the jurisdiction of Neemgaon police station on August 24. The victim’s body was recovered from near a pond with her throat slit. Police cracked the case within 24 hours and arrested Dilshad, the accused in the case. On September 3, a girl child (3) was again strangled to death following rape in a village under the jurisdiction of Singahi police station. Lekhram, the accused in the case, was arrested shortly after the crime came to light. He had allegedly committed the crime to seek revenge against the victim’s family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-5-year-old-girl-molested-in-up-s-lakhimpur-accused-held/story-ujd8CLLYvYHiapVVRyYU4J.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC stays demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s property by BMC||The Bombay High Court stayed demolition of actor Kangana Ranaut’s property by the Mumbai civic body for ‘illegal construction’.The court asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file a reply on the actor’s petition. The matter will be heard at 3pm today before the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla.“We filed a petition this morning seeking urgent hearing. We have sought a stay on the demolition process by way of interim relief,” Ranaut’s advocate Rizwan Siddiqui told news agency PTI.The BMC on Wednesday demolished “illegal alterations” at the Bandra bungalow of Ranaut, a civic official said.The actor shared photos of the officials demolishing parts of her bungalow and called it the “death of democracy”. “Pakistan.... #deathofdemocracy”, she tweeted. Sharing another set of pictures of the demolition squad, she wrote, “Babar and his army”.After engaging in a war of words with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut over the role of Mumbai police in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death probe, Kangana Ranaut is on her way to Mumbai. Raut had warned the actor against returning to Maharashtra after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.“As I am all set for Mumbai Darshan on my way to the airport, Maha government and their goons are at my property all set to illegally break it down, go on! I promised to give blood for Maharashtra pride this is nothing take everything but my spirit will only rise higher and higher,” she had earlier tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-begins-hearing-kangana-s-plea-seeking-stay-on-demolition-at-her-mumbai-home/story-uDVFcGd8PpyQUk50CfRddK.html
09-09-2020||Lucknow||No money for diesel, school dropout in Kanpur irrigates field with tube well running on LPG||Twenty-four-year-old Sonu Tiwari, a class 10 dropout, didn’t have water to irrigate his fields in Nadiha Buzurg, a small village in Shivrajpur, in Kanpur rural. He also knew he could not afford diesel to run the tube well.However, he did have a cooking gas cylinder (LPG) they got under the Ujjwala scheme. That’s when Tiwari reasoned that if LPG could run vehicles, it would run a tube well too. He took the LPG cylinder to the field and after trial and error, he managed to run the tube well on LPG last week.Also read: The rise and fall of two UP strongmen“The tube well ran for 10 hours on four kilos of cooking gas. The same amount of work would have required 11 litres of diesel,” he said, beaming broadly.His success caught the imagination of other farmers, who are lining up for the technical know-how. “I am sharing with them how I simply attached the rubber pipe in the nozzle through which the pump sucks in air,” he said.To start, the tube well requires a litre of diesel and once it is running, it switches to gas. “It cost me merely Rs 17.60 for an hour of operation that is far cheaper than running it on diesel. That cost Rs 75 per hour,” he said.In a week, he used up the cylinder carrying 14.2 kg of gas and cost Rs 690 to irrigate his field. In this duration, the tube well ran for 35 hours in two cycles.“I am both happy and worried as some people have told me that using LPG like this is a crime,” he said, adding that he was compelled by the circumstances.Tiwari has lost his father and the three bighas of land was the only way to help the family – his mother and three younger siblings – survive. “I have taken loans from a few people and I was worried about not being able to repay them,” he said. He tried to find work on the fields and factories in Chaubeypur but did not succeed. “There was no work available anywhere because of Corona and the lockdown,” he said.“That is why I had to use this system; I promise I will not do it again. My field is irrigated and if need be, I will borrow from the sunaar (goldsmith) again. I do not want to go to jail,” he said.Piyush Mishra, a progressive farmer and head of a neighbouring village, said what Sonu did was path-breaking and the most talked about thing in the region. “We will help him if he needs it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-money-for-diesel-school-drop-out-in-kanpur-irrigates-field-with-tube-well-running-on-lpg/story-0wq0SqYKnfwSea30XjCixL.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro returns with its fun factors: Doodles, books as surprises to be expected soon||Delhi’s lifeline aka Delhi Metro is back on track after exactly 169 days... although running in a calibrated manner for now. So what’s the POA for people who made the metro rides fun? Remember the popular Metro Doodles or Books on The Delhi Metro... are these creative minds who thrived on this public transport also set to get back on the tracks?   Meanwhile in metro during the lockdown 🤪 . . . #MetroDoodle #animation #monsters #party #lockdown #meme # funny #coffindance #aliensA post shared by  MetroDoodle | Samar (@metrodoodle) on Aug 3, 2020 at 5:23am PDTWell, if you get to spot goofy aliens or lil monsters resting on the metro station, and a full-on monsters party happening at one of the stations then worry not, this isn’t Mars Attack but the virtual world of Samar Khan aka Metro Doodles! His illustrations are going to have a new protagonist ft Coronaman, who shall take centre stage as aliens don masks, and spread the message of following safety norms such as social distancing, increased stoppage time at stations, etc.Khan has been kicked about riding the metro post lockdown, but not “so frequently” he says adding this is a temporary plan till things settle down, and hopes that people get the message of how important it is to ensure hygiene, through his illustrations. Talking about one of his illustration depicting a ‘bored Coronaman’ waiting outside a metro station gate and another one featuring a lady travelling wearing a mask and travelling with children looking out of the train in awe of flying dinosaurs , he says, “I’m definitely going to include Coronaman in a few more scenarios. I still have to go out and see it for myself, but try to help out and spread awareness whenever it’s possible through my illustrations. At the same time, I’ve to make the sketches quirky and entertaining. With the metro reopening, it’s an opportunity for me to turn the new scenario, in the pandemic world, into new doodles.”   Meanwhile, Coronaman is bored waiting for us to enter metro. 😈 In these past couple of years, capturing snippets during my regular commute in metro and bringing out hidden stories in them with my doodles has become a part of my life. 5 months into COVID and it all seems like a distant blur. To help India get #FreedomfromCOVID , I will be giving up travelling in a metro unnecessarily and not being outdoors as much as possible. @pharmeasyapp These are small sacrifices everyone can make to make our world Covid free. :D Send a video, take a selfie or comment on the post on what are you willing to give up to help India’s fight for #FreedomFromCOVID and tag me and @pharmeasyapp in it. 10 lucky winners will get a Covid protection kit from PharmEasy #PharmEasy #PharmEasyChallenge #PharmEasyIndependenceDay #TakeItEasy #MetroDoodleA post shared by  MetroDoodle | Samar (@metrodoodle) on Aug 14, 2020 at 6:04am PDTThe 27-year-old artist is known to induce humour even in the grimmest of circumstances. “Everyone is used to the ‘new normal’, but Rajiv Chowk won’t be the same; for a while at least. I’m going to ride the metro and capture as many scenes as possible. That’s the plan. I am going to experiment more and bring out more of Delhi in my work,” he adds.   Sup! 👋🏼 . . . . #Metrodoodle #illustration #alien #et #metro #Delhi #Art #digitalart #procreate #monsters #doodlesofinstagramA post shared by  MetroDoodle | Samar (@metrodoodle) on Jul 7, 2020 at 7:05am PDTBut not everything that’s imaginary will be revived with the return of Delhi’s most loved public transport. The literature enthusiasts or reading nerds can rejoice too. The popular group Books on The Delhi Metro is also planning to get back into action, and leave books as free gifts while indulging the bibliophiles in a treasure hint sort of clues to find where they have left the surprises while on the Metro. Shruti Sharma, founder of the group, says she and her volunteers are waiting to resume the secret surprises as soon as things settle down. Sharma adds, “The plan is not to start immediately since metro has resumed running in phases, and surely there will be lesser number of people taking the transport for now. So we don’t want to rush into things right now. But, we have plans to restart our initiative that had become really popular among people of all age groups, travelling in Delhi Metro. Nearly all our book fairies are students, and most of them have also gone back to their home towns, so we will have to figure out how to go about leaving surprises at various locations... We definitely want to come back and resume to normal conditions that we had prior to Covid-19.”   #lockdownreadingwithbodm Condition:New Murugan started his literary career in 1991 when he was just 25. 'Eru Veyyil' was his first published novel in 1991. Now, 29 years later Murugan's debut novel has been translated into English for his fans. Young Selvan's life is no longer the same. His family's ancestral land has been sold in order to make way for the construction of a housing colony. In the ensuing years, as the pressures of their situation simmer to a boil, Selvan observes his family undergo dramatic shifts in their fortunes as greed and jealousy threaten to overshadow their lives. Tell us an interesting fact about the author's literary career and we'll send this book your way. @penguinindia @perumalmurugan_offl #Perumal #RisingHeat #novel #books #literary #fiction #giveaway #books #booksonthedelhimetro #freeA post shared by  Books On The Delhi Metro (@booksonthedelhimetro) on Aug 14, 2020 at 7:56am PDTAnd the travellers in the train aren’t any less excited to know this. Take for instance Gurugram-based entrepreneur Yatin Wadha, who is a metro regular and says, “I loved finding out books on Delhi Metro, and can’t wait to retsart discovering those precious gifts again. During the metro journey now, we will have to follow strict instructions of social distancing and can’t really talk with fellow passengers, so there’s nothing better than using the time of the journey to read a book. And if I find the book during the journey, then it’s cherry on the cake!” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-returns-with-its-fun-factors-doodles-books-as-surprises-to-be-expected-soon/story-5I409Jw9BvF6LMrvdfq7qK.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena slams Centre for providing security to Kangana Ranaut, calls it insult to Maharashtra||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday took on the Union home ministry and the Bharatiya Janata Party for providing Y-plus security to actor Kangana Ranaut, calling it an insult to Mumbai and its police. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana published Wednesday, called the actor, who is scheduled to arrive in Mumbai, a “supari actor”. The Sena mouthpiece added the Maharashtra unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should have not supported people who refer to the chief minister in a disrespectful manner.Also Read: Maharashtra home minister receives threat call for criticising Kangana Ranaut“Comparing Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir and insulting the khaki uniform by likening the Mumbai police to the mafia are signs of a disturbed mindset... But when the nationalist Modi government’s home ministry stands by such people and provides them security cover, then our 106 martyrs must be shedding tears in heaven,” the editorial said. (106 people had died during the movement that took place to include Mumbai in Maharashtra).It added that though the Shiv Sena had taken a “different route”, it would never allow disrespect towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It said that Modi was just not a person, but an institution in the form of Prime Minister. “If any person arrogantly challenges the chief minister of Maharashtra, then the whole of Maharashtra should be united against it. The Bharatiya Janata Party is directly supporting those who insult Mumbai and the chief minister of the state,” it added.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut tests Covid-19 negative, leaves Himachal home for MumbaiThe editorial further said that insulting Mumbai was equivalent to making derogatory statements against Mumba Devi, the Goddess of Mumbai. “Our goddess was insulted by comparing her with the Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Hindutva and culture, religion and renunciation of 106 martyrs were insulted and despite this, the Central government is giving respect in the form of special protection to the person who insulted Maharashtra,” it said. “The names of those who insult the mother of ‘Mumbai’ will be written with asphalt in the history of Maharashtra,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-slams-centre-for-providing-security-to-kangana-calls-it-insult-to-maharashtra/story-i9BSimIe552id476y1zaNL.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||UP government to act on CAG report revealing anomalies during Mayawati regime||The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has decided to take action on the basis of the Comptroller and Accountant General’s (CAG) report that has revealed anomalies during the regime of the Mayawati-led UP government between 2007 and 2012.Also read: UP literacy rate poor than national average, says reportThe UP government had changed the land use from agriculture to housing in Ghaziabad without charging any requisite conversion fee from property developers, the CAG report stated. The then Mayawati government’s decision had caused a financial loss of Rs 572.48 crore to the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) and only unduly benefited select property developers in violation of the Delhi Master Plan 2021, the report cited. The report pointed out that the GDA had approved between October 2010 and October 2013 the layout plans of the property developers for a total area of 4,772.19 acres of land, including 3,702.97 acres indicatively earmarked as a hi-tech township in the Delhi Master Plan 2021.The Delhi Master Plan 2021 stipulated that land-use conversion charges of Rs 572.48 crore were to be levied on the property developers for the said project. However, contrary to the norms, agriculture plots were allotted to Uppal Chadha Hi-Tech Developers Pvt Ltd after changing its land use to residential, but no conversion fee was charged. The firm comprises two property developers such as Uppal Chadha Hi-Tech Developers and Sun City Hi-Tech Infra Pvt Ltd. The CAG report noted that the financial irregularity occurred after the then UP government had issued an order on April 23, 2010, according to a statement issued by the Yogi dispensation on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/up-government-to-act-on-cag-report-revealing-anomalies-during-mayawati-regime/story-6HaFbrbphIUIeTjNPrTM5M.html
09-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Varanasi’s Ramnagar Ramlila may not be staged this year||The lovers of Ramlila – the re-enactment of the life of Lord Rama as depicted in the Hindu epic Ramayana – in the temple town of Varanasi are disappointed because the world-famous annual event Ramnagar Ramlila is unlikely to be held this year owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.However, many are still hoping for the event will be held, albeit symbolically, in a bid to keep an annual date with a tradition that traces its origin over two centuries ago. Ramnagar Ramlila had started in the early 1800s during the reign of the then Kashi Naresh, Maharaja Udit Narayan Singh. Each year, it starts on Anant Chaturdashi and continues for the next 31 days. Ashutosh Pandey, a member of the Vyas family that has been playing a crucial role for several generations in ensuring successful staging of the Ramnagar Ramlila since its inception, said, “The event starts on Anant Chaturdashi. But this year was an exception. Anant Chaturdashi, which fell on September 1, came and went because of the Covid-19 pandemic.” Pandey said: “At the behest of the Ramlila lovers, locals along with Vyas family members are likely to request the present Kashi Naresh, Kunwar Anant Narayan Singh, to organise the event, albeit symbolically. The request will be made after Kunwar Sahab (Singh) returns from Delhi.” He said: “A meeting is likely to take place on September 29 at Ramnagar fort, if Kunwar Sahab returns from Delhi by then.” He added: “If a decision is taken to organise Ramlila symbolically, only five members of our (Vyas) family will recite the Ramcharitmanas in the evening from September 30. This will be followed by ‘aarti’ of the crown on the Ramlila ground near Ramnagar fort.”Despite a last-ditch effort to hold a symbolic event, police authorities are certain that no visual spectacle is expected this tear. Naresh Kumar Singh, an officer at Ramnagar police station, said the organisers had verbally informed him that Ramlila would not take place this year.Another police official said the state administration had appealed to the Ramlila organisers to follow the Central government guidelines in a bid to contain the spread of the contagion. “The organisers had assured us of full cooperation,” he added.Ramnagar Ramlila is a huge annual draw, including foreign tourists, whose likely temporary suspension this year has hurt several local sentiments.“The tradition should never be broken. The event upholds a display of respect for women and elderly parents. It also teaches a lesson to stay away from bad deeds. It’s like a moral science class for all and sundry,” said Professor Vijay Nath Mishra, a Varanasi–based neurologist and an ardent lover of traditional events like many others in the temple town. Ramnagar Ramlila lovers Vijay Narayan Pandey and Pt Prasad Dikshit also echoed Professor Mishra.The annual event has exclusive trappings such young impressive artistes, sound and light technicians, innovative set design, earthy dialogues and a visual grandeur. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) has also recognised the event as an intangible world cultural heritage.The Ramlila is staged in the backdrop of the Ramnagar fort under a sheltering autumn sky. Traditional lamps are the only source of light, which lends an ethereal ring to the natural surrounding.Each year, children are selected and training is imparted to hone their histrionic skills to play the protagonist Lord Rama and other central characters such as Goddess Sita, Laxmana, Bharata and Shatrughna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-varanasi-s-ramnagar-ramlila-may-not-be-staged-this-year/story-AALAJi56OvKAxh1HDPh7wK.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra home minister receives threat call for criticising Kangana Ranaut||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday received a threat call for criticising Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut during the assembly session. The call was received at Deshmukh’s Nagpur office, an official confirmed to news agency ANI on Wednesday. Deshmukh told HT, “Yes, I have received the (threat);calls and Mumbai crime branch has been investigating it.”Earlier, The home minister had said that Ranaut came to Mumbai to earn a livelihood, the city accepted her but she insulted the Mumbai Police. “A girl (Kangana Ranaut ) from another State comes here to earn a livelihood and Mumbai accepts her but she insults the Mumbai Police. This is sad. What she said is irresponsible. If you insult Maharashtra, people will not tolerate it. Maharashtra belongs to the BJP too, all parties should condemn her,” the NCP leader said.Deshmukh also ordered a probe against Ranaut based on alleged drug claims made by her former boyfriend Adhyayan Suman.Also read: Kangana Ranaut tests Covid-19 negative, leaves Himachal home for Mumbai On Tuesday, Ranaut responded to the home minister’s statement by saying that she will cooperate with the police and asked them to collect her blood samples.  I am more than happy to oblige @MumbaiPolice @AnilDeshmukhNCP please do my drug tests investigate my call records if you find any links to drug peddlers ever I will accept my mistake and leave Mumbai forever, looking forward to meet you 🙂 https://t.co/gs3DwcIOvPDeshmukh’s statements about Ranaut come amid an ongoing war of words between the actor and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut over her remarks that she doesn’t feel safe in Mumbai after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-minister-receives-threat-call-for-criticising-kangana-ranaut/story-6vEcN7KGJDW7eakMdwAhgK.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases rise in Delhi, police to deploy teams to prosecute protocol violators||With Delhi experiencing a fresh surge in its daily coronavirus cases, the Delhi Police on Wednesday said each of its police stations will deploy a dedicated team which will be sent to one location in their respective district to prosecute those violating Covid-19 norms.“In view of spread of coronavirus in Delhi, each police station shall detail one dedicated team, comprising of an upper subordinate and one lower subordinate to report to one location in their respective district to prosecute persons who violate protocols”, the Delhi Police said today.This statement by the Delhi Police comes even as a number of economic activities have opened up in the national capital as a part of the ongoing fourth stage of the nationwide unlock. While Metro services resumed on Monday, schools, too, will partially reopen from September 21.On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 3,609 new cases of coronavirus-its highest single-day spike since June 24-taking its tally past the 1.97 lakh mark. The death toll here stands at 4,618 after 19 deaths took place on the day.Also on Tuesday, the Delhi government conducted 45,797 tests for Covid-19, the highest for a single-day. This is also the first time more than 40,000 coronavirus tests were conducted in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-delhi-police-to-deploy-teams-to-prosecute-violators/story-7hGYKN1U8PiOdOuyxAtLcK.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Dahanu in Palghar rocked by daily tremors, residents fearful||Dahanu in Maharashtra’s Palghar district continues to be jolted with mild tremors that have instilled a sense of fear among the residents. A mild earthquake measuring 3.2 on Richter Scale was recorded on Wednesday morning at 04:17 hrs in continuation of the current spell of daily tremors that started on September 4.On September 8, two tremors, the first measuring 3.8 on the Richter Scale struck at around 09:50 hrs and another measuring 2.5 magnitude jolted Dahanu at 10:15 hrs; on September 7, a mild tremor measuring 3.5 on Richter Scale was recorded.On September 5, four tremors measuring 2.8, 4.0, 3.6 and 2.7 on the Richter Scale were recorded in some Dahanu villages; though no casualty was reported due to these, a few houses developed cracks due to the quake. During the intervening night of September 4 and 5, residents of Aaina, apcheri, Talasari, Dongripada, Amboli, Dhanivare, Osarvira, Kasa, Bordi, Dhundalwadi, Shisne and other villages ran out of their homes in panic when an earthquake struck and had to spend the night in the open. The Talasari police made public announcements in the above villages urging people not to panic.Since November 2018, villages around Dhundalwadi and other areas of Dahanu have been experiencing mild tremors at regular intervals, creating fears in the minds of locals.Also Read: 2 tremors felt in Palghar district again, no one injuredPalghar Collector visits quake sitesNewly appointed Palghar collector Manik Gulsale, alongwith other senior officials from the district, visited the quake spots in Dahanu and Talasari, where cracks have developed in some houses. Two deaths due to tremorsThe tremors have resulted in two deaths since February 2019, when a two-year-old Vaibhavi Bhuyal of Haladwadi, Talasari, died after a portion of the roof of a house collapsed on him due to a tremor. A few months later in July 2019, a 55-year-old Rishya Meghwali, a resident of Vasavalpada in Dahanu, died in similar circumstances. Meghwali’s wife also suffered minor injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-dahanu-in-palghar-rocked-by-daily-tremors-residents-fearful/story-aL4xMjjrcXPbVMGcnPOAhO.html
09-09-2020||Lucknow||Gym trainer shot dead during morning walk in Meerut||Unidentified motorcycle borne criminals shot dead a gym trainer near village Madaripur on Sakauti- Nanglee road in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut  on Wednesday morning while he was returning home from his daily morning walk, police said. The deceased has been identified as Parvinder,45, of Sakauti in Daurala area of the district he also worked as a contractor.Circle officer of Daural area Sanjeev Dixit said that the incident occurred at 6.30 am when two motorcycle borne miscreants pumped five bullets into Parvinder who died on the spot. “ Efforts are underway to identify the criminals through CCTV footage and inputs of local residents,” said Dixit as teams of Daurala police and officials rushed to the spot.The miscreants escaped and passerby informed the police . The body has been sent for the post mortem and a manhunt has been launched to identify and arrest criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/gym-trainer-shot-dead-during-morning-walk-in-meerut/story-CLCJRINixoTX4ZRficulJJ.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Pulwama pencils script a made-in-Kashmir story||Lassipora (Pulwama): Every time a child picks up a pencil to write, chances are he or she may be holding a piece of Kashmir. A significant portion of the wood in making the country’s top brands of pencils comes from South Kashmir. Not many know that Oukhoo, the Pencil Village in the militant hotbed of Pulwama, is the hub for making pencil slats, the main raw material. Dozens of units are engaged in preparing slats inside homes from a special poplar tree that grows only in the wetlands of district. “The wood of trees grown here has the right amount of moisture for making pencils,” says Abdul Rahim, who owns a small unit. 60% PRODUCTION DONE IN KASHMIR Officials say at present 60% of pencil production work is done in the units at Lassipora, one of Kashmir’s biggest industrial estates set up over 300 hectares in 1984. Surrounded by apple orchards, hundreds of bags of raw wood neatly stacked and ready for despatch to the country’s prominent pencil-making industries are testimony to the work 250 units are doing at the estate. “We have eight units where slats are prepared and we supply the raw material to Hindustan Pencils, which makes the Natraj and Apsara brands, and is the second biggest pencil manufacturer in the world,” says Feroz Ahmad, who set up his first unit in 2013 and owns another one in neighbouring Kakpora. LOCAL WOMEN LEAD THE CHARGE Ahmad, a graduate from Amar Singh College, Srinagar, says that most of the work in these units is being done by local women. “This industry generates employment for nearly 2,000 people. At Oukhoo, small units have come up in homes,” he says. Slats prepared in Pulwama are sent to units where pencils are made. “Earlier, we used to supply wood to pencil makers but now we have started making slats that has helped generate jobs,” says Shabir Ahmad, a unit owner. The unit owners are keen on making the whole pencil in Kashmir and then selling it. “We do the basic work here as the raw material is easily available. If the government gives us incentive then complete pencils can be made here,” says Showkat Ahmad, a unit holder, adding that initially the government needs to support them as they have to compete with big brands. “If we start manufacturing pencils from this estate, thousands will get jobs. It only needs government support. I’m ready for full-fledged production,” he says, adding it’s owners making slats who pay the maximum tax in Pulwama. CALL FOR LEVEL-PLAYING FIELD The estate unit holders’ president at Lassipora, Nissar Ahmad, says there is an opportunity for growth if the government provides a level-playing field. “The toll post at Lakhanpur (Jammu) has been abolished for unit holders outside the state. How does the government expect the local industry to compete with big units? Yes, our raw material goes outside the state but for finished products, we have to rely on the local market,” he says. If raw material is procured from outside Kashmir, it is stuck on the national highway for days. “We have been waiting for the completion of the highway for decades,” he says, adding frequent and unscheduled power cuts is another problem. “When units don’t have power, they rely on generators that raise production cost,” he says. Work at the industrial estate gained momentum after 2006 when the government started developing it into a hub. Fourteen cold stores, where thousands of metric tonnes of fruit are stored, is also another attraction. “We have big cold stores, TMT, foam, leather, fabrication, milk units here that generate employment for more than 10,000 people,” says Mohammad Rafi Mir, the manager of the Lassipora industrial estate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pulwama-pencils-script-a-made-in-kashmir-story/story-eFW2KXu1SvK70M5YxGW1LN.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested for spreading rumours on Covid-19||Punjab police arrested a person for uploading a fake and objectionable post about human organ trafficking on social media and spreading rumours about Covid-19.According to the Punjab Information and Public Relations Department’s press statement: “In their continued crackdown on rumour-mongering, Punjab Police has arrested nambardar of Jattpura village in Ludhiana for uploading a fake and objectionable post about human organ trafficking at Rajindra Hospital Patiala on Facebook and spreading rumours about Covid-19 leading to panic amongst citizens, besides tarnishing the state government’s efforts to contain the pandemic.”The accused is identified as Mandeep Singh, also known as Deepa, a resident of Jattpura village, police station Hathur. An FIR under Section 188 IPC 54 Disaster Management Act police station Hathur has been registered in the case.“Investigation has revealed that Mandeep had uploaded a post on his Facebook Profile ‘Deepa Dhillon Jattpura’ on August 24, 2020, wherein he made disparaging remarks about Rajindra Hospital Patiala and referred to it as being a Centre for Human Organ Trafficking and levelled baseless allegation that they kill people by injections, etc. against the Hospital,” a spokesperson disclosed.The accused has admitted that he had uploaded the post in haste in emotion as his uncle (Sarpanch of his village) had died recently due to Covid-19, the spokesperson added.Notably, the Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday had directed the DGP to crack down on all rumour mongers and web channels spreading misinformation among the people about the pandemic. Disclosing further, the spokesperson said that mobile phone which was used to upload the post has been confiscated and is being forensically examined to ascertain all facts. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-spreading-rumours-on-covid-19/story-rzRTQ1rDEzdLpviAZUrxUK.html
09-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Over 40 staff test positive, Rajasthan CM cancels meetings for a month||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has cancelled all meetings for a month on the advice of doctors, said a note from his office on Tuesday night. During this time, he will only hold video conferences for governance.The announcement came in the wake of more than 40 employees of CM residence and office testing positive for coronavirus disease. These included policemen and RAC (Rajasthan Armed Constabulary) jawans posted in CM security.Gehlot said social distancing and following health protocol were the only ways to stop the spread of Covid-19 infection. The CM said saving lives was state government’s top priority during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The government is making all efforts for this, including extension and strenghtening of health services. But this pandemic can be controlled only with everyone’s participation,” Gehlot said.He appealed to people to use mask, maintain social distancing, avoid crowds, minimise social interaction, step out of houses only when it’s absolutely necessary and follow health protocol with full responsibility.Meanwhile, Rajasthan reported 1,590 cases on Tuesday evening, taking the cumulative total to 94,126. The death toll is 1,164, including 13 reported on Tuesday. The state has 15,090 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-over-40-staff-test-positive-rajasthan-cm-cancels-meetings-for-a-month/story-0OTtuV8IXvXGYGrusQsAwO.html
09-09-2020||City||Maharashtra added over 150,000 Covid-19 cases in first eight days of September||Maharashtra, which is reporting a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases over the past week, has added 151,321 new cases to its tally in the first eight days of September. The state’s active viral case load has increased by nearly 50,000 during this period.State government officials said more Covid-19 cases are being reported in Tier-II cities and in rural areas in Maharashtra while Mumbai and other urban areas are also continuing to report a significant number of Covid-19 cases. Also read: India now has most daily Covid-19 deaths in worldState health department officials attributed the spike in Covid-19 cases to the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions that were enforced since March-end to contain the spread of the contagion. There has been a rise in intra-state travel, reopening of offices etc; that have led to a surge in Covid-19 cases, officials said. The state government had allowed the public to travel to Konkan districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg from August 12 --- 10 days before the annual Ganpati festival.These districts have reported a spike in cases following the state government’s relaxation measures. Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts have reported a 126% and 274% uptick, respectively, in Covid-19 cases. Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg had reported 2,388 and 534 cases, respectively, until August 12. While the corresponding figures in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts jumped to 5,397 and 2,001, respectively, by September 8.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 20,131 new cases, as its tally rose to 943,772.The death toll stands at 27,407, including 380 fresh deaths, said a state health department official.The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 3,868 new cases and the total count rose to 369,968. The division has reported 13,469 Covid-19-related deaths to date.Pune district is still a hot spot, as it added 3,967 new cases on Tuesday. Pune city reported 1,711 new cases and 35 fresh fatalities on Tuesday. The total cases and death toll in Pune city is 116,951 and 2,817, respectively, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-added-over-150-000-covid-19-cases-in-first-eight-days-of-september/story-E6XaEzBux7NLTqCKtvdqDM.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||‘Honey trapped’ man escapes in time; former home guard personnel, two others arrested||A businessman (38), who had recently befriended a woman on an online dating platform, found himself trapped by a gang of four that threatened to implicate him in a fake rape case if he did not cough up Rs 5 lakh in cash, the Delhi Police said.The victim managed to give his extortionists a slip from outer Delhi’s Rohini on Sunday. He went to the nearest police station, at Budh Vihar, and sought help that led to the arrest of two men and a woman in the “honey trap” case. Also read: Delhi man shoots in air, arrestedHowever, a suspect is still absconding. “One of the arrested suspects, Sunil Kumar Pal (40), is a former home guard personnel. He was charged with two similar offences in the past,” said PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Rohini, Delhi Police.“The arrested woman, Seema, also was involved in a honey trap case in 2017,” said the DCP.The victim rents out computer printers and lives with his family in Rohini. “A few months ago, he came across a woman, Jyoti, on a dating application (app). Soon, they became friends,” said the DCP.Jyoti requested the victim for a job a week ago, as she was allegedly facing financial hardships. “He agreed to offer her a sales executive’s job in his business,” said the DCP.On Sunday, Jyoti allegedly proposed a get together to celebrate the occasion of her finding a job. The man drove to Rithala Metro station, where he met Jyoti and her friend Seema (35).“They went to a rented flat in Sector 5, Rohini, to ‘celebrate the occasion’. Soon , Seema left on some pretext and returned with two men. The four persons started demanding Rs 5 lakh in cash from the victim and threatened to implicate him in a fake rape case if he did not pay up,” the DCP added.But unlike many other previous similar cases, the victim managed to give his extortionists a slip and went to the nearest Budh Vihar police station.“We launched a technical surveillance and arrested three of the four suspects on Monday. But Jyoti is still absconding,” said the DCP.The gang would be on the prowl on dating apps to lure rich and vulnerable men and extort money by blackmailing them with fake rape cases, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/honey-trapped-man-escapes-in-time-former-home-guard-personnel-two-others-arrested/story-QGcRXNyOlKQApYoKjDptTO.html
09-09-2020||Kolkata||Maoist posters in Bengal prompt special force reactivation after a decade||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has directed the West Bengal police’s top brass to reactivate the counter intelligence force (CIF) that was created a decade ago to combat Maoists in the state and further strengthen the special task force (STF) after news of alleged insurgency activities started pouring in over the past few weeks. Banerjee also sought a report from the director general of police on the alleged insurgency activities in some of the districts in the western parts of the state that once used to be the hotbed of Maoists. “The DGP had visited Belpahari. I would ask him to submit a report. I want to know who all are behind this,” said Banerjee. Virendra, DGP of West Bengal, had on September 5 reviewed security arrangements in some of the western districts including Belpahari in Jhargram that used to be a hotbed for subversive activities carried out by the members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) until 2011. The state police chief visited Jhargram and West Midnapore districts and held a meeting with Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to review some stray incidents that had come to light of late. Also Read: Police forces in Bengal should keep up good work, not pay heed to adverse remarks: CMOn August 15, around a dozen hand-written posters were recovered from a couple of villages located around the Bhulabheda forest. The posters had urged the public to observe Independence Day as ‘kala divas’, or a black day. On September 4, again some hand written posters were recovered from Belpahari. “Some people had even tried to kill Manoj Verma, the commissioner of Barrackpore. Had we not seen the video we wouldn’t have come to know,” said Banerjee at the state secretariat on Tuesday. Verma was the superintendent of the counter insurgency force in November 2011, when top Maoist leader Mallojula Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji, 55, was shot dead. Also Read: Bengal’s Sunderbans billed ‘endangered ecosystem’, mangroves show signs of climate-resilience“The special task force is an important wing. We need to gear that up. The CIF was set up to tackle Maoists when they were active. I would ask Ajoy Nanda (a senior IPS officer) to work on the CIF and reactivate it once again,” Banerjee said. She, however, was quick to add that all the alleged Maoist activities and news that the insurgents were regrouping are staged and the “truth would come out soon”. Earlier in August, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had hinted that Maoists could be regrouping in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/maoist-posters-in-bengal-prompt-special-force-reactivation-after-a-decade/story-cazD0f9mYjLzkzEpK4Bn9L.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Blue and Pink lines resume services as part of Unlock 4.0||The Delhi Metro resumed services on two more of its lines starting 7am Wednesday. Trains started running on the 65.35km Blue Line, connecting Dwarka Sector 21 and Vaishali/Noida Electronic City, and on the 57.58km Pink Line, connecting Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar. Commuters were seen coming early to the stations, where they were met with three levels of screenings and sanitisation before being allowed to enter the station premises. With more lines opening, the Delhi Metro will also face the task of crowd management, but Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials said they are prepared to handle the load without compromising on the SOP. From Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services in a graded manner after a gap of 169 days. The first line to be opened was the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre) and the Rapid Metro in Gurugram.On Wednesday, too, services will be available to passengers in two shift timings -- from 7am to 11am and from 4pm to 8pm. Entry and exit will be restricted at stations, and commuters can check which gates will remain open on the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation website, www.delhimetrorail.com.“As part of the stage one graded resumption of Metro services, the Delhi Metro has resumed operations on Blue and Pink lines. Along with these two lines, the Yellow Line and the Rapid Metro, which had already opened on Monday, will continue operations,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-resumes-blue-and-pink-line-service-from-today/story-cC3fGXpRnBtyf9hcVTCVbP.html
09-09-2020||Ranchi||Sadhvi raped at Jharkhand ashram, one held, hunt on for 3 others||One of four persons accused of raping a 46-year-old Sadhvi at her ashram late on Monday night in Jharkhand’s Godda district has been arrested on Tuesday, while a special investigation team (SIT) was constituted to nab the other three accused, police said. The arrested accused was identified as Deepak Rana (22), who, police claimed, confessed to his crime.An FIR was lodged against four persons, including two unidentified men, who reportedly barged into the ashram to commit the crime, on basis of the complaint filed by the Sadhvi at Mufassil police station.Godda superintendent of police YS Ramesh said, “Detailed investigation is on in the case. All forensic evidence has been collected and a special forensic team has been called in,” he said.Officer in-charge of Mufassil police station, Jyotish Jaiswal, said the rape survivor, in her complaint, said that four persons, including Deepak Rana and one Ashish Rana, barged into the Ashram at around 2.15am. The Sadhvi alleged that she was dragged out of her room and was threatened with murder before Deepak and Ashish raped her.Also Read: West Bengal: Two minor sisters gangraped; one kills herself, another hospitalised after attempt to do so The ashram, located in Godda district, is said to be spread over four acres of land and six people including five women and a man reside there.The lone male member at the ashram, said, “Four armed men entered the ashram on Monday night. When I tried to stop them, they beat me and locked me up in a room. They also locked four other sadhvis in separate rooms. We also took the victim into our room. But, they dragged her out and locked me from outside.”Also Read: 86-year-old raped by plumber in Delhi, man arrested from spotHe said the victim woman hailed from Dhanbad, but she lived in Varanasi. “She had come to the ashram in February for preaching. However, she could not return to Varanasi due to the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/sadhvi-raped-at-jharkhand-ashram-one-held-hunt-on-for-3-others/story-5yLIL1AlrvtN1PXB99r0PP.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi to see dry weather this week||Delhi is likely to experience dry weather over the next four-five days after a spell of light rains over the past week, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said.The IMD has forecast a partly cloudy sky and strong surface winds at a speed of up to 30 kilometres per hour (kmph) to blow across the national capital on Wednesday. Also Read: Many parts of peninsular India to experience rain for next 4-5 daysOn Tuesday, Delhi experienced a hot and humid day. The maximum day temperature was 35.3 degrees Celsius (C), which was two notches above normal. While the minimum night temperature was 25.1 degrees C. IMD officials said Tuesday was warm because of clear skies, bright sun and high humidity level. “Delhi’s neighbouring areas such as south of Gurugram and western Uttar Pradesh (UP) are experiencing rainfall following which there is high moisture content in the atmosphere leading to humidity. Besides, clear skies and sun contributed to the heat. Delhi may see such a dry weather for the next four-five days. So far, there is no system for rainfall formation in the northern region,” said an IMD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-dry-weather-this-week/story-p6bcXvgztK8nGFeapI6GOM.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC hears Harper Collins’ plea against stay on publication of book on Asaram||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday heard the plea filed by Harper Collins challenging trial court order restraining publication of a book titled “Gunning for the Godman: The True Story Behind Asaram Bapu’s Conviction”.A single-judge bench of Justice Najmi Waziri issued notice to Sanchita Gupta and listed the matter for further hearing on Wednesday. Sanchita is a co-accused in a case related to self-styled Godman Asaram Bapu and had approached the Court seeking urgent relief against the publication of the book as the pre-released chapter published on a web portal was defamatory of her and was likely to prejudice her appeal pending before the Rajasthan High Court. Justice Waziri also allowed the plea of Flipkart and Amazon to delete them from the memo of parties followed by their submission that they shall abide by the direction issued by the court.Harper Collins has moved the Delhi High Court against a district court order restraining publication of a book titled “Gunning for the Godman: The True Story Behind Asaram Bapu’s Conviction”.The Patiala House Court of Delhi on September 4 directed the defendants to restrain from publishing the book titled “Gunning for the Godman: The True Story behind the Asaram Bapu Conviction” till the next date of hearing.Additional District Judge RS Meena on Friday granted interim relief to Sanchita Gupta and restrain the publication of a book.Gupta had approached the Court in a civil suit filed by her advocates Naman Joshi and Karan Khanuja and the matter was strongly argued by Advocate Vijay Aggarwal.Arguing for Sanchita, Advocate Aggarwal informed the Court that the book was being published by Harper Collins and scheduled to release on September 5, 2020, both physically and online.The book authored by Ajay Lamba, Additional Commissioner of Police, Jaipur and Sanjiv Mathur claims to be a true story, however, is at variance with the trial record and most importantly interfered with Sanchita’s appeal which was sub-judice and where the Rajasthan High Court had already suspended her sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-hears-harper-collins-plea-against-stay-on-publication-of-book-on-asaram/story-iXWjEB5CduGatrB01F5pjP.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||National High Speed Rail Corporation floats tender to initiate process for detailed project report for Mumbai-Nagpur corridor||The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) on Tuesday floated a tender to initiate process for the detailed project report (DPR) for the 753km high-speed railway corridor between Mumbai and Nagpur. The tender will be floated to carry out a survey to identify overhead, overground and underground utilities that will be required for the project. The survey will also include identification of power-sourcing options for substations along the Mumbai-Nashik-Nagpur high-speed railway corridor. The rail project is slated to save the commuting time by up to 50% from Mumbai to Nagpur. Currently, the shortest railway distance between the two cities is 11-and-a-half hours by Duranto Express. “DPR will be prepared on the basis of the details we get from the survey. It will be crucial as it will determine the area required, pathway of the railway corridor and other technicalities. Once the data is received, we will begin preparing the DPR,” said a senior NHSRCL official. NHSRCL stated that if the trains are operated at a speed of 320km per hour, the travel time will be reduced significantly. “The speed of train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad will be 320km per hour. Similarly, the Mumbai-Nagpur corridor will be 753km, [but] the exact speed and time taken will be determined after the DPR is prepared. However, we expect the travel time to come down by up to 50%,’’ the official added. The DPR will also include identification of locations for railway stations, land required for construction of railway lines and station premises. Passenger associations welcomed the move and stated that the reduction in travel time will help boost the economy of Maharashtra. “Maharashtra’s capital is Mumbai, but Nagpur is a very important city in the state. The reduction in the travel time will not just help passengers but will also allow the easy flow of business between both the cities,’’ said Subash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. DPR will also be prepared for Delhi-Varanasi (865km), Delhi-Ahmedabad (886km), Chennai-Mysore (435km), Delhi-Amritsar (459 km), Mumbai-Hyderabad (711 km) and Varanasi-Howrah (760 km) high-speed railway corridors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/national-high-speed-rail-corporation-floats-tender-to-initiate-process-for-detailed-project-report-for-mumbai-nagpur-corridor/story-KNxM2FYQ1Hmf4OUshe9YzL.html
09-09-2020||City||Three held for robbing goods worth ₹50 lakh from electronics store in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested three men for breaking into an electronics showroom in Kharghar on August 30 to steal mobile phones and laptops worth Rs50 lakh. The accused also robbed the DVR of CCTV cameras installed in the shop, leaving no clues behind for police to investigate. Bipin Kumar Singh, Navi Mumbai Police Commissioner, said: “The taxi used by the accused was also stolen. Hence, the investigating team had absolutely no clue about the accused.”A police officer from the Central Unit Crime Branch, requesting anonymity, said, “We tried tracing the taxi used in the crime by using the trail of CCTV footages. But, beyond Mankhurd they could not be traced.”The accused were finally arrested on September 4 after senior police inspector (central unit) Nivrutti Kolhatkar and his team received information about their whereabouts.The accused have been identified as Ayaan alias Nisar alias Bittu Rafi Ahmad Shaikh (28), a resident of Dharavi and originally hailing from Bihar, Shafikulla alias Sonu Atikullah (24) of Matunga and originally hailing from Uttar Pradesh, and Imran Mohammad alias Immu Bindu Ansari (25) of Nallasopara.The accused had stolen the taxi from Kurla on August 14 and did a recce of Shiv Electronics in Kharghar. In the wee hours of August 30, they broke into the shop using gas cutters.Suresh Mengade, deputy commissioner of police (special branch), said: “After entering the shop, they covered all the windows with curtains so that none from outside could notice them. They chose this shop as it was surrounded by less CCTVs outside.”After the accused were arrested, police recovered stolen phones and laptops worth Rs 45 lakh from their possession. Police learnt that the accused had planned to take the stolen booty to various states and sell them.“Once the accused crossed the state and sold the stolen booty, it would become challenging to trace the goods. The accused had planned to transport these goods via trucks to various agents in Rajasthan, Delhi and Haryana. The stolen phones and laptops were usually sold at half the rate to these agents,” Singh said.The accused have previous history of crime in Mumbai, Thane rural and Palghar. Around 26 cases have been registered against them. They have been remanded to police custody till September 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-robbing-goods-worth-50-lakh-from-electronics-store-in-navi-mumbai/story-6l5qFOSBCY4Q76jGTpDZaO.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||20-year-old held from Gujarat for stalking, blackmailing 800 minors and promoting child pornography||Mumbai Police’s cyber unit arrested a 20-year-old man from Mahua in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat on Monday for allegedly stalking, blackmailing and promoting child pornography. The cyber police found nude photographs of more than 800 girls, between 10 and 15 years from the mobile phone of the accused, Alfaz Jamani, which he managed to get from the victims after blackmailing them. According to cyber police officers, Jamani is a Class 12 dropout. He used to work at an onion dehydration plant. Dr Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber), said, “On September 4, we received complaints from seven parents whose children are between 10 and 15 years old. The parents alleged that an unidentified person uploaded morphed and nude images of their children on social media. The police filed a first information report (FIR) and began investigations.” Based on technical evidence, one police team went to Gujarat on September 6 and arrested him. According to the police, the accused revealed that he used to first send friend requests to minors and then started chatting with them after they accepted the request. He later would download their photos from their social media account, morph it and upload them on his other social media profile. The accused would then sent the girls the screenshots of their morphed pictures and ask for their username and password. “Once the girl shared the login credentials, he would change the password, the password recovery email id and mobile number, to ensure that the girl cannot recover the password. He would then again blackmail them to send their nude photographs and videos,” said a police officer from the cyber unit. Jamani would also chat with other female friends of the girls through their accounts and share the morphed images of the victims with their friends, said the police. “Jamani would tell the friends of the victims that the latter achieved the body shape because of a medicine, and would then ask them to share their nude photos to “guide” them on the amount of medicine they need to consume to get the desirable shape,” said the police officer. Karandikar said Jamani is booked under section 354D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code as well as sections 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) and 13 (use of child for pornographic purposes) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act. “We have recovered four mobile phones from his house which he used for the crime. Some of the phones belong to his parents and elder brother. From one of those phones, we have recovered more than 800 nude images of minor girls and the accused said he had blackmailed the girls to get these pictures. We have found his 17 fake social media profiles which he used it to befriend minors. We are investigating further,” Karandikar said. Last year, Jamani was arrested by Pune Police for the same offences but was released on bail. A metropolitan magistrate court remanded him in police custody for six days. Advisory from Mumbai Police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-year-old-held-from-gujarat-for-stalking-blackmailing-800-minors-and-promoting-child-pornography/story-eBQPfU3ouN4iuGi93CfOGJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe becomes chairperson of Maharashtra legislative Council||Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe was re-elected as the deputy chairperson of the Maharashtra legislative Council amid din in the House on Tuesday. Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had fielded Gorhe, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had nominated Vijay Girkar. The BJP, however, walked out of the proceedings after chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar refused to defer the election as a petition filed by BJP in the Bombay high court (HC) was to be heard on Thursday. Nimbalkar announced the Gorhe was elected unanimously, as the BJP did not contest the poll carried out through voice votes. Gorhe was the deputy chairperson of the house in June 2019. Leader of Opposition in the Council argued that his party has approached the HC, seeking a stay on the election as some of its MLCs have been infected by Covid-19 and they will be deprived of their fundamental right of voting given by the Constitution. However, the legislative Council chairman refused to defer the poll and said, “The high court has not summoned me on the decision taken. You, the leader of opposition, are informing me about the decision of the High Court. Therefore, I will not accept the objection raised. Here, it is not the matter of one election or the rights of members as contended by you. The high court does not have jurisdiction over the internal proceedings of the House. Therefore, I will stick to my decision.” BJP MLA and state party chief Chandrakant Patil wrote to Nimbalkar and expressed his disappointment and alleged “discrimination” that he acted “under pressure” to favour ally. “In the Chairman election held four years ago, we, who had never backed NCP, voted for you to get you elected as chairman. But you never cooperated with us, even though it was our government. However today you worked under pressure to discriminate against us.” He added, “Deputy chairperson election was held during a pandemic? While three BJP legislators could not attend as they were coronavirus positive, still election was held? Instead of 78 members, the House had 60 members, still, the election was held? The election was held while a petition was pending in the court? It is surprising.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-s-neelam-gorhe-becomes-chairperson-of-maharashtra-legislative-council/story-Us6BQvg07HxC2sSZlV4i0N.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||“We don’t cut trees at night,” Maharashtra CM’s jibe at Devendra Fadnavis after he slams state’s proposal to shift Mumbai Metro-3 car shed from Aarey||In a jibe at leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said that the Maharashtra government will not take “short cuts” for the Mumbai Metro-3 car shed construction and work will be done in “broad daylight’’ instead of night. Thackeray was referring to the cutting down of trees at Aarey Colony in Goregaon in the night last year for the construction of the car shed. His comments were in response to a discussion raised by the Opposition in the Assembly over the relocation of the car shed from Aarey to Pahadi Goregaon.Thackeray also said that his government will ensure that the Metro corridor opens without wastage of public money.Fadnavis had claimed that the state’s purported proposal to shift the car shed to Pahadi Goregaon is technically and financially unfeasible, as it will lead to wastage of thousands of crores of public money. Fadnavis said that the government should not make this an issue of prestige or ego as the new plan will lead to a change in the alignment as well as the merger of metro lines 3 and 6, which is technically not feasible.“Works [for the corridor] such as the tunnel, entry ram, underpass, which costs thousands of crores of rupees, has already been completed. The state will have to buy the plot if it decides to shift the car shed to Pahadi Goregaon, as it is a private property as opposed to the plot in Aarey, which is government land. The move will ultimately cost additional expenses and its burden will come on the passengers. In addition to this, the project will also be delayed,” he said in the Assembly while discussing on the supplementary demands.While Thackeray did not confirm any plans of shifting the car shed, he said, “We are not working to satisfy our ego nor are we taking shortcuts. We will have to chop trees at night if choose to take shortcuts. Whatever the previous government was doing at night, we have started doing it in broad daylight. We will ensure that public money is not wasted and metro services are also started.”The CM’s reply indicates that he is unlikely to change his position on Aarey. Last week, the government reserved 600 acres of land in Aarey near Sanjay Gandhi National Park as forest area.Last year, during Fadnavis’s regime, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) – the nodal agency responsible for completing metro projects – had axed around 200 trees at night, following the Bombay high court’s (HC) decision to uphold the tree authority’s nod to the felling of 2,646 trees at the car shed site in Aarey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/we-don-t-cut-trees-at-night-maharashtra-cm-s-jibe-at-devendra-fadnavis-after-he-slams-state-s-proposal-to-shift-mumbai-metro-3-car-shed-from-aarey/story-YA57b8W7BsElqcSeBdyccO.html
09-09-2020||City||Maharashtra CM slams Centre on non-payment of GST compensation, dares state BJP to question implementation of tax regime||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday slammed the central government for the non-payment of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to the state and challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators from the state to unite as ‘sons of Maharashtra’ to question the Centre on the new tax regime. “The Union finance minister said that coronavirus [outbreak] is an act of God. Our pain is that our [GST] compensation worth ₹22,000 crore has not come [to the state] yet. They are not speaking of giving back money, and are instead giving options such as securing loans. This means what is ours will be lost, and the state will further go in debt. This is what the Centre is doing; it is nothing but sin. At least in this matter, can we forget being the ruling party and Opposition, and question the Centre?” the CM asked in the legislative Council. Thackeray referred to an editorial on GST in a Marathi daily and said, “The important question is ‘what next’, because corona will go away eventually. In reality, if the implementation of the [Goods and] Service Tax is incorrect in the first place, then the question is who has the courage to discuss it? You criticise us, which is fine. But do you have the courage to ask the prime minister on GST and that its implementation is not correct.” The chief minister added that he expects cooperation from the Opposition party in the implementation of ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign in the state. In a bard at Parvin Darekar, leader of Opposition in the Council, Thackeray said, “The concerns you raised on the state of coronavirus are good, but tomorrow don’t go out and start ‘ghantanaad’ agitation to open this and that. We expect you to help us in these times of pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-slams-centre-on-non-payment-of-gst-compensation-dares-state-bjp-to-question-implementation-of-tax-regime/story-soKuA6gE19qUNASN8IhGGM.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: NIA arrests 3rd member of Kabir Kala Manch||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap a member of cultural organisation Kabir Kala Manch, concerning the Elgar Parishad case. Meanwhile, two other members of the organisation, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor, who were arrested on Monday were remanded in NIA custody till September 11 by the special NIA court. Sources claimed that Jagtap was placed under arrest by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), Pune on Tuesday morning and was later handed over to NIA. NIA claimed that the three accused Jagtap, Gorkhe and Gaichor, “were propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology”, and were co-conspirators with other arrested accused. “It has also come on record that the arrested accused persons were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about the urban network of CPI (Maoist). Also, it is established that during their visits [of Kabir Kala Munch members] in the jungle, they underwent weapon and explosive training, and awareness programme on various topics related to Maoist movement,” the agency said in a press statement.“It is also established that as per the evidence on record, that in June 2018, absconding accused Teltumbde discussed the Elgar Parishad programme which was organised at Pune and the subsequent in-roads made by the CPI (Maoist) in the organisation and execution through the members of Kabir Kala Munch and other frontal organisations,” the NIA statement added.The three accused were named in the original first information report (FIR) registered by Pune Police against the organisers of the event held at Shaniwarwada on December 31, 2017. According to the FIR registered at Vishraumbaug police station, on January 8, members of Kabir Kala Manch had allegedly made provocative speeches, sang songs and performed skits that led to violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018.The initial investigation was conducted by Pune Police, and two charge sheets were filed in the case. The probe was transferred to NIA earlier this year. The agency has so far arrested Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha and Hanybabu Musaliyavirtil Tarayil. An organisation set up for the accused — Bhima Koregaon Shauryadin Prerana Abhiyan — after the arrest of Jagtap, released a statement seeking the release of the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-arrests-3rd-member-of-kabir-kala-manch/story-ZIUJCFBUPyyMYPTMMc4dXK.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||BMC distributes worksheets to Mumbai students facing internet connectivity issues||In a bid to help students with poor internet connectivity get access to learning, the education department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has recently started distributing worksheets to them.Schools under BMC distributed class-wise worksheets for the syllabus taught in August. Parents had been asked to visit schools in designated slots assigned to them and collect the worksheets. The initiative has been sanctioned up to December.“In order to ensure students do not remain out of touch with respect to their studies, we have started distributing periodic worksheets of all subjects through schools. Students can solve these worksheets and parents can then submit them to the school for teachers to check them. Teachers can contact students and guide them further,” said Mahesh Palkar, education officer, BMC.As per data obtained by the BMC education department in August, around 25% students in civic body schools were unable to join online classes even two months after schools in the state reopened in June. The civic body had thus distributed textbooks to students in the same month.Now, the BMC has also appointed ‘Palak Mitra’ (friends among parents) through its schools. “The concept is to seek help from parents who are reasonably educated and who can help students in their locality in their studies. Through such volunteers, we are sending out educational content, giving students exercises and monitoring their progress. In addition to this, teachers have been asked to visit localities where students can be taught in small groups of three-five,” added Palkar.A principal from a BMC school in the eastern suburbs said that the initiative of appointing Palak Mitra has been helpful in reaching out to more students.“When our teachers tried to contact students, many could not be reached as their contact numbers had changed or they had migrated to their hometowns. With the help of local support from other parents, we were able to track these students and make sure they get to learn like the others,” said the principal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-distributes-worksheets-to-mumbai-students-facing-internet-connectivity-issues/story-ylzOZqicBhDK42nCSw10HJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Kalyan-Dombivli civic commissioner warns of action against those breaking Covid-19 lockdown rules||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner has warned those from containment zones to abide by the lockdown rules. He has asked shops in these zones to follow the timings. Otherwise, strict action would be taken, he said.All ward officers have been given strict orders to conduct an inquiry against shops that were kept open beyond the permissible limit of 9am to 7pm.“All ward level officers and related officials have to ensure that essential services were functioning and all shops were maintaining social distancing norms,” Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner, said.“Shopkeepers and workers should wear masks at all times. Strict action would be taken against those violating norms. Moreover, fines should be levied on those found without mask or any cloth used to cover their nose and mouth properly,” he added.The civic body, on Monday, served notices to housing societies asking residents to strictly adhere to home isolation and lockdown norms. The societies were also warned of legal action being taken if they failed to follow guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-dombivli-civic-commissioner-warns-of-action-against-those-breaking-covid-19-lockdown-rules/story-xcyE1Fi4xgeY4miYH6S4mO.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Jumbo Covid-19 hospitals made to benefit private contractors, alleges Devendra Fadnavis||Former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis slammed the state government for allegedly failing to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic during a discussion on supplementary demands of ₹29,084 crore in the state assembly on Tuesday. Fadnavis alleged that jumbo facilities created by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to treat Covid-19 patients were, in reality, a bid to benefit private contractors and there had been massive corruption in the procurement of several health infrastructures from body bags to masks. He also claimed that only 9,000 patients had so far received treatment under the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MPJAY), a free health insurance scheme run by the state, and fewer tests were conducted to reflect lower number of Covid cases. “With over 27,000 casualties, Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of Covid deaths across the country apart from having the highest number of total cases as well as active cases. Looking at the conditions, it appears that the jumbo hospitals are developed to benefit some contractors. Patients there don’t get facilities and proper treatment. Jumbo hospitals have become death depots,” said Fadnavis. State health minister Rajesh Tope, however, refuted the charges and said that the government is working with complete transparency and honesty. He said that only 18% of the total cases that were admitted to private hospitals had paid treatment charges while the rest got free treatment. He also assured that the state will take strict action if any specific case of corruption is brought to their notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jumbo-covid-19-hospitals-made-to-benefit-private-contractors-alleges-devendra-fadnavis/story-ZMKVLBPS3o0CZ2y15UMq9N.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||In Mumbai and 17 other cities, councillors not involved in Covid-19 management: Report||A study by Mumbai-based Praja Foundation found that despite Covid-19 impacting cities worse than rural areas, local councillors have rarely been involved in the Covid response. Praja Foundation released a report titled Importance of Local Governance in Crisis Management on Tuesday, based on a study carried out in 29 cities between May and June. The report said in 18 of the 29 cities, councillors were not involved in Covid-crises management. Councillors are locally-elected representatives who are a vital point of contact for citizens with a city’s administration. The 18 cities include Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Gurugram, Kolkata and Mangalore. Nitai Mehta, founder and managing trustee, Praja Foundation, said, “Keeping a city government out in times of crises is a mistake. It is the local councillors who know what is the real situation and what are the relief measures that are needed. They are much more aware than those sitting at the state capital or at the Centre.” The report also states that 24 cities are not taking response actions through ward-level interventions. In 22 cities, the city administration was not involved in the management as decisions were taken by the state government or Centre. Harshil Suresh from Praja said that in many cities, the local government’s role has been limited to sanitation work. In May and June, Praja Foundation carried out random sampling and interviewed local stakeholders, including councillors, administration and civil society organisations. In Mumbai, it found that though councillors might be undertaking relief work at an individual or political level, they were not a part of the crisis-management process. Mumbai is also in the list of cities where area sabhas are not yet functional. The city has 24 administrative and 227 electoral wards. Asif Zakaria, a Congress corporator from Bandra, said, “It is true that councillors are not really involved in the process of decision-making, though they know the pulse of the area. The administration must make the process more inclusive.” Praja Foundation’s report suggests empowering city governments during crises: “The mayor should hold authority to spearhead the disaster or crisis management at the city level. Ward councillors should be authorised for implementation of rapid response actions and effective reach out to the citizens at ward level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-mumbai-and-17-other-cities-councillors-not-involved-in-covid-19-management-report/story-J0ePJBtlrrcULWQC6QtmjJ.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 discharge rate falls below 80% after cases surge||It’s a double whammy for Mumbai as the city’s discharge rate for Covid-19 has dropped below 80% for the first time in three weeks, after a spike in cases since the beginning of September, while the infection growth rate has crossed the 1% mark. Mumbai has reported 13,000 cases in just the first eight days of September as against 30,474 in entire August.The discharge rate was 81% at the end of August after rising from 80% during the middle of the month. However, with the sudden surge in cases this month, the rate slipped to 79% on Tuesday. The city’s case growth rate, meanwhile, stood at 1.07%, up from 0.8% in the previous week. Discharge rate is calculated as the percentage of Covid-19 patients who have recovered and been discharged from the total cases in the city. Growth rate of Covid-19 cases is calculated based on the average rise in infections in the past seven days from any given day. The cases growth rate of Mumbai was more than 1% in the last week of July, after which it had steadily dropped, with August recording an average of 983 daily cases. However, in the week ended September 6, 11 of the 24 administrative wards of Mumbai have a growth rate of more than 1%, with wards in north Mumbai, covering the areas of Borivli, Kandivli, Malad and Mulund, witnessing the highest growth rate. Overall, in Mumbai, the R-Central ward (Borivli West) has the highest growth rate of 1.5%, followed by Bandra West at 1.3% and Malabar Hill with 1.2%. Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 1,346 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 158,756. On Monday the city had reported 1,788 cases; 1,910 infections were recorded on Sunday, 1,737 on Saturday, 1,929 on Friday, 1,526 on Thursday, 1,622 cases on Wednesday and 1,142 last Tuesday. The city has reported an average of 1,625 cases in the first eight days of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-discharge-rate-falls-below-80-after-cases-surge/story-E6ZeP5gk2JnLJWJTY7mg8M.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Five wards in south Mumbai record 70% of city’s total malaria cases||As the city witnesses a rise in Covid-19 cases, it is also reporting an increase in malaria cases. In the last eight months, a total of 3,099 malaria cases have been reported across the city, with almost 70% of them in five wards of south Mumbai. Data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that the five wards in south Mumbai — G South, E, F South, G North and D — account for 2,157 of the total 3,099 malaria cases. Civic officials have attributed the rise to the creation of breeding grounds at under-construction sites where work stands halted owing to the lockdown, and ongoing Metro railway work in the island city.Doctors said they are being cautious because symptoms of malaria such as fever, breathing difficulties and loss of appetite are indistinguishable from those of Covid-19. To rule out co-infection, all malaria patients have to additionally undergo the test for the novel coronavirus.Last month, BMC recorded two malaria-Covid-19 co-infection deaths, of which one was from south Mumbai. A 27-year-old man from G North ward (Dadar, Mahim, Dharavi) died due to the co-infection on August 3, 24 hours after getting admitted to a hospital. The other patient was a 40-year-old man from M East (Govandi) ward, who died on August 4.“Cases of co-infection are still less in Mumbai. I have seen two such cases where patients with malaria also tested positive for Covid-19. A co-infection can prove fatal for patients above 50 years of age with comorbid health issues,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consulting general physician at Bombay Hospital. In January, only 172 malaria cases were reported, which increased to 1,163 in August — an almost seven-time surge. Of the five wards with the most malaria cases, G-south (Lower Parel, Worli and Elphinstone) has reported the maximum number of cases, with 1,055 patients till August 31. E ward (Mumbai Central, Byculla, Kamathipura) recorded 478 malaria cases while the count in F South (Parel) was 267 cases. G North (Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi), which has recorded the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases (8,748), reported 233 malaria cases. D ward (Grant Road) has 124 cases.Dr Virendra Mohite, medical officer of G-North ward said the ward has witnessed an almost nine-time increase in malaria cases, from 10 cases in January, to 97 in August. “Due to the lockdown, all the migrant workers from the Metro construction sites have gone back. So, no one has cleaned the accumulated stagnant water which has turned into breeding grounds for mosquitoes,” he said. Rajan Naringrekar, chief of BMC’s insecticide department explained that during monsoon, water gets inside the houses at BDD chawl in G South. As a large number of people have left the city due to the pandemic, the rainwater lies stagnant, thereby making it a breeding ground for mosquitoes. “We can’t forcefully enter anyone’s house for fumigation. As a result, people living in the surrounding areas are getting malaria,” he said. However, activists have criticised the civic body for delaying the monsoon-related preparations due to Covid-19. Jitendra Tandel from Rugna Kalyan Seva Samajik Sanstha, said, “Every year, a large number of malaria cases are reported from slums like Dharavi and Govandi. Despite this, BMC didn’t fog the areas and clean the mosquito breeding grounds. As most people are staying inside due to the lockdown, many of them living in these congested areas are getting malaria, and the number will rise further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-wards-in-south-mumbai-record-70-of-city-s-total-malaria-cases/story-t0dFksetpsQ1pwS8jJ7R1K.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to adopt two-pronged strategy to run Dadumajra plant||With the waste processing plant at Dadumajra operating at only 10% capacity, the Chandigarh municipal corporation is working on a two-pronged strategy to meet the solid waste processing needs of the city.Plans are being prepared for short-term and long-term operations of the existing plant and for exploring alternatives. For the short-term plan, efforts will be concentrated on improving the existing plant; for the long-term, a new plant could be set up to replace the existing one.“For meeting the city’s immediate needs of waste processing, our effort will be to improve the existing plant,” said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.The National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research, Chandigarh, in its report had said that “complete replacement of the machinery to process municipal solid waste with new technology is required”.On the other hand, the civil engineering department of Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, in its ‘Status report of 500 TPD solid waste processing plant, Chandigarh’ had stated that the machinery at the existing plant required immediate repairs and maintenance, and even after that the “plant can be run at 40% of its capacity”.They had advocated setting up “a new modern 500 TPD (tonnes per day) plant for dry and wet waste treatment in the given plot. For the wet waste stream – biological treatment will be required to meet Solid Waste Management Rules (SWM), 2016”.Cost assessment needed for long-term plan“Replacing the existing machinery or bringing in new technology for setting up a new plant, both options will have different costs. We have to assess these costs before the long-term solution can be finalised,” said Yadav.“Both the short-term and long-term plans when finalised will be presented before the MC General House for approval,” he added.Plan finalisation after court proceedings completeThe arbitration proceedings between the Jaypee Group, the former contractors of the Dadumajra plant, and the MC are underway. The civic body on June 19 had taken over the plant, citing the firm’s inability to run it. The private firm had then approached the courts.“When the arbitration is over and it is decided that the occupation will remain with the MC itself, only then can we incur expenditure. We are hopeful that by October-mid, the arbitration will be completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-adopt-two-pronged-strategy-to-run-dadumajra-plant/story-Bs0rnIfJCkkTUwztq6vtEI.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows termination of 23-week pregnancy of Chandigarh woman||The Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed the termination of 23-week pregnancy of a Chandigarh woman.The HC bench of justice Ritu Bahri acted on a plea filed on August 31 that had sought the court’s intervention after which the court had asked Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to examine the woman.The PGIMER opined that the woman had a single live intrauterine foetus with congenital malformation. The findings had suggested Arnold Chiari malformation, a developmental defect in the foetal brain and spine which has poor prognosis, not compatible with normal life. Thus, the institute had recommended termination of pregnancy.Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, does not permit termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks. The law allows termination of pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner, where the duration of the pregnancy does not exceed 12 weeks.If the duration is up to 20 weeks, the pregnancy can be terminated if doctors say its continuance would involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or cause grave injury to her physical or mental health.In view of the PGIMER report, therefore, the HC has now asked the institute to terminate the pregnancy within three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-allows-termination-of-23-week-pregnancy-of-chandigarh-woman/story-pIk9BMU1TtIxZ71eu0lGBP.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University research scholars seek accommodation in hostels, access to libraries||The scholars of Panjab University (PU) are demanding accommodation in hostels and access to libraries, saying that research work has suffered after class work was suspended in March.The Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) submitted a representation in this regard to the varsity on Tuesday. After the lockdown was imposed, more than 3,000 research scholars working in the varsity’s teaching departments had no access to laboratories. A total of 491 students were awarded PhD degrees by PU in 2019.The scholars of the science departments said they had a lot of pending work. A research scholar at PU’s chemistry department, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have already lost six months due to the lockdown. My research is in the final stage, but just because of a few pending experiments, my submission is getting delayed.”Many scholars said that their number was lower than students in other disciplines and they should be allowed re-entry on the campus. They assured to follow necessary precautionary measures. The representation focussed on the need for research scholars to access libraries and a good internet connection to access online journals.“When all premier institutions like CSIR, DU, IISC have allowed re-entry of PhD students in a planned manner, PU should also consider it as a priority and reopen,” read the PURSA representation.Meanwhile, the National Students Union of India (NSUI) started an online petition demanding that research scholars be allowed to enter the campus and stay at hostels. Pahul Kaur, district president of NSUI and a research scholar at PU, said, “We also demand that the last date of submission of bills and related documents must be extended.”Dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said, “We have forwarded the representation to the vice-chancellor and an appropriate decision will be taken keeping in view the present situation and the guidelines of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-research-scholars-seek-accommodation-in-hostels-access-to-libraries/story-xIMGVZAl2mhVKDPQ2VEmOI.html
09-09-2020||City||House collapses in Navui Mumbai’s Taloja area, 10-year-old killed, 3 injured||A 10-year-old girl was killed while her three minor siblings sustained injuries after their house collapsed in Taloja, Panvel on Tuesday morning. A portion of the house had collapsed two days ago after which its owner asked them to vacate as the house was in a dilapidated condition.Ward officials of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in Pendhar village said the incident took place around 7 am. Parents of the four siblings were out looking for an alternate accommodation when the incident took place.Police officials said that Munna Harijan, 30-year-old labourer, was staying in a rented ground-plus-one-load-bearing house near a chawl in Pendhar in the MIDC area with his wife Lali Devi, 25, and four children – Santosh, 12, Hina, 10, Anshika, 4 and Anupama, 3.First, the slab of the house collapsed on Hina, who got crushed under its weight. Shortly, the entire house collapsed with the other three children also getting caught under the rubble. The Taloja MIDC fire brigade reached the spot and pulled out the children. However, Hina could not survive the crash.“Two days before the incident, a wall of the structure had collapsed after which the house owner, Uday Ghana Patil, asked the tenants to vacate. Four-five other families staying there vacated,” said RM Pharande, sub-fire officer at Taloja MIDC fire brigade.Due to financial constraints, Harijan was unable to get a new room quickly. While he was out with his wife to a nearby hospital for a minor health issue, they also decided to search for an alternate accommodation in the area.“We have filed an accidental death report. There is no complaint of negligence against anyone yet. The fire brigade department will submit its report along with the findings of the municipal corporation, based on which further course of action will be decided,” said Kashinath Chavan, senior inspector at Taloja police station.The three other children sustained minor injuries and were taken to Om Sai Hospital in MIDC, Taloja for treatment. They continue to remain admitted, said fire officials.“The structure was built in 1972. We believe the structure had weakened due to incessant rains and deteriorated. The other four families had vacated in the last two days after the owner informed them of the dangerous condition of the structure,” said Dashrath Bhandari, local ward officer, PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/house-collapses-in-navui-mumbai-s-taloja-area-10-year-old-killed-3-injured/story-8c0JnyurgNHVzXVCPl1qAO.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh case: NCB arrests Rhea Chakraborty, bail plea rejected||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was remanded to 14-day judicial custody after being arrested on Tuesday. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing allegations of drug abuse in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has charged Chakraborty with procuring drugs for Rajput. On Tuesday afternoon, Chakraborty was arrested on the basis of statements from other arrested accused in the case. So far, NCB has made nine arrests, including Chakraborty’s brother, Showik; Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, and Rajput’s domestic help, Dipesh Sawant. Deputy director general, NCB, Mutha Ashok Jain said, “We have not found any contraband from Rhea and her brother Showik’s residence in Juhu. After three days of interrogation, we have sufficient material to arrest her, but I will not comment on the evidence in this case.” At 7.30pm, NCB produced Chakraborty before a magistrate court via video conferencing. In its remand application, NCB claimed Chakraborty had revealed she procured drugs for Rajput. “It is also clear from the statement that the present respondent [Chakraborty] used to procure drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput for consumption purpose. The present respondent used to manage finance for drug procurement along with Sushant Singh Rajput,” read the application. NCB did not seek Chakraborty’s custody. Advocate Satish Maneshinde, representing Chakraborty, moved for bail and questioned the applicability of section 27A (financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) on Chakraborty. He contended she should at most be charged under section 27 (consumption of narcotic drug or psychotropic substance) of the act. However public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said Chakraborty had been charged under section 27A for arranging drugs for Rajput. “Under section 27 (a), the punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders is 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment and could extend up to 20 years, which can also extend to a fine of Rs 2 lakh. Magistrate courts do not have jurisdiction on cases where sections attract punishment over 10 years,” said Atul Sarpande, on the court’s decision to reject Chakraborty’s bail plea. Chakraborty has been remanded to judicial custody till September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-rhea-chakraborty-bail-plea-rejected/story-mFSyCTWmSGParTAk2bXW8N.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Woman hits husband with hammer in Mumbai, sits besides body for 6 hours, surrenders||The RCF police on Monday arrested a 38-year-old woman for hammering her husband to death in Chembur. After the murder, the woman sat beside her husband’s body for over six hours and then informed the police and surrendered herself.The accused Vaishali Bhakare, who works in a private firm in Dadar, lives with her two daughters in a Mhada building in Vashi naka area of Chembur, while her husband, Ashok Bhakare, 39, who is unemployed, lived on another floor of the same building. Their daughters had gone to their maternal uncle’s home to stay there for a few days.The police said that a preliminary probe has revealed that Bhakare regularly harassed Vaishali after getting drunk. He would assault her and sometimes even beat their daughters.On Monday, at around 1.30am Bhakare visited Vaishali in an inebriated state. He then abused and assaulted her. After an argument, he lost consciousness.Vaishali then attacked him on his head with a hammer at around 2.30am. “She hit him five-six times on the head, leading to excessive bleeding. Later in the morning when she saw him breathing, she smothered him to death with a pillow,” said Sopan Nighot, senior inspector of RCF police station.“She was sitting beside the body for over six hours. At 11am she called the police control room and surrendered. The body was sent to the hospital for post-mortem,” said another officer.“Vaishali was frustrated with daily harassment. She murdered him fearing that he would kill her. She was worried about her daughter’s future as if what would happen to them if she dies. She has no remorse for her actions,” said Nighot.The woman has been booked on the charge of 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code and was remanded in two days police custody by the local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-hits-husband-with-hammer-in-mumbai-sits-besides-body-for-6-hours-surrenders/story-ES1JtqlYJI36CksulR36sK.html
09-09-2020||City||New MBVV commissionerate finally gets office space||The Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) has decided to hand over a two-storey building in Ram Nagar to house the newly-formed Mira-Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) police commissionerate.“We will be charging around ₹27 lakh annual rent to the state home department for the new commissioner’s office. We will clear the building within a fortnight,” said Jyotsna Hasnale, mayor, MBMC. The government resolution (GR) for the formation of the new police commissionerate was passed in September 2019 but there was a bureaucratic delay for over six months which got extended due to the Covid pandemic. The Mira Road location was ideal because of its proximity to Thane and Palghar districts. The state home department has allocated a budget of ₹174 crore for the new MBVV commissionerate.Till now, the Mira-Bhayandar stretch fell under the Thane (Rural) police district and Vasai-Virar under Palghar police district.Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Sadanand Date was appointed commissioner of the newly-formed MBVV commissionerate. Date has been working without a posting after he returned to the state after he was on central deputation in February.During the November 2008 Mumbai terror attack, Date had fired at terrorist Ajmal Kasab and his aide. The officer also was injured in the exchange of gunfire and was later awarded the President’s Police Medal for bravery. He was instrumental in setting up the Maharashtra anti-terrorist squad and had worked as inspector-general (IG) and additional director general (ADG) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) before becoming the joint secretary in the state law and justice department. He also served as a deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 8 in Mumbai, and later was appointed as the additional commissioner by the Centre.Alongside Date, the state government had sanctioned 4,708 posts for the new MBVV commissionerate. A total of 1,006 posts from Thane (Rural), 1,165 from Palghar and 317 from other areas will be transferred to the new set-up, said a police source. An additional 2,200 posts will be added for the region. Recruitment will be done in two phases and the notifications for the first phase have already been issued.Seven new police stations will also be created alongside the current 13 which are part of Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar. Kashigaon will be bifurcated from Kashimira, while Golden Nest will be separated from Navghar and Mira Road police stations. There will be new police stations at Pelhar, Achole, Mandavi, Bolinj and Naigaon. In July 2019, the state cabinet had approved ₹3.82 crore for the construction of the new police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-mbvv-commissionerate-finally-gets-office-space/story-pUsSf4N7K8VdwCHS0DgOVI.html
09-09-2020||City||Owners held for running 4 IELTS centres despite govt’s closure order||Owners of four IELTS coaching centres in Ranjit Avenue locality of Amritsar city were arrested on Tuesday for running classes in their establishments despite the Punjab government’s instructions to keep the educational institutions closed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Cases were registered against six owners of these centres, the police said. Those booked are Haramrit Singh Gill and his wife Amordeep Gill of Shine IELTS Centre, Saurab Kumar of Way and Wings IELTS Centre, Vishal Mahajan and Kamaldeep Vaid of Redwood IELTS Centre, and Munish Arora of Blue Horse Education. Haramrit Singh, Saurab Kumar, Kamaldeep Vaid and Munish Arora were arrested. They, however, were released on bail later. The police said more than 200 students were attending classes in these centres and that too without maintaining social distancing. Some of the students were not wearing masks, it was claimed. The police released the students and the teaching staff by “instructing” them not to attend the classes until the further government orders. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said they got information that many IELTS centers in the city were being run secretly. “Seven teams were formed to conduct raids at nearly 10 centres.” The centre owners were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Amritsar is one of the worst coronavirus-hit districts in Punjab with more than 5,200 positive cases and 214 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owners-held-for-running-4-ielts-centres-despite-govt-s-closure-order/story-HpbeILpuPmjiOZecKabNaJ.html
09-09-2020||City||2 tremors felt in Palghar district again, no one injured||Two fresh tremors measuring 3.8 and 2.5 magnitude on the Richter scale were recorded in Dahanu on Tuesday. No casualty or damage to property was reported.Vivekanand Kadam, chief of Palghar district disaster management cell, said, “First tremor measuring 3.8 magnitude on Richter scale was recorded around 9.50am and another tremor measuring 2.5 magnitude was recorded at 10.15am.” On 7 September, a mild tremor of 3.5 magnitude on the Richter scale was recorded in Dahanu.Newly appointed Palghar collector Dr Manik Gulsale along with senior officials visited the quake spots in Dahanu and Talasari. He also visited some houses where cracks had developed.Four earthquakes measuring 2.8, 4, 3.6 and 2.7 respectively on the Richter scale were recorded in Dahanu villages on September 5. No casualty or damage to property was reported.People of Dapcheri, Talasari, Dongripada, Amboli, Dhanivare, Osarvira, Kasa, Bordi, Dhundalwadi, Shisne and other villages ran out of their homes in panic and stayed the night outside even as the Talasari police made public announcements, asking them not to panic.On 23 August morning at around 1139 hrs a mild tremor measuring 2.8 was recorded at Aaina village in Dahanu.Since November 2018, villages around Dhundalwadi and other areas of Dahanu have been experiencing mild tremors at regular intervals, creating fears in the minds of locals.In July 2019, 55-year-old Rishya Meghwali, a resident of Vasavalpada, Dahanu, died after a portion of the roof of his floor came crashing down on him when a tremor had hit the region. Meghwali’s wife had suffered also minor injuries. Another tremor was recorded in February 2019, when two-year-old Vaibhavi Bhuyal of Haladwadi, Talasari, died in a similar mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-tremors-felt-in-palghar-district-again-no-one-injured/story-GPNWP97v20UBlEWeqG0uxO.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to complete delimitation survey by September 20||The commissioner of Mohali municipal corporation, Kamal Kumar Garg, has said that the delimitation survey for the upcoming civic body elections will be completed by September 20.This was revealed in a meeting of the delimitation board held on Tuesday.Garg said 35 teams had been constituted to carry out the survey, in which people will be asked three questions—head of the family, number of family members and caste.On August 7, the Punjab government had constituted a board to decide the delimitation of wards of the Mohali MC. The board will also decide about the allotment of 50% of wards reserved for women.The elections will be held for 50 wards in the last week of November or the first week of December.Kuljeet Singh Bedi, member of the board, said, “The idea is to simplify the ward bandi by adjusting sectors and reshuffling them as per suitability. In 2015, elections were held with the data of 2014, and the votes were made accordingly. After six years now, the population in Mohali has increased and new sectors have become overpopulated. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the area of the Mohali MC and wards must be re-adjusted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-mc-to-complete-delimitation-survey-by-september-20/story-1O2Mg2KsCjoN1bzoo70lXN.html
09-09-2020||City||Waterlogging damages cotton crop on 17,000-hectare land in Abohar||Cotton growers in the semi-arid Abohar belt of Fazilka district are facing losses as waterlogging on nearly 17,000 hectares of land for more than a fortnight has damaged their standing crop. Fields in at least 20 villages were inundated after the catchment area of the Aspal drain in Fazilka, Muktsar and Ferozepur districts had witnessed heavy rainfall on August 21 and 22. Due to heavy inflow of rainwater, the drain breached its banks near the Seeto Gunno area of Abohar and it led to flooding in the adjoining areas. But there has been no improvement in the situation ever since, say the farmers. Officials of the state agriculture department say the chances of survival of most of the crop, which is underwater up to than 4 feet in several villages, are bleak. “The crop was in the final stage of maturity as the first picking of cotton balls was expected after September 20. As fields are still inundated, a sizeable number of cotton plants may not survive,” said Jalour Singh, who holds the additional charge of Fazilka chief agriculture officer. Besides cotton crop having been adversely affected on 17,000 hectare land as per an initial assessment, paddy on nearly 4,000 hectares was also flooded in the area, he added. “Paddy sown on about 1,000-hectare land faces a serious problem even as the rest of the crop may survive,” he said. With 1.22 lakh hectare land under cultivation, Fazilka district ranked second after Bathinda in sowing of the cotton crop this year. Pawan Sihag of Sardarpura village said his crop on 18 acres was completely damaged. “I was expecting a bumper yield as the climatic conditions remained conducive for the crop this time,” said Sihag. Dutarwali sarpanch Surinder Kumar Bishnoi said 2,200-acre farm area in their village is almost submerged for the last over two weeks. “The drain had caused havoc in the area earlier also but the authorities concerned did not come forward with a solution. Villages are getting adequate power supply but septic tanks in household toilets are overflowing. The administration should press more pumps in service to drain out water from the fields,” said Bishnoi. Kulwinder Singh, a farmer from Bajidpur Bhoma, expressed concern over non-availability of cattle fodder. “Green and dried fodder also got damaged due to waterlogging. The state authorities should extend support to ease the situation,” said Singh whose crop on 20-acre land is also submerged. State drainage department executive engineer Sukhjit Singh said most part of the affected area is up to eight feet below the drain channel. “It is a major task to drain out a large volume of water from a vast area. Our top priority is to ensure that inhibited areas do not get waterlogged,” he said. Fazilka deputy commissioner Arvind Pal Sandhu said girdawri (crop loss assessment) has been ordered. The drainage department has been provided with logistical support to dewater the farmland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/waterlogging-damages-cotton-crop-on-17-000-hectare-land-in-abohar/story-zNy2iIJO7KgCrDql441IKI.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||36-year-old arrested for sexually assaulting minor in Mumbai||The RCF police on Monday arrested a 36-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting two-year-old girl. The minor’s mother said, “The accused took her to his room where he forced her to a watch porn. He then sexually assaulted her.” The RCF police station then registered a case under section 376 (2)(1) (punishment for rape), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of Indian Penal Code and section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act. “We have arrested him and investigating the case,” officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/36-year-old-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-in-mumbai/story-ilRKNnHCuVq7m1oBkXlSYP.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board project for govt officials: Design for flats to be finalised in a week||: In a week’s time, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will finalise the architectural design of the flats to come up under the housing scheme for officials of Punjab and Haryana governments, UT administration and PGIMER officials at the Rajiv Gandhi Information Technology Park.CHB had invited architectural designs for the project in a competition earlier this year. From the entries, 25 designs were shortlisted.“As many as 25 architects participating in the competition will make their presentations before a committee formed to select the best design. The selection process will be completed within a week,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB. The presentations will be made online from September 14.“The committee comprises officials from UT, Punjab, Haryana and experts from the Delhi School of Architecture. The committee will decide the best design in two to three days,” Garg said.In the meeting, the top three designs will be decided. The winning entry will get ₹5 lakh, first runner-up ₹3 lakh and second runners up ₹2 lakh.CHB is to construct eight towers at IT Park. The luxury flats will be made for top officials including IAS and IPS officers and MLAs. Punjab, Haryana UT and PGIMER officials have already expressed their desire to buy these flats. Under the project, CHB will construct three towers each for the Punjab and Haryana governments and two for the UT administration. Haryana is buying two towers for officers and one for MLAs.Meanwhile, design for the general housing scheme in IT Park has been finalised and the presentation has been given to Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore.Significantly, in 2006, CHB allotted 123 acre-land in IT Park to Parsvnath Developers Limited. However, the builder could not start the work on the land which got entangled in prolonged arbitration proceedings. In 2015, CHB took back the land by returning ₹527 crore to the builder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-project-for-govt-officials-design-for-flats-to-be-finalised-in-a-week/story-8E6qvSxa8nYFU6RHKzEMtO.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses bail to Finnish woman arrested for helping Sri Lankan national illegally migrate to Europe||The Bombay high court last week refused bail to a 60-year-old Finnish national arrested for helping a Sri Lankan national to illegally migrate to Europe.Justice Sarang Kotwal rejected the bail plea of Miira Mirva Helena Pasma observing that there were strong circumstances against her.Pasma was arrested after Sri Lankan national Kuhapriya Thevarasa was found carrying a forged French passport issued in the name of Pasma on June 28, 2019, at Mumbai airport. Thevarasa was stopped from boarding a flight to Frankfurt after the airline staff suspected immigration stamps on her passport and handed over to the Sahar police.Preliminary investigation revealed that Thevarasa had entered the airport with a ticket for Ahmedabad, whereas Pasma had a French passport and a ticket and boarding pass for the Frankfurt flight. Pasma allegedly passed on the forged passport with purportedly fake immigration stamps to Thevarasa after she cleared immigration check. Thevarasa attempted to board the Frankfurt flight based on the forged documents, whereas Pasma took a domestic flight to Ahmedabad, where she was apprehended on June 30, 2019.Pasma’s interrogation revealed that she had come in contact with an agent who along with others was illegally sending Sri Lankan nationals to European countries from Mumbai, and Thevarasa’s parents had paid the gang Rs. 14 lakh. Pasma, who claimed to be a teacher was promised to be paid 1,500 Euros for helping Thevarasa migrate to Europe.Both of them were then booked by Sahar police for offences punishable under sections 370 (dealing any person as a slave), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) read with section 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.Pasma had moved HC for bail contending that the offences of human trafficking and cheating were not attracted in the case, as no one was being trafficked for exploitation and there was no dishonest inducement for cheating anybody.Justice Kotwal agreed that there was no material to support the charge of human trafficking, but there was material supporting other charges levelled against the 60-year-old.“The offence is serious. The immigration officers of this country were deceived. Indian territory was used by these two accused for their gain,” said the judge.HC refused to take a sympathetic view of the fact that she was behind bars for about 14 months and the trial has not started yet. “Unfortunately, the trial could not start immediately, but, the Court cannot be oblivious to the current situation which has arisen because of COVID-19 pandemic. All the under-trial prisoners are similarly awaiting trial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-finnish-woman-arrested-for-helping-sri-lankan-national-illegally-migrate-to-europe/story-gEHzsV848lyzrIYyJJOiOJ.html
09-09-2020||City||Man poses as corporator, dupes senior citizen of cash, gold worth ₹20,000 at Mira Road||A 62-year-old retired employee was looted of ₹20,000 gold ring and cash by a man who posed as a Mira-Bhayander corporator, on Monday.The victim was returning home after visiting his bank for some pension issues when he was accosted by a fraudster who claimed to be the corporator. “To win his trust, the accused even called his accomplice and the latter touched his feet and addressed him as Nagarsevak (corporator),” said senior inspector Sandip Kadam of Mira Road police station.One of the accused kept the victim busy in conversation, while the other hoodwinked him into handing over his gold ring and cash amounting ₹20,000. “We feel that the victim may have been hypnotised by the duo and the victim gave away his gold and cash,” said police.We have registered a case under sections 170 (personating a public servant) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused and no arrests have been made, said the police. Police are checking the CCTV footage from the vicinity to trace the culprits and are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-poses-as-corporator-dupes-senior-citizen-of-cash-gold-worth-20-000-at-mira-road/story-U4SsTkMlTiuc3BlSpiOl0I.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Illegal royalty’ collection: Punjab moves HC seeking recall of CBI probe order||The Punjab government on Tuesday approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking recall of an order asking the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary probe into alleged collection of illegal ‘royalty’ from trucks carrying mining material in Rupnagar district. In an affidavit filed by mines and geology director VN Zade, the government referring to the report that prompted the high court to issue the probe order says “an important and critical distinction” needs to be made that the judicial officer makes “no mention of collection of royalty at such checkpoints”. However, the report by Harsimranjit Singh, chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary, district legal services authority, Rupnagar, says, “...( those contacted) unanimously confirmed that no truck carrying sand and gravel is being allowed to cross these points without paying royalty” (sic). The report was submitted in March. The judicial officer was tasked by the high court on February 19 to submit the report after hearing a petition on the illegal mining issue amid the government’s claim that there were no illegal check points/barriers near the mining sites in Rupnagar. The government has argued that there was no occasion of exercise of power of instituting/transferring investigation to the CBI. “..(It) arises where the Hon’able court finds it necessary in order to do justice between the parties to instill confidence in the public mind or where investigation by the state lacks credibility” (sic). It further says that criteria under which a CBI probe should be ordered are not met in this case. The affidavit also denies findings of the report that collection of illegal royalty was going on at seven points by private individuals in the district. It says checkpoints have been set up by the government and private individuals are not allowed to be part of the exercise. The government said the affidavit was filed by a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) based on two reports by different functionaries which said no illegal barriers were set up at the locations in question. This affidavit had prompted high court to rope in judicial officer to ascertain facts on the ground.The CBI has already registered a preliminary FIR after the HC directive. In the report, the CJM had listed seven locations where illegal nakas were in place on three dates when he paid the visit to re-verify. The officer had also submitted photos and videos of these nakas and collection being made by private persons from the mining trucks. The government’s plea was taken up by the high court bench of justice Rajan Gupta who directed that it be listed before the bench presided over by justice Jaswant Singh that had ordered probe by the central agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-royalty-collection-punjab-moves-hc-seeking-recall-of-cbi-probe-order/story-HlxYPHXyd8CTaoR5FQ6FHO.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||2018 murder case: Gangster Budha arrested in Panchkula||Police on Tuesday arrested gangster Sukhpreet alias Budha, an accused in the murder of 27-year-old Bhupesh Rana, who was killed in April 2018. He was produced in court and sent to three-day police remand.Karambir Singh, in-charge of crime branch, Sector 19, and his team arrested Budha, who is a resident of Badni Lalan, Moga district.On April 16, 2018, complainant Prateek Kumar of Barwala told police that his brother, Bhupesh Rana, who was out of parole, had an old enmity with Gaurav, Bhupender Rana, Ashok and Rinku, who shot and killed him. Following this, an FIR was registered at Chandimandir police station.As per sources, he was killed by the members of Bhupi Rana Gang, headed by Bhupinder Singh from Mohali, over their rivalry with Monu Rana gang, led by Shamsher Singh from Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2018-murder-case-gangster-budha-arrested-in-panchkula/story-aFtXrwNVije2sZKiMh2J2O.html
09-09-2020||City||Haryana farmers demand special girdawari for cotton crop damaged by whitefly, leaf curl||Farmers in Haryana’s Hisar, Bhiwani, Dadri, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Jind districts have demanded a special girdawari for their cotton crop damaged by whitefly attack, parawilt and leaf curl.This season, nearly 7.37 lakh hectares is under cotton cultivation across the state.Dayanand Punia, a farm leader from Bhiwani, said the damage is large-scale and farmers have lost nearly 60 to 100% of their produce. “The farmers were expecting a good yield this time, but the whitefly attack has shattered their hopes,” he added. Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, who visited a couple of villages in Bhiwani and Dadri to inspect the damage, said, “The farmers have suffered huge losses as they sprayed chemicals to kill the insects but those did not help save the crop.”He added, “This time there was less rainfall in August and now the weather has turned hot and humid, which led to the crop damage. Revenue and agricultural officials have failed to guide farmers on saving the crop from pest attack.” FARMERS START INDEFINITE STRIKEQuestioning the procedure adopted by revenue officials while sending an initial estimate of 10% loss in Hisar villages, farmers have started an indefinite protest against the administration at Balsamand village.Kurda Ram, a farm leader, said, “The revenue officials sent a report, stating that there was only 10% crop damage due to whitefly attack. The officials prepared this assessment report while sitting in their offices. The government should order a special girdawari to assess the crop damage and give us a compensation of Rs 50,000 per acre.” He further added, “We demanded that strict action should be taken against the revenue officials, who had sent a fraudulent report about the crop damage.” Additional chief secretary, agriculture and farmers’ welfare department, Sanjeev Kaushal, said all cotton growers in the state who have recently suffered losses due to the crop damage caused by whitefly and parawilt, will be given compensation.“All such cotton growers would be compensated irrespective of whether or not they have enrolled under the crop insurance scheme Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-farmers-demand-special-girdawari-for-cotton-crop-damaged-by-whitefly-leaf-curl/story-7FC7hnkUhVguYy6JaV5RjO.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s grim realty sector may not get relief this year, say experts||The real estate sector in Mumbai and its surrounding areas is unlikely to recover this year, according to builders, experts and homebuyers, as the industry battles its slowdown and an economy battered by the Covid-19 pandemic. The problems are multi-fold: Construction sites wear a deserted look owing to around 60% of migrant workers still stuck in their home states with minimal ways to return, builders face acute monetary crises and buyers are uncertain when they would get possession of their homes. Industry veteran Paras Gundecha, 67, who heads the Gundecha Group that has constructed more than 100 buildings in Mumbai (most of them in the western suburbs), said he had never seen such a long slowdown. “Things will start moving only after March and till then we have to bear the pain,” said Gundecha. Niranjan Hiranandani, founder , Hiranandani group, which constructed townships in Thane and Powai, said banks should ease monetary crises faced by the sector. “The realty sector was suffering even before Covid-19 and hence, banks need to give us a a one-time rollover to tide over the crises,” said Hiranandani.The shortage of labour is adversely affecting the entire construction sector in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). According to CEDAI-MCHI (Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry), the leading association of builders, of the five lakh workers who had left for their home states in March-May, just two lakh managed to come back. “Construction activity will remain majorly paralysed till we get sufficient labour back to the sites,” said Rajesh Prajapati, chairman, MCHI (media and PR). CREDAI-MCHI has written to both the state and Central governments to start hundreds of trains to bring back migrant labourers. “The labourers want to come back, but are unable due to lack of transport. Till new trains are introduced, the situation will not improve,” he added.The MMR is a prime realty market in India. Liases Foras, the real-estate research firm, said in MMR, work has started in just 4,200 construction sites, of the 10,500 in total. “Even in these 4,200 sites, work is in full swing in just 420, while the other sites have minimal workers and hardly any work taking place,” said Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras.The Builders Association of India (BAI) blames lack of liquidity for the problem. “Builders have exhausted all their money and are facing monetary crises. Banks and financial institutions are not supporting us. It is not possible to start work in such a situation,” said Anand Gupta, chairman, BAI (Housing and RERA committee). Potential buyers have deserted the market in the backdrop of the Covid-19 crisis. This can be illustrated by the massive drop in sales in both Mumbai as well as MMR during the Covid-19 period. In Mumbai, 1,611 apartments were sold from April to June, compared to 4,460 sold from January to March 2020. Similarly, in MMR, the period between April and June saw 6,396 transactions, compared to January-March where the number of sales clocked 16,794. The state government, to boost sales, announced a cut in stamp duty prices from 5% to 2% till December 31 and to 3% till March 31. However, not many are convinced that this will help. “This is a very depressing market and such small steps will not get anyone to buy a house,” said Gulam Zia, executive director, Knight Frank, a real-estate consultancy firm. Zia puts the onus on the overall state of the economy. “Buyers facing job insecurity and pay cuts will not buy a house. The overall sentiment is negative,” he added. Kapoor and Zia both said it will take at least one year going by the current state for the real estate sector to stabilise. “It depends on the Covid-19 vaccine, which may bring back confidence,” said Zia.Even those who have booked apartments are still uncertain when they will get possession. The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) has extended the possession date by six months. “We were supposed to get possession in December, but it seems uncertain even in 2021,” said Veena Sehgal, who had booked a house at Kandivli. Lalbaug resident Ashwin Gala, who had finalised a house, had to cancel it. “Everything was finalised, but the pandemic struck and the seller bac-ked out. I had no option, but to cancel this deal,” said Gala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-grim-realty-sector-may-not-get-relief-this-year-say-experts/story-MGv0sNubukNu792ZYqE3zN.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Three assault cases reported from Chandigarh||Three assault cases were reported from Chandigarh on Tuesday. Three men have been booked for assaulting a CTU staffer. The accused have been identified as Monu alias Shetty, Vikas alias Golu and Hobo, all residents of Sector 52. The victim, Amit, said the accused stopped him near gate number 2 of Sector 52 on Sunday. He added that Monu pulled out a sharp-edged weapon and they thrashed him. The accused fled after he raised the alarm and threatened to kill him, he said. He was rushed to GMSH-16, where he is undergoing treatment. Four men have been arrested for allegedly attacking a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas. The accused have been identified as Amit, Jaggi, Vikas and Shubham. The complainant, Dheeraj, said the accused attacked him with rods, knife and glass bottles. A case has been registered. Four Manimajra men have been arrested for allegedly assaulting a resident of the same locality. The accused have been identified as Aakash, Abhimanyu, Abhishek and Arun. The complainant, Suraj, said the accused attacked him with sticks, sword and baseball bat near Valmiki Mandir, Manimajra, on Saturday. The victim was admitted to civil hospital, Manimajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-assault-cases-reported-from-chandigarh/story-0Egw7Nc9OVSFvWYPil3fbM.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut to be probed over drug-use claim, says Maharashtra home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday ordered a probe into the claims made by Adhyayan Suman – the purported former boyfriend of actor Kangana Ranaut – in an interview three years ago that she was on drugs and had forced him to consume the narcotic substances as well. The actor, expected to arrive in the city today and who is in the eye of a political storm over her remarks on Mumbai and the Centre’s decision to grant her Y+ security, was also issued a notice by the civic body, asking her to take corrective measures regarding “structural violations” in her Pali Hill office. The civic body will undertake action if she fails to reply in 24 hours. The actor, through her lawyer, has requested for seven days to reply and address concerns in the stop-work notice. Also, breach of privilege motions were moved and accepted against Ranaut and Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami in the legislature for “defamatory” remarks on Mumbai and “derogatory” comments against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray respectively.In response to the probe announced by Anil Deshmukh, Ranaut tweeted, “I am more than happy to oblige @MumbaiPolice @AnilDeshmukhNCP please do my drug tests, investigate my call records if you find any links to drug peddlers ever. I will accept my mistake and leave Mumbai forever, looking forward to meet you. (sic)” Replying to the point raised by Shiv Sena legislators Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu, Deshmukh said that the Mumbai Police would be asked to probe into the claims made by Suman, the son of actor Shekhar Suman. Deshmukh said that Mumbai Police would look into Suman’s three-year-old statement. “Sena lawmakers Prabhu and Sarnaik had raised the issue about the revelation against Ranaut that she was on drugs. Suman was in a relationship with her and he had said that she used to force him to do drugs as well. Mumbai Police will look into the allegations,” Deshmukh said. Deshmukh also made a statement in relation to the tweets by Ranaut, where she likened Mumbai with the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). He said that such a statement was unfortunate and is an insult to Mumbai and Maharashtra and its proud people. “Mumbai and Maharashtra have given Ranaut everything, but in return she has played with the sentiments of the people. At least, 106 people had laid their lives for a unified Maharashtra. Not only the ruling parties, but even the opposition, BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party), must also condemn her statement,” he said. Earlier on Monday, Maharashtra assembly’s deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal directed Deshmukh to make a statement within 24 hours. Deshmukh made the statement in response to a letter written by Sena legislator Sarnaik seeking unanimous resolution must be passed by the assembly against Ranaut for her anti-Maharashtra rants on social media. Deshmukh also announced that Mumbai Police would conduct a probe into the death by suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik three years ago. Naik, in his suicide note, had named a few persons, including a TV news channel’s editor, who allegedly did not pay his dues worth several crores of rupees, according to the deceased’s kin.State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal and energy minister Nitin Raut have demanded a bid to expedite the probe in the Naik death case. They said that the interior designer and his mother had died by suicide three years ago while holding the editor responsible for non-payment of their dues against the construction of the channel’s studio in Mumbai. “The case has been registered. Mumbai Police will be ordered to conduct a probe into it,” Deshmukh said. A breach of privilege motion was moved in both houses of the state legislature against Republic TV’s managing director and editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Tuesday. A privilege motion was also moved against Ranaut over her remarks comparing Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) in the Maharashtra legislative Council. Council chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar accepted both motions against Goswami and Ranaut, while deputy speaker of Assembly Narhari Zirwal said he will decide (whether to accept it or not) after the scrutiny. Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik moved the motion in Assembly, while his party colleague in the council Manisha Kayande moved it in the upper house against Goswami for derogatory remarks against Thackeray, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and other politicians. Parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab said that the news anchor holds debates as if he was the judge and holding a trial. His derogatory remarks against the CM and other leaders were highly objectionable. Congress’s Ashok Jagtap moved a privilege motion against Ranaut for “defaming Mumbai” in the Upper house. Congress legislator in Council, Bhai Jagtap referred to 2016 interview of actor Adhyayan Suman and said that Suman had told media that the actor had asked him to consume drugs.Council chairman Nimbalkar said, “I have accepted the breach of privilege of motion. In the absence of a committee for it, I am going to decide on it (on the motion).” Ranaut equated Mumbai to PoK and the Sena took offense and criticised her comment. She also got in to a verbal spat with Sena leader Sanjay Raut. The actor is also been in the news for her controversial comments on the Mumbai Police’s handling of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case.Later, Sarnaik said outside Vidhan Bhavan that there was no political vendetta in demanding action against Kangana. “Law is same for all citizens. The actors who are given security are idols for society and any allegations against them should be taken seriously. If she is innocent, then action should be taken against the person who has levelled allegations against her. It will come out only after the probe,” he said.Earlier on Tuesday morning, after paying a surprise visit to her office at Pali Hill in Bandra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued a stop-work notice to Ranaut, pointing to 14 types of structural violations, carried out in her office and sought her reply in 24 hours, failing which the illegal portions of her office would be demolished. Replying to the notice, Ranaut, through her lawyer, requested for seven days to reply and address the concerns in the stop-work notice issued by the BMC on Tuesday morning. Her lawyer also demanded that the BMC officials, who visited Ranaut’s office premises on Monday, be prosecuted for trespassing in her property and intimidating her security staff. Manikarnika Films Private limited, Ranaut’s office, which is a ground-plus-two storey structure, is located at Bungalow number 5 in Chetak Row Houses of Pali Hill. When the structural details were cross-checked by the BMC, they found out that the structure exists in their records since 1970s. They also found out that the office has several structural violations, which includes illegal extension, which has been pointed out in the notice.Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner of H-west ward (Bandra, Khar), said, “The site inspection was conducted according to the approved plans in BMC’s development plan department. We have listed out several violations in the notice and will await her reply on the same. Depending on that, further action will be taken.” The BMC is yet to comment if it has granted her the seven-day time period as asked by her lawyer.The structural violations in her office include converting toilet into an office cabin, constructing new toilets alongside staircase, unauthorised extension of slab on the first, second floor and merging of the bedroom of adjoining bungalow into this office space, on the second floor by removing partition wall.A report citing all illegalities of the structure is being prepared by the local ward office, H-West ward (Bandra, Khar)Meanwhile, BMC has filed a caveat in a court stating it should be heard first, if Ranaut challenges the stop-work notice. A caveat is a request to a court that no order should be passed without hearing the person or party which files it. Replying to this, Kangana tweeted, “Now BMC has filed a caveat against me, really desperate to break my house, I deeply love what I built with so much passion over so many years but know that even if you break it, my spirit will only get stronger. Go on.”On Monday, Ranaut took to Twitter to share a video clip of the officials visiting her office and accused the BMC of “forcefully taking over” her office and said that the BMC is going to demolish her property on Tuesday. A team of officials from building proposals department inspected her office to check for alterations comparing the approved plans. In her defence, Ranaut had tweeted, “I have all the papers, BMC permissions and nothing has been done illegally in my property. BMC should send a structure plan to show the illegal construction with a notice. Today, they raided my place and without any notice tomorrow they will be demolishing entire structure.”(Inputs by Swapnil Rawal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-to-be-probed-over-drug-use-claim-says-maharashtra-home-minister/story-uPBwImjdpn8jqgGopLKllI.html
09-09-2020||Mumbai||Six months after Maharashtra’s first Covid case, tally 943,772; toll now 27,407||Six months since the first Covid-19 case was detected on March 9, Maharashtra is inching towards the one million infections mark. The case count reached 943,772 after 20,131 fresh Covid cases were recorded on Tuesday. The surge has led to a rise in active cases at 243,446, accounting for 25.79% of the total cases reported so far.The death toll of the state also jumped to 27,407 after 380 more casualties were reported. Of them, 256 were in the past 48 hours, another 94 were from last week while the rest 30 were from the period before that.Officials are wary that the rise in cases is likely to continue for a few more weeks, before it can hit a plateau. The highest single-day spike of 23,350 infections was on September 6, while the highest toll in a day was 422 on August 18.“The scenario is likely to continue for the next few weeks as new infections are unlikely to come down soon. Even after hitting a plateau, daily cases will remain stable for quite some time, which indicates that cases will not reduce in the next one or maybe two months,” said a senior health official.“With rise in cases, we need more facilities to cope with the daily caseload. We are also working to augment the existing health infrastructure, especially in semi-urban and rural areas of the state, from where a significant number of fresh cases have started coming,” he added.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the coronavirus is unlikely to fade away soon and thus there is a need to make people aware about how to live with it, said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday. In his concluding speech before the two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature was adjourned sine die, Thackeray said, “Covid cases are increasing, but the state government is taking all decisions to bring them under control. We have to admit that the public health issue was neglected in the past, irrespective of the governments. But now we have decided to set up an infectious diseases hospital in all major cities and districts of the state, including Mumbai.”“After slums, fresh cases have started coming from housing societies and buildings. People need to be taught how to live with coronavirus as WHO has made it clear that it is not going soon. For this, awareness has become a necessary step,” said the chief minister.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the doubling rate of Covid-19 is improving and has reached 35 days now. He also said the Centre has withdrawn its support in the fight against Covid-19 by saying that they won’t be able to supply PPE kits, ventilators and masks from September 1.“Now when Covid cases are reaching their peak and require support, the Central government has informed us that they won’t supply ventilators, PPE kits, masks etc. With this decision, the state will have to spend a sum of Rs300 crore a month on procuring all these items to fight Covid-19. We were expecting the ongoing support to continue till this year end. It is unfair to shed responsibility at this point of time,” Tope told the state Assembly on Tuesday.In the past eight days, the state has recorded 150,920 cases. In the first week of September, the state recorded 15,765, 17,433, 18,105, 19,218, 20,489, 23,350 and 16,429 cases respectively. It has also recorded the sharpest single-day spike with 23,350 cases on September 6. The average number of daily new cases has increased to 18,865 .Mumbai recorded 1,346 cases, taking its tally to 158,756. Of these, active cases are 24,560.On June 27, Mumbai reported its highest single day spike with 2,077 cases.City toll stands at 7,942 after 42 deaths reported on Tuesday.Pune city has continued to contribute maximum infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,711 cases, taking its tally to 1,16,951, while Nashik city became the second-highest contributor with 1,420 cases, pushing its count to 33,604.Pune district also recorded 1,339 cases and its tally went up to 34,594 cases.Apart from these cities, Nagpur, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Satara district, Kolhapur district, Raigad district, Jalgaon district, Sangli district and Aurangabad city recorded high number of cases. High number of casualties continues to be a concern for state authorities as it is still the highest in the country.It has reported a total 2,824 deaths in the eight days of this month, which comes to 353 deaths a day on an average. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded 2.9% till Tuesday. A comparison with Gujarat shows the difference between the neighbouring states is left minimal. On Monday, Gujarat’s CFR was 2.96% with 3,120 deaths (105,509 cases), according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Public health expert Sanjay Pattiwar, said delay in hospital admission is a major reason for such a high toll. “We are noticing that people are either not testing even after having symptoms or don’t get admitted on time even if they tested positive and hence waste precious time,” said Pattiwar. He said apart from Mumbai, most areas lack the health infrastructure to cater to such type of serious patients, which has resulted in a high toll in the state.On Tuesday, the state has conducted 83,750 tests and the total number of tests conducted till date are 4,789,682.On the other side, the total number of patients recovered reached 672,556 after 13,234 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The recovery rate recorded was 71.26%, against the national average of 77.65%.Currently, 38,141 people have been kept at institutional quarantine facilities and 1,557,305 people are home quarantined across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-months-after-maharashtra-s-first-covid-case-tally-943-772-toll-now-27-407/story-6DweZKZsvWXNY7cDUa2szL.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Report family, neighbours testing positive: Panjab University panel to employees||With multiple Panjab University staffers testing positive for Covid-19 recently, a varsity panel on Tuesday recommended that employees should inform college authorities if a family member or neighbour tests positive.The establishment section of the university was sealed for sanitisation on Tuesday after a staffer’s mother tested positive. In August, at least four employees had tested positive, following which the administrative block and vice-chancellor’s office was closed down. The panel, headed by PU’s dean research VR Sinha, also suggested that anyone having symptoms of the infection should also inform the varsity. The recommendations are subject to the approval of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.Safety norms to be implemented on campus to contain the spread of the disease were also discussed at the meeting. A committee member said it has been observed that many employees did not inform the varsity about Covid-19 cases in their vicinity, thus putting lives of others at risk.The panel has also suggested quick disposal of queries at the varsity’s administration block. Guidelines to be issuedIt has been decided that guidelines for containing the spread of the infection will be framed by PU’s chief medical officer. Teaching for UG courses is being conducted online but departments are open for administrative purposes.Monitoring team formedA monitoring team was also been formed by the panel during the meeting. The team has been tasked with monitoring the implementation of the safety measures on campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/report-family-neighbour-testing-positive-panjab-university-panel-to-employees/story-oMtTnB1kCuVBh4C1eIxY3K.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bank peon held for theft at IAS officer’s Manimajra house||A bank peon was arrested on Tuesday for theft in an IAS officer’s house in Manimajra.  Vikram alias Vicky alias Cheppu (25) of Mauli Jagran Complex in Chandigarh was arrested by the operation cell of Chandigarh police within 24 hours of committing the crime. G Vajralingam, member secretary, Finance Commission, said he was at work in his Sector 26 office on Monday when a neighbour called to inform him about suspicious movement in his house at the Modern Housing Complex.On returning at 5.40 pm, Vajralingam said he found the main door locks of the house broken and the cupboards ransacked. No estimates were made of the stolen property.After they were informed about the break-in, police arrested Vikram at a naka close to the railway tracks near the nursery at Mauli Jagran on Tuesday.During preliminary questioning, Vikram, however, told the police that at about 3 pm he had entered Vajralingam’s house after breaking the locks with a rod and collected most of the valuables in a suitcase. But as neighbours of the IAS officer started gathering at the spot, he left it behind and fled with just a few items.Vikram, a peon in a bank, already has two cases: A vehicle theft in September 2012 and another house theft in October 2017, registered against him at the Manimajra police station. He will be produced in court on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bank-peon-held-for-theft-at-ias-officer-s-manimajra-house/story-bp6axj6JlZ8RlSdy01aP7J.html
09-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram property owners can now submit details online for NOC||Property owners can now submit applications online to the department of town and country planning (DTCP) to obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC), which has been made mandatory under the new property registration regime. A DTCP spokesperson on Tuesday said that the department website has been updated for property buyers and owners to submit details after which an NOC will be issued to them.The spokesperson said that in order to bring in greater transparency in issuance of NOCs, required under the Urban Area Act of 1975 for property registration, the department had begun to applications in an online format from September 8. The decision follows the Haryana government decision to make it mandatory for buyers and sellers to obtain NOC from DTCP to prevent illegal registries. “All the details of the seller and buyer will be taken on the online form along with the land details for which the NOC is required. The software application has been launched today and can be accessed from the Department’s portal at https://tcpharyana.gov.in,” said the spokesperson of the town planning department. He further said that the application aims to issue timely NOCs to the applicants. The reform will bring relief to the applicants as the applicants will not be required to submit any hardcopy documents and all approvals will be conveyed online, hence another step towards paperless, faceless governance.He said that eventually, the application will be integrated with the WebHALRIS software used by the revenue department for registrarion and the NOCs issued by the department will reflect in WebHALRIS thus saving the citizens from the hassles of first getting the NOCs issued from the department and then submitting the same in tehsil offices for getting their properties registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-property-owners-can-now-submit-details-online-for-noc/story-zPpHBCBzPcW40k00vfOCyH.html
09-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali ISBT: GMADA to claim Rs 89 crore from developer C&C Towers||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has sought Rs 89 crore from C&C Towers Ltd, developers of the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT Mohali) in Phase-6, Greater Mohali, even as the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) special bench in Chandigarh initiated corporate insolvency resolution process against the firm.A senior GMADA official who did not want to be named, said: “We have sought a claim of Rs 89 crore from the company as the lease/ fine amount,” alleging that “the company has cheated GMADA and allottees of the commercial spaces.” Last year in December, NCLT appointed KPMG International as the resolution professional (RP) to settle the claims of the financial creditors – banks, buyers, public allottees – of C&C Towers Ltd. RPs are appointed as insolvency resolution professionals to manage the resolution and liquidation processes of a corporate debtor. Rs 100 crore investedMore than 472 buyers have invested around Rs 100 crore in commercial properties since 2010 at the Mohali terminal.In 2009 GMADA had signed an agreement with C&C Towers Ltd with the assurance that the project would be completed within 30 months, but deadlines stretched to 11 years and the towers remained unfinished even though the terminus is now partially operational.C&C Constructions is the parent company of C&C Towers Ltd, which was incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, in March 2009 as a special purpose vehicle of C&C Constructions for design, engineering, finance, construction, operation and maintenance of the Mohali bus terminal-cum-commercial complex (Mohali Junction) on build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis. This contract was awarded by GMADA.According to Harbhajan Singh Jolly, general secretary of the C&C Mohali Junction Clients Association, “what’s frustrating is that criminal cases have been registered since August 2018 against six persons, including chairman, managing director, other directors and chief general manager, but the police has not taken any action till date. We requested senior police officers for action, but nothing has been done,” he said.The troubled projectThe ambitious busopolis project was launched in 2009 and was to be completed in December 2011. Spread over seven acres, it was to have an inter-state bus terminal, three multi-storey towers with retail and office spaces, multiplex, five-star hotel, banquet hall, hyper markets, and a helipad on top of one tower. But since its inception, the project has been mired in controversies and possession delays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-isbt-gmada-to-claim-rs-89-crore-from-developer-c-c-towers/story-XbCLsMp26lQMB0qAEcu37J.html
09-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Three armed men kidnap, rob businessman of cash and gold||Three armed men allegedly kidnapped a businessman from close to his home, took him to a secluded forest area where they robbed him of his cash and gold, and then dropped him back home on Monday night, said the police. When a police team searched the forest area in Behrampur village of sector 71, shortly after the incident was reported, they found at least half the stolen cash, the victim’s wallet and mobile phone there. According to police, the kidnapping happened at around 8pm when the victim, who has a ceramic tile business in Delhi, had returned from work and was about to park his car in a plot adjacent to his house in sector 46. The complainant, in his FIR, said that three masked men alighted from a car, held him at gunpoint and forced him into the car again. “Two of them sat in front of the car, while the third sat on the back passenger seat. “They made me sit on the floor space between the seats. They drove towards Bandhwari village and finally took me deep inside the forest area. They took my two gold rings, a silver chain, gold bangle, my wallet containing driving licence, Aadhaar card, voter card, a mobile phone and ₹10 lakh cash. They had earlier snatched my iPhone and thrown it out. Around 9.30pm, they dropped me at my house in my car and escaped. I immediately called the police and accompanied police teams to the forest area,” the complaint read, adding that during the search, the police recovered his wallet, his mobile phone and ₹5 lakh cash. A passerby, who had found the iPhone on the roadside returned it to him. Surender Singh, station house officer (SHO), sector 50 police station, said, “Prima facie, it appears that it is the handiwork of criminals for loot. The victim has not mentioned any personal enmity with anyone. Several teams rushed to the spot after the incident was reported and we recovered ₹5 lakh cash and the victim’s phone. It is possible that in haste and due to fear of being arrested, the accused men dropped some cash and his phone behind. Teams are working to trace the accused persons. The victim did not suffer injuries during the ordeal” Police said the suspects had arrived in a car and that it was is possible that a fourth suspect had been driving it and waited for the others to finish the job. The suspects are yet to be identified, said police, adding that two crime branch teams were probing the case. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 392 (robbery), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 25/54/59 of The Arms Act at sector 50 police station on Tuesday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-three-armed-men-kidnap-rob-businessman-of-cash-and-gold/story-7BcfyIvSynPqstoTg2279K.html
09-09-2020||Gurugram||Fake call centres in Gurugram under police scanner||In a bid to crackdown against illegal call centres operating in the city in the garb of providing technical support or fake job offers, the station house officers (SHOs) of 40 police stations, across all the zones in the city, have been asked to prepare and submit a list of all the call centres operating within their respective jurisdictions. The SHOs have also been directed to share the details of all the illegal call centres that have been busted in the recent months and the arrests made in those cases. As per the police, the details of the call centres and their work profile would be used to maintain a database and help the police in gathering information regarding the alleged masterminds behind such fake call centres. In the past two years, at least 62 fake call centres have been busted by the police. The move comes after the same set of suspects were found to be involved in multiple cases, said the police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that once the list is prepared, the cyber crime team will check their licences and write to government agencies, such as Department of Telecommunication (DoT), to know how many permissions have been granted for operations across the city. “Once the data has been prepared, the teams will start visiting the establishments and check whether all the necessary documents are in place. Those found violating the rules and regulations will be arrested,” he said. This year, the police have busted seven illegal call centres so far. In the last two years, over 62 such centres have been busted that have allegedly duped over thousands of foreign nationals of English-speaking countries under the garb of providing technical support. The police said, apart from charging the victims exorbitant fees for fixing technical issues, these call centres would also hack into their banking systems and transfer their money into their own accounts. The police said, in most of the cases, the modus operandi is the same: A tele-caller sends emails to unsuspecting victims with fake pop-up messages, stating that a malware has infected their computers and if not rectified immediately, their personal and financial data would be jeopardised. A phone number would be provided, asking users to call on that number. A pop-up would be displayed on a full-screen mode and would lock the user’s screen within a few minutes with messages like “your personal information is not safe” or “your computer has been locked.” Rao said areas such as Udyog Vihar, Cyber City, Sohna Road and DLF phases 2 and 3 house most of these fake call centres. “Udyog Vihar alone has more than 100 operational call centres and 40 were busted from this place itself. The suspects take up a one-room set up on rent and start their operations. More than 100 such establishments have vacated their rented spaces within six months after duping a substantial number of foreign nationals,” he said. Members of industrial associations will be informed to keep the police updated regarding any new set-up so that the police can verify their documents. Also, a list of repeated offenders will be shared with all the police stations, along with pictures of the suspects. “This will help the teams to keep a check on offenders and be aware of their backgrounds. Out of the 62 cases in the past two years, 47 cases were of repeated offenders who were earlier arrested in Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad for similar frauds, but were released on bail. We have started this initiative to curb all the scams and frauds taking place in the city,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fake-call-centres-in-gurugram-under-police-scanner/story-tOcKqafYzfeCVPt9T3bIXN.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||No need for prescription for asymptomatic patients to undergo Covid-19 test: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said doctor’s prescriptions will not be required anymore for asymptomatic patients to undergo Covid-19 testing in the national capital, a decision welcomed by the AAP government and diagnostic labs. The only things required would be an Aadhaar card with a Delhi address and an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) form that people who want to be tested need to fill, the court said.Testing without prescriptions will be done on a trial basis initially and 2,000 tests will be allowed for asymptomatic patients every day in the city, the court said. The state government can approach the court for any modification in the directions if it faced any difficulty, the high court said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe AAP government welcomed the order. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said in a statement, “We welcome the decision of the Delhi High Court. Earlier today morning, CM Arvind Kejriwal had instructed health minister Satyendar Jain to issue orders to do away with the need for a doctor’s prescription for carrying out a Covid test in Delhi. We encourage more and more people to get tested if they feel they have Corona, so that we can effectively control the spread of the virus in the national capital.”A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad on Tuesday noted there has been a sharp and alarming rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past week. On Tuesday, the Delhi government administered a record 45,797 tests on a day the city registered 3,609 new infections—the highest single-day spike in 76 days, according to the government bulletin.The court also directed the Delhi government to set up testing centres near prominent metro stations for the benefit of commuters. It asked the government to share maps of testing centres with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for display at metro stations for better awareness. The court, hearing a plea filed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking ramping up of tests, also told the government to re-strategise its plan to ensure anyone who wanted to get tested was able to do so with any prescription.Welcoming the order, Dr Vandana Lal, executive director of the Lal Pathlabs, said it would ease patients’ problems because nowadays a Covid-19 negative report is necessary even for travelling. She said her lab was well prepared to handle the increased number of tests and would follow all government directives.Dr Deepak Sadwani, head doctor at Prognosis Lab, said people now won’t have to run to a physician to get a prescription for testing.Additional standing counsel Satyakam, appearing for the Delhi government, said the number of RT-PCR tests have been ramped up and mobile testing centres have been set up at inter-state bus terminals and railway stations.A senior government official said testing camps have also been set up at major construction sites, weekly markets and outside major government offices primarily located in the New Delhi Municipal Council area. Appearing for ICMR, central government standing counsel Anurag Alhuwalia told the court that the apex medical body has come out with a fresh advisory and has done away with the need for a prescription for Covid-19 testing.The Delhi government counsel informed the court about an alternative testing method being explored by the government. He said the method has been sent for ICMR for approval even as the medical body (ICMR) said it has not received it yet.The court asked the Delhi government to submit the next sero survey report on the next date of hearing after it was informed by Nutan Mundeja, DGHS, that samples have been collected. The matter will now be heard on September 16.Crowd at trial courtsDuring the proceedings, advocate Alhuwalia raised the issue of setting testing camps at trial courts due to the increased footfall. Advocate Satyakam said all standing counsel of the Delhi government have decided to give a representation, expressing their inability to appear for physical matters in court.Justice Kohli said the courts were opened for physical hearing only because of representations from various bar associations and the legal fraternity.The judge then asked the counsel to give a representation to Chief Justice DN Patel, who during a hearing on Tuesday said his staff members had been affected and the situation was bad.However, the chief justice said that the physical hearings would not stop and would go on .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-need-for-prescription-for-asymptomatic-patients-to-undergo-covid-19-test-delhi-hc/story-1OOcUBXSVX39HaBaaVP4xO.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Soon, enjoy al fresco dining at south Delhi restaurants||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday approved a proposal to allow open-air dining on rooftops and lawns of South Delhi restaurants. The proposal will now be tabled in the House meeting later this month for a final approval.The proposal was drafted after representatives of National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI) had approached the civic body in June with a request to allow al fresco dining, citing huge losses due to the pandemic. “We have passed the policy to allow open-air dining at restaurants. The proposal will now be sent to the House meeting of the SDMC to get a final approval before being implemented. There should be adequate checks in place so that traders do not misuse the move,” a member of the SDMC standing committee said.According to the policy, the SDMC will allow open-air dining at restaurants under its jurisdiction with certain riders. The draft policy says that open-air dining will be allowed only at those restaurants where open areas or terrace are privately owned, which means that there should be no encroachments on public land or footpaths. The open space should not have a direct opening to the main road.The open-air dining policy does not allow cooking of food or barbecue in the open space. “Open spaces/terrace abutting licensed eating houses only will be allowed to be used as a service area. The food should be cooked in closed kitchens and only serving of food would be allowed open air. Liquor serving will only be permitted at licensed terraces and the restaurant owners will have to install view cutters and high parapet grilles to ensure that there is no inconvenience to other passersby,” the draft policy said.A senior SDMC official said that open-air dining practices are already in place in major metropolitan cities such as Mumbai, Bengaluru and in many foreign countries as well.There are nearly 2,000 restaurants and eateries in south Delhi. But, under the new policy, only those restaurants that already have a health trade licence, structural safety certificate and a no-ojection certificate from the fire department would be allowed to have al fresco seating. The official said to avail of the benefit of the policy, traders will have to pay a licence fee to the civic body. “The fee would be ₹100 per square foot for normal restaurants and ₹200 per square foot for a star-rated (four-star and above) dining restaurants and hotels. This fee will be renewed every year. With this move, we are expecting to earn a revenue of ₹5 crore per annum, post-Covid,” the official said, requesting anonymity.The draft policy also says that light music can be played in the open-air seating area but it should not be beyond the permissible decibel levels. “Live band performance will not be allowed under this arrangement,” the policy states.Manpreet Singh, treasurer, NRAI, said allowing restaurants to serve food in privately owned open areas is very much relevant during Covid-19 scenarios as it would pose a lower risk of the virus spreading, when compared to closed rooms with air-conditioning.He said there are many restaurants with open space available in markets such as Hauz Khas Village, Rajouri Garden, and Safdarjung Enclave, among others. “Internationally as well as in many Indian cities, you see people dining al fresco, but in Delhi, that was not allowed. Approval of open-air dining is a very positive step and it will go long way in helping restauranteurs recoup their business, which is down by over 70% as compared to the same period last year. We are hoping that other corporations such as the New Delhi Municipal Corporation (overseeing Lutyens Delhi) will follow suit,” Singh said.Vijay Israni, vice-president, Green Park Market Association, said approval for open-air dining will come as a breather for the industry, which is facing huge losses owing to the lockdown and the low footfall on account of Covid-19.“It is a welcome move. There are a number of restaurants in Green Park market where open space is available and guests these days insist on sitting in open areas. But we were not able to serve them food in open spaces as that was not allowed. With such a policy in place, we may see a rise in footfall and the move will also be beneficial to guests as well,” Israni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/soon-enjoy-al-fresco-dining-at-south-delhi-restaurants/story-n5ZdeipJVhtNsZ7w3MM7UK.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Blue, Pink lines open; Red, Green and Violet to function from Thurs||The Delhi Metro will resume services on two more of its lines from Wednesday, improving travel options for commuters across the city. From 7am Wednesday, trains will start running on the 65.35km Blue Line, connecting Dwarka Sector 21 and Vaishali/Noida Electronic City, and on the 57.58km Pink Line, connecting Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar. The Delhi Metro had from Monday resumed services in a graded manner after a gap of 169 days. The first line to be opened was the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre) and the Rapid Metro in Gurugram. On Wednesday, too, services will be available to passengers in two shift timings -- from 7am to 11am and from 4pm to 8pm. Entry and exit will be restricted at stations, and commuters can check which gates will remain open on the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation website, www.delhimetrorail.com.“As part of the stage one graded resumption of Metro services, the Delhi Metro will resume operations on Blue and Pink lines. Along with these two lines, the Yellow Line and the Rapid Metro, which had already opened on Monday, will continue operations,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Also read: Delhi Metro ridership picks up on Yellow Line on Day 2The services on the Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda), Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Bahadurgarh) and the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Ballabhgarh) will resume from Thursday. From Friday, the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden) and Grey Line (Dwarka to Najafgarh) will be thrown open and, finally, on Saturday, the Airport Express Line will be thrown open. By Saturday, the Metro timings will be back to the pre-lockdown schedules of 6am to 11pm. Anticipating the opening of the two lines, final preparations were undertaken on Tuesday at all stations falling on these corridors. DMRC teams were seen disinfecting floors and common touchpoints such as staircase railings, automatic fare collection (AFC) gates and ticket counters. Station staff were also asked to ensure that floor markings are placed so that crowding does not take place on the station premises. The Delhi Metro will be running 66 trains on the Blue Line, which will make 478 trips during the morning and evening hours. Pink Line will have 27 trains making 228 trips from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket 1, and 13 trains making 291 trips between Trilokpuri and Shiv Vihar. The opening of the Blue and Pink lines on Wednesday will enable interchange facilities at 28 Metro stations. Commuters will now be able to switch lines from Rajouri Garden (Blue and Pink), INA Delhi Haat (Yellow and Pink), Mayur Vihar phase-1 (Blue and Pink), Rajiv Chowk (Yellow and Blue), Yamuna Bank (Blue, between Vaishali and Noida Electronic Centre sections) and Anand Vihar ISBT (Blue and Pink), among others. That would, however, mean that the DMRC will be staring at a bigger challenge of managing crowds at stations and on trains. Sewa Ram, professor, School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi, said from Wednesday, more passengers will queue up to use the Metro and the agency should be prepared to handle the load. “Till Tuesday, only one line was operational. With more lines being opened, the load on the Yellow Line will also go up because interchange facilities will be available now. They can consider having queuing areas outside stations for crowd control. This would give people a safe space to wait as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-blue-and-pink-lines-open-wednesday-red-green-and-violet-from-thursday/story-kkEBf8wmdNtLvgPyBNHCOO.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bars, restaurants prepare to serve liquor, fix rules for patrons||After a five-month ban as part of the restrictions to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, bars, restaurants, hotels, and clubs in Delhi will start serving liquor to dine-in customers from Wednesday. Wary that the permission to serve alcoholic beverages has been granted only on a trial basis till September 30, hotels, bars and restaurants put in place strict Covid-19 protocols, ranging from allowing only 4-5 members in a group to discontinuing live band performances.Restro-bars remained shut in Delhi because serving liquor was not permitted in the city. On September 3, the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal approved the sale of alcoholic beverages to dine-in customers from September 9.Restaurateur Dinesh Arora kept his ‘Unplugged Courtyard’ outlets in Delhi and Gurugram shut despite the Unlock 3 guidelines issued on July 29, allowing dine-in services. “The concepts of my restaurants are totally liquor-based. So, opening just to serve food was not a feasible idea for us. Thankfully, we are opening all our outlets in full swing and with all precautions from Wednesday,” said Arora.Arora, who is also the president of Delhi restaurants and club association, said for the first 10 days all owners will be physically present at their key outlets to ensure that safety protocols are followed. “We do not want to take any risk since it is a trial phase and defaulting on any rule could result in sealing of the entire outlet. So, almost all restaurant and bar owners in Delhi will themselves be present during working hours. We do not want a repeat of a Murthal here in Delhi,” he said.At least 100 persons, including 84 employees of a restaurant in Murthal, Haryana tested Covid-19. Government authorities said the hotel management had flouted social distancing norms. The Delhi government’s excise department said strict action would be taken against the owner and manager of the said facility if they violate rules. “Besides, it will also lead to sealing of the premises and cancellation of the excise licence,” an official said.Starting Wednesday, excise officials will conduct surprise checks at restaurants, bars, hotels and clubs.“Customers are allowed only up to 50% of the seating capacity to ensure adherence to social distancing norms. No standing customer is to be served. Only asymptomatic guests and staff are allowed. For entry, wearing masks, thermal screening and hand sanitisation is mandatory,” said a senior excise official on condition of anonymity.Restaurateur Priyank Sukhija, owner of brands such as Tamasha, Lord of the Drinks, Warehouse Café and Teddy Boy said he is doing away with all seating arrangements along the bar counter for now. “Live performances will also not happen for a while since usually people tend to stand up and dance. The number of guests will also be limited to maximum 4-5 per table with adequate distancing in place. My outlets in Bengaluru and Kolkata have already seen a recovery of almost 60% of the demand during pre-Covid times in over a week’s time. I hope, we will break-even in Delhi in a month or so,” said Sukhija.The Park said they are keeping their bar counters open and have already started taking bookings for parties, including for their pool-side facility. “.. Our poolside facility is available, but using the pool is not allowed. Parties are already getting booked for this month as well as the upcoming months. Our teams are well prepared... Safety and well-being of our guests and associates is of utmost importance to us. All guests are required to wear a face mask and undergo mandatory thermal screening,” said Rohit Arora, area general manager, THE Park New Delhi.The hotel has also installed AV (audio-visual) media and posters at various points in the hotel about the preventive measures to be followed. “Formation of queues is prohibited and strict social distancing measures are taken,” the hotel said in a statement.At clubs like the India International Centre (IIC), the number of tables and chairs has been reduced to half in the bar. Kanwal Wali, secretary of IIC, said Arogya Setu app will be mandatory for all guests besides the usual Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bars-restaurants-prepare-to-serve-liquor-fix-rules-for-patrons/story-uBGasxUi8dNSdHbu3QlvnM.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro ridership picks up on Yellow Line on Day 2||Passenger ridership picked up slightly on the second day of operations of Delhi Metro’s Yellow line and the Rapid Metro line in Gurugram . On Tuesday, the total ridership on the Yellow Line (Huda City Centre-Samaypur Badli) till 8 pm was 17,600. On Monday, the first day after the resumption of operations after a five-month hiatus, the footfall on the line was around 15,500.  Approximately 1,200 smart cards were sold.In the first half of operations, between 7 am and 11 am, ridership on the corridor was nearly 8,300, up from the 7,500 passengers who used the service on Monday. In the second half, around 9,300 passengers used the metro to travel. The figure was around 8,000 the previous day. “There was a slight increase in ridership on the Yellow Line on the second day, but all precautions were in place and everything went on smoothly,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Suresh Singh Rana, 62, who travelled from Central Secretariat to Model Town in the evening hours on Tuesday, said there were long queues at the entrance of stations as passengers were thoroughly sanitised before entry, but the overall process was convenient. “The queue seemed longer because people were maintaining social distancing and leaving ample space while waiting for their turn to get in. I had used the metro yesterday (Monday) as well and there were surely more people there today (Tuesday). But the trains still had space to accommodate the passengers,” Rana said. Deputy commissioner of police (Delhi metro) Jitender Mani said no untoward incident or violations were reported since the resumption of service. “It is because the footfall is low and our men are deployed in good numbers to assist people at every point. Gradually, as more lines become operational, our strength will decrease as it gets distributed among all other stations. We will, however, continue to keep a tight watch to maintain law and order and ensure smooth functioning of the Delhi Metro,” Mani said. Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Delhi Metro Rail Police (a Delhi police unit) and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss their preparedness for the reopening of the Pink and Blue lines on Wednesday, taking lessons from the two-day operations on the Yellow Line. From 7am Wednesday, trains will start running on the 65.35km Blue Line, connecting Dwarka Sector 21 and Vaishali/Noida Electronic City, and on the 57.58km Pink Line, connecting Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar. A senior CISF official said there were some learning points, which have been adopted. “The door frame metal detector (DFMD) and frisking points were too close, which led to improper detection by the DFMD. We have moved the frisking point a little forward. Officials using the long bar specially modified for hand-held metal detectors are complaining of too much pressure on their wrist and uneasiness. We are also looking for a modification to that,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-metro-ridership-picks-up-on-yellow-line-on-day-2/story-FmG6LV9Gs0JfHezUGjHjCP.html
09-09-2020||City||Man beaten to death over ‘selling’ daughter in Mainpuri||A man, who was allegedly beaten by five youths in Mainpuri city on Sunday over rumours that he was trying to sell his teenage daughter, died in a hospital on Monday morning, police said.The Dalit man, identified as Sarvesh Kumar, 40, was a sweets seller.On the complaint of his brother Kamlesh Kumar, a case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant provision of the SC/ST Act against three named and many unidentified people at Kotwali police station of Mainpuri on Monday.“These accused had thrashed Sarvesh badly at the roof of an under construction house. No exact reason for the killing has been mentioned in the FIR lodged by Kamlesh, brother of the deceased. But, three including Rajan, Sahul Jadaun and Shivji Gaur have been named in the case,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, incharge, Kotwali police station, Mainpuri.“Efforts are on to nab the named accused and other unidentified people involved in the incident,” Singh added.As per reports, Sarvesh’s wife along with their two children had gone to her parents in West Bengal during Raksha Bandhan and was there at the time of the incident.However, their 16-year-old daughter stayed with her father. About a week ago, Sarvesh took her daughter to his sister living in Noida. Leaving her there, he returned to Mainpuri. However, some villagers spread the canard that he had ‘sold’ his daughter.“Sarvesh’s daughter has returned to Mainpuri and says she was away for studying. Such rumours about her being sold are baseless,” said the incharge, Kotwali police station, Mainpuri.There are also speculations that Sarvesh had taken money from many people during the lockdown and this could be a reason for the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-beaten-to-death-over-selling-daughter-in-mainpuri/story-8W1R81pfpdD6FJr4xKkIXN.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Veggie vendors, locals oppose curbs imposed by south Delhi RWA, file police complaint||A resident of South Delhi’s Navjivan Vihar and two vegetable vendors have filed a police complaint against the local resident welfare association (RWA) for stopping vendors from running their business inside the residential neighbourhood during lockdown and even after the unlock process started.In the complaint filed on September 3 at the Malviya Nagar police station, the hawkers said the RWA charges them Rs 1,200 annually for vending in the area. The vendors were allowed to do business in the locality in August.The complaint filed by a resident of the locality, along with written statements of the vendors, says the act of the RWA “infringes with the fundamental freedom under the Indian Constitution, under Article 19(1)G—the freedom to practice any trade, profession, or occupation--of the vendors”.In their written statement, Ramesh and Mukesh Kumar, the vendors, said they were not allowed to sell vegetables inside the colony while suppliers to the local vegetable shop and others were not barred from entering it.Speaking to HT on the phone, Mukesh said, “We have been paying Rs 1,200 annually for years to the RWAs as charges to sell vegetables in the area. This year we didn’t pay anything. We filed the complaint after we got support from some residents, also so that it doesn’t happen to us again.”Ramesh said, “I have been selling vegetables here for years. We were not allowed but domestic helps, drivers, etc., were given entry. We were not allowed to enter the colony even after the government’s order.”Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjivan Vihar RWA, said, “Initially, we stationed them at the colony gates. The idea was to minimise movement to control Covid-19. We have an in-house Safal (vegetable) store but we did not want these vendors to suffer. So we didn’t stop people from buying stuff from them. In fact, residents placed orders on the phone to them and our guards used to deliver their (vendors’) goods. After the government’s order in July, we allowed them to get back to work.”Atul Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (South), said. “The RWA members are being spoken to and the matter is being verified for appropriate action.”Social scientist Manisha Priyam, a resident of Navijivan Vihar, who helped the vendors, said the RWA’s decision was an attack on the livelihood of poor people. “What part of the unlock order barred any street vendors from sitting on public streets? There could have been reasonable restrictions on them, they could have sat at one place near the colony market, which was operating and fully functional.” “Under the Sodan Singh versus SDMC judgment, street vending is a fundamental right under Article 19.1.G. What power does RWA have to usurp fundamental rights of citizens, specifically weak and vulnerable?” she said.Vinod Arora, former president of the society, and many others opposed the RWA decision. Arora said, “I have been against the idea of charging vendors. But we couldn’t discontinue it as residents wanted it.”Those working for the rights of street vendors and urban poor are also against RWAs charging vendors.Indu Prakash, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee for homeless shelters, who spoke to the two vendors said, “Who are RWAs to charge vendors for working in their locality? The colony roads are public land and everyone has equal rights over it. This is nothing but harassment of urban poor.” Makhija, who joined the office in 2017, said several other RWAs charge vendors. Makhija said, “The practice of charging Rs 100 a month (Rs 1,200 annually) from vendors has been on for the past 7-8 years. As per the executive committee decision, with this Rs 100, we provide them with cloth bags and discourage them from using plastic…But this year due to the crisis, we didn’t charge them at all as they too are going through a financial crisis.”RWAs in the city are divided over the charge. Some say it is “illegal”, while others say they have been doing a lot of work outside their mandate such as security, maintenance of parks, etc.Rajiv Kakria, member of E Block GK-I RWA said, “We introduced vendor passes 15 years ago and it worked wonders in maintaining discipline, etc. The token amount we collect is for expenses incurred in the verification process etc...RWAs are performing duties way beyond their mandate and have to figure out ways to stay afloat financially.”But Atul Goyal, president of URJA, a collective of RWAs in Delhi, said, “We don’t approve of such charges taken by RWAs, as there are no rules which empower them to do so. There is no doubt RWAs do a lot of work but we don’t have powers to charge vendors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/veggie-vendors-locals-oppose-curbs-annual-vending-charge-imposed-by-south-delhi-rwa/story-XrIYTMlE31qrElpUdGuRNO.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||86-year-old raped by plumber in Delhi, man arrested from spot||An 86-year-old woman was raped and assaulted, allegedly by a 37-year-old plumber, after he offered her a ride on his motorcycle and took her to a farm in an isolated area in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla on Monday evening.The man was nabbed from the scene of crime after locals, alerted by the screams of the woman, rushed to help, police said on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said, “The plumber was immediately nabbed and a case was registered at the Chhawla police station.” On Tuesday, Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal met the elderly woman and said she had several injuries and bruises on her body. “The woman was found bleeding profusely and in extreme trauma. We will help the family in further legal proceedings in the matter,” said Maliwal. The DCW in its statement said that the elderly woman (who the commission says is 90 years old) told them that on Monday around 5pm, she was waiting for the milkman when the plumber arrived at her house and told her that the regular delivery guy would not be able to make it. The man told her that he could take her to a nearby area from where she could purchase milk. “...he then took the elderly woman to a nearby farm and raped her, ignoring her repeated pleas that she was of his grandmother’s age. The suspect also assaulted her brutally, when she tried to resist and protect herself...Later, local villagers passing by the area heard her scream and ran to help her. The locals caught hold of him and called the police...,” the DCW said in the statement. Police, on the other hand, said that the woman, in her statement, had told them that she was a little distance away from the village, when the plumber saw her and offered her a lift on his motorcycle. “The man then took the woman to a farm in a secluded place, which is nearly 2km away from her home, and forced himself on her. He also assaulted her. Prima facie, it appears that he does not have a criminal record. We are still verifying the allegations. He hails from another village in Chhawla,” said a senior police officer. A DCW member, who did not wish to be named, said that the woman had been admitted to a government hospital where she was medically examined, given treatment, and discharged on Tuesday morning. “A team of counsellors has been with her since Monday. The woman lives with her son and daughter-in-law, who were not present at home at the time of the incident,” the DCW member said. DCW chief Maliwal added, “From a six-month-old girl to a 90-year-old woman, no one is safe in Delhi. The kind of trauma this woman had to face clearly indicates that the perpetrators of these crimes are not humans. I met the woman today. She is extremely courageous and we will ensure that she gets justice. This case needs to be fast-tracked and justice delivered within 6 months.” The elderly woman’s statement was recorded by a magistrate, which is now admissible evidence against the 37-year-old suspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/86-year-old-raped-by-plumber-in-chhawla-man-arrested-from-spot/story-SnKBjwKMRjj74ASsqEPugI.html
09-09-2020||Pune||Pune admin predicts 2.30 lakh Covid cases by Sept 14; shortage of 1,984 oxygen beds, 348 ventilators||With Pune’s Covid-19 curve refusing to flatten, the civic administration has revised its projection for next week with the positive progressive tally predicted to reach 2,30,194 and deaths touching 5,610 in the district by September 14. The projection showcases a rise of at least 27,000 cases in eight days as the Pune district tally stood at 2,03,468 with the death toll at 4,477 as of Tuesday. This may leave the administration staring at a shortage of 1,984 oxygen beds, 145 ICU beds and 348 ventilators, as per the projection by the district authorities. As per officials, Pune district’s doubling rate has reached 32 days and the death percentage of the district has increased to 2.30 per cent. “We have prepared the prediction for the forthcoming days about the Covid situation in Pune district as well as for Pune division and will accordingly start micro-planning. Even though there is a growing gap between the number of rising cases and the number of beds, we are 100 per cent sure of bridging the gap,” said Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao. With the surge in number of cases, the administration has increased its testing. In the last four to five days, the number of tests and along with positive cases has increased in the district, said Rao. Pune city is reporting an average of 2,000 cases every day over the past four days and Pimpri-Chinchwad is recording at least 1,000 cases daily, especially in rural parts the spread of the virus is concentrated in certain villages, said civic officials. “Around 80 per cent of patients are coming from 62% gram panchayats. So, we have a focused approach of creating public awareness in these areas,” said Rao. One of the major contributing factors to the bed shortage is that around 30 per cent of critical patients are coming to Pune from neighbouring districts. “It is a matter of concern for us. So, we are working on increasing the facilities in districts such as Kolhapur, Solapur and Satara. As far as oxygen supply is concerned, officials have been appointed at all the 11 oxygen-producing plants in Pune district to look after the production and distribution,” said Rao. To deal with manpower shortage, the government has now taken a call to absorb medical students who have appeared for the exam. “Today, I have sent a letter to the municipal secretary, medical education, in which I have requested him that all the post graduate students who have appeared for their exams and are right now free from academic pressure, should be allowed to work as trained doctors in the civic body’s Covid-19 programme,” said Rao.These students, according to Rao, will be duly compensated and additionally this service for Covid will be deducted from their bond duration. Secretary medical education has agreed that the state government will actively consider this proposal.“This would be an official channel through which we could get some manpower and in Pune district we have got 600 postgraduate medical students,” Rao added. Projected figures as on Sept 14 by the Pune district administration Total number of progressive positive cases – 2,30,194 Total number of recoveries – 1,72,311 Total number of deaths – 5,610 Total number of active cases – 52,272 Predicted deficit in infra on Sept 14 Isolation beds without O2 : 198 Oxygen supported beds : -1,984 Total number of ICU beds : 145 Number of ventilator beds : -348||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-admin-predicts-2-30-lakh-covid-cases-by-sept-14-shortage-of-1-984-oxygen-beds-348-ventilators/story-SXGT7MYM2NPh2KiyjFaYpK.html
09-09-2020||Pune||Barricading, restrictions in containment zones irk Pune residents||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) announced new containment zones on Sunday to curtail the spread of the Covid-19 infection. However, the action has invited ire of local residents who allege that stepping out to buy essentials and seek medical attention has also become difficult in the sealed areas due to the tin sheet barricades. As of September 8, PMC has 74 micro-containment zones with Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward with the highest number of sealed areas at 11.In Dhankavdi, eight containment zones have been created from the earlier six and in Sahakarnagar, the number has gone up from two to three. Residents of Balajinagar allege that despite being under strict restrictions in the containment zones, the number of Covid-19 cases in the area is only increasing. “What is the use of sealing the area and barricading it, when it has failed to arrest the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. The barricades causing inconvenience to senior citizens, women and other members of the society who want to step out of the area in case of emergencies. More awareness and self discipline must be cultivated rather than resorting to barricading,” Santosh Alhat, a resident said. PMC staff had been distributing essential items at places where there was total lockdown and shops were closed. Now, however, residents are allowed to buy essentials like grocery and vegetables for a limited period. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “The restrictions in containment zones are essential to prevent the spread of the infection and as far as barricading is concerned, we will find out more in details and ensure that the inconvenience faced by citizens is reduced. All necessary essentials will be made available to them.”Meawhile, Hadapsar residents have also aired their complaints about barricading in the area by the PMC. Residents of Bhekrainagar are particularly affected by the tin barricades in Dhamalwadi and Tukaridarshan area. The residents questioned the PMC’s move and said that it was causing inconvenience to them. “We have not understood the logic of barricading the area and how it helps in arresting the spread of the virus. Water supply to our area by tankers is getting affected due to the barricades,” said Maruti Dhamale. Bhekrainagar, Ganganagar, Dhamalwadi, Papadewasti and Tukaidarshan areas are dependent on water tanker supply for water and the connecting road has been currently barricaded. Similarly in Kondhwa –Yeolewadi belt, the number of containment zones have gone up to three from the existing two and restrictions have been put in place to prevent the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/barricading-restrictions-in-containment-zones-irk-residents/story-YwTa0dABr1u40iPXX6SB5J.html
09-09-2020||Delhi||Govt, civic body begins removing concrete around trees in Old Delhi||A tall peepal tree, believed to be more than 100 years old, stands within a house behind Jagat Cinema near Jama Masjid in the Walled City. One of its branches has been cut and a and a portion of its trunk has been concretised to accommodate the construction around it. It is one of the 24 old and full-grown trees in the densely populated Old Delhi, which are being restored by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and the Delhi government’s forest department on directions of the Delhi High Court. While some of these trees have permanent or semi-permanent structures around their trunks, damaging their roots, others have been heavily pruned over the years. A team of officials from the corporation and the forest department had conducted a joint survey of the area last month and started removing the concrete around them. Sixty-seven-year-old Omwati, the oldest resident of the three-storey house which has come up around the peepal, said the tree has been a saviour for the three generations that have lived there. “We believe that it has protected us from all evil. In 1970, a huge branch that was spreading up to the next building was cut by its owner, as it was coming in between the construction he was doing. Its branches would provide shade to the entire house and had to be pruned several times over the years for sunlight to pass through,” said Omwati. Omwati said she was 13 when she came to the house after her marriage and the tree had been there ever since. “A few days ago some officials had come to inspect the tree and said that they would put a number on it in order to save it from further damage,” she said. According to a senior forest official, who did not wish to be named, said, “In case of this tree, de-concretisation cannot be done, as it is too close to the foundation of the old house and also there is lack of space, which may pose a danger to the building.” Deputy conservator of forests (DCF-North) Aditya Madanpotra said a number of trees that had grown inside the house or a wall, de-concretisation could not be carried out because of limited space and potential danger to the building. “In rest of the trees where religious structures have come up around tree trunks, the matter has been referred to the Delhi government’s religious committee for action as per norms. Besides, around other trees, the cemented boundaries have been broken allowing them space to breathe and water to seep into their roots,” he said. He added that since most of these 24 trees are peepal or neem, which regenerate fast, the root system has been preserved. “We will keep monitoring them and in case any further encroachment is reported, we will put up tree guards around them,” said Madanpotra. As per an affidavit filed by the North Corporation in the Delhi High Court on September 2, at least eight of the 24 trees have religious structures around their trunks in Chandni Chowk municipal ward. Also, the tree branches are wrapped in a web of wires and cables in most places. The corporation submitted the affidavit listing the old trees in Dariba Kalan, Urdu Bazar, Jama Masjid, Jagat Cinema area and Kinari Bazar, among others on the court’s directions which came during a hearing in a plea to restore an approximately 300-year-old banyan tree in Nai Sadak area of Chandni Chowk. On August 6, Nai Sadak resident Nitin Gupta had filed a plea about unauthorised construction that was damaging the tree. At Kinari Bazar’s, Gali Peepal Wali, locals said the street got its name from the old peepal tree there. “The tree has been here for at least the three generations that I have seen. A team of officials had visited the site some days ago and broke down some structures that had come up around the tree,” said Hazari Lal, 73, who owns a decorative items shop nearby. At Cycle Market near Dariba Kalan, another peepal tree, almost five-storey tall, had cement around its trunk, as a temple had come upon it. “I have been seeing this tree since at least 1983 when I started working here. The religious structure had been there since,” said Rajeev Khurana, who owns a shop in the compound. At least five trees on the Netaji Subhash Marg and Urdu Bazar Road fall under the jurisdiction of the Public Works Department (PWD) and de-concretisation has been carried out here. The roots of the tree on Urdu Bazar Road lay covered with fresh mud. A senior official from the North Corporation said, “We have removed concrete from tree trunks in most of the cases except for those which had religious structures and a few others, which had grown into walls and houses, that could threaten the building’s foundation. We are waiting for the response of the government’s religious committee to take further action,” the official said, who did not wish to be named. PWD officials said de-concretisation of trees under its jurisdiction has already been done. A Delhi government spokesperson did not offer any specific comment. CR Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at Delhi University, said there are several trees in Old Delhi area have been concretised over the years. “The trees do stand tall because of their roots being deep into the ground, but these trees are not healthy at all. They are just surviving with a thin canopy. All trees have two kinds of roots --- deep in ground and another that are close to the surface. Concretisation damages the roots close to the surface, which play a crucial role in maintaining plant health by absorbing moisture and helping in uptake of nutrients. The root system can regenerate if concrete is removed,” said Babu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-civic-body-begins-removing-concrete-around-trees-in-old-delhi/story-OBc8EHisyaY9eCV9h9ESeJ.html
