10-09-2020||City||Ludhiana traffic cops identify 10 black spots in city||The Ludhiana police’s traffic wing has identified 91 accident prone spots in the city, out of which 10 have been classified as black spots for being the most vulnerable to mishaps.Releasing a booklet on this, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “Identifying the vulnerable spots will help us bring down the number of road mishaps, and thereby help save many precious lives.”The black spots include the Sahnewal Bridge, Eastman Chowk, Dhandhari Bridge, Dhandhari bus stop, Samrala Chowk, Tajpur Chowk, Basti Jodhewal Chowk, Kailash Nagar Crossing, Jalandhar Bypass Chowk and the spot near Greenland Public School near Jalandhar Bypass. The booklet also underlines the reasons behind why these spots see so many mishaps and gives suggestions on how to rectify the problem. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, traffic) Gurdev Singh, who compiled the book, said that the reasons behind the mishaps include: uneven leveling of roads, pit holes, absence of road markings, encroachments, cuts in road dividers, absence of traffic signals and blinkers.He has suggested fixing speed limits on such roads, presence of police, patrolling, making diversions for easy flow of traffic, removing encroachments, constructions of underpasses and over-bridges and forming road safety committees.He added that the booklet has been presented to departments concerned for further action. Earlier, ACP Gurdev Singh had compiled a booklet ‘Eradication of Road Obstacles’ and had sent it to departments concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-traffic-cops-identify-10-black-spots-in-city/story-3BaCiVVIDCHkt1STaV71vN.html
10-09-2020||City||One dead, one injured after speeding car hits motorcycle in South City 2||Gurugram A 24-year-old salesman was killed and his colleague seriously injured on Wednesday night after a speeding car allegedly rammed into the motorcycle they were riding at a traffic signal in South City 2 area. Police said the car driver, who works in a private company, has been arrested and released on bail. According to the police, the incident took place around 9.20 pm when Sumit Yadav, 21, and Sudhir Kumar, 24, both salesmen at a super mart in the city, were on their way to their rented accommodation in Kanhai village on Yadav’s motorcycle after completing their shift. Police said Yadav, a native of Saharsa, Bihar, was driving the motorcycle while Kumar, a native of Banda, Uttar Pradesh, was riding pillion. They had reached near the traffic signal adjacent to Arcadia in South City 2 in sector 49, when a car, which had a Delhi registration number, hit them from the side. In a police complaint, Yadav said, “The car driver was driving at a very high speed. After the collision, we both fell on the road. Sudhir sustained critical injuries to his head and body. I also suffered injuries on my right arm and leg. I noted down the registration number of the car. We were both rushed to a private hospital nearby by a commuter later.” Police said Kumar was declared dead on arrival by the doctors, while Yadav suffered a fracture on his leg and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. His condition is stable. A police official, privy to the investigation, said, “We received information of the incident from the control room and rushed to the spot. The car driver was arrested from sector 71 on Thursday. During questioning, he denied that he was inebriated and claimed to be driving at a normal speed. His samples have been sent for medical examination. He has been released on bail.” A case was registered against the accused under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of Indian Penal Code at sector 50 police station on Wednesday night, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-dead-one-injured-after-speeding-car-hits-motorcycle-in-south-city-2/story-7UOVcd3w2eZsgBaCdD9oiO.html
10-09-2020||Gurugram||HSVP to inspect 34 pvt schools for building plan violations, EWS admissions||Following complaints of building plan violations by some schools that have taken land from Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on lease, the authority has decided to inspect 34 schools under the jurisdiction of estate office 1. Officials said that if they find violations, then the schools will be asked to remove it, and if this is not done then action would be taken for violating the terms of agreement. The authority has given land on lease to educational trusts in sectors 3, 4,5,6,7, 7 extension, 9, 9A, 10, 10A, 14, 15 part one and two, 17, 21, 22 and 23. Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer I, HSVP, said that an official will look in detail into the issue. “We have sought information on nine points pertaining to building plan and in case any violation is found it will have to be removed so that should confirms to the approved plan,” he said. The official said that the illegal constructions were apparently made in the common areas of the school premises and, in case of emergency, it could hamper the evacuation of children. As per the rules of HSVP, a school which obtains land from the authority on concessional rates has to admit 10 percent students from economically weaker section (EWS) category and only the fee prescribed in government schools could be charged from them. Gogia said the schools will also be asked to submit details on admissions to students from the EWS category. “This is an important issue and if there are violations here, it too will attract appropriate legal action,” he said.Last year also the authority had issued notices to schools and sought information regarding the admission to students from EWS category. “Due to the Covid 19 pandemic this year a lot of parents are in distress and seeking admissions under this category and we want to ensure that schools which have taken land from HSVP admit these students promptly,” said Gogia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-to-inspect-34-pvt-schools-for-building-plan-violations-ews-admissions/story-t9UyJekMAsDFHQkImZySIN.html
10-09-2020||City||Gurugram: DTCP to mark unauthorised colonies on district urban plan, more demolition drives on the anvil||Gurugram: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has started to mark unauthorised colonies in the district’s urban master plan to identify areas where unauthorised colonies are being developed. According to the department’s officials, this exercise will help prevent registries of unauthorised structures. They added that these maps, along with the markings, will be shared with other civic agencies and police so that areas prone to unauthorised development are identified with ease and can be monitored and regulated in a better manner. The department will also identify and mark colonies where demolition drives have been carried out earlier. Earlier on Tuesday, the department also updated its website, enabling it to accept online applications for issue of no-objection certificates to buyers and sellers, who are seeking to get registration of property done from the revenue department. Under the new property registration regime implemented by the state government, an NOC from DTCP is necessary to get an appointment for property registration.“The purpose of the exercise is to keep a strict watch on unauthorised colonies and prevent registration of small plots in violation of rules, which leads to development of unauthorised colonies. The work has been started and it will be completed in the next one week,” said Ravi Sihag, senior town planner, Gurugram, adding that the information will be shared with all departments so that unauthorised colonies can be identified. According to DTCP’s estimates, over 100 unauthorised colonies have come up in the district in the last one year itself.RS Bhath, district town planner, said that the enforcement wing of the department has also carried out demolition drives against these unauthorised colonies on a large scale. He further said the recent ban on registration of unauthorised plots will further help in curbing unauthorised colonies. “In the next two weeks, large scale demolition drives have been planned to curb unauthorised colonization. On Tuesday, four unauthorised colonies were demolished in Pataudi, which were being developed over 15 acres. Plinths, walls and 10 under construction structures were demolished,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-dtcp-to-mark-unauthorised-colonies-on-district-urban-plan-more-demolition-drives-on-the-anvil/story-fofJEauSmSFXO9ZE6XzGDJ.html
10-09-2020||Gurugram||Farruknagar: Armed dacoits tie up victims; decamp with cash, gold and car||At least seven armed men allegedly barged into a dairy farm, tied up four persons and robbed them of ₹4.5 lakh cash, gold, a car and mobile phones in Taj Nagar, under the jurisdiction of Farrukhnagar police station, on Wednesday early morning. The police said the accused men are yet to be identified, adding that the local police and crime branch teams are conducting the probe. According to the police, the incident took place around 3 am when the dairy owner, Saroj Singh, who also has a house on the dairy farm, went to a room, where labourers had been asleep, to call them for some chores. In the police complaint, she said that she called out for the labourers but there was no reply. “When I entered the room to check, I was alarmed to see that two labourers and the driver had been tied up and gagged by armed men. I started yelling but the accused men pointed a gun against my head and threatened to kill me. They tied my hands and as I was lying on the floor, they kicked me and slapped me. They were carrying guns and knives. Five of the accused then went towards my house while the other two stood next to us,” she said. The police said the accused men rummaged through the house and broke the lock of an almirah, eventually decamping with ₹4.5 lakh cash, gold and silver ornaments, at least two mobile phones and keys of a car. A police official, requesting anonymity, said, “We have recovered a bag, allegedly belonging to the accused men, from the spot, which they may have dropped in haste. The bag contains three cartridges of ammunition, which have been sent for forensic examination. The suspects are yet to be identified.” The police said the victim filed the complaint late on Wednesday night after her relatives from Jamalpur arrived. A case was registered against the accused men under sections 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), section 458 (lurking house trespass or house breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Farrukhnagar police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farruknagar-armed-dacoits-tie-up-victims-decamp-with-cash-gold-and-car/story-bg8vFvLoayAyUFyLo0Li7I.html
10-09-2020||Gurugram||Residents of JMD Gardens demand transfer of maintenance to the RWA||The residents of JMD Gardens on Sohna Road have been protesting outside the office of the developer located inside the residential complex for the past two weeks, demanding the transfer of maintenance to the residents’ welfare association(RWA). According to the residents, although the possession of flats was handed over to the 500 homebuyers of the complex in 2010, the transfer of maintenance is yet to take place. The residents said for the past five to six years, they have been fighting for the transfer of maintenance. Richa Agarwal, a resident, said for the past two weeks, they have been peacefully protesting against the builder asking for their right to have better maintenance services. Residents said, despite paying a monthly maintenance fee of ₹5,000 per house every month, the residents are being denied of proper maintenance services. “This protest will continue until the developer hands over the maintenance to the RWA , addresses the shortcomings in the construction, and gives a complete account of the money collected from the residents. We have already met the local MLA, the deputy commissioner and have even reached out to the department of town and country planning (DTCP) several times, requesting their support,” said Agarwal, adding that in February 2019, the DTCP had issued a letter asking the builder to hand over the maintenance to the RWA. However, in a meeting held at the office of the DTCP IN 2019, in which home owners were also present, the representatives of the developer had questioned the legality of the RWA and said that the matter was sub judice. They, however, had assured that they would abide by the directions of the DTCP, said officials familiar with the matter. Gopa Kumar Warrier, a resident, said there are several maintenance issues with the society. The lifts are in poor shape and are often dysfunctional. “The lifts often get stuck in between floors. There is a continuous seepage of water in the basement of all towers and sometimes the sewage leaks on the roads. We need a solution to these problems,” he said. The residents further said that the developer has substantially reduced its staff, including guards, gardeners, electricians, housekeeping, and plumbers, over the last few years. The RWA had to employ its own gardeners, they added. RS Bhath, district town planner (DTP), when asked about the matter, said that a meeting of the residents and developer will be called within a week. “The process to transfer the maintenance to the RWA will be initiated and the issue will be resolved in the next 15 days,” he said. Sunil Bedi, chairman and managing director of JMD Group, did not respond to phone calls and messages, seeking his response on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-of-jmd-gardens-demand-transfer-of-maintenance-to-the-rwa/story-z8opPQ8XE2MNIF57vBKjcK.html
10-09-2020||Gurugram||MCG to introduce e-rickshaw services to cut pollution||To provide last-mile connectivity and reduce pollution in the city, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to introduce 2,000 e-rickshaws, said officials on Thursday. The MCG will be floating a tender in this regard next week.“The bids for the tender will open on September 16 following which a concessionaire will be finalised for the project. The main aim behind this project is to increase the city’s public transport options as well as reduce the overall pollution in the city,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.As per Sharma, a route feasibility study would also be carried out by the concessionaire, to determine the areas for where e-rickshaws are severely needed so that routes can be accordingly determined. He further said that for all the MCG e-rickshaws, fixed fare rates would also be decided, according to distance.“We will be the regulatory body for this project. Although the contractor would be purchasing the vehicles on subsidised rates as well as selecting the drivers and maintaining the vehicles, the MCG would be finalising the routes and the fares for this project. This way, we will ensure that the facility is provided in areas with dire-need of public transport while also making certain that the fares are capped and residents aren’t paying an exorbitant rate to avail the facility,” said Sharma. It is not the first time that the MCG has come up with a plan of starting its own set of e-rickshaws with a private contractor. In September 2016, the then MCG additional commissioner, Amit Khatri, who is currently the deputy commissioner of the city, had come up with a plan of starting 1,000 app-based e-rickshaws in the city along with an app-based company that would provide last-mile connectivity to residents from areas located near rapid metro stations. This plan, however, never came to fruition, and the same company launched 500 e-rickshaws a year later at all Delhi metro stations in the city, in partnership with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).MCG officials said they aim to phase out diesel autorickshaws in the city that are considered to be highly-polluting. Last November, citing high pollution levels and the banning of diesel auto-rickshaws across NCR cities by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), the district administration, Haryana state pollution control board (HSPCB), and Gurugram traffic police had jointly started a campaign to help convert an estimated 20,000 autorickshaws from diesel to the cleaner CNG. “We will be reaching out to diesel auto drivers to join the project by informing them that with this mode they will not only be helping the environment by cutting down pollution levels but also save them running costs as they no longer would be needing to pay for diesel to run their vehicles,” said an MCG official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-introduce-e-rickshaw-services-to-cut-pollution/story-LyDC6yQQVbBT8A5fV4WP4I.html
10-09-2020||Gurugram||Ggm records: highest single-day testing, highest single-day cases||Thursday was a day of records for Gurugram -- at 309, it had the sharpest spike in Covid-19 cases and at 3,188, it was the highest tests done in a day. The boost in testing numbers comes after the state government permitted walk-in for Covid-19 testing without any prescription.The numbers are according to the state daily health bulletin. The total case count in the district is now 14,295. The daily positivity rate stands at almost 11%, while the number of active cases is 1951 (13.64% of the total cases). Cases in Gurugram had seen an an uptick in May and June but by mid-July, a steady drop in cases was noticed. There were only 650 active cases in the August first week. After mid-August, however, cases saw an upward trajectory with more than 100 new cases being reported in a day. By September first week, more than 200 new cases started emerging in a single day. The daily growth rate is almost 2% now. Testing upOf the total tests on Thursday, 2159 were conducted in government labs and 1,029 in private labs. Out of the total samples, 1900 were tested through the “gold standard” Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing method and 1,288 through the less accurate but faster Rapid Antigen Test (RAT).  On August 7, the state health department following the advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued an order allowing coronavirus tests without prescription in government and private facilities. Before that, government lab at Civil Hospital, sector 10 was conducting an average of 2000 tests and private labs were administering 400-500 tests. The gradual increase in the testing has begun from August 22. Dr. Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, said, “There are multiple reasons for increased testing. With daily increase in the cases, there has been increase in the contact tracing. More people are getting tested who have come in contact with an infected person. Secondly, walk-in for Covid-19 testing has given a boost to private labs.” The union ministry of health and family welfare and ICMR on Thursday wrote to all the states asking them to establish a monitoring mechanism at the district level to follow up with cases that test negative on an antigen test. These teams ensure retesting of all symptomatic negative cases with RT-PCR testing. Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer, was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ggm-records-highest-single-day-testing-highest-single-day-cases/story-DQGfedr5d4nvBWzA367I2M.html
10-09-2020||Gurugram||PHCs, private labs in Gurugram see a rise in people seeking Covid-19 tests||In the two days since Haryana removed the mandatory prerequisite of having a doctor’s prescription to undergo a Covid-19 test, primary healthcare centres (PHCs) and private laboratories across the district have seen an influx of patients seeking to get tested, revealed data from the health department. The Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer (DSO) in Gurugram confirmed that this was the case, and estimated that between 300 to 400 people, who may otherwise have earlier faced restrictions in doing so, have come forward since Wednesday to get tested. As a result, Gurugram district on Thursday collected 3,188 samples (its highest ever in a single day), while private labs collected nearly a third of these. Until September 8, private labs were collecting between 500-700 samples per day, district health bulletins show. This number jumped to 972 samples on September 9 and 1,029 samples on Thursday. Rishabh Rajput, director of Covid-19 and microbiology divisions at Modern Diagnostics, a certified testing lab in Jawahar Nagar, said, “We are expecting even more people to undergo tests in the coming days. The barriers have been removed, both in terms of money and prescription requirement. The last two days have definitely been busier for us. We’re conducting more tests and attending to more inquiries from customers.” A similar trend was also seen at district PHCs and testing camps in containment zones, according to health department staffers deployed in the field. Anantha K, a senior lab technician, who has been with the district health department for over a decade, said, “On Wednesday, there was a noticeable increase in people wanting to get tests done. Thursday was slightly more crowded. A few people were entirely asymptomatic with no recent illness, but eager to get tested anyway. Most others were showing symptoms or said they have recently fallen ill. We administered either a rapid antigen or a RT-PCR test depending on the condition of the patient.” While the health department continues to rely heavily on rapid antigen tests — 1,157 of 2,159 samples collected on Thursday were for antigen tests — private labs said they have been seeing a greater demand for the more reliable RT-PCR tests, which take a day to provide results. “Very few people are asking for antigen tests, and almost everyone who does also asks for a RT-PCR test as well,” said a staffer at another private laboratory in Budera, seeking anonymity. Experts believed that removing barriers to testing is an important intervention, at this juncture when Gurugram is reporting it’s highest daily increases since the beginning of the outbreak. “One, this move will help destigmatise tests and encourage people who need one to access it. The second thing is that you are also changing the nature of the testing pool. A more random sample should bring down the positivity rate and also give us a truer sense of what the mortality rate of Covid-19 really is,” said Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, a Gurugram resident and vice president of research and policy at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/phcs-private-labs-in-gurugram-see-a-rise-in-people-seeking-covid-19-tests/story-FlmQ5nxnLTcRUuuXkdA5UK.html
10-09-2020||Gurugram||CM recovers from hospital, to be in city for two days||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was discharged from Medanta Hospital on Thursday, 17 days after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease Covid-19. Khattar, 66, was taken to the PWD Rest House, near Rajiv Chowk, where he will stay for two days.“Chief minister has fully recovered from Covid-19 and has been discharged from the hospital today (on Thursday) with advise to take rest for a few days,” said a press statement issued by Medanta hospital. An official from the CM’s team, who is privy to the matter, said, “Although CM has been discharged, he will be under the observation of doctors for the next two days at the PWD rest house. He will not meet anyone and no official task will be taken by him during the stay, as suggested by the doctors.”Khattar, 66, tested positive for the virus on August 24 after he developed fever and body ache. Considering his age and being diabetic, he was admitted to the hospital 2:30am the next day. The chief minister was examined by the Medanta Covid Ward team led by Dr. Sushila Kataria, and a team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi and PGIMS, Rohtak.CM shared his Covid-19 positive status through tweet on August 24. On August 20, Khattar went into home isolation after Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and certain officials posted at CM’s residence in Chandigarh had tested positive for coronavirus. Khattar had met Shekhawat on August 18 regarding the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal. The meeting was virtually attended by Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh, while Khattar reached Delhi to attend the meeting. Shekhawat tweeted about his Covid-19 positive status on August 20.Along with Khattar, Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta also tested positive for Covid-19. He was also admitted to the same hospital on August 25 evening. Gupta was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) after he reported some health issues. He was discharged from the hospital earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cm-recovers-from-hospital-to-be-in-city-for-two-days/story-vmI6twyn0o1ZSDuwMIcOEK.html
10-09-2020||City||Garbage dump near Chatar Singh park: NGT directs Ludhiana DC, PPCB to submit action-taken report||Acting on a petition filed against establishment of garbage dump near Bhai Chatar Singh Park here, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the deputy commissioner (DC) and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to submit an action-taken report in the matter.Social activists had opposed the establishment of a garbage dump near the park last year, following which the MC had put the proposal on hold. However, waste disposal continues at the secondary dump situated below the bus stand flyover. The members of scooter market association have also been objecting to the same.The tribunal, in its orders dated September 8, told DC Varinder Sharma and PPCB to verify the facts of the complaint and file an action-taken report in two months.The next hearing of the case has been scheduled on December 14.The petitioner, advocate Gurinderpreet Singh said, “Despite the numerous complaints made in the past and protests staged by social activists, the MC has failed to shift the dumping site, which results in unhygienic conditions in the area and spreads foul smell. We were forced to move the NGT, which has sought a report in the matter.”Scooter market association president Satinderpal Singh said, “An open garbage dump near the market creates a lot of nuisance. The road between Bhai Chatar Singh Park and the dump also gets blocked as garbage is strewn around on the road by rag-pickers. The dumping site should be shifted as shopkeepers and visitors are living under the threat of an epidemic.”When asked about the garbage mess near the park, mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The MC is working to install static compactors under the smart city mission. Open garbage dumps would cease to exist after compactor installation. Also, no garbage is being dumped inside the park and the park is also being rejuvenated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/garbage-dump-near-chatar-singh-park-ngt-directs-ludhiana-dc-ppcb-to-submit-action-taken-report/story-BvOBX80wgId2MXJYh4PoqI.html
10-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC commences construction of Giaspura main road||Following protests by residents, the municipal corporation (MC) finally began the construction of Giaspura main road on Thursday, which has remained in bad shape for a long time.The road is being constructed at a cost of ₹1 crore and the work is expected to be completed in 45 days. Mayor Balkar Sandhu and councillor Jaspal Giaspura inaugurated the road work.The residents had been raising a hue and cry over the pathetic condition of all the three roads — including the main road (PSPCL office road), Oswal road and a road at the backside of Avon Cycles —leading to Giaspura area. Accidents, including overturning of loaded vehicles, were a frequent affair on these stretches due to deep potholes.On August 11, members of Samajwadi Party had staged a protest against the state government and MC’s failure in constructing the roads. Following this, the residents of different areas, including Jeet Singh Colony, Azad Nagar and Amardas Colony, had also protested outside the office of area MLA Balvinder Singh Bains stating that the roads were in a bad condition for years and the authorities had failed to find a solution to the problem.Councillor Jaspal Giaspura said, “The road construction had got delayed by three months due to a contractor who was laying sewer lines on the stretch. He did not complete the work, so the task was handed over to a different contractor. The road construction work commenced on Thursday and will be completed in 45 days. It will be a huge relief for the residents. Re-carpeting and other road repairs would be started in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-commences-construction-of-giaspura-main-road/story-r8kgCBhOe5s6dsWIJyOngI.html
10-09-2020||City||PAU alumnus Dr Baljit Singh to lead Usask vice-president research office||In yet another feat for Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), its alumnus Dr Baljit Singh presently, who is currently serving as veterinary medicine dean, University of Calgary, Alberta, has been selected to lead the vice-president research office at the University of Saskatchewan (USask), Canada.Dr Singh has carved a niche as a researcher, educator and administrator. He did his bachelor’s in veterinary science and animal husbandry, master’s in veterinary science from PAU, doctorate degree from University of Guelph, Canada, and post-doctoral training at Texas A&M University and Columbia University, New York.Having long association of 17 years with USask, Dr Singh has served as associate research dean at its Western College of Veterinary Medicine from 2011 to 2016. The thrust of his research has been on lung inflammation, the work for which he has been awarded nearly $11 million.He has also played a significant role in strengthening international collaborations by leading ‘One Health’ research programme in food safety, infectious disease control and public policy, and training students from more than 20 universities in Canada and other countries. Dr Singh has supervised the research training of nearly 90 undergraduate, graduate and post-doctoral students.A highly decorated scientist, Dr Singh is a recipient of the highest teaching honour in Canada — the 3M National Teaching Fellowship — besides USask Provost’s Prize for Innovative Practice of Teaching and Learning, USask’s Master Teacher Award and Carl J Norden Distinguished Teacher Award.In addition, he has been conferred with Outstanding Veterinary Anatomist Award by the American Association of Veterinary Anatomists and Pfizer Award for Research Excellence. Dr Singh is also a fellow of American Association of Anatomists and Canadian Academy of Health Sciences.PAU vice-chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon congratulated Dr Baljit Singh for this outstanding achievement. He said, “PAU feels proud of its alumnus for scaling new heights and bringing recognition to his alma-mater in the international arena.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-alumnus-dr-baljit-singh-to-lead-usask-vice-president-research-office/story-5PWEfaPMFinT469vt9eyIP.html
10-09-2020||City||ASI hurt in mob attack in Balliyewal village||At least 53 people, including women, opened attack on a police party on Wednesday night, after the cops reached Balliyewal village following reports of a clash between two rival groups. ASI Kuldeep Singh said alerted to a clash between two groups in the village, a group of six police personnel reached the spot where men and women of the two rival groups were attacking each other with sticks and stones. When the cops intervened the mob turned on them after one Gurpreet instigated the horde.The mob tore the ASI’s uniform and tossed his turban. They then dragged him on the road with his hair. It was only after sarpanch Amarjit Singh came to the ASI’s rescue did the attackers desist. The ASI had to be hospitalised as he was grievously injured in the attack. Other police personnel were able to escape. The accused also vandalised the cops’ vehicle. The accused are Gurpreet Singh, Sunny, Harbans Singh, Satnam Singh, Sheela, Mani, Jassi, Bhajan Kaur, Kulwinder Kaur, Bishan Das and Pooja. Around 41 people are still unidentified. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant from discharge of his public functions), 341(wrongful restraint), 324 (cause hurt with a weapon), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (offence committed by unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.Four people, including two women,suffered injuries in the clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-hurt-in-mob-attack-in-balliyewal-village/story-hG2KhlkOTCcTL0Zdfp0ADJ.html
10-09-2020||City||₹17.5L ‘embezzlement’ in MC: Cong councillor seeks action against employees, higher officials||Congress councillor Mamta Ashu has sought action against the MC employees who allegedly embezzled 17.5 lakh and senior officials, including head of the branch and zonal commissioner, for failing to keep a check on the working of the staff.She met mayor Balkar Sandhu at Zone A office of MC on Thursday in this regard.Ashu said it’s been two weeks since the embezzlement came to light, but no action has been taken against the three erring employees.Earlier in August, the senior officials of MC had caught three employees — an inspector, contractual junior engineer and an outsourced suvidha kendra — who had recovered 45 lakh from residents and issued receipts using e-pos machines, but deposited only 17.5 lakh with the MC.Ashu said, “The inspector was on leave and handed over the machine to the JE, who along with the suvidha kendra staffer had issued receipts, but the amount was not deposited into the MC account, which has to be done in 24 hours. This also raises questions on the working of senior officials, including branch head and the zonal commissioner, as they were unaware of the fact that the machine, which was allotted to the inspector, was in possession of the suvidha kendra employee. Moreover, there was no check on the recovered amount being submitted into the MC account on a daily basis.”“This has resulted in harassment of residents. They had paid their dues through the respected employees, but now they have received inflated bills as the amount already paid by them did not reach the MC. If no action is taken against the employees in a few days, I will raise the matter before the higher authorities,” the councillor added.When asked, mayor Balkar Sandhu said additional commissioner Rishipal Singh is conducting an inquiry into the matter and 48 other machines which have been allotted to MC employees are also being checked. “Action would be taken against the guilty officials after the inquiry is completed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-5l-embezzlement-in-mc-cong-councillor-seeks-action-against-employees-higher-officials/story-jKzNVUx9ka0KL50pXVLk1M.html
10-09-2020||City||Ludhiana excise officials end strike, resume work with 50% staff||After suspending work for three days, excise and taxation department officials resumed their duties on Thursday as their state-level association called off its indefinite strike on Wednesday night.The department officials were on mass casual leave for two days (Monday and Tuesday) and announced an indefinite strike on Wednesday in protest against the alleged unlawful action being taken by the vigilance bureau against excise and taxation employees in different parts of the state.One of the officials requesting anonymity said the steering committee — Confederation of Associations of Senior Officers, ETOs and Inspectors — met with Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan and other senior officials on Wednesday evening. During the meeting, it was decided that the vigilance bureau will first take permission from the financial commissioner (taxation) before initiating any inquiry against the department officials.Earlier, the protesting employees had stated that FIRs are still being registered against them on flimsy grounds and arrests are also being made. Search operations are being conducted in officials’ houses, which is humiliating. Recently, the vigilance bureau had also conducted raids in Transport Nagar and a few other areas.Deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) Rajpal Khaira said, “The strike has come to an end the office is now open with 50 percent staff. Few works like issuance of permits etc were affected due to the strike, but there was no revenue loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-excise-officials-end-strike-resume-work-with-50-staff/story-xJrVs3X9uCvIKKItixsC8K.html
10-09-2020||City||Two held for killing man over rivalry, three others for murder of truck driver||Police on Thursday arrested two suspects who had allegedly stabbed to death a local over personal rivalry in Chithera village in Dadri. The suspects were identified as Jamshed and Shoeb, residents of Mewatiyan Mohalla in Dadri. The victim was identified as Sher Singh, 25, a resident of Nai Abadi area in Dadri.Police said Sher had gone to meet his friend in the neighbourhood on Tuesday when Jamshed, Shoeb and some other accomplices allegedly intercepted him on the way. The suspects allegedly dragged the victim on the road and attacked him with a sharp knife. The victim was rushed to the community health centre where he succumbed to injuries. A mobile video footage was also captured and circulated widely of the incident.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said a case was registered against three suspects under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. “During interrogation the suspects revealed that the victim had beaten up Jamshed on September 7 over some issue. The suspects stabbed him on September 8 with an intention of revenge,” he said. Police also recovered the knife used in the crime.Meanwhile, in a separate case, Greater Noida police arrested three persons – Ajaypal, Sonu and Shakeel – for allegedly killing a truck driver in Greater Noida. The Greater Noida DCP said the body of the victim, Om Prakash, was found in Salempur canal on September 5.“The Beta 2 police had found a toll ticket in his pocket. The toll was issued to a truck in Tappal, Haryana. A police team visited the toll and scanned the CCTV footage. The police found the victim was driving a truck which bore a private company’s name,” the DCP said.Police investigation further revealed that Prakash’s last mobile phone location was at his friend Ajaypal’s house in Greater Noida. “The police picked up Ajaypal who allegedly revealed that he had killed the victim after a drink. Ajaypal and his two accomplices – Sonu and Shakeel - and Om Prakash drank together and fought over some issues. The three suspects killed the victim and dumped the body in a canal,” he said.All the five suspects in both cases were produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-killing-man-over-rivalry-three-others-for-murder-of-truck-driver/story-fau0SjZcFh7th2fO0w3jRK.html
10-09-2020||City||Two Home Guard personnel arrested for snatching ₹2,500 from 30-year-old man in Greater Noida||Two home guard personnel were arrested for allegedly robbing a man of ₹2,500 when they found him relieving himself by the roadside on Wednesday. Two other home guard jawans who were also allegedly involved in the snatching are on the run, said the police.The police said the victim, Ashutosh Kumar,30, who is from Laxmi Nagar in Delhi, had come to Greater Noida to appear for a job interview on Wednesday. “He stopped to relieve himself near LG Chowk when four home guard personnel, two in plainclothes, intercepted him and said he would be booked for urinating in open. The home guards threatened him to put him behind bars and snatched ₹2,500 from the victim,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida ( Zone 3).The victim dialled the 112 helpline and reported the incident to the police. The police said a patrolling team who was in the locality reached the spot after being alerted. “The patrolling team caught the two persons in home guard uniform while two men managed to escape. They were brought to the police station for questioning, where it was found that they are home guards, and currently working in a private company in Dankaur,” Singh said. The police also recovered ₹1,500 of the stolen money, and a motorcycle from their possession.A case was registered in the matter at Beta 2 police station.The two arrested suspects were identified as Rajesh Kumar, 38, alias Banwari Lal, who is from Dadri, and Ram Avtar, 40, who is from Bulandshahr. The police said the four suspects, including two on the run—Hatam Singh and Devendra Kumar, had been sent to jail in a snatching case in 2015.Home guards are part of a volunteer force and personnel deployed on need basis in different departments of the district.“We have found that the four home guard personnel had been involved in snatching and anti-social activities for some time. They were arrested and sent to jail in 2015 in a similar case. Beta 2 police have registered a case against the four persons under Section 392 (robbery), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), and section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code,” the DCP said.The suspects were sent to judicial custody. Greater Noida police said they will recommend adding gangsters’ act against them in the charge sheet and also request the home guard department to terminate the four suspects from their jobs.District commandant, home guards, Vedpal Singh Chaprana said he has received information from Greater Noida police about the arrests of two home guard personnel. “Of the two arrested personnel, Rajesh Kumar is a platoon commander, while three others are home guard jawans. The four personnel have been ‘inactive’ for some years. We will recommend the home guard headquarters to terminate their services,” Chaprana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-home-guard-personnel-arrested-for-snatching-2-500-from-30-year-old-man-in-greater-noida/story-9tHWUM5PJupFoIxYAJxaeM.html
10-09-2020||City||Operations resume on Red Line, but few passengers from Ghaziabad city||The Delhi metro rail corporation (DMRC) on Thursday resumed services on its Red Line connecting Rithala in northwest Delhi to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda metro station in Ghaziabad, after 172 days since the services shutdown with the “janta curfew” on March 22.All 29 stations, including eight in Ghaziabad, were opened to the public. The trains ran on a curtailed schedule -- morning (7am to 11am) and evening (4pm to 8pm). On Thursday, the Red Line saw a ridership of 8,037, as per a DMRC update at 7.30pm.The Violet Line between Kashmere Gate to Ballabhgarh was also resumed on Thursday.A DMRC spokesperson on Thursday said that with the services available on most of the Metro lines now, the total ridership on Thursday was 84,841 till 7.30pm, including 31,234 on the Blue Line.With the opening of the Red Line, all DMRC stations in Ghaziabad, including Vaishali and Kaushambi on the Blue Line opened for service. The drop in ridership was another sign that the economy, limping slowly back to pre-Covid times, was yet to run on full power.“There were very few passengers in the morning though the opening of Metro has eased travelling,” said Amit Sharma, a commuter from Patel Nagar. “Before the pandemic it was easy to board the train, but now with so many procedures in place, the entry time has increased.” The Red Line is of particular importance to residents of Ghaziabad city and Sahibabad through stations at Shaheed Nagar, Raj Bagh, Major Mohit Sharma Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Mohan Nagar, Arthala, river Hindon and Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda. Javed Ahmad, a resident of Hindon Vihar said that the passengers boarding the metro were few as schools, colleges are yet to open up and many people are working from home. “Once these open up in coming time, ridership will increase in metro trains. Presently, people are preferring use of own vehicle due to fear of Covid-19. Even I was using my bike to travel to Shahdara. But with metro trains running, the travel time and cost of travelling with get reduced,” he said. On Wednesday, the DMRC resumed the passenger operations of the Blue Line connecting Dwarka with Noida electronic city and Vaishali. In a statement on Thursday, the DMRC said the overall passenger boardings (line utilisation) on Wednesday was 10,3412. The ridership figures for the Blue line stood at 17443 during the morning hours on Thursday while the total ridership according to DMRC figures stood at 47600 for all seven operational lines during the morning hours on Thursday. The DMRC spokesperson reiterated that the actual utilisation of a metro system is reflected from the number of journeys performed by a passenger in completing his/her journey by using one or more lines (passenger boardings or line utilisation) and not by ridership alone. The DMRC has already laid out guidelines for safe travel during the times of pandemic. There are strict checks for temperature of passengers at the entrance and they are also required to sanitize their hands with automatic sanitizer dispensing machines. The luggage is also sanitised and passengers are frisked at the inside entrance and thereafter allowed to move to the platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/operations-resume-on-red-line-but-few-passengers-from-ghaziabad-city/story-3fPpOIUCYtOWixvqNZfYbN.html
10-09-2020||Noida||Dead fireflies, owl claws among host of wildlife contraband seized from grocery store in Noida||The district forest department Wednesday night searched a grocery shop in the city and seized several wildlife contraband items such as dead fireflies, owl claws, monitor lizard genitalia and the Himalayan herb, Costus roots, whose sale and exported has been prohibited by the government of India. Sunil Jain, the owner of the grocery store in Bhangel, Noida, has been arrested an FIR registered against him at the Phase-2 police station . Officials said most of the seized contraband items are related to superstition, and used in occult practices and for preparing dubious concoctions. The recovered items are as follows: 10 grams of dead fireflies, eight jackal bones (siyar singhi), two owl claws, 10 hattha jodi or genitals of monitor lizards, and three kilograms of Costus root. “We received information from a wildlife NGO that a grocery shop in Bhangel was selling such prohibited wildlife items. Upon search, we found a number of contraband items, kept there for sale. These items are either used in occult practices or as medicines which have no proven medicinal value. Costus root is a Himalayan herb, whose sale or export is prohibited without a licence. A case was registered under the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) against the shop owner,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. “Items like fireflies and monitor lizard genitalia have no medicinal values but they are often used by quacks to fool the gullible. In several cases, the hattha Jodi itself is fake. Siyar Singhi or jackal bone is believed by many to be the bone that the jackal has in its skull, which is false. Owl’s claws are used in occult practices,” Saket Badola, country head, TRAFFIC, a global wildlife trade monitoring network that works in India as division of WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature), said. Speaking of Costus root, Badola said because of its overexploitation and habitat destruction in the Himalayan regions of Kashmir and Himachal, it is one of the few protected plant species in the country. “Costus root has several medicinal properties and, hence, is one of six species of plants protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. This means that the person selling it should prove that its procured through legal or harvested methods,” Badola said. Police said Jain was sent to jail on Thursday. “The accused was arrested for selling the prohibited wildlife species. A case was registered under sections of Wildlife Protection Act 1972. He has been sent to jail,” a police statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/dead-fireflies-owl-claws-among-host-of-wildlife-contraband-seized-from-grocery-store-in-noida/story-ZHzho06yktSaPrv5snQTjP.html
10-09-2020||City||‘Thief’ shot by factory guard was former employee who came to collect money; family files complaint||The family of a 35-year-old man, who was allegedly shot dead by the security guard of a private firm, on Thursday claimed that the victim had gone to the firm’s premises to collect his provident fund (PF) amount but the security guard allegedly shot at him mistaking him to be a thief.According to the police, the guard, Vishnu Dayal Sharma (68), had allegedly fired two bullets, injuring Chandra Pratap in the hand and legs, after which Pratap died. According to officials, he died due to excessive bleeding.Officers said the security guard had then told the police that Pratap was allegedly trespassing the factory. Pratap was from Ambedkar Nagar in Uttar Pradesh. The victim’s family on Thursday filed a complaint in Ecotech III police station and demanded action against the guard and the company. According to Abhay Singh, Pratap’s cousin, his brother had been working at the Greater Noida factory since 2009. “In March, he had come to Ambedkar Nagar and then the lockdown came into effect. He stayed back for five months and on August 26, he returned to Greater Noida. When he reached office, he was informed that he has been sacked,” Singh said. He added that Pratap stayed in Greater Noida in order to claim his PF from the company.However, the police said that on the night of September 7, the company was closed and Sharma was patrolling the factory premises when he allegedly noticed a suspect jumping off the boundary wall of the factory. Sharma told the police that he had allegedly asked the suspect to surrender but that the suspect tried to attack him.“I fired two bullets at him with my licensed gun and then informed the police and the firm’s management,” Sharma had allegedly told the police. Officials rushed the victim to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Based on a complaint filed by the company manager V K Singh, the police had registered a case against the suspect (Pratap) under sections 457 (house trespass or house breaking by night in order to commit offence) and 380 (theft) of Indian Penal Code on September 7. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that investigation has revealed that Pratap had worked in the company as a helper from 2014 to 2016. “From 2016 to 2020, however, he was not associated with the company. We are investigating the matter from all angles. If we find negligence/lapses by anybody, including the security guard, we will register a case and take suitable action,” he said. Officials of the company remained unavailable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thief-shot-by-factory-guard-was-former-employee-who-came-to-collect-money-family-files-complaint/story-3gaiA014jeCDivjwDVvkAO.html
10-09-2020||City||Technical varsity annuls exams held for 460 MBA, BTech students after they are caught cheating||The Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (APJAKTU) has decided to annul the exams for 460 final-year BTech and MBA students held in a private college in Greater Noida on Tuesday and Wednesday after the varsity found that students from the college were allegedly cheating while writing their answer papers. The varsity has also decided not to let the college serve as an examination centre for this session, and students from the college will now appear for the rest of the exams at a neighbouring college.In wake of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, APJAKTU had decided to hold only final year/final semester exams for BTech (Bachelor of Technology) and MBA (Master of Business Administration) from September 8 to September 25 as per the -centre examination center system ( wherein affiliated colleges serve as the examination centre for its students). The university has annulled 20 exams (three back-to-back exams are conducted from 9am to 5pm for various streams) held on Tuesday for over 400 BTech students at ITS Engineering College and four exams for around 60 MBA students held on Wednesday.The university said that it found out about instances of cheating when videos from the colleges’ examination centre purportedly showing students copying answers from their mobile phones came to the fore.Vinay Kumar Pathak, vice-chancellor of the university, said controller of examination is investigating the matter.Prof Rajeev Kumar, controller of examinations, said. “We scheduled examinations and the final-year BTech and MBA students were asked to appear at their respective colleges. On Wednesday, someone shared a video of a Greater Noida-based examination centre, where the students were seen openly using mobile phones and cheating in the examination,” he said. He added that some students also cheated during the BTech exam on Tuesday.Kumar said that the university prohibits the use of mobile phone in MBA and B.Tech examinations. “As per our initial probe into the matter, we found that about 460 students had appeared in the examination in two days. We have cancelled both the examinations and shifted the examination centre for the rest of the exams to a neighbouring college )GL Bajaj Institute of Technology & Management),” he said.The university has not issued a schedule for re-conduct the examinations which were annulled. Over 756 technical colleges in the state are affiliated to APJAKTU which is organising examinations at 156 centres in Uttar Pradesh.The controller of examination also said the university has formed a three-member committee to probe the matter further and fine the college management for lapses.The executive director of ITS Engineering College did not reply to repeated calls and text messages asking for comment. According to sources, the college has reportedly served notices to eight observers and invigilators who were on examination duty on Tuesday and Wednesday.As per the guidelines issued by the university for exams, as soon as any case of unfair means comes to notice, the invigilator shall bring it to the notice of the center superintendent as well as varsity-appointed observer. The invigilator shall take possession of the answer book of the candidate along with paper or other material found in possession. Kumar said that the committee will probe all angles in this case and take appropriate action accordingly.Rajeev Agarwal, director GL Bajaj Institute of Technology & Management, said he has received information from the university to accommodate some students for the examination. “We have set up the examination centre for these students. The university’s observer has also come to our campus, and we are also installing CCTV cameras to ensure the examinations are conducted in a fair manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/technical-varsity-annuls-exams-held-for-460-mba-btech-students-after-they-are-caught-cheating/story-DUwXY9xrzLaZbrfRNL06GN.html
10-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad’s Covid-19 tally crosses the 10,000-mark||The overall tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Ghaziabad crossed the 10,00-mark on Thursday 189 days after the first case had been reported in the district on March 5, as per data from the state Covid portal. The last 1,000 cases were recorded in just five days, the fastest such addition to the tally, while the district had taken 110 days to record its first 1,000 cases.As per the state Covid portal, Ghaziabad’s tally stood at 10,083 cases till 3pm on September 10. On the other hand, the state control room report for September 10 put Ghaziabad’s overall tally at 9,999 cases. The control room report is compiled on the basis of data from the past 24-hours, while the state online portal is updated in real-time as and when the samples test positive.According to the state control room figures, Ghaziabad currently has 1,667 active cases— an all-time high for the district.Ghaziabad is the sixth city in Uttar Pradesh to breach the 10,000-mark in the state after Lucknow, Kanpur City, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, and Varanasi, as per the latest state control room records.The district had reached the 1,000-mark on June 23, and has since then has been adding 1,000 cases between five to twelve days, according to official figures. In the past fortnight, however, cases are rising at a faster pace and on Tuesday, the district recorded the highest single-day spike with 233 fresh cases.The district health department said it is well=prepared to handle the surge.“There is a sudden spike in the number of cases and the district crossed the 10,000-figure on September 10. However, we already have streamlined systems in place to tackle the surge, and our recovery rate is about 83%. We have also been able to bring down the fatality rate to just about 0.73%,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The state control room figures put Covid-19 related fatalities in the district to 73.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey could not be reached for comment over rising cases.Of the 10,000 odd cases, those between 21-40 years of age account for almost 47.93% of the total cases. The second-highest share is of those between 41-60 years at 31.54%, while those above 60 years of age comprise 9.72% cases.“With the district reaching the five-figure mark and cases being recorded at a rapid pace, it is now essential that special focus is given to containment zones. They should be fully contained, all persons in these hot spots need to be tested aggressively. The monitoring of patients in home isolation should also be effective. With better monitoring, the things can remain in control,” said Dr VB Jindal, president, Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad.As on September 9, Ghaziabad has 324 containment zones.According to official figures, till September 9, the district had collected 227,270 samples out of which test results were received for 225,323 samples. With the figures, the test positivity rate in the district stood at 4.42% (till September 9).“The testing has been enhanced to about 3000-3500 tests per day, and it is being done in a focussed manner. Although there is a rise in the number of cases, but we have sufficient beds in our L1(for mild cases), L2 ( for moderate cases), and L3 (for severe cases) category hospitals, besides 10 private hospitals which are providing paid Covid treatment. The home isolation facility has also reduced burden on the health care infrastructure,” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-the-10-000-mark/story-VEwcewrwrbt0SjVLMgdiIO.html
10-09-2020||City||UP slashes rate of Covid tests in private labs to ₹1,600, officials told to expand contact tracing||The Uttar Pradesh health department on Thursday slashed the rate of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and TrueNat tests for Covid-19 from ₹2,500 to ₹1,600 at private laboratories. Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (home), while announcing the decision also sent written directions to all district magistrates and chief medical officers in his regard. As per the prevailing norms in the state, private laboratories were charging ₹2,500 for RT-PCR test since April 23. The revised directions stipulate that the price of RT-PCR as well as TrueNat test shall not exceed ₹1,600, else the lab will face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “This is so because there has been a reduction in the rates of RT-PCR test kit reagents and viral transport medium (VTM) kits,” Prasad, said. The tests, whether conducted through rapid antigen kits, TrueNat or RT-PCR, is done free of cost at all government facilities. The district health department officials said they have received the new directions. “The directions will now be communicated to private laboratories and they will not be charging more than ₹1,600 for tests. In Ghaziabad, about 90% of tests are done at government facilities and only 10% are done by the private labs,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. In Ghaziabad, there are about 20 government collection points such as static booths, mobile vans and mobile teams where anyone can get themselves tested free of cost. “We have come to know about the direction and since it is a government order, we will comply,” said an official at the lab attached to Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi.The officials of the Ghaziabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association said there has been reduction in the rate of regents.“During the initial months of the pandemic, there was big gap between demand and supply. Since that has now been reduced, the benefit should be passed on to the patient. So, the reduction in test charges seems justified,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of IMA’s Ghaziabad chapter.According to the figures of September 9, the Ghaziabad district has collection of 227,270 samples of which results were received for 225,323 samples. In UP, the officials said they have completed 7,067,208 tests overall till September 9. The state officials has also asked the districts to take comprehensive contact tracing of positive patients and have asked the district officials to trace at least 12 to 15 contacts per patient. “The chief minister has stressed on contact tracing and said that it needs to be stepped up to 12 to 15 contacts per patient. The chief minister has sought an improvement in districts that are tracing fewer contacts,” Awasthi said. According to the district health department, Ghaziabad has completed 98% contact tracing of 9,840 patients between March and September. The contact tracing exercise has yielded 74,707 contacts with an average of 7.74 contacts per patient. Officials said they have stepped up contact tracing with 99% of 4,971 patients yielding 44,751 contacts between August 1 and September 7. This is about 9.09 contacts per patient. The contact tracing exercise is vital to find high-risk persons. These could be family members, friends of the patient with whom he had come in contact with before he turned out positive. As soon as any person is detected positive for Covid-19, the contact tracing teams gather information about her contacts and they all are subjected to tests and monitoring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-slashes-rate-of-covid-tests-in-private-labs-to-1-600-officials-told-to-expand-contact-tracing/story-nSE07PLQCBgu7cSAPKCJWL.html
10-09-2020||City||Pro-Khalistan slogans emerge on walls of bus stands in Ludhiana villages||Unidentified miscreants have painted pro-Khalistan slogans favouring ‘Referendum 2020’ and release of Sikh prisoners on the walls of village bus stands along the Kohara-Machhiwara road.These slogans have also grabbed the attention of police and intelligence agencies.According to the villagers, they noticed the slogans a few days ago at the bus stands of Razul, Punjeta and Sanghiyan villages. However, no one has seen who drew them on the walls.The villagers said these slogans were aimed at distracting the rural youths.When contacted, Koomkalan SHO inspector Davinder Sharma said he joined his duties only a few days ago, so he is not aware about the situation. He said he will investigate the matter and take appropriate action.BKI members held, Raikot security agencies on alert Intelligence agencies in Punjab are on alert after the members of banned terrorist outfit Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), based in Ludhiana’s Raikot, were arrested in Delhi. Security has been beefed up around the villages after the arrest of the accused in Delhi during an encounter.One of the accused, Bhupinder Singh alias Dilawar Singh, had been arrested by the Mohali police for unlawful activities in 2019 for a controversial post by him on a social networking site. However, he had bailed out in July 2019.Sources said the accused were asked to carry out targeted killings in Punjab, for which they were told to procure weapons from Uttar Pradesh and surrounding areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pro-khalistan-slogans-emerge-on-walls-of-bus-stands-in-ludhiana-villages/story-vojRgFxGjAQSSBUN8smIpO.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||DIPRO selections in Haryana under HC lens||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday said appointments, if any, made by the Haryana government on the posts of district information and public relation officers (DIPROs) will be subject to the outcome of petition before it. The high court bench of justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa was hearing a plea from Ravi Yadav, a Rewari resident and others, who had alleged the result for these posts was declared on August 27 and revised result too was out the same day on complaints regarding wrong questions/answers for the recruitment test. The changes in result could not have been done the same day, given the number of complaints, the court was told. As many as 10 posts were advertised and test conducted on August 11. Interviews were conducted on September 9 and September 10. The high court bench while posting the matter for hearing for September 16 has sought response from Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dipro-selections-in-haryana-under-hc-lens/story-9vP3iiorN4bni3bbo7H3TK.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Dictatorial’: INLD, Congress condemn police action against farmers in Kurukshetra||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) secretary general and MLA Abhay Singh Chautala condemned the lathicharge on the farmers, saying they had come to hold a peaceful rally. “The state government is already bent upon ruining the farmers financially and now they are beating and torturing them. This dictatorial attitude of the state government is extremely shameful and condemnable,” Chautala said in a statement. He said if the government does not take back the anti-farmer ordinance, the INLD will lead protest marches of thousands of farmers. Chautala described the agricultural ordinances brought by the Centre as death warrant of farmers.Haryana Congress leaders Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kumari Selja and Randeep Surjewala lended their support to the cause of farmers and traders while criticizing the BJP-JJP government in the state for resorting to oppressive measures to stifle peoples’ voice. Surjewala in a statement said the state government should know that Haryanvis will not be deterred by such attempts and will vigorously fight in a united way against the Modi-Khattar governments. “This draconian act will be written in history of Haryana as a decisive nail in decimation of BJP-JJP regime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dictatorial-inld-cong-condemn-police-action-against-farmers-in-kurukshetra/story-zizZBilqZbs5amxepXpEFN.html
10-09-2020||City||Ludhiana cops nab duo who robbed money exchanger of ₹6 lakh||Over a week after a money exchanger was robbed of ₹6 lakh cash, the police have arrested of two persons and recovered 1,310 US dollars, a gold chain, sharp-edged weapon and motorcycle from them.The arrested accused are Sahil Verm of Daba Road and Damanjit Singh alias Daman of Preet Nagar. However, their accomplices Gagandeep Singh alias Gagan of Jujhar Nagar and Deepak Kumar of Barota Road are yet to be arrested.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Simratpal Singh Dhindhsa said the arrests were made from different locations and the accused have confessed their involvement in the crime.The accused had robbed money exchanger Shakti Kumar of ₹6 lakh cash, including foreign currency notes worth ₹1 lakh, after injuring him with sharp-edged weapons at his shop near Samrala Chowk on September.A case under sections 394, 120-B of the IPC and sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was lodged against the four accused.Police had formed different teams for their arrest, the DCP said.The accused told police that they knew Shakti Kumar used to carry heavy cash and started keeping tabs on him. Hours before the incident, one of the accused had gone to his shop posing as a customer on the pretext of exchanging foreign currency. When the victim was counting the cash, the accused called his three accomplices and assaulted Shakti with sharp-edged weapons and robbed ₹5 lakhs in cash and foreign currency worth ₹1 lakh.The DCP added that the accused are already facing trial in various cases, including robbery, snatchings and attempt to murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cops-nab-duo-who-robbed-money-exchanger-of-6-lakh/story-Dw8Gs9OX2EzxSLBheK61RL.html
10-09-2020||City||Virus snuffs out 11 more lives in Ludhiana, death toll reaches 546||With no let-up in Covid casualties, 11 city residents succumbed to the virus on Thursday, taking the district’s toll to 546.Notably, 135 of the total fatalities were recorded in the first 10 days of September.As many as 189 fresh infections were reported in the district, which pushed the total cases tally to 12,754.Of the total cases, 1,762 are active in the district while 10,443 people have recovered from the disease so far.Among the 11 fatalities, six were women, mostly senior citizens. The deceased include an 80-year-old woman from Urban Estate, 65-year-old woman from Focal Point, 78-year-old man from Canal View Enclave, 82-year-old woman from Shanker Colony, 35-year-old woman resident of Bachitter Nagar, 55-year-old woman from Bhattian Bet, 60-year-old man from Barewal Road, 63-year-old male from Khanna, 85-year-old male from Dugri, 50-year-old woman from Balmiki Mohalla, 80-year-old male from Sahnewal.Among those who tested positive, 21 are patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness, 60 are contacts of infected patients, while 76 people were referred from outpatient departments. These patients included three healthcare workers as well.Ludhiana trackerConfirmed: 12,754Active: 1,762Recovered: 10,443Deaths: 546||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-snuffs-out-11-more-lives-in-ludhiana-death-toll-reaches-546/story-FTv7EI5HswCbecqmUW8VTM.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Temples open in Himachal Pradesh but Covid scare keeps devotees away||Temples opened across Himachal Pradesh after five months on Thursday but the Covid-19 scare was evident as few devotees turned up to offer prayers. The cabinet had decided on September 4 to open all religious places in the hill state, also known as Devbhoomi, with strict safety guidelines in place. Bajreshwari Temple, one of the 52 Shakti Peethas, in Kangra town wore deserted look even hours after the temple opened on Thursday morning. Few local devotees turned up. The situation was similar in other temples in Una, Bilaspur and Hamirpur districts. Raj Kumar Sharma, a priest at Chamunda temple, said: “Today is just the first day. We expect the number of devotees to increase in the coming days.” Devotees were allowed to enter the temple premises only after thermal screening. Chintpurni temple opened at the 9am with a few devotees from surrounding areas. Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar cycled to the temple to review the arrangements. Chamunda temple was opened at 11am after the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) inspected the premises to review the safety arrangements. At Jwalamukhi temple, a total 349 devotees came to pay obeisance. However, the priests and the shopkeepers are unhappy over the opening and closing time of the temples. Kapil Sharma, a priest at the Jwalamukhi Shrine, said the temple trust had fixed the timing from 9am to 5pm like government offices. However, most devotees come early morning or late evening during the aarti, said Sharma. He said the timings should be changed to 6am to 10pm. Meanwhile, temples in Hamirpur also opened according to the government guidelines. Mahant Rajinder Giri, chief priest of Baba Balak Nath Temple, Deotsid, has welcomed the government’s decision to open the temples and appealed devotees to follow the norms to prevent spread of the virus. According to the guidelines, a maximum 500 pilgrims a day will be allowed at the Chintpurni Temple in Una and at the shrines of Kangra and Hamirpur districts, while 1,000 devotees will be allowed to offer prayers Naina Devi Temple in Bilaspur everyday. Offerings are prohibited and devotees are not allowed to touch anything. For devotees coming from outside the state, a Covid-19 negative report and two days of prior booking is mandatory. The pandemic not only hit the income of local residents dependent on the temples for a livelihood but also took a toll on the income of the temples as donations dipped by more than 90% during the lockdown. Vinay, who runs a shop near Bajreshwari temple, said vendors had suffered huge losses due to the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. “However, we can now hope our businesses will resume as devotees will start visiting temples,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/temples-open-in-himachal-pradesh-but-covid-scare-keeps-devotees-away/story-fW0IAcaJHaQGRGGJTD334O.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||J&K sees spike of 1,592 new cases, recovery rate drops to 69.6%||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 13 fatalities and 1,592 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory to 49,134.The region has been detecting around 1,000 fresh cases on a daily basis for the past eight days, the highest surge of 1,617 cases was recorded on Wednesday. As many as 770 people tested positive in Jammu division while 822 cases were reported from Kashmir. Besides, 344 more people have been cured and discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 34,215, which accounts for a recovery rate of 69.6%. The recovery rate has consistently gone down for the past one week from 77.3% on September 2.Active cases stand at 14,074 and 11,52,563 tests have been conducted in the UT so far.A government spokesperson said 71 people had been discharged in Jammu division and 273 in Kashmir. Of the total, 26,778 were cured in Kashmir and 7,437 in Jammu division. The spokesperson said 13 more people succumbed to the disease in the UT—eight in Jammu and five in Kashmir. The deaths have increased to 845—714 in Kashmir and 131 in Jammu.In Jammu division, the highest jump was witnessed in Jammu district with 421 cases while 78 people tested positive in Poonch. In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was recorded in Srinagar where 218 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 190. Srinagar is the worst affected district as the number of total cases in the district have reached 10,980 with 246 deaths. Jammu district has recorded 7,282 cases and 75 deaths. Jammu has the highest number of active cases at 4,783 against 1,637 in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-sees-spike-of-1-592-new-cases-recovery-rate-drops-to-69-6/story-JzL4ib0NqdVxco29H7C4aM.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Question hour: PRI, local body polls to be held as per schedule||Elections to Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs) will be held as scheduled and the process will start after new panchayats are constituted, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday in response to a question posed by legislators Hira Lal, Inder Dutt Lakhanpal and Vinay Kumar.The CM said new panchayats had not been formed in the state in 15 years.“The process to constitute new panchayats was started in 2010 but could not be completed due to the census,” he said. “The government had received proposals to form new panchayats before the elections. In the meantime, another notification for population census was issued by central government and panchayats and new revenue units could not be formed. Later, due to the pandemic, the central government withdrew the census notification, which left the state free to create new panchayats and revenue units,” the CM said. The CM said there were many remote and backward areas in the state and the rules had been relaxed to form new panchayats in the area. Panchayati Raj minister Virendra Kanwar said 206 new panchayats had been formed in 2005. “There are many big panchayats in remote areas where people have to walk 20-25 km to reach the panchayat headquarters. He said a total of 325 new panchayats were being formed.” Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri asked the CM when will the voter list be finalised, reservation roaster issued and code of conduct enforced. He also alleged that the CM had changed rules and regulations to create new panchayats in his constituency, to which Thakur replied that the new panchayats had been constituted as per the demand and suggestions of the people.In response to a question asked by BJP MLA from Bhatiyat, Bikram Singh Jaryal, regarding the stalled construction of a link road in his constituency, the CM said the work will be resumed as soon as government receives permission to cut 587 trees.He said ₹ 2.75 crore was sanctioned for the construction of the 10-km road in 2007-08 under Phase-7 of the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), of which only 5km of road had been laid.Responding to BJP MLA Ramesh Dhawala, power minister Sukhram Chaudhary said there were no restrictions on setting up a solar energy project and anyone who had completed the formalities will be allowed to do so.Chaudhary said the conditions for setting up big projects was different and those interested must provide details regarding consumption of electricity.He said project promoters could sell equity shares at any times as per the provisions of the hydropower policy approved by the government.He further said that there were different criteria for projects with a capacity up to and above five mega watts (MW), under which the promoter can transfer 100% equity shares to Himachal residents while 49% equity shares can be transferred to non-Himachalis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/question-hour-pri-local-body-polls-to-be-held-as-per-schedule/story-5RiQNTnt3D5JN5ryPDCfKO.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||2 women among 4 held with fake currency notes worth ₹9.18 lakh in Kharar||Kharar police arrested four persons including two women on Thursday and recovered counterfeit money worth Rs 9.18 lakh from their possession at Daun Majra village in Kharar. A printer/scanner, two scales, two cutters, chemical and a plastic tray used were also seized.The suspects have been identified as Jagtar Singh Taari, his wife Parvati Devi alias Bholi and Kamlesh Sharma alias Aantra Kalia, all from Sirhind; and Jaspreet Singh alias Jassi from Ludhiana.The four used printers to print the notes and reportedly circulated the money by luring people with the promise to pay them more in exchange for their money, police said.Addressing media persons at Kharar, SP (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said Taari and Bholi were nabbed by a Kharar police team on Tuesday from Daun Majra village here following a tip-off and fake currency notes worth Rs 6.26 lakh recovered from them.Duo facing several casesThe duo reportedly was running the scam from the last few years and had several cases registered at police stations, police said. They were produced in a local court and sent to five-day police remand.After interrogations revealed the involvement of others, Jassi was nabbed on Wednesday from Santemajra village on the Landran-Kharar road and Rs 1.56 lakh seized with a printer.Kalia was arrested on Thursday by the Kharar police team led by inspector Sukhveer Singh from her residence in Sirhind and Rs 1.36 lakh recovered from her, Grewal said.Jassi and Aantra Kalia are likely to be produced in court soon.Kharar deputy superintendent of police Pal Singh said, “The suspects used to lure people by offering them more money against a lesser amount, for instance, Rs a 2,000 note against Rs 1,000. The money was handed out to people at night as they wanted to avoid risks. We have started investigations and some more persons active in the scam might be arrested soon.”A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 489-B and 489-C of the IPC at the Sadar Kharar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-women-among-4-held-with-fake-currency-notes-worth-9-18-lakh-in-kharar/story-lqBLHZFSdaeQU49zWkXVDN.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||HPU releases admission schedule for nursing courses||Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) on Thursday issued the admission schedule for bachelor of science (BSc) nursing and nursing (post basics) and master of science (MSc) nursing. Application forms will be accepted up to September 30 and entrance exams will be held on October 21. Interested candidates can apply through the university’s official website. HPU has around 150 seats for MSc nursing, of which 25 seats are in government institutions. There are 1,500 BSc nursing seats at HPU, of which 120 seats are in government institutions and of the 200 post basics seats, 30 seats are in government institutions.To appear for the MSc nursing programme, general category students must pay ₹2,500 while reserved categories must pay ₹1,250. For the BSc nursing entrance exam general students must pay ₹1,600, while reserved category students must pay ₹800. For admission to BSc nursing (post basics) general category students must pay ₹2,000, while reserved category students will be charged ₹1,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hpu-releases-admission-schedule-for-nursing-courses/story-jUYFfzXUwA3htuiWJf7o5O.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Naib tehsildars will also issue domicile certificates: L-G Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha, on Thursday, said that the local administrations will rope in naib tehsildars to speed up issuance of domicile certificates. So far, the task was assigned only to the tehilsdars.“Orders in this regard will be out soon,” he said during a media interaction. Recently, the administration had suspended Jammu Khas tehsildar Ravi Shankar over massive pendency of domicile certificates despite the official issuing around 500 certificates every day and woking till late hours to clear the pendency.Jammu Khas tehsil has the highest population among all tehsils in Jammu. Shankar’s suspension had invited public ire and people had criticised the administration for “suspending an honest and dedicated official”.Sinha solicited suggestions from the fourth estate so as to speed up development and ensure good governance in the UT. Curbing corruption, making the bureaucracy responsive to people, and delivering public services within 15 days were some key suggestions put forth before the L-G.It was Sinha’s first media interaction after taking over the reins from his predecessor GC Murmu on August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/naib-tehsildars-will-also-issue-domicile-certificates-l-g-sinha/story-vgHHzggxp5kLej9hoyS5XJ.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Jal Vayu Vihar firing: HC grants bail to former flight lieutenant||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to Rajesh Malik, 45, a former flight lieutenant with the Indian Air Force who was arrested in June on allegations of firing at a neighbour. The high court bench of justice Raj Mohan Singh acted on the plea of Malik, filed on August 10. Malik had allegedly injured an ex-navy officer, Narinder Verma, 46, his neighbour, at Kharar’s Jal Vayu Vihar on June 27. The firing was the result of an old rivalry between the two. A case was registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act at the Kharar police station.His counsel, senior advocate Bipan Ghai had told the court that the police have not investigated the case properly as incriminating material has been ignored for the reasons best known to the police. It was also told that the accused was waylaid and, in the melee, shots got fired from the revolver. The police did not register FIR on the accused’s complaint. Seven injuries were found on him but only three were declared serious and the police managed X-Ray. When lodged in Ludhiana jail, he fell ill and was examined again and other injuries surfaced, Ghai had told the court.The court found that the police failed to comply with the earlier orders and did not produce a medical record of the accused at the time of the arrest. The court also found that report submitted by the local deputy superintendent of police (DSP) was ‘conspicuously’ silent about the injuries found on the petitioner. “This is the state of affairs even after granting the last opportunity to the respondent state.......State counsel contended that the investigation is still pending,” the court observed on the failure of the state in producing the medical record. The court has now granted bail to Malik while posting the matter for October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jal-vayu-vihar-firing-hc-grants-bail-to-former-flight-lieutenant/story-ZIPpp2d5ZoIiTQx1BvqPTO.html
10-09-2020||Pune||Pune district sees 5,939 fresh positive cases, 68 deaths on Thursday||Pune district reported 5,939 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 50 deaths on Thursday as per the state health department.Thursday’s data takes the progressive positive count in Pune district to 2,18,502. Of these total cases, 1,44,412 have recovered, 4,634 were declared dead and 69,456 are active cases. Thursday’s total positive cases of 5,939 in a day is one of the highest reported so far, as per the state health department. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 2,969 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,22,260 and 25 deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening took the death toll to 2,870. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 1,168 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 58,273 and nine deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening took the death toll to 884. Pune rural reported 1,802 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 37,969 and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening took the death toll to 880.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-sees-5-939-fresh-positive-cases-68-deaths-on-thursday/story-RQzG29XDTf4uJ3iDUxQUFJ.html
10-09-2020||City||20 illegal hoardings pulled down along NH-21||After the Mohali sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) issued notices to private building owners asking them to remove illegal advertisement hoardings at National Highway-21 (from Balongi barrier to VR Punjab mall) within seven days, the district administration on Thursday carried out a drive and pulled down around 20 illegal hoardings along the highway. On September 3, Mohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal issued notices to private building owners. Some of the owners removed the hoardings on their own, but most of them did not pull them down. The drive began at around 11 am and continued till 7 pm on Thursday. The enforcement team of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) carried out the drive in the presence of Naib Tehsildar and the police force. The Punjab and Haryana high court in 1995 had issued directions to all deputy commissioners to remove hoardings on national as well as state highways as these were not just eyesores but a traffic hazard that could divert motorists’ attention. Mohali additional deputy commissioner, Aashika Jain said, “The drive went peacefully and we have followed the directions of Punjab and Haryana High court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-illegal-hoardings-pulled-down-along-nh-21/story-RMTdDqBkZgPdzAsLjVLOIP.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||No machine facilities, long queues: Paying power bills a pain in Mohali||Long queues in the heat and no social distancing. Paying electricity bills in Mohali is no mean feat, local residents complain, especially after machine facilities for payment were discontinued from August 1.Even social distancing is not being followed.Long queues have been reported of late at the main office of the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) in Phase-1 of Industrial Area, Mohali, and at Kharar, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru.Despite four counters in Mohali, many consumers have to wait for long hours and many have to return home disappointed because of the restricted timings from 9 am to 2 pm.Surprisingly, though it began operations since 1976, the PSPCL main office in Industrial Area has not been modernised. Without payment machines, lines extend well outside the small queue shelters in front of the counters.Even the fans there are not very effective.In 2017, PSPCL installed five electricity bill payment machines in various parts of Mohali, including Phase-9, Sector 68, Phase-9 Gurdwara, Sohana Gurdwara and Phase-1 Gurudwara. Two were also installed in Zirakpur, two in Kharar and three in Lalru. The contract with the machine supplier, however, was cancelled from August 1.Raghbir Singh Grewal (75), a Sector 71 resident, complains that no separate queues are allowed for senior citizens and women. “We suggest that the authorities concerned keep drop boxes and make quick payment arrangements for senior citizens and women.”When contacted, superintending engineer, Mohali, Mohit Sood said, “We have done marking to maintain social distancing, but consumers are not following it. As far as payment machines are concerned, the state government has cancelled the contract with the company as there were several issues.”Electricity bills can be paid online too, at the PSPCL website, to help local residents avoid the hassles of visiting a payment centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/long-queues-no-social-distancing-paying-power-bills-a-pain-in-mohali/story-dmZP1IatxENfPECAHzyERN.html
10-09-2020||City||Himachal’s covid tally rises to 8,319||Himachal Pradesh recorded 172 fresh cases of coronavirus on Thursday, taking the state tally to 8,319.Active cases have reached 2,600 and 5,647 people have recovered. And 61 people have succumbed to the infection.Of the new cases, 63 were recorded in Mandi, which was the biggest single-day spike in district. Kangra recorded 37 new cases, Shimla 34, Kinnaur and Sirmaur 12 each, Bilaspur nine, Kullu four and Chamba one Covid-19 case.Among the cases reported in Mandi, 38 were workers of a private company based in Nagwain. Three army jawans were among 37 tested positive in Kangra.With 1,839 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra where 1,264 cases have been reported till date. Sirmaur has 1,122 cases, Hamirpur 708, Una 686, Mandi 621, Chamba 600, Shimla 515, Bilaspur 449, Kullu 375 and 116 cases in Kinnaur district. Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state as it has only reported 19 Covid-19 cases till date.‘EARLY STAGE OF COMMUNITY SPREAD’Meanwhile, state health minister Rajiv Saizal has warned that Himachal is in the early stage of community spread and people need to be more alert and follow Covid-19 norms strictly.Saizal said that Himachal is witnessing steep rise in covid cases. “It’s not wrong to say that we are in the early stage of community transmission,” said Saizal adding that Himachal is still in a better position than other states.He said that people can escape the infection by following social distancing norms strictly and using mask.Saizal said that the day-to-day activities have started in Himachal and people need to follow precautions at public places.Himachal has witnessed a steep spike corona curve in September with more than 2,000 cases being reported in just 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-covid-tally-rises-to-8-319/story-x1tJx2thdeiCnc3oVm221L.html
10-09-2020||City||Man killed by trio in Pune over alleged infidelity: Father-son held||Pune: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Thursday filed a case against a man and his two sons for the murder of a person in Maval area. The deceased was identified as Bhaguji Balu Kedari (28) of Thakar Vasti in Inori village of Maval. Police arrested Dadu Bhiva Kedari (45) and his son Lakshman alias Khanna Dadu Kedari (25), while another son Arun Dadu Kedari (22) is absconding. The trio is residents of Thakar vasti. The arrested were remanded to three-day police custody by a local court. According to the police, the murder was committed on a road that connects Inori village with Jamwade village at 11:30pm on Wednesday. The complaint was lodged by the deceased’s wife Suresh Bhaguji Kedari (25). Police said the deceased was acting as middleman in a heated discussion between the arrested family and his friend Sunil Kevale. The family suspected that Kevale was having an affair with Bhiva’s wife. “The deceased accompanied Kevale as a mediator. After visiting the house of the accused’s family, on the way out, a fight broke out and Bhaguji was attacked by the family causing his death,” said senior inspector Pradeep Londhe of Bhosari MIDC [Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation] police station who is investigating the case. The deceased was found with injuries on his back, head and stomach, according to the police. According to the case registered, he was attacked on the stomach with a sharp weapon, on the head with a wooden rod and on the back with a rock. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at MIDC Bhosari police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-by-trio-in-pune-over-alleged-infidelity-father-son-held/story-Pgwwk0XFJTbUDkdJcKfyRO.html
10-09-2020||City||Vidhan Sabha witnesses heated exchanges over CM’s remarks||Proceedings of the House on the third day of monsoon session of the Himachal Pradesh assembly was delayed by 25 minutes after Congress leaders objected chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s comments against the Opposition party in reply to adjournment motion. As soon as the House assembled, leader of Opposition, Mukesh Agnihotri, stood up and objected to the words used by the CM. He alleged that Thakur said that those who are sitting in the well and clapping will also do so in the next birth. “Terminology like shameless and unscrupulous against the opposition members by the CM should be expunged from the proceedings of the House and Thakur should apologise,” he demanded. The CM said that he was replying to an important issue (Covid-19) and the opposition was raising slogans like chor (thief). The CM said that his remark on clapping was taken out of context. Agnihotri objected and said that the language was unparliamentarily and Thakur should withdraw his words. Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said that if any offensive remark was made he will look into it. However, the Opposition didn’t budge and demanded apology from the CM. This led to a heated exchange between both sides. Congress leaders said that when a bill to cut salaries of MLAs was being tabled, the CM wrongly remarked that the Opposition was demanding their money back. Thakur responded that his intent was not otherwise but the Opposition should also refrain from sloganeering. The proceedings started after parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj intervened and convinced the Opposition members to let them start the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vidhan-sabha-witnesses-heated-exchanges-over-cm-s-remarks/story-Z76JelJIEIaKITgGxijU9M.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Court seeks CBI’s response on suspended SHO’s bail plea||A special CBI court has issued a notice to the investigating agency with regard to a bail application filed by suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, an accused in a Rs 5-lakh graft case.CBI has been asked to respond by September 14, when a decision on the bail plea is expected.In her application, Kaur claimed that she had been falsely implicated in the case, and that as per contents of the FIR, no offence under Section 7/7A (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) of the Prevention of Corruption Act was made out against her.She stated that the case was based on documentary evidence, which was already in the possession of the prosecution and the statements of the material witnesses had also been recorded.The conclusion of the trial was likely to take some time, the application stated, adding that no useful purpose will be served by keeping the petitioner behind the bars. Kaur also stated that amid the Covid-19 pandemic, there was no possibility of starting a trial in this case.Referring to her health, she stated that she was suffering from a heart ailment and hypertension, for which she was on medication, and also mentioned that the other accused, Bhagwan Singh, was already out on bail.On June 29, CBI had booked Kaur, the then SHO of the Manimajra police station, and Bhagwan, on the complaint of a Manimajra resident, Gurdeep Singh, that she had asked him for a bribe in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.Kaur and Bhagwan are facing a case under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/court-seeks-cbi-s-response-on-suspended-sho-s-bail-plea/story-PgnJyQ10z4e6vgVCRtFcQL.html
10-09-2020||City||PM inaugurate projects in Bihar, lauds Nitish||PATNAPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), a flagship scheme for fisheries sector in the country, and other projects worth Rs 294.53 crores related to agriculture and animal husbandry in poll-bound Bihar on Thursday. He also praised chief minister Nitish Kumar for good work to ensure safe drinking water supply in villages.Modi also inaugurated the e-Gopala App, a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for direct use of farmers.Inaugurating the schemes, the PM said, “People engaged in pisciculture will benefit largely from this scheme. It is our aim that in the next 3-4 years, we double our production and give fisheries sector a boost.”“PMMSY will pave the path for a renewed White revolution (dairy sector) and Sweet revolution (apiculture sector),” the PM said, adding that 21 states in India will launch the scheme and boost the fortunes of several milkmen and apiculturists. Modi also said the project will also boost Ganga cleanliness projects and subsequently the aim to provide clean environment to dolphins under Project Dolphin will also receive a boost.With elections nearing in Bihar, Modi stressed on the bonhomie between the centre and the state. Lauding the state government’s flagship programme of Har Ghar Jal Scheme, he said,” Under Nitish Kumar’s leadership, the project to equip every household with piped water is indeed praiseworthy. During this period, around 1.5 crore homes were linked with piped water supply. This is no mean achievement,” he said. Five years ago, safe drinking water had reached only 2 per cent of the households and now this number has crossed 70 per cent, he said. He also lauded the Bihar CM for providing farmers with support during the times of coronavirus pandemic. “The farmers played a pivotal role in providing food to the nation during the lockdown phase and when coronavirus was spreading,” he said and highlighted the success of the PM KISAN scheme in the state. “The government transferred about Rs 6,000 crore to 75 lakh farmers in Bihar so far under PM-KISAN scheme,” he said and the appreciated Bihar government for tackling floods and Covid bravely. “We are aware of the flood situation in Bihar and adjoining areas. The efforts of both Centre and state government are to ensure the completion of relief work in a speedy manner,” Modi said.Aware of the migrants role during the forthcoming assembly polls, he reminded them that the government has extended the scheme of providing free ration till Chhath. Under PMGKAY, five kilograms of food grains per person and one kilogram of dal per household is provided free of cost to ration card holders.“I have come to know that many of you are showing interest in dairy farming. Let me tell you that your future is bright. Government is keen to expand this sector with new innovations, products,” Modi said and pitched for encouragement of local products. “We need to be more vocal for local products like Madhubani art to make Bihar self-reliant,” he said. Nitish Kumar said the project will allow people involved in pisciculture and animal husbandry to help bring variety and new technologies in the sector. “79% people in state live in villages and 76% are dependent on agriculture and related activities,” he said and informed the PM house state was utilizing wetlands for fishing and farming. Bihar’s deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said that these schemes will take the state towards Blue and White Revolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm-inaugurate-projects-in-bihar-lauds-nitish/story-Dze94XWxbctLniFqOwWE1O.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena had nothing to do with demolition of Kangana’s property: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said his party had no connection with the demolition of actor Kangana Ranaut’s property in Mumbai.Raut added that the matter was under the purview of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and he would not comment on it.“The action at Kangana Ranaut’s office is done by BMC. It has no connection with Shiv Sena. You can talk to the Mayor or the BMC Commissioner on it,” the Shiv Sena leader said.The Queen actor had on Wednesday posted a video directing her anger over the demolition towards Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “Your ego will be destroyed just as you destroyed my house,” she said in the video. Mumbai police has registered an FIR against the actor for her remarks on Thackeray.Meanwhile, Bombay high court stopped the demolition of “illegal alterations” at the actor’s Bandra bungalow on Wednesday.Kangana Ranaut returned to Mumbai after having engaged in a war of words with Raut over Mumbai police’s handling of the death case of Sushant Singh Rajput. She compared Mumbai to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir following which the Shiv Sena leader warned her against returning to Maharashtra. The actor was living with her family in Himachal Pradesh ever since Covid-19 lockdown was announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-had-nothing-to-do-with-kangana-property-demolition-sanjay-raut/story-NvLfy8FkMCtz3SyXemvtaO.html
10-09-2020||City||Raghuvansh finally quits RJD, on a bitter note||PATNASenior RJD leader and former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh resigned from the party on a bitter note on Thursday, more than two months after resigning from as the party’s national vice-president.Singh made his announcement in a handwritten letter addressed to jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad from AIIMS, Delhi, where the 74-year-old socialist veteran has been undergoing treatment for his recent ailments. The letter was circulated in the media by his aides. “Yes, Raghuvansh ji has resigned from the RJD. It is confirmed ,” said Ashok Singh, close aide of the former MP.RJD’s state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary refused to comment.In his letter, Singh expressed his pain at leaving the party and underlined his socialist background, loyalty and long association with the RJD chief. “I have stood solidly behind you for 32 years after the death of Jannayak Karpoori Thakur. But not anymore. I have received lots of affection from the party, supporters and people. Forgive me,” said Singh, who has been a five-time Lok Sabha member from Vaishali. RJD had been trying hard to patch up with the Singh, a prominent Rajput face, after he opposed the induction of another former MP and strongman Rama Singh into the party. Rama Singh also is a known Rajput face in Vaishali who Singh sees as a rival. The former union minister, who held the rural development portfolio in the UPA-1 government and steered the ambitious MGREGA programme for rural employment, was also said to be annoyed with RJD’s top leadership for the last few years for other reasons, including the denial of a Rajya Sabha berth by the party after he lost the 2014 and 2019 parliamentary polls. The appointment of another Rajput leader and former MP Jagdanand Singh as RJD’s state president last year had also not gone down well with Raghuvansh Sngh, sources said. He was also reportedly unhappy with RJD’s decision to project leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the party’s chief ministerial face and had said that any decision on the CM face in the grand alliance should be taken after consulting all allies in the opposition coalition. After Singh’s letter became public, speculation was rife in Patna that he may join the JD(U) and could be offered a Rajya Sabha berth or made an MLC from Governor’s quota in coming days. There was also speculation that he could be made chairman of Bihar Legislative Council. At present, Awadhesh Narain Singh is the acting chairman of the Council. On its part, JD(U) welcomed the development. Party MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh said, “RJD could not give respect to one of the prominent socialist leaders of Bihar though the party talks big about protecting dignity of masses. I salute Singh for leaving the RJD which is stuck in the quagmire of arrogance and corruption,” he said. BJP’s state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said Singh was a very respectable leader of the state but he was insulted by the RJD. “Singh commands respect across all parties. But he was insulted by the RJD which used him for long and then dumped him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raghuvansh-finally-quits-rjd-on-a-bitter-note/story-Bk9Shzh1f1OaNg0Qv92C7M.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||BFUHS recruitment test date changed to Oct 11 after clash with UPSC prelims||Faridkot’s Baba Farid University of Heath Sciences (BFUHS) on Thursday changed its recruitment test dates for posts of medical officers (general and dental) to October 11 to avoid a clash with the UPSC preliminary exams being held on October 4.The BFUHS on Wednesday released a tentative recruitment test schedule for various posts, including those of medical officers under the state department of health and family welfare. Candidates will be selected for 500 (general) and 35 (dental) medical officers’ posts.These were earlier scheduled for October 4, when the UPSC preliminary exam are being held.Dr Rajbahadur, vice-chancellor, BFUHS, said that the university had changed the test dates from October 4 to October 11 because of the clash of dates. “While the date of recruitment test for the 482 posts of pharmacists has (also) been changed to October 11 to October 4, the revised schedule has been updated on the university website,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bfuhs-recruitment-test-date-changed-to-oct-11-after-clash-with-upsc-prelims/story-jKEUl2YdGHq3coe9FPGORI.html
10-09-2020||Election:||Ahead of Bihar Assembly Election, Narendra Modi inaugurates schemes, lauds CM Nitish, woos migrants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), a flagship scheme for focused and sustainable development of the fisheries sector in the country, and other projects related to agriculture and animal husbandry worth Rs 294.53 crore in poll-bound Bihar. He also set the tone for campaigning in the forthcoming assembly elections by praising chief minister Nitish Kumar’s work towards ensuring safe drinking water supply in villages. Modi also inaugurated the e-Gopala App, a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for farmers. Also Read: Before big battle for Bihar, a JD-U vs RJD face-off in Delhi next weekInaugurating the schemes, Modi said, “People engaged in pisciculture will benefit largely from this scheme. It is our aim that in the next three or four years, we double our production and give the fisheries sector a boost.” “PMMSY will pave the path for a renewed White Revolution (dairy sector) and Sweet Revolution (apiculture sector),” the PM said. He further added that 21 states in India will launch the scheme which will boost the fortunes of milkmen and apiculturists. Modi also said that PMMSY will also provide the Ganga cleanliness programmes with a boost and subsequently help provide dolphins with a clean environment under Project Dolphin. Lauding the state government’s flagship programme of Har Ghar Jal Scheme, he said, “Under Nitish Kumar’s leadership, the project to equip every household with piped water is indeed praiseworthy. During this period, around 1.5 crore homes were linked with piped water supply. This is no mean achievement.” Five years ago, safe drinking water had reached only 2% of households in the state and now this number has crossed 70%, he said. Also Read: Extending PMGKY is the right step | HT EditorialHe also lauded Bihar’s chief minister for providing farmers with support during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Farmers played a pivotal role in providing food to the nation during the lockdown when coronavirus was spreading,” he said. He also highlighted the success of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Yojana in the state. “The government has transferred about Rs 6,000 crore to 75 lakh farmers in Bihar so far under PM-KISAN scheme,” he said and the appreciated the Bihar government for tackling floods and Covid-19 bravely. “We are aware of the flood situation in Bihar and adjoining areas. The efforts of both Centre and state governments are to ensure the completion of relief work in a speedy manner,” Modi said. Aware of the migrants’ role during the forthcoming assembly polls, he reminded them that the government has extended the scheme of providing them with free ration till Chhath Puja (November). Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), five kilograms of food grains per person and one kilogram of dal per household is provided free of cost to ration card-holders. “I have come to know that many of you are showing interest in dairy farming. Let me tell you that your future is bright. The government is keen to expand this sector with new innovations, products,” he said, adding, “We need to be more vocal for local products like Madhubani art to make Bihar self-reliant,” he said. Chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the project will allow people involved in pisciculture and animal husbandry to help bring variety and new technologies to the sector. “Seventy-nine per cent of people in the state live in villages and 76% are dependent on agriculture and other related activities,” he said, adding that the state was utilising wetlands for fishing and farming. Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said that these schemes will take the state forward in the Blue and White revolutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/ahead-of-bihar-assembly-election-narendra-modi-inaugurates-schemes-lauds-cm-nitish-woos-migrants/story-VmZQkz0npBxcUs7WwK2UVM.html
10-09-2020||City||Goa: Opposition demands withdrawal of circular ‘gagging’ government employees||The Pramod Sawant-led Goa government’s decision to issue a circular warning its employees against signing petitions, representations or taking part in campaigns against the state’s policies have drawn flak from opposition partiesThe opposition dubbed the move as purported bids to gag the state government employees.“[The] right to protest against injustice is [a] democratic right of every citizen. The Goa government must withdraw [the] ‘ban on protest’ order and ensure that hardworking government employees are given full support in these testing times because the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and are not forced to protest,” tweeted Digambar Kamat, the leader of the opposition in the Goa legislative assembly. Also read: Goa’s Sindhu Prabhudesai Nayak among winners of national teachers’ awardsThe Goa Forward Party (GFP), an opposition outfit, has also spoken against the state government’s alleged draconian move. “This is about civil liberties. The way the government is issuing orders to muzzle voices is fascism of the highest order. These are state government employees and not bonded labourers,” alleged Durgadas Kamat, spokesperson, GFP. On Wednesday, the state government had issued a circular directing employees not to involve “in any agitations or campaigns, which would amount to the criticism of the government, or to sign and submit representations without routing it through proper channels”.The government had warned that any violation of the Central Civil Service (CCS) (Conduct) Rules, 1964 “will attract disciplinary action”. “The CCS (Conduct) rules, 1964, have a provision by which a government employee can express h/his opinion for consideration of the government. It is imperative that all government employees adhere to the provisions of the CCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964, scrupulously as its violation will attract disciplinary action,” Sanjeev C Gauns Dessai, director, vigilance, Goa, had stated in his circular that was sent to all heads of departments and government undertakings.The government cited no specific instances but only stated that “a number of government employees are getting involved in agitations, campaigns against its politics and signing petitions to that effect”. While the circular doesn’t give any specific instance or violation of the rules, government employees, especially those at the state secretariat, have recently agitated after they were made to work without any compliance with social distancing norms amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state.Later, the government paid heed to their demands and ordered that not more than 50% of the secretariat staff should come for work on a day and also introduced a rotational presence of workforce until the pandemic-induced healthcare crisis blows over. A delegation of state government employees, through their association, had also called on then Goa governor Satya Pal Malik when the state government had decided to scrap a housing loan scheme as part of an austerity drive because of the viral outbreak.Several employees had also raised their voice against government-run projects, especially within the wildlife sanctuaries, raising concerns about the destruction of the tiny coastal state’s fragile ecosystem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-opposition-demands-withdrawal-of-circular-gagging-government-employees/story-P14rgJxi1z2kKbQKEyWS3K.html
10-09-2020||Pune||FYJC admissions in Pune on hold following SC order on Maratha quota||The second general merit list for Class 11 or first-year junior college (FYJC) in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, which was to be declared on Thursday, September 10, has now been suspended until further notice. An official statement issued by the government of Maharashtra’s school education and sports department on Wednesday read: “Declaration of Allotment list for Round-2 was scheduled to be displayed on September 10, 2020, as a part of Std 11 Centralised Online Admission process 2020-21. However, with reference to the orders of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (regarding SEBC reservations), the rest of the admission process is postponed till further notice. Further time table for 11th online admission process will be declared after government approval.” A total of 30,556 admissions have been taken by students in 304 colleges in both the cities. Wednesday was the last day for students to register grievances and corrections about the admission process. A total of 2,688 grievances were registered by students, of these, 2,688 have been and solved by the education department. For this year’s Class 11 admission, a total of 72,820 students are eligible for the first round of admission in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area. “We have cleared and responded to all grievances raised by students in the first merit list. Now from our side, the process is completed and the students can continue the admission process. This year’s admission process is going very smoothly ,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fyjc-admissions-on-hold-following-sc-order-on-maratha-quota/story-G94ZXuV1c5UKvxqI6Dg7lI.html
10-09-2020||Pune||Pune’s Fergusson College principal says online teaching is the way forward||Fergusson College (FC), run under the Deccan Education Society (DES), is currently ensuring a smooth admission period, with the Class 11 (FYJC), in particular moving through its phases. Apart from that, preparations for final-year exams are also on. Prof Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, tells Dheeraj Bengrut that while the method of teaching is undergoing a drastic change, the college is well prepared to ensure admissions and exams will not be affected in terms of it all being online now. The Fergusson campus is closed, and will remain closed in the interim. Given the restrictions because of the Covid-19 pandemic, is online teaching and e-content generation in place at the college? Our faculty are working on creating the e-content for students. There are many things which we have to adopt very strictly and accordingly, we have started online classes for our students. From that point of view, our faculty are preparing e-content by recording and conducting ‘live’ online lectures. Even for practical classes, we have to make small groups of students and will try to run two-three practicals in one day. The teaching method has completely changed. Online and offline, both need to be blended. It needs to be interactive, so we are using new technology. We have also started the e-library for our students, through which students can directly get access to e-books. For this semester we are fully preparing for online teaching, as there is little chance of starting physical classes as of now. What is the plan for the final-year examinations at Fergusson? As we are autonomous college, we take three internal assessment programmes. We are planning to take it online for this year. If that is not possible, then questions will be given to the students on WhatsApp or other social media platforms. Students will make their notes on it and send back a PDF or MSWord file to the faculty. An open book exam option is also there, may be a time of two hours will be given… so we are exploring several options to conduct exams. As we come under the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), we will get their guidelines too and accordingly, the exams will be conducted. Is the admission process for the various courses and Class 11 progressing smoothly? For the last six years we have been conducting an online admission process. Earlier, there was a lot of movement on the campus, but now, due to Covid-19, it is completely closed. All information related to the admission process for all our graduate and post-graduate courses is given on our website. We are well prepared - filling up the admission form, choosing subjects and payment of fees - everything will be done online. First year and second year admissions are completed and their online classes have also started. For the Class 11 admission, the first merit list is declared and our college cut-off is also out. Accordingly, the admission process is going on smoothly. Student applications are coming in from all over the country and we are carrying out the admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-fergusson-college-principal-says-online-teaching-is-the-way-forward/story-q5PoslxWJw21x4prvIkMfL.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Why should TV news not be regulated by govt, asks HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was surprised to know that the government had no control over the electronic media and asked why television news should not be regulated by the state.The observation was made by a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni while hearing a bunch of petitions that sought various reliefs related to the case of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, including a direction to restrain the press in its coverage of the case.The bench impleaded the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting as a party in the matters.It also directed the ministry to file a reply in court indicating the extent of state control that is exercised in respect of telecasting news, particularly such news that “may have serious ramifications”.The bench also made the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the central agencies that are currently probing issues related to the case, as parties.This, after the one of the petitioners alleged that the agencies were “leaking” probe related information to the press and the public.The bench, however, refused to implead actor Rhea Chakraborty as respondent in the case.“We do not see any reason to implead the proposed respondent number 12 (Chakroborty), an accused who is presently in judicial custody,” it said.The petitions, filed by activists, and eight retired senior police officers, allege, among other things that several TV channels were running a parallel probe into the case,and that they were running a malicious campaign against the Mumbai police through their current reportage in the case.On September 3, another bench had heard the same pleas and had passed an order urging the press to show restraint while covering the developments of Sushant Singh Rajputs death case.On Thursday, senior advocate Milind Sathe, who appeared for the former police officials, told the bench that despite the order, TV channels were continuing with their slander against the Mumbai police.Sathe submitted transcripts from news broadcasts whereby, channels had insinuated that the Mumbai police had been assisting or shielding the accused, and the “drug mafia”.CJ Datta told advocate Sathe that he shouldn’t be bothered by what a news anchor was saying.He, however, added that the court hoped and trusted that “the spirit of the order dated September 3” would be kept in mind by TV news channels.The Union government, meanwhile, pointed out that the petitioners should have approached the Press Council of India, a statutory body which regulates the print media, and the News Broadcasting standards Authority (NBSA) with its grievances against the TV news channels.At this, the bench noted that the NBSA wasn’t a statutory body.“We are surprised that the state has no control over the electronic media. Why should it (TV news) not be regulated in case they may have serious ramifications,” the bench said.It directed all parties to file their replies, rejoinders etc within the next two weeks, adding that while the pleas remained pending, the NBSA was free to act upon any complaints received so far against such news.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-should-tv-news-not-be-regulated-by-govt-asks-hc/story-rkKly8yl1qK0oZ9LcHrOeI.html
10-09-2020||Environment||Uttarakhand forest department to use GIS to check for encroachments||To keep a check on encroachments on forest land, the Uttarakhand forest department has now asked all officials to use the Geographic Information System (GIS) technique to measure encroachments. Jai Raj, the head of forest force (HOFF), Uttarakhand forest department, issued the directions to all divisional forest officials in the state in a letter Wednesday. The letter read, “Encroachment on government land has been increasing continuously in the state, including forest land. It is important to vacate or remove encroachments from forest land with regular checking, but till then, it is important to ensure that more land is not encroached upon. Instead of routine checks, encroachment must be checked effectively, for which Geographic Information System (GIS) technique should compulsorily be used.” The forest department has further asked all divisional forest officers to check satellite imagery of forest areas of the past years to check for changes in encroachment. The divisional forest officers have also been asked to employ stricter measures to check encroachment and not just erect boundary pillars. In the last two surveys conducted by the Forest Survey of India over a period of four years from 2015 to 2019, Uttarakhand has not reported an increase of even 1% forest cover. In the latest report, Uttarakhand has reported its recorded forest area (RFA) as 38,000 sq km, which is 71.05% of its geographical area. The reserved, protected and unclassed forests comprise 69.86%, 26.01% and 4.13% of the recorded forest area in the state, respectively. In June this year, seven forest officials were injured in a clash over alleged forest land encroachment by Van Gujjar families in Rajaji Tiger Reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/uttarakhand-forest-department-to-use-gis-to-check-for-encroachments/story-X1i3Lz4f7tyhKHV19ySdqJ.html
10-09-2020||Pune||Unlock Pune: SPPU syllabus defines a new inter-departmental learning strategy||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has seen the worst of Covid, from employees living on campus being infected to professors and students wrangling through the several diktats emerging on examinations and entrance tests. Though students are not allowed on campus yet, given that lecturers have not yet begun, online lectures, e-content generation and the admission process is on in full swing at SPPU. “Covid has taught us one important lesson that we were totally not prepared for. The kind of knowledge that we provide turned out to be virtually of no use. Knowledge should be of help to the society. All different aspects related to communicable diseases, from the preparedness point of view, shows that our syllabus needs to be revisited,” said SPPU vice-chancellor, Prof Nitin Karmalkar. “That is what we are concentrating on. It is going to be a seamless integration of different departments. So, right from zoology, sociology, health sciences, environment and all the other departments need to be integrated,” Karmalkar added. After the Supreme Court’s decision that final year exams be held, the SPPU management has begun preparations. “We are now preparing to conduct the final year exams. Whether it is online or offline is going to be decided soon. If some students fail to appear for the exam, we will take another exam in December or January. Tentatively the exams will be conducted from the first week of October,” Karmalkar said. “The online admission process is going on smoothly and for our various graduate and post-graduate courses 30,000 students have applied for admission,” he added. Kamlakar Shete, a final year commerce student said, “The situation in Maharashtra is not good and the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing. Most of the students are from the rural parts, so internet connectivity is one of the main issues which we face. Our suggestion is to mark students by giving home assignments for this year.” Reshma Khadilkar, a final year Science student said, “We are already bored sitting at home for the last six months and waiting for the exams to be held. Online exams are a good option, but it should be done fast as we want to take admissions for post-graduation courses.” SPPU’s final year exam preparations Two lakh final year students for 56 courses These students are from 700 affiliated colleges, 234 recognised institutes and 71 research institutes in Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districtsTentative exam dates will be October 1- 22 For both, professional and non-professional courses, each paper will be marked out of 50, to be completed in 1.5 hours||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unlock-pune-sppu-syllabus-defines-a-new-inter-departmental-learning-strategy/story-YM9QgdkB5YieYrWG8hUzKJ.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Session set to start, Kashmiris studying in Pak leave India via Attari||A number of Indians, most of them Kashmiris studying in Pakistan, were allowed to cross over to that country on Thursday from the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday.According to a Pakistan foreign ministry letter, the Indians, most of them Kashmiri students, were allowed to travel on September 10, but with a deadline of 5 pm, said an official posted at the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari. The students are pursuing professional courses, including medical, engineering and computer science in Pakistan, sources say. Many had returned after both countries announced a lockdown and institutions closed down. The academic session for these students is likely to commence from September 15.A border security force (BSF) official said besides the students, around 80 Pakistani nationals stranded in various parts of India were repatriated. On September 7, the Pakistan foreign ministry granted permissions to Indians to travel thorough inland borders.The Kashmiri students had requested the government of India and Pakistan to allow their travel through the border. A senior land port authority of India (LPAI) official posted at the ICP said only asymptomatic passengers would be allowed to cross over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/354-indians-including-kashmiri-students-enter-pak-via-attari-border/story-BxyPgZkISOwuVyenoORosM.html
10-09-2020||Lucknow||Many top Lucknow schools reject option for partial reopening from September 21||A number of schools in Lucknow have turned down the idea of partial reopening from September 21 and to call students on a voluntary basis to seek guidance from teachers.They have no plan to reopen from this month despite the centre’s standard operating procedures provisioning for partial reopening of schools for students of classes 9 to 12.La Martiniere College, La Martiniere Girls’ College, St Agnes/ Loreto Day School, St Teresa’s Day School, Hoerner College and a few others will continue to remain closed and carry on with their online classes. If students have any doubts they may get it cleared from teachers during online interactive classes.La Martiniere College principal Carlyle McFarland said, “We are not opening on September 21 because safety of our students is important.”La Martiniere Girls’ College principal Aashrita Dass said there was no plan for partial reopening this month. “We are happy to continue with online classes, where teachers are available to clear students’ doubts,” she said.St Agnes’ Loreto principal Debra Bunny said, “I don’t think it is required to reopen school partially, as the Covid-19 cases are on the rise. Teachers are taking extra classes online to help students. Practical work is impossible as it requires 25 students to work together in a lab.”Hoerner College principal Mala Mehra said, “Unless the corona cases subside to a considerable number, we are not reopening our school. If the situation eases in October, we may then reopen after Diwali.”St Teresa’s Day School would remain closed in September, said Peter Fanthome Jr, principal of the school. “These are extraordinary times and one has to be cautious. We cannot risk the lives of our students,” he said.But there are schools like Loreto Convent, Study Hall, Christ Church College and St Joseph’s group of institutions which are eager to open their different branches.Also Read: Delhi schools put in place safety measures, say ready for guidance visits by students Loreto Convent principal Anima Kujur said, “Only students of Classes 10 and 12 will be called if they have any doubts. But they will have to bring a written undertaking from their parents.”Study Hall CEO, Urvashi Sahni said, “Our students are eagerly waiting to come back to school. We have informed parents that it is voluntary and if they want to send their wards for practicals they may do so.”“We will follow all SOPs, including written permission from parents. All social distancing protocol will be followed. Students will be called for a limited duration and will be made to sit at a safe distance from each other,” said Anil Agarwal, manager of the school and president of unaided private schools association, UP.Also Read: Armed with gadgets and apps, schools gear up for online term-end exams Christ Church College principal Rakesh Chattree and Pioneer Montessori School principal Sharmila Singh are ready to reopen their schools as per the centre’s guidelines to clear doubts of the students.However, many of the parents are not keen to send their kids to school given the spike in corona cases. Varsha Singh refused to send her son (who is in Class 10) to school even if it reopened. Deepak Agarwal, whose son is in Class 9 in a CBSE school, has no plan to send his son to classes this month.Schools and educational institutions in UP have been closed since mid March when the pandemic started spreading across the country. Since then, online classes are being conducted, and will continue for the time being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/many-top-lucknow-schools-reject-option-for-partial-reopening-from-september-21/story-VDE2MNHqihuoMmz5kbpmQM.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar tests positive for Covid-19||Kishori Pednekar, mayor, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Thursday and quarantined herself at home. Pednekar, who was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, underwent a rapid antigen detection (RAD) test on Thursday. She tweeted, “I am isolating myself at home as adviced by the doctors. My family members have been tested for Covid-19. With your best wishes, I will soon resume work to serve the Mumbaikars.”She also appealed to the public, who had come in contact with her, to undergo Covid-19 test.In April, Pednekar had put on a nurse’s uniform and visited the BMC-run BYL Nair Hospital in a bid to encourage and enthuse the staff who were at the frontline in combating the viral outbreak. Pednekar, who herself is a former nurse, had mingled with the hospital’s nursing staff and had discussed with them about their work and the difficulties they were facing while dealing with the contagion.She had also home quarantined herself in May when she had come in contact with journalists, who had tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-tKNCRuY7lAMlUj3u4ILH7K.html
10-09-2020||Lucknow||Shortage of ICU beds equipped with ventilators in Lucknow||Lucknow, which has so far reported 469 Covid-19-related deaths, is facing a shortage of intensive care unit (ICU) beds equipped with ventilators, experts and officials said. There are just 283 such beds available in the city of close to three million people across 18 hospitals. The ICU beds account for 7.54% of the total available in Covid-19 facilities. Experts say the percentage should ideally be 20. “ICU beds for Covid-19 patients should comprise 20% of the total beds because the number of serious patients is growing,” said former Indian Medical Association (Lucknow) president Dr PK Gupta. “Since level one treatment is now being done under home isolation, an increased number of level three beds/ICU beds should not be a problem.”Officials said there are also 569 high-dependency beds equipped to handle patients in need of care of the level between the general ward and ICU. The demand for oxygen has also gone up. It has increased by at least five times at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS)’s Rajdhani Covid-19 Hospital during the last one month.“Presently, there is a consumption of 400 to 500 jumbo cylinders per day, which was between 80 and 125 jumbo cylinders per day around a month and a half ago,” said Radha Krishna Dhiman, director, SGPGIMS. “There are around 180 patients admitted to the Rajdhani Covid-19 Hospital and about 80 of them are on oxygen support. Some of them are on a life-support system and some of them are on simple medication.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/shortage-of-icu-beds-equipped-with-ventilators-in-lucknow/story-390SFe9Nw3nh82gi2Z8FAJ.html
10-09-2020||Pune||11 booked for cheating investors of ₹75 lakh||The Pune police, on Wednesday, booked 11 persons for allegedly cheating investors of Rs 75 lakh, by offering real estate in exchange of investment, according to the complaint. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 45-year-old businessman, whose wife and a relative also invested in the company, which has its head office in Bengaluru. The Pune-office of the company is located on Paud road in Kothrud. The three of them, invested Rs 75,43,625 in the company in February 2019. The company had promised developed flats. The three invested in flats in selected projects in Tasgaon and Roha areas of Raigad, and Purandar area of Pune. However, in 2020, the company failed to return the money or deliver the flats, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Sections 3 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act has been registered at Kothrud police station. Senior police inspector Pratibha Joshi is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-booked-for-cheating-investors-of-75-lakh/story-yxjVGI6JVEZUDCbPk6Bz8N.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers lathicharged at Pipli near Kurukshetra for defying prohibitory orders, finally given nod to hold rally||Police resorted to mild lathicharge on farmers at Pipli Chowk near Kurukshetra on Thursday for defying prohibitory orders as they were headed to the grain market to take part in a rally against the Centre’s recent agriculture ordinances. Hundreds of activists, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union Haryana president Gurnam Singh Chaduni, blocked the Chandigarh-Delhi national highway (NH-44) in the morning when they were prevented from reaching the grain market, inconveniencing commuters and causing a traffic jam. A few farmers also sustained injuries as police used force to stop them from entering the grain market. After two-and-a-half hours, the Kurukshetra district administration relented and allowed the farmers to head to the grain market much to the relief of the commuters stranded on the highway. Deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Brar said, “The farmers lifted the blockade and the movement of traffic was restored. The farmers have been allowed to hold the rally but they have to maintain (Covid) norms.” “The administration is responsible for this situation. We have a right to protest peacefully but they want to suppress our voice. We will continue our fight and force the Centre to withdraw its anti-farmer and anti-arhtiya (commission agent) ordinances. They are using coronavirus as an excuse to suppress our voice,” Chaduni said. Police also released some farmers who were detained during the protest. While addressing the farmers, Chaduni termed it as their first victory. He said the fight will continue until the Centre withdraws its anti-farmer ordinances and brings in a law to ensure that all farmers get the benefit of Minimum Support Price. Chaduni, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Haryana assembly elections on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket, accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of forcing farmers to hold protests by bringing ordinances in the name of agriculture reforms. In video message, he said the farmers have decided to protest at district headquarters on September 15 and all roads in Haryana will be blocked if the state government fails to withdraw the ordinances.The farmers were protesting the three ordinances passed by the Union cabinet in June: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance; and the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance. While the government says the ordinances will create an environment where farmers and traders have free choice of sale and purchase, farmers claim that with these ordinances, the government is planning to discontinue the minimum support price (MSP) regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-lathicharged-at-pipli-near-kurukshetra-for-defying-prohibitory-orders-finally-given-nod-to-hold-rally/story-zSfXnWG2j6NHPD43IG408I.html
10-09-2020||Pune||Sanjay Kolte takes over from Rubal Agrawal as Pune Smart City CEO||The Maharashtra government has appointed Sanjay Kolte as chief executive officer (CEO) of Smart City, Pune, replacing IAS officer Rubal Agrawal.Kolte on Wednesday took charge as CEO. Along with the Smart City position, Kolte was also take charge as chief executive officer (CEO) of the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) in Pune.Pune Smart city has been in the news, not least because of its loss of ranking in the national smart city audit. Pune dropped to 28th in the smart city ranking.Pune Smart City is also operating as a data centre tracking the Covid situation in the city. Kolte is a 2010 batch IAS officer. Before Pune, he was CEO at the Osmanabad Zilla Parishad. He took charge from Agrawal on Wednesday, immediately after the state government’s instruction. Agrawal held additional charge of Pune Smart City along with her post as additional municipal commissioner at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) where she will continue to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sanjay-kolte-takes-over-from-rubal-agrawal-as-pune-smart-city-ceo/story-qPOq491lxQ75EKU2F843RN.html
10-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Common toilets put Covid-19 patients at risk of secondary infection||A separate room and a washroom are a prerequisite for home isolation of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient in line with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Central government.  But such rules are being flouted with impunity in government-run hospitals in Uttar Pradesh (UP), the country’s most populous state, where common washrooms are being used by both male and female Covid-19 patients, raising concerns about contracting secondary infection. A woman patient, who was admitted to a medical college in UP, tweeted for help in a bid to spare her the ordeal of sharing the common washroom with male patients.Also Read: Covid-19 deaths crossed 75,000 in India; around 1,000 fatalities each day in SeptemberDoctors also admitted that Covid-19 patients are vulnerable to secondary infection owing to poor immunity because of the contagion.Another Covid-19 patient, who was admitted to a private medical college in Hardoi Road, said he had to clean the washroom each time after use in a bid to keep secondary infection at bay.“Though the washroom is used by 22 patients, it is cleaned only twice a day. I clean it myself each time I use it,” he said. Also Read: Covid-19 cases surge: Top 10 cities in India worst hit by the pandemic“Covid-19 patients have weak immunity. As a result, they are vulnerable to bacterial or water-borne infections. It is particularly risky when they share a common washroom,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Lucknow chapter.Doctors said hourly cleaning of a washroom is the only solution to the problem. Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director of Healthcity Hospital, Lucknow, said, “Many Covid-19 patients have comorbidities. A good number of them may be on steroids and immune-suppressants. Poor hygiene and dirty washroom will make them susceptible to bacterial infections.”Dr Gupta added: “Washrooms need to be cleaned at regular intervals, preferably every hour, in a bid to reduce the chance of cross-infection.” Experts said even if a washroom has a soap dispenser, the chances of oral, faecal, bacterial or water-borne infection would still be high.“Chances of acquiring secondary infection from other patients are among those suffering from the viral infection. Infections can be transmitted via door knob, flush, tap or common towel,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. A woman patient, who was admitted to a medical college in UP, tweeted for help in a bid to spare her the ordeal of sharing the common washroom with male patients.Doctors also admitted that patients are vulnerable to secondary infection owing to poor immunity because of the contagion.Another Covid-19 patient, who was admitted to a private medical college in Hardoi Road, UP, said he had to clean the washroom each time after use in a bid to keep secondary infection at bay.“Though the washroom is used by 22 patients, it is cleaned only twice a day. I clean it myself each time I use it,” he said. “Covid-19 patients have weak immunity. As a result, they are vulnerable to bacterial or water-borne infections. It is particularly risky when they share a common washroom,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Lucknow chapter.Doctors said hourly cleaning of a washroom is the only solution to the problem. Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director of Healthcity Hospital, Lucknow, said, “Many Covid-19 patients have comorbidities. A good number of them are likely to be on steroids and immune-suppressants. Poor hygiene and dirty washroom will make them susceptible to bacterial infections.”Dr Gupta added: “Washrooms need to be cleaned at regular intervals, preferably every hour, in a bid to reduce the chance of cross-infection.” Experts said even if a washroom has a soap dispenser, the chances of oral, faecal, bacterial or water-borne infection would still be high.“Chances of acquiring secondary infection from other patients are much higher among those suffering from the viral infection. Secondary infections can be transmitted via door knob, flush, tap or common towel in a washroom,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-common-toilets-put-covid-19-patients-at-risk-of-secondary-infection/story-5e8Ms8dCF5iSALdM16odHP.html
10-09-2020||Lucknow||SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav accuses BJP govt of selling country’s assets||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday accused the BJP government of selling the country’s assets as well “job opportunities for youths” with privatisation.He also hit out at the ruling dispensation over lathicharge on party protesters during ‘9baje9min’ campaign on Wednesday night.“It is not understood whether BJP is running the government or selling the country’s sources and resources. In the country and the state, they have sold toll, mandi (markets), government malls, ITI, polytechnic, airports, railways and insurance companies, and with privatisation, they have also sold job opportunities for youths,” Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi with hashtag #nahi_chahiye_bechu_sarkar.“The days of BJP government which resorted to lathicharge on peaceful Samajwadi ‘sipahi’ are over. This is a cowardice act against those who are raising genuine demands of the unemployed. This violent act shows that a demoralised BJP has failed on all fronts,” he said in another tweet with hashtag #NoMoreBJP.The SP president also tagged pictures showing the police dragging a woman party worker during the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-accuses-bjp-govt-of-selling-country-s-assets/story-J1R2vXK7iUBTQrcoDiHOSI.html
10-09-2020||City||Maharashtra: Three policemen die of Covid-19 in last 24 hours, toll reaches 184||Three policemen, including one from Mumbai police, have died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in the state police force, taking the toll to 184. The contagious disease is spreading rapidly among police personnel in the state police force. This month, cases of Covid infection in the department has seen two sharp spikes of over 500 cases a day.As per the details shared by Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (Law and Order), 244 fresh cases of Covid infection among police personnel were reported in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases has now reached 18,216. Of this, 14,456 policemen have recovered.Besides this, four fatalities were reported to the state police control room on Thursday morning; three from Mumbai, Parbhani and Ahmednagar district police on Wednesday and one from Sangali district.In Mumbai, 53-year-old policeman Vikash Krishna Kamble died of Covid-19. Attached to the Local Arms (LA-3) division Worli, police naik Kamble had comorbidities such as high blood pressure and diabetes. He was allowed to not report to duty as he was vulnerable to the infection due to his age and comorbidities. “On August 24, he tested positive for Covid-19 at the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid Centre and was undergoing treatment there itself. At 2am on Wednesday, he succumbed. He was a good policeman. Unfortunately, his mother had also died of Covid-19 few days ago,” said senior inspector Milind Idekar from LA-3. Kamble’s wife had also tested positive for Covid, but she recovered. Kamble is survived by his wife and brother. In Parbhani district, police naik Ramleen Manmat Swami, 52, died of Covid-19. Attached to the Jintoor police station, Swami was a good policeman, said his colleague. “He would never take offs unnecessarily. He was posted as writer to an inspector who first tested positive. He might have contacted the virus from him. He first underwent treatment at the civil hospital in Parbhani, but as his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to Bajaj hospital in Aurangabad on August 7. During treatment, he succumbed on Wednesday. He is survived by his wife, two sons; one is studying engineering and the other is in class 12,” said a sub-inspector posted at the Jintoor police station. This is the first Covid death of a policeman in the district.In the third fatality, a 54-year-old head constable from the Ahmednagar district died of coronavirus infection. Raheem Shaukat Khan was attached to the Motor Transport Cell and tested positive on August 18. He was being treated at the Maxcare hospital and died on Wednesday.An assistant police sub inspector from Sangali district police also died on Monday. Officials at the Sanjay Nagar police station, where Vilas Genu Kachare was attached, said that he was absent from duty since October last year and was an alcoholic. He slipped and fell in the bathroom and was taken to the hospital and died. His testing revealed him to be Covid positive. He is survived by wife and a son.In Mumbai police, the number of Covid cases has recently crossed the 5,000-mark with 72 fatalities. After Mumbai police, Thane city police has the maximum cases of Covid infection among the rest of the district and city police units across the state, said a senior police officer from state police headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-three-policemen-die-of-covid-19-in-last-24-hours-toll-reaches-184/story-laBnPjp9vGPVDBzcqE0ZdN.html
10-09-2020||Ranchi||Deserted by parents in Ranchi hospital, newborn defeats Covid-19; survives intestine surgery||A 20-day-old baby, who was abandoned by her parents after she tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive, has won the battle against the viral infection and a major intestine surgery at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, doctors said on Thursday.Dr. Abhishek Ranjan, a surgeon at RIMS’ paediatric surgery department, said, “The newborn has defeated SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. Her Covid-19 test report came negative on Wednesday. Her intestine surgery, which was performed on Tuesday, was also successful.”Dr. Ranjan said, “Her intestine, measuring around one-third portion of a large bowl, was removed, as it had started rotting following a rupture. Though the baby is still in the intensive care unit (ICU), she is recovering fast.”The baby was admitted by her parents, who belong to Jharkhand’s Palamu district’s Bishrampur block, to RIMs on August 29. The newborn was admitted to RIMS as she was suffering from necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), which in lay terminology means ruptures in the intestine.RIMS doctors said the newborn needed to undergo a Covid-19 test before she could be operated upon in line with the standard operating protocols (SOPs) regarding the viral infection.The baby tested Covid-19 positive on September 3 evening. The parents went missing shortly after their daughter’s viral infection was communicated to the father.Doctors at the paediatric department said initially for around five days, her parents appeared concerned about her health condition, but later they went missing immediately after they came to know that she had tested Covid-19 positive. They could not be reached on their contact number as well, the doctors added.The hospital staff with the help of local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) took care of the baby in the absence of her parents. However, her parents’ consent was required by RIMS authorities to perform the surgery. Later, they got in touch with police to trace her parents.Dr. Ranjan said the girl’s grandparents came to the hospital after police forced them and gave their consent for the baby’s critical surgical procedure.“The baby is doing fine. She will be released from the hospital after she recovers from the surgery,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/deserted-by-parents-in-ranchi-hospital-newborn-defeats-covid-19-survives-intestine-surgery/story-hA38lx5e3vu934TwljJaTN.html
10-09-2020||City||Woman, son burn to death as miscreants torch abandoned anganwadi in Odisha||An elderly woman and her son staying in an abandoned anganwadi centre were burnt to death by some suspected criminals when they allegedly torched the building after bolting the deceased from outside. The incident occurred in Odisha’s Keonjhar district late at night on Wednesday. Janjali Jena (70), a differently-abled woman, and her son Banamali Jena (45) lived in an abandoned anganwadi centre in Kaligaon village under the jurisdiction of Nandipada police station in Keonjhar district. The deceased mother and the son were purportedly eye-witness to a burglary committed next door by the suspects, said Madan Mohan Naik, a sub-inspector (S-I) of Nandipada police station. Also read: Four Odisha minors burnt to death while playing with haystack“The deceased had gone off to sleep after dinner on Wednesday night. They woke up following some unusual sound at the dead of night. They saw a burglary being committed in a shop next their building. The suspects were apprehensive that the mother and the son could be the eye-witness to their crime and eliminated them for fear of getting caught. They are likely to have bolted the abandoned anganwadi centre from outside and set it on ablaze,” said S-I Naik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-son-burn-to-death-as-miscreants-torch-abandoned-anganwadi-in-odisha/story-piQpviUPIl2t07jIWk59xO.html
10-09-2020||Kolkata||NEET 2020: No lockdown in West Bengal on September 12, announces CM Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced there will be no statewide lockdown on September 12, in view of the NEET 2020 examination, which is scheduled to take place on September 13.“Government of West Bengal had initially announced a statewide lockdown on September 11 and 12. Considering the NEET 2020 examination scheduled on 13th, we have received numerous requests from the student community on lifting lockdown norms on 12th, helping ease their travel to examination centres”, the Chief Minister said in a tweet today.“Keeping their interest in mind, while keeping the statewide lockdown as it is on September 11, it has been decided to cancel the lockdown on September 12, so that the students can attend the examination on 13th, without any apprehensions or concerns. I wish them all the very best”, she posted in a subsequent tweet.Keeping their interest in mind, while keeping the statewide lockdown as it is on Sep 11th, it has been decided to cancel the lockdown on 12th, so that the students can attend the examination on 13th without any apprehensions or concerns. I wish them all the very best. (2/2)For the month of September, the West Bengal government had announced statewide lockdown on 7th, 11th and 12th.West Bengal was one of the six opposition-ruled states which had filed a review petition in the Supreme Court after the apex court had earlier refused to interfere with the conduct of the medical and engineering entrance exams-NEET and JEE respectively-saying that life must go on and students can’t lose a precious year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The top court, however, refused to entertain the review petition.As of September 9, West Bengal had recorded over 1.9 lakh cases of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/neet-2020-no-lockdown-in-west-bengal-on-september-12-announces-cm-mamata/story-V7AuqgiQJlUQioazkD223J.html
10-09-2020||City||MP CM Chouhan asks Uddhav Thackeray to resume oxygen supply to his state||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday urged his Maharashtra counterpart, Uddhav Thackeray, to resume oxygen supply to his state for Covid-19 patients three days after it was stopped.Health department officials said the Maharashtra government issued an order on September 7 directing the oxygen production units to supply 80% of their production for medical treatment in the state. The remaining 20% can be used for industrial purposes in Maharashtra, it added.Also read: SVANidhi Yojna gives new identity, opportunity, says PM Modi to Madhya Pradesh street vendors“We used to get a supply of 20 tonnes of oxygen from a company in Nagpur. I spoke to Uddhav Thackeray and urged him that at such a crisis time, the oxygen supply should not be stopped. He assured that though he himself was facing problems due to the Covid-19 situation, he would do his best in this regard,” Chouhan said.He said the Nagpur company has assured them it would ensure supply of oxygen to Madhya Pradesh from its Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat plants. “A proposal from the company has been approved to set up an oxygen production plant in Madhya Pradesh. It will produce 200 tonnes of oxygen once it is set up within six months.”Chouhan said the oxygen production in Madhya Pradesh has been increased from 50 tonnes to 120 tonnes daily. “By September 30, this will be 150 tonnes per day. I have urged the management of oxygen production units in Madhya Pradesh to run their plants on 100% capacity in place of 50% to 60%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mp-cm-chouhan-asks-uddhav-thackeray-to-resume-oxygen-supply-to-his-state/story-LHIq2JRDb728gFY3Hdcb4K.html
10-09-2020||Jaipur||716 fresh cases push Rajasthan’s Covid-19 tally to over 96,000||Rajasthan recorded seven Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll due to the disease in the state to 1,185, according to a health department bulletin.It also reported 716 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours.The total number of people infected by the virus is 96,452. Of them, 15,807 are under treatment.According to the bulletin, 78,203 people have been discharged after treatment.In Jaipur, the death toll from the virus is 294, followed by 114 in Jodhpur, 87 in Bikaner, 85 in Kota, 81 in Ajmer and 73 in Bharatpur, 47 in Pali, 44 in Nagaur, 32 in Udaipur, 30 in Alwar, 23 in Barmer and 22 in Dholpur. Other districts reported the rest fatalities.Of the fresh cases, Jaipur reported 129, Jodhpur 111, Kota 47, Jhalawar 36, Alwar 34, Nagaur 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/716-fresh-cases-push-rajasthan-s-covid-19-tally-to-over-96-000/story-7scMzfPtsw9L6HMDlAoBiN.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Mosquito terminator train to beat vector-borne diseases in Delhi||The national capital’s civic bodies have launched a mosquito terminator train that will spray anti-larvae chemicals up to 60 metres on both sides of the railway tracks across Delhi to mitigate the threat of vector-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya. The chemical will be sprayed from a power sprayer mounted on a truck placed over the special train. Civic officials said the train would spray insecticides for 10 days until October 2, including 10 round trips.Also read: BJP leaders, mayors hold protest against AAP for not releasing full funds to civic bodiesThe train would spray anti-larvae chemicals in water bodies, pits and jhuggi jhopri (JJ) clusters along railway tracks, where it is risky for personnel of the three civic bodies to manually spray the chemicals, they added. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) authorities had started the drive from early September. Civic officials said that a truck mounted with a power sprayer would be loaded on an open railway wagon, which has a low flat surface to accommodate the vehicle. The terminator train would move at a speed of 20 kilometres (km) per hour and would cover a distance about 150 km in each round, they added.Delhi has recorded 96, 42 and 97 cases of dengue, chikungunya and malaria, respectively, until September 5. No death due to these vector-borne diseases has been reported to date.Anamika Mithilesh, mayor, SDMC, said the special train would run from New Delhi railway station. It would also cover areas under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), she added.“It will cover areas such as Hazrat Nizamuddin, Lajpat Nagar, Sewa Nagar, Lodi Colony, Safdarjang, Patel Nagar, Delhi Kishanganj, Sadar Bazar, Sarai Rohilla, Inderpuri, Mayapuri, Dayabasti, Delhi Cantonment among others following which it will return to New Delhi railway Station. Besides water bodies, the train will spray insecticides over depression created on both sides of railway tracks, where chances of mosquito breeding remain high during monsoon,” she said.In East Delhi, the train will spray larvicides around the tracks of Shahdara railway station, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar and Mandawali.Nirmal Jain, mayor, EDMC, said that during monsoon, mosquito breeding intensifies because of accumulation in water in pits around railway tracks. “It is an effective effort to eliminate the menace of dengue, malaria and chikungunya. Precautionary measures will save thousands of people living near railway tracks from these vector-borne diseases,” Jain said.On August 25, the three civic bodies -- North, South and East -- had launched an awareness campaign about dengue, chikungunya and malaria diseases. Similarly, the Delhi government had on September 6 launched the second edition of its “10 Hafte-10 Baje-10 Minute” campaign to tackle vector-borne diseases. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had urged the public to check their houses every Sunday at 10 am for 10 minutes for the next 10 weeks in a bid to prevent the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes that cause vector-borne diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mosquito-terminator-train-to-beat-vector-borne-diseases-in-delhi/story-Z8JBfHBhbuGJjrvtzHACyJ.html
10-09-2020||City||To mark centenary celebration, AMU to bury time capsule||The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), which is in its centenary year, is on the way to adding another glorious chapter to its illustrious history. However, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak has cast a dark shadow over the centenary celebrations. The authorities will bury a time capsule at a suitable on the university’s sprawling campus. The capsule will contain all the details of the institution’s achievements since its inception in 1920 and also an account of contemporary history and current affairs.A five-member committee has been constituted for the ambitious project. The capsule will have a protective covering filled with inert gases and the text will be written on acid-resistant paper in a bid to ensure its longevity.“Professor MK Pundhir, who teaches archaeology in the history department, has come up with the proposal of the time capsule. The time capsule will be buried at a suitable location on the university campus as part of the centenary celebrations. The achievements of the AMU since 100 years of its existence will be placed in the proposed time capsule,” said Professor Shafey Kidwai, the chairman of mass communication department at AMU and also the spokesperson for the university. ‘The idea of a time capsule struck a chord with AMU’s Vice-Chancellor (V-C) Professor Tariq Mansoor, who constituted a committee, headed by the registrar of the university, Abdul Hamid. Professor Pundhir from the history department; Dr Rahat Abrar, director of the Urdu Academy; Rajeev Sharma, chairman of the Mechanical Department; are some of the other panel members. So far, the committee members have held two meetings,” said Professor Kidwai. “The university authorities may hold consultations with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kanpur, which had undertaken a similar time capsule exercise in the past. On September 9, 1920, the then Viceroy Lord Chelmsford had passed the bill for the upgrade of the existing Muhammadan Anglo Oriental (MAO) College to the status of a university. That heralded the beginning of a glorious era,” Professor Kidwai added. Professor Abrar said that it was in December 1920 that AMU became operational. Now, plans are afoot to celebrate the centenary year in a grand manner, despite the Covid-19 pandemic. President Ram Nath Kovind would grace the occasion as the AMU chancellor. A centenary gate would be put up and the time capsule would be buried to mark the historic occasion, he said. ‘We are doing our best amid the pandemic such as the unique concept of burying the time capsule. Perhaps, this is the best way to preserve the legacy of the AMU for our future generations,” Professor Abrar added. The then Viceroy of India, Lord Edward Robert Lytton, was in Aligarh on January 8, 1877 for the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Muhammadan Anglo Oriental (MAO) College. At that time, a similar exercise of burying a time capsule was undertaken by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, the founder of AMU, although it was not termed as one, said Professor Shafey Kidwai, the chairman of mass communication department at AMU and also the spokesperson for the university. “The district gazette dated January 12, 1877 makes a mention of a similar exercise when a bottle carrying details about Madarastul Uloom (a madarsa upgraded to MAO College) came into being. The gazette mentioned a bottle that carried descriptions along with coins made of copper, gold and silver and was placed in the cavity of the foundation stone,” Professor Kidwai added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-mark-centenary-celebration-amu-to-bury-time-capsule/story-rb8ZLK3VUwYKHJZqfnwO0N.html
10-09-2020||Lucknow||Ram Temple construction trust account defrauded of Rs 6 lakh||A gang of fraudsters used cloned cheques to withdraw Rs 6 lakh from Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s bank account meant for collection of funds for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, a police officer said on Thursday.Ayodhya’s deputy inspector general, Deepak Kumar, said the amount was withdrawn using cloned cheques of Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 3.5 lakh. He said a First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against unknown people on the complaint of the trust’s secretary, Champat Rai.Also Read: Ram temple construction committee chairman Nripendra Mishra’s visit to Ayodhya beginsKumar said the trust authorities have confirmed original cheques of the same serial numbers used to withdraw the money are with them. He said the fraud was discovered when Rai got a verification call from the bank on Wednesday afternoon when the third cloned cheque of Rs 9.86 lakh was placed for clearance. He said the authorities later discovered two cloned cheques had been used to withdraw money earlier on September 1 and 3.He said the FIR has been registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC)’s sections 419 (impersonation) and 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for cheating) and 471 (using forged cheque as original).Also Read: ‘Ram mandir construction to begin after Sept 17’: Temple trust general secyKumar said an initial probe has suggested negligence of bank authorities, as well as the involvement of bank employees, as serial numbers of the cheques were compromised and that allowed fraudsters to prepare the cloned ones. He said the cloned cheques contained forged signatures of Rai and another member of the trust.Kumar said the amount withdrawn has been transferred to a Punjab National Bank account. “A police team is probing the money trail to trace the fraudsters and people involved in compromising the trust bank account details to unearth the racket involved the crime.”Vishva Hindu Parishad’s regional spokesperson, Sharad Sharma, called the forgery a serious issue. “Stern action must be taken against those involved in this cloning of cheques. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has also taken the issue seriously.”The trust was formed to oversee the construction of the temple after the Supreme Court in November last year paved the way for it and ended years of litigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cloned-cheques-used-to-withdraw-rs-600-000-from-shri-ram-janmabhoomi-teerth-kshetra-trust-account/story-rn40FhyucLBF9Z7Xg98NUL.html
10-09-2020||Kolkata||Congress’ Bengal president pick sends clear message to Mamata Banerjee||With the appointment of Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as the president of West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee ahead of the crucial 2021 polls, the Congress high command has signaled an interest in further strengthening of ties with the Left and escalation of offensive against the ruling Trinamool Congress, say experts. Chowdhury’s appointment as the new president was announced by party general secretary KC Venugopal on Wednesday. Somen Mitra, who was the party’s president in West Bengal before this, had died on July 30. “Congress President has appointed Shri Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as the president of West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect,” stated a statement issued by the party. A week ago, Abdul Mannan, a senior Congress leader and leader of the opposition in the West Bengal assembly, had written to Sonia Gandhi with a request to appoint Chowdhury as the state president. “During the 2016 assembly polls in the state, Mannan and Chowdhury had played an important role in forging the electoral understanding with the Left Front. His appointment would help to further strengthen the ties,” said a senior Congress leader. Chowdhury is also known to be one of the staunchest critics of Mamata Banerjee, the Trinamool Congress chief and the chief minister of West Bengal. Even while Congress president Sonia Gandhi was attacking the Narendra Modi-led government in coordination with Banerjee, Chowdhury was busy upping the ante against the TMC supremo at the state-level. Also Read: Congress amps up attack on govt, launches online campaign #SpeakUpForJobs“The message is clear. The Congress would not like to walk with the TMC when it comes to state politics because they know very well that the TMC would not leave an inch for them. They would, however, need the TMC when it comes to opposing the BJP at the centre. Hence, Chowdhury was the best bet as he would not only consolidate the party’s position in Murshidabad, a bastion of the Congress, but would also help to strengthen the party’s ties with the Left and at the same time oppose the TMC tooth and nail,” said psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University. Also Read: In poll-bound Bihar, Congress invites LJP to join grand alliance, draws NDA fire The ruling TMC, which had earlier tagged Chowdhry as an agent of the BJP and RSS, however, said that Chowdhury’s appointment as the Congress president will not affect the TMC in any way as the Cong and the Left are facing an ‘existential crisis’ in the state.“The Congress knows very well that Chowdhury is an agent of BJP and RSS and his main enemy is Mamata Banerjee and not the BJP. So they have appointed him thus revealing a dual character. They don’t want to fight the BJP. They want to oppose the TMC. It won’t affect us anyways, no matter whoever comes. The Congress party first needs to stay afloat in Bengal,” said Kalyan Banerjee, TMC MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/congress-bengal-president-pick-sends-clear-message-to-mamata-banerjee/story-B5aHLDBnRpFhJ89RO4ZgGM.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||On way to Haryana farmers’ protest at Pipli, Meham MLA Balraj Kundu arrested, later released||Balraj Kundu, the Independent MLA from Meham, was arrested for four hours on Thursday for violating prohibitory orders as he and his supporters were headed for Pipli grain market near Kurukshetra to take part in the farmers’ rally against the Centre’s agriculture ordinances. Kundu, who was arrested at the Makrauli Kalan toll plaza only to be released hours later, said: “The police can’t stop farmers from raising their voice against these ordinances. I will stand by my farmer brothers and protest against the government until these ordinances are revoked. These bills are being brought to sell farmers’ rights to big corporates.” Kundu, who left for Pipli with his supporters, condemned the lathicharge. “This government is against the farmers. If political leaders can canvass in the Baroda constituency (for the byelection) by defying the district administration’s orders (on social distancing), why are farmers not being allowed to hold a rally?” he said. Tosham Congress MLA Kiran Choudhry also took on Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state agriculture minister JP Dalal for preventing farmers from crossing toll plazas to reach Pipli. “The implementation of these ordinances will lead to the exploitation of farmers at the hands of corporate houses. On one hand, the BJP-JJP leaders are canvassing in Baroda by defying the administration’s orders and putting people’s lives at risk, while on the other hand the government has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC to bar the entry of farmers at Pipli. This shows this government is afraid of farmers protesting,” she said. Meanwhile, Dalal said that the government does not plan to end the minimum support price (MSP) for crops and urged farmers to follow the administration’s orders on social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meham-mla-balraj-kundu-arrested-on-way-to-haryana-farmers-protest-at-pipli/story-JTm1L0DYoqlUAqMOF92esM.html
10-09-2020||City||Two Odisha policemen killed in encounter with Maoists||Two policemen of the anti-Maoist force Special Operations Group (SOG) have died in an encounter between Maoists and security forces that took place at a village on Kalahandi-Kandhamal border on Wednesday.The police said SOG policemen Sudhir Kumar Tudu (28) of Mayurbhanj district and Debasis Sethy (27) of Angul district succumbed to the injuries they received during the encounter at Sirki village in Belghar area of Kandhamal district. In the encounter, five suspected Maoists, including three women, were killed.This is the first casualty from the SOG in an encounter with Maoists in Odisha this year. In 2019, only one policeman was killed in an encounter with Maoists. Five weapons have been recovered from the spot. Inspector general of police (anti-Maoist ops) Amitabh Thakur said the 30-minute-long encounter was courtesy reliable intelligence inputs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-odisha-policemen-killed-in-encounter-with-maoists/story-p8Z3rGPTBtQUvUgwRFPsVJ.html
10-09-2020||Election:||PM Narendra Modi to inaugurate 30 projects worth Rs 4366 cr in Bihar beginning today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be launching around 30 projects worth Rs 4,366 crore in poll bound Bihar till September 23, including the launch of fisheries and agriculture related schemes worth Rs 294.53 crore today. BJP sources said that these 30 projects would be covering 20 out of 38 districts of Bihar. The PM will also launch e-Gopala app, a comprehensive breed improvement marketplace and information portal for direct use of farmers. Other projects include 12 related to railways, three of petroleum and natural gas, eight related to housing and urban affairs ministry, three of animal husbandry and four of fisheries.The districts of Samastipur, Bhagalpur, Sitamarhi, Katihar, Begusarai, Supaul, Vaishali, Nalanda, Patna, Lakhisarai, Banka, East Champaran, Siwan, Buxar, Saran, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Kishanganj, Madhepura and Purnia will benefit from these projects. Most of these districts saw migrants return in huge numbers during the coronavirus lockdown earlier this year. The projects to be launched on Thursday are part of the Rs 20,050-crore Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), which is aimed at sustainable and responsible development of fisheries. “The PM will inaugurate and lay the foundation of different projects worth Rs 294.53 crore related to animal husbandry, fisheries and agriculture on Thursday,” said BJP’s state unit president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal.Also Read: Beginning today, it’ll be raining projects for Bihar “Most of these projects are coming up at Sitamarhi, Madhepura, Samastipur, Patna, Kishanganj, Purnia, Begusarai, Khagaria, Nalanda and Gaya districts,” he added. The total cost of railway projects, which will benefit at least 10 districts, comes to Rs 2,720 crore. It includes construction of a long-awaited bridge over river Kosi, built at a cost of Rs 516 crore. The foundation stone of this bridge was laid by late PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The railway safety commissioner has recently given its nod to run trains on this bridge. Also Read: Sushant case probe a campaign issue in BiharWith assembly elections round the corner, both the centre and the state are on a project inauguration spree. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has inaugurated or laid foundation of projects worth more than Rs 50,000 crore in August alone. These include rural development, power and water resources schemes, besides the up gradation of 3,304 panchayat schools to class 9 to stop girl students from dropping out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/pm-narendra-modi-to-inaugurate-30-projects-worth-rs-4366-cr-in-bihar-beginning-today/story-NrsdPRUuXsQzFjKViyny2J.html
10-09-2020||Pune||Bombay High Court asks Pune municipal body to disclose number of wall collapses in last 3 years||The Bombay High Court (HC) on Tuesday directed Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) authorities to file an affidavit regarding the cause behind a frequent collapse of retention walls by various property developers that caused several fatalities and injuries to poor construction workers over the past three years.The two-member HC bench, comprising Justices SJ Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla, also directed PMC authorities to explain its reasons behind permitting the developers to proceed with their projects without approving structural stability of such walls.The civic body has also been asked to state in its affidavit whether it had taken adequate steps to ensure that the retention walls constructed by developers for their ongoing projects were in conformity with the accepted safety norms.The court gave its order while hearing three petitions filed by Alcon Group, a property developer, challenging the stop work notices issued by PMC following the Kondhwa wall collapse on June 29, 2019.The tragedy had claimed the lives of 15 construction workers, including two women and four children, after a retention wall collapsed on their makeshift shanties at the project site.Alcon Group prayed before the court that it should be allowed to carry out construction activities at other projects because they were in no way linked to the Kondhwa incident.The bench will hear the petitions next on September 22.Earlier last November, the court had struck down the stop work order issued by PMC in July 2019 for the Aspiree project, which Alcon Group had jointly undertaken with Kunal Housing, and allowed the construction activities to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bombay-high-court-asks-pune-municipal-body-to-disclose-number-of-wall-collapses-in-last-3-years/story-Jyk3VYfJHUEHg5QIRcksJN.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: In Mumbai, Dadar overtakes Dharavi with 2,841 cases||With 35 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, Dadar has overtaken neighbouring Dharavi in Mumbai in the total and active cases.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s figures, India’s largest slum cluster of Dharavi has 2,839 cases of which 99 are active, as of Wednesday. Dadar, on the other hand, has 2,841 cases of which 440 are active, as of Wednesday. The BMC said Dadar’s count surpassed that of Dharavi owing to increased testing and also relaxations in the lockdown.Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Mahim are around 2,543 cases of which 406 are active cases. HT had reported on August 29 that while the Covid-19 curve had started to flatten in Dharavi, the number of cases have doubled in neighbouring Mahim and Dadar in the last 40 to 60 days.Out of the total cases in Dadar and Mahim area, more than 70 per cent of the cases have been reported post relaxations of lockdown starting from June 03, 2020The BMC has maintained that the increase in the number of cases in Dharavi’s neighbouring Dadar and Mahim is only because of increased testing and relaxations of lockdown rules along with the Ganesh festival in the last week of August.Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Municipal Commissioner of G North Ward under which Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi areas fall said, “Our aim is to identify the infection by facilitating maximum amount of testing opportunities. Unlike Dharavi in initial days, 80 % of cases in Dadar are asymptomatic and have been found out due to pro active testing and fever camps.”Dighavkar addded, “Most of the cases are independent cases than from high risk contacts. The reason behind this is that since unlock has happened people might be getting infected from various places. Our only target is to facilitate greater testing opportunities for people.” The number of cases have doubled in case of Dadar in the last around 45 days from 1,444 on July 21 to 2,841 now.Overall, the G North Ward under which areas like Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim falls has 8,223 cases, as of Wednesday of which 6,819 cases have recovered and 945 cases are active cases.The mortality rate for the GN Ward has gone down in the last two months from 10.61 per cent on July 04 GN Ward to 6.23% as on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-mumbai-dadar-overtakes-dharavi-with-2-841-cases/story-9EemzxAeWexwWPPElDd2rO.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Red, Violet and Green lines reopen today: All you need to know||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has resumed services on the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Ballabhgarh), Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal/New Bus Adda), and Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh/Bahadurgarh) from Thursday.“The DMRC is running 35 trains on the Red Line, which will make 413 trips during the morning and evening hours on Thursday. Similarly, 40 trains will make 344 trips on the Violet Line and 20 trains will make 268 trips on the Green Line,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said.Dayal said, “The number of trips will be increased subsequently, as will the operational timings, as and when the other lines are opened in a graded manner.”Also Read: Delhi Metro tokens might return once the pandemic is over, focus on smart cards: DMRC chiefIf you’re planning to commute via the Metro, here’s all you need to know 1) A total of six lines have been made serviceable since Monday—the Yellow Line (Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli), Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21 to Vaishali/Noida Electronic City), Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar), along with the Red, Green and Violet lines. 2) You can only travel using a smart card, as tokens have been discontinued to control the spread of the infection. The smart card can only be recharged using digital payment methods such as debit/credit cards and online payment options. Also Read: Delhi Metro ridership crosses 53,000 as Blue and Pink lines reopen3) Entry and exit from the stations will continue to remain restricted. Passengers can check which gates are open on the Delhi Metro website.4) Passengers will only be allowed to enter the stations after they are screened thermally and their hands and bags sanitised. Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to use the system.5) On Thursday, the Metro timings will be from 7am to 11am and 4pm to 8pm. From Friday, however, the timings will be increased from 7am to 1pm and 4pm to 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-red-violet-and-green-lines-reopen-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-vDVykhTMzMmBWrtjtRr8bJ.html
10-09-2020||Pune||Two prisoners infected with Covid-19 escape Pune’s Yerawada prison||Two undertrial prisoners, who had tested positive for Covid-19, escaped from a temporary jail set up by Yerawada Central Prison in Pune early morning on Saturday, jail officials informed.Both inmates were kept into a quarantine facility of the jail.The incident came to light at around 1 am on Thursday.Jail authorities have converted a hostel building into a temporary prison where new prisoners are kept in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 inside the jail.Search is on by the police to nab the escapists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-prisoners-infected-with-covid-19-escape-pune-s-yerawada-prison/story-ZHd0f8eF0vkpuqsaJfm6zK.html
10-09-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 kills 24 police personnel in Bengal; nearly 8,000 test positive so far||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is taking a toll on West Bengal Police, one of the frontline workers battling the pandemic for over six months. Around 8,000 West Bengal Police personnel has tested Covid-19 positive, including 24 deaths.“Data showed that 7,963 West Bengal Police personnel has tested Covid-19 positive. The corresponding death toll is 24. The state government has provided compensation to the next of kin and a job for a family member of each of the deceased,” said an official of the state home department. The break-up revealed that 5,869 and 2,094 West Bengal and Kolkata Police personnel, respectively, have tested Covid-19 positive until September 8. Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe Covid-19-related toll is 15 and nine for West Bengal and Kolkata Police, respectively, until September 8.At least 16 deceased police personnel’s next of kin have been provided jobs by the Bengal government. A sum of Rs 10 lakh has also been provided to each family of the deceased as compensation. Bengal is fast emerging a hotbed for political gatherings and protests amid the pandemic because the crucial assembly polls are slated be held in May next year.The police are having a harrowing time because of a spurt in political activities, despite the viral outbreak.“We have to tackle these rallies and most of the time the social distancing norms can’t be maintained. Many party supporters don’t wear face masks, which make us more susceptible to contract the contagion. Besides, it is not possible to maintain social distancing norms while apprehending an accused,” said a police officer. Also Read: India inches closer to 100,000 daily Covid-19 case markEarlier, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had urged the opposition not to take out rallies and stage protests as political activities are taking a toll on the state’s police force. “A few thousand frontline workers, including doctors and bureaucrats from both the state government and the private sector, have tested Covid-19 positive. Out of them, 28 have succumbed to the viral infection to date,” said a state government official. Bengal has reported 1,90,063 Covid-19 cases, of which around 1.6 lakh have recovered from their viral infections. While 3,730 Covid-19 patients have died so far. At present, the state has over 23,000 active Covid-19 cases. “Kolkata has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases. While North 24 Parganas – the second-most populous district in the country – is catching up fast. Kolkata has recorded 44,400 Covid-19 cases, followed by North 24 Parganas (39,400),” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-kills-24-police-personnel-in-bengal-nearly-8-000-test-positive-so-far/story-xOOcm8Fpcm1BHaxKjh7zDK.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||BMC to reply to Bombay High Court’s notice in Kangana Ranaut house demolition case||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will file their reply to the stop-work notice issued by the Bombay High Court on Thursday in connection to the demolitions done to the alterations made to actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow in Bandra. BMC on Wednesday demolished parts of Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow on Wednesday following which a war of words ensued between the Shiv Sena and the Bollywood actress who is known for her roles in movies like Fashion and Queen. BMC went ahead with the demolition even though the hearing was going on in the Bombay High Court.A BMC official told PTI that by the time the HC had issued the stay order BMC had demolished the “majority of the unauthorised additions and extensions.”“The BMC demolished the majority of the unauthorised additions and extensions inside Ranaut’s bungalow by the time the HC stayed the process,” the official said to news agency PTI. BMC pointed out that there were 14 violations which included a toilet converted to an office cabin, illegal pantry on the ground floor, wooden partition in the living room and change in the position of the main gate among many others. The Bombay High Court headed by a bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and RI Chagla told BMC that the demolition ‘smacks of malafide’.“The manner in which BMC proceeded to commence demolition work prima facie does not appear to be bonafide (in good faith) and smacks of malafide (dishonest intentions),” the division bench observed. The actor posted a video on Twitter of the building demolition while calling Mumbai Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and said that Bollywood has turned into ‘Bullywood’. She also alleged that the CM and few Bollywood artists are trying to silence her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-reply-to-bombay-high-court-notice-in-kangana-ranaut-house-demolition-case/story-7Z37i1PiVJSmAzDYiayDhJ.html
10-09-2020||City||53-member ITBP team leaves for Gangotri-2 peak in Uttarakhand||A 53-member team of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) was flagged off for a mountaineering expedition to scale 21,620-ft-high Gangotri-2 peak in Uttarkashi district on Wednesday, said ITBP officials. The expedition is the first from ITBP in which female officers and jawans are allowed to join an expedition at the frontier level. The 53-member team comprises 11 female officers and jawans, said officials. Aparna Kumar, deputy inspector general (ITBP), Dehradun, who flagged off the team said, “The team which includes both officers and jawans is the first expedition in the pandemic so far. It will scale the Gangotri-2 peak for which they will start their scaling from Friday.” Kumar said, “The team was flagged off from ITBP’s base of 35th battalion based in Mahidanda area of Uttarkashi. This is the first time that female members are also included in any expedition till frontier level.” The DIG also informed that before leaving for the expedition, the team “was given training of 10 days in Uttarkashi based Nehru Institute of Mountaineering.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/53-member-itbp-team-leaves-for-gangotri-2-peak-in-uttarakhand/story-VUos6O0RyCACc7rb27GL7K.html
10-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh youth thrashed to death by girlfriend’s kin in Azamgarh||A 22-year old Uttar Pradesh youth from Azamgarh was tied to a post and beaten up before hot water was poured on him, allegedly by kin of his girlfriend in Chewata village under Kaptanganj police station area of the district early Wednesday morning. He succumbed to the injuries on the way to a hospital after being rescued, said police.The incident took place when the youth went to the girl’s house during wee hours on Wednesday to see her.Five persons, including the girl, her two brothers and two others have been arrested in the case.Manish Ram was in love with the 19 year old girl, who lives in his neighborhood, for the last one year. Both their families were against the relationship which led to Manish being sent away to Ghaziabad by his family around a year ago, according to a police officer.The officer said that Manish had returned to the village around a month ago and on Wednesday, slipped into his girlfriend’s house in the wee hours to meet her.Also Read: ‘Couple in love’ garlanded with shoes, paraded in UP village: CopsThe family members of the girl woke up after hearing him chat with the girl and caught Manish. Later, they tied him to a peg and thrashed him. They also poured hot water on him. Once his condition deteriorated, they called up police claiming they had caught a thief who had slipped into their house, said police.Also Read: Urdu poet Munawwar Rana’s daughter placed under house arrest in LucknowPolice team freed the youth after reaching the spot and rushed him to the district hospital where doctors declared him dead. His body has been sent for post- mortem.Kaptanganj police station officer inspector Anand Kumar Singh said that five persons have been arrested after a case was registered under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) following a complaint by the deceased’s brother, Anil Kumar. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-youth-thrashed-to-death-by-girlfriend-s-kin-in-azamgarh/story-ln8P8oR2MndcFST3QjkHDN.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi to see a hot and humid day||Delhi is likely to have another hot and humid day on Thursday with clear skies, bright sun and high moisture levels. This kind of dry weather is expected to last over the next few days. No rainfall activity is expected this week, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials. The IMD has forecast a partly cloudy sky and strong surface winds up to a speed of 30 kilometres per hour (kmph) to blow across the national capital on Thursday. Also Read: Extended monsoon likely this year: IMD“The day and night temperatures are likely to remain on the higher side because of the bright sun and high humidity levels,” said an IMD official. On Wednesday, the day temperature was 35.6 degrees Celsius (C), which was two notches above normal. The minimum temperature at night settled at 26.1 degrees C, a notch above normal. After a spell of light rains over the past week, Delhi is likely to experience dry weather over the next four-five days.“Delhi’s neighbouring regions are reporting rainfall because of which there is high moisture content in the atmosphere leading to humidity in the national capital. Clear skies and bright sun also contributed to the heat,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-a-hot-and-humid-day/story-NoePvByVjAunR7MCb0NElO.html
10-09-2020||City||NHRC notice to UP govt, DGP over lynching of murder accused in Kushinagar||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday issued notices to the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh (UP) government and the state’s police chief over reports of the killing of a murder accused by a mob in a village in Kushinagar district, officials said.An NHRC spokesperson stated that the commission had taken suo motu (on its own motion) cognisance of the matter and issued notice to the director-general of police (DGP), UP, seeking a detailed report in the matter within four weeks.Also read: ‘My son had left home to find a job with his brother,’ says father of man lynched in NarainaThe panel has sought the status of the investigation of the cases registered in connection with both the murders.The commission has issued a separate notice to the UP chief secretary (CS), seeking a report whether any relief has been granted to the family of the deceased because the state government has failed to secure the victim’s right to fair trial. The CS has been asked to inform the status of any disciplinary action initiated against the delinquent police officers.The deceased had killed Sudhir Kumar Singh, a local teacher, and was later killed by the mob, police said.The commission has taken note of “cruel high-handedness” of the villagers, who took law into their own hands and in the presence of a police team. “A well-equipped police team was present on the spot when the victim was brutally attacked with sticks and stones,” said the spokesperson.“The police personnel present at the time of the incident and their in-charge failed to do their duty. A human life was lost due to apparent negligence of the public authority. This is a serious violation of human rights,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhrc-notice-to-up-govt-dgp-over-lynching-of-murder-accused-in-kushinagar/story-LhXvqMOiAMPvPXF7etcrWP.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla, shut for three days after staffer tests positive for Covid-19||The Indian Institute of Advanced Study (IIAS) in Shimla has been shut for three days for sanitisation after a member of the administrative staff tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. “The institute has been closed for three days as a precautionary measure to protect the staff from Covid-19. It will open on Monday,” an IIAS official said. According to health department sources, the administrative staff member of the research institute had travelled to Shimla from Delhi a few days ago and come in contact with other staff members on his return. At present, there are 45 scholars in the institute of whom 25 stay at Viceregal Lodge. The institute has a total strength of 170 employees, including 70 regular staffers. Viceregal Lodge, which is now known as Rashtrapati Niwas, is a 132-year-old British era building located on the Observatory Hills of Shimla. It was the summer residence of the British Viceroy of India between 1886 and 1946.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indian-institute-of-advanced-study-shimla-shut-for-three-days-after-staffer-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-T2tTi5fJ8aSUeO8xAgef9M.html
10-09-2020||Lucknow||Nripendra Misra discusses Ayodhya dev projects||Chairman of Ram temple construction committee Nripendra Misra on Wednesday discussed development projects of the temple town with Ayodhya administration officials. In the meeting, district magistrate of Ayodhya Anuj Jha, vice chairman of Ayodhya Development Authority Vishal Singh and other officials were present. Misra is on a two-day visit to Ayodhya to review preparations for laying foundation of Ram temple and development projects of the temple town. The Yogi Adityanath government and the Centre have approved a large number of projects to ensure overall development of Ayodhya. Along with construction of Ram temple, the Uttar Pradesh government will also roll out these projects to propel Ayodhya towards the list of international religious tourism destinations. Among the proposed projects is a new township that the Yogi Adityanath government has approved to decongest Ayodhya. This township will come up on 600 acres of land at Shahnawazpur on the Lucknow -Gorakhpur highway. Uttar Pradesh Awas Vikas Parishad (UP Housing Board), a state government body, will implement the project. Misra enquired about this project and progress made in acquiring land for the new township. The Ayodhya divisional commissioner has been made nodal officer of development projects in Ayodhya. Misra had convened a meeting with members of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust on Tuesday to review the plan for laying temple foundation. He is expected to leave for New Delhi on Thursday. Box ====== Int’l airport An international airport will also come up in Ayodhya by upgrading the existing airport. It will be named after Lord Ram. The project is expected to be completed by December 2021. ===================== PROPOSED PROJECTS FOR AYODHYA Tapping of 15 drains falling into Saryu river, sewer line and 32 mld pumping station: Rs 363.95 crore 165 km sewer line in old Faizabad: Project cost to be estimated Lighting of Hanuman Garhi, Dashrath Mahal, Kanak Bhawan, Janki Mandir, Digambar Akhara and Rajdwar Mandir: Rs 4.30 crore Elevated road of 1.90 km from NH 27 bypass (Ayodhya) till Ram Janmabhoomi: Rs 275.25 crore Widening of 13.3 km Sahadatganj- Nayaghat road: Rs 210 .62 crore Widening of two kilometre road from NH 27 to Ram Ghat (Digambar Akhara) to Faizabad: Rs 8.60 crore Around 400 shops will be relocated for widening of road from Naya Ghat to Ayodhya gate. 302 shops near Tedi Bazar: Rs 21.41 crore Commercial complex: Rs 9.71 crore Widening of all roads near Ram Janmabhoomi campus: Rs 4.26 crore Widening of Panchkoshi Parikrama Marg: Rs 25.35 crore Widening of road from Saryu Ghat up to Ram Janmabhoomi: Rs 6.45 crore Widening of roads from bus stand, railway station and airport till Ram Janmabhoomi: Rs 23.21 crore Other projects near Ram Janmabhoomi: Rs 22.68 crore Embankment at Guptar Ghat: Rs 39.63 crore PROJECTS UNDERWAY IN AYODHYA Bhajan Sandhya Sthal Satsang Bhawan, Yatri Bhawan Queen Ho Memorial Park Ram Katha Park Development work proposed under Ramayan circuit Renovation of Lakshman Quila Ghat Renovation of Guptar Ghat Re-modelling of Ram Ki Paidi on lines of Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar Press Club International Ram Leela Centre Theme Park Auditorium Renovation of historic ponds Extension of existing airport Rs 80 crore for makeover of Ayodhya railway station (project already underway).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nripendra-misra-discusses-ayodhya-dev-projects/story-kkmv8ip4GqnDarDCF9kX2H.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rohtak’s PGIMS begins second phase of clinical trials for indigenous Covid vaccine, Covaxin||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, has begun Phase 2 of the human clinical trials of Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. The trial will be conducted on 380 volunteers across the nation of which 50 volunteers are undergoing the test at PGIMS, Rohtak. Twelve of the volunteers, aged between 12 years and 65 years, were administered the first dose of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV). Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigator of the trials at PGIMS, said the volunteers were administered the first dose of 3 microgram, while young males were given 6 microgram of the vaccine. “We kept them under observation for two hours and they showed positive results. This time, all volunteers are not healthy as was the case in Phase 1. We will administer the second dose to these volunteers after 28 days. This time, they will be given two doses,” Dr Verma said. “We are conducting a full body test of the volunteers to exclude those suffering from major ailments. Phase 2 was started on Tuesday after the successful trial of 375 volunteers across the country. Eighty-one of them underwent the trial at PGIMS. The ICMR did not share data of how many antibodies were developed in the bodies of volunteers of the first phase,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-s-pgims-begins-second-phase-of-clinical-trials-for-indigenous-covid-vaccine-covaxin/story-a1fAfz1No3jkGextcafKFK.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Delay in assent to Bills: Haryana Guv unsure about validation Bill to legitimise de-licensing||Two weeks after the Haryana assembly passed 12 Bills, including the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (second amendment and validation) Bill, 2020, the governor is yet to accord his assent to the Bills. A Bill passed by the state legislature becomes a law only after getting the assent of the governor; or President in case it has been reserved by the governor for the consideration of the President. While bureaucratic reasons, including indisposition of assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta (he has to lend his signatures to the Bills passed) has been attributed to the delay in the process of communicating the Bills by the law department to Raj Bhavan, sources said the governor is unsure about assenting to Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (second amendment and validation) Bill. Bill aimed at giving relief to Ambience Mall developer The validation Bill, if assented by the governor, would come as a major relief to the developers of the Gurgaon-based Ambience Mall and several similar cases involving de-licensing of land. The Punjab and Haryana high court had on July 10 quashed the town and country planning department’s October 18, 2001 and September 1, 2010 orders to de-license two chunks of land (8 acres and 3.9 acres) out of 18.98 acres approved for constructing Ambience Lagoon Island residential complex. The de-licensed land was then permitted by the department for raising a commercial complex, the Ambience Mall. The CBI, on high court (HC) orders, had also registered a criminal case in the matter. Officials said that over 54 similar cases of de-licensing were discovered by the department after the HC ruling which needed to be validated. The HC had termed the term de-licensing a misnomer in the context of the Act and the case at hand. The bench said that the state counsel had admitted that there was no such provision in the Act. The court said the argument that Clause 21 of the General Clauses Act which gives power to grant a licence also contains implied power to de-license was bereft of any merit or logic. Guv may send the Bill to President As per Article 200 of the Constitution, the governor can declare either that he assents to the Bill or that he withholds assent therefrom or that he reserves the Bill for the consideration of the President. Legal experts say there were two issues involved in the Validation Bill which warrant Presidential assent. The assembly has approved insertion of a new clause section 3 (a) in the Act which would give the power to add to, amend, vary, suspend, withdraw or rescind, licence or notification, order, rule or direction or to de-licence. The second is an all encompassing validation clause which said that notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court or tribunal or any authority, any action taken or orders issued, things done or purporting to have been taken or done by the director, before the commencement of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (amendment and validation) Act, 2020, shall be deemed to be as valid and effective as if such action, approval, orders were issued or action taken in accordance with its provisions. Explaining the legal position, former advocate general, Ashok Aggarwal said while the legislature does not have the power to overrule or tinker with the judgment of the high court or Supreme court, it certainly has the powers to bring in a retrospective amendment to remove the basis of a judgment. When asked whether the validation Bill would need President’s assent, the former advocate general said that Governor in his wisdom can always reserve the Bill for the consideration of the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delay-in-assent-to-bills-haryana-guv-unsure-about-validation-bill-to-legitimise-de-licensing/story-NOGVX0UWbhx0jB0Gs4Ol1O.html
10-09-2020||City||Two friends ‘consume poison’, one dies in Rohtak||A 20-year-old man died, while his friend is battling for life, after they consumed some poisonous substance on Wednesday. Police said the duo allegedly consumed poison at a government school in their village. “Their parents brought them to PGIMS, where one of them died and the other is critical. The reason behind this extreme step is not known,” he added. Rohtak Sadar police have started inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-friends-consume-poison-one-dies-in-rohtak/story-JU8elZXS3YnfT3bdUZiP2K.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 2K+ plus cases again, 28 succumb to the virus||Haryana recorded 2,294 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, which also claimed 28 lives on Wednesday, taking the toll to 882 (621 men, 261 women), according to the health bulletin. At least 38% (868) of the total fresh cases were recorded in the five districts of Panchkula (143), Ambala (180), Yamunanagar (150), Karnal (160) and Kurukshetra (235), where a total of 15 people succumbed to the infection. It may be recalled that 25 people had died of the virus while 2,286 new cases were detected in the state on Tuesday. The number of active cases has also been continuously rising. For example, there were 17,328 active cases in the state until Wednesday evening, up from 16,890 on Tuesday. On September 1, the tally of the active patients stood at 11,885 and it rose to 14,911 on September 5. Among the 28 fatalities on Wednesday, four patients each died in Karnal and Hisar, three patients lost their battle to the virus in Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar, two in Faridabad and Panchkula, one each in Rohtak, Panipat, Mahendergarh, Jhajjar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kaithal. As many as 1,828 patients were discharged, raising the tally of recovered patients to 65,143. The cumulative number of people found Covid-19 positive so far has risen to 83,353. As per the bulletin, Faridabad recorded 287 new case, the highest in the state, followed by Gurugram 260, Sonepat 141, Panipat 127, Rohtak 24, Rewari 86, Hisar 108, Palwal 70, Mahendergarh 38, Jhajjar 62, Bhiwani 46, Nuh 23, Sirsa 56, Fatehabad 31, Kaithal 28, Jind 30, and Charkhi Dadri 9. There were 284 critical patients, of which 48 were on ventilator support. Haryana education minister tests positive for virus Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal has become the latest addition to the list of politicians testing positive for Covid-19. As per a PTI report, the minister announced this on Twitter and said, “After some symptoms, I got my Covid test done and it returned positive. I request all those who might have come in my contact to isolate themselves and get their tests done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-records-2k-plus-cases-again-28-succumb-to-the-virus/story-7vxEfzkUSJkWqWj6oOdmEL.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: On the death of a door||It’s gone. Until last week, the beautiful door was there. But not any more. Nor the old house behind it. A black plastic sheet stands in place of it. A new building is coming up, here in Old Delhi’s Galli Chooriwallan street. Like in any other city locality, long-existing buildings of the Mughal-era Walled City are being replaced by new ones, even if the pace might be slower. To this day, a casual walk through the historic quarter’s by-lanes reveals a series of stately doorways which, when juxtaposed against contemporary doors as it often is the case, speak persuasively for the architectural aesthetics of an earlier era. Permeated with a rich sense of the past, some of these doorways are overwhelmingly grand, despite languishing in a state of utmost neglect. You can stand for hours in front of them, wondering about the kinds of people who went through over the course of decades, and centuries.This wooden door in Galli Chooriwallan was the entrance of a well-maintained private house, tucked at one end of a narrow alley. On any day you would find a few scooters parked outside. Painted green, the door gently tapered into a pointed arch built into the yellow house walls. Fans of the cult movie Garam Hawa will notice that this door greatly resembled the one that led to the house of Salim Mirza, the character played by actor Balraj Sahani (the movie was set in Agra though). But you might as well have thought of the classic Twilight in Delhi—in this novel the characters actually live just a few streets away, in Mohalla Niyariyan.And now the door is history.This morning a team of sweaty dust-covered labourers are placing stacks of bricks onto their bent back and carrying it to the construction site—where the door and the house used to stand just a week ago. A nearby baker talks of a multi-storey flat coming up. “The house belonged to a shopkeeper,” he says.Preservationists of the past might regret the passing away of the lovely doorway, but the truth is that it remained anonymous throughout its long life. Here is a piece of beauty that, ironically, got better publicity while passing away. Rest in peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-on-the-death-of-a-door/story-AGeq2EtqlgXgmGA7RyqLEP.html
10-09-2020||City||Politicos flout ban on gatherings with impunity ahead of Baroda bypoll||Despite the Sonepat district administration’s ban on political gatherings in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, politicians continue to defy the orders and campaign in villages ahead of the Baroda constituency bypolls. Indian National Lok Dal general secretary and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala seems to be on the forefront in violating the administration orders as he had held meetings in nearly 10 villages of the constituency from Monday evening to Tuesday. Images and videos that have emerged from the spot show blatant violation of social distancing and other safety norms. Wrestler-turned Bharatiya Janata Party leader Yogeshwar Dutt too has been violating the Sonepat administration’s orders by conducting village-level meetings. Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia had announced the ban on political gatherings on Monday, a day after Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Deepinder Hooda was found infected after addressing poll rallies in various parts of the constituency. Apart from Deepender, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, agricultural minister JP Dalal, power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala, Gohana MLA Jagbir Malik and a few others politicians had also addressed village-level gatherings before testing positive for the virus. Locals fear infection Anil Kumar, a resident of Kathura village in Baroda, said the administration has failed to take any action against the politicians who are putting people’s lives at risk by holding gatherings amid the pandemic outbreak. “So far, six leaders, who had addressed gatherings in this constituency, have tested positive. The Covid-19 is in community spread in our constituency and the leaders have turned infection spreaders. Moreover, the health department has also not increased testing here. These politicians are posing a great risk to our lives,” he added. Joginder Moor, an independent aspirant for Baroda bypoll, said the election commission is yet to announce the poll date but politicians are going ahead with the canvassing. “I am surprised why the district administration has not initiated any action against these leaders though they are issuing challans to commoners for going out in public without masks,” he added. Gohana sub-divisional magistrate Ashish Kumar, who was appointed the nodal officer to implement a ban, said he is in home quarantine after his driver tested positive for the virus. “I will check where the political gatherings were being organised,” he added. INLD leader Abhay Chautala could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/politicos-flout-ban-on-gatherings-with-impunity-ahead-of-baroda-bypoll/story-rnzN9EoRfAX4LfmRZiDU6H.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid death rate highest in country||Struggling hard to keep the virus spread under control, Punjab on Wednesday hit another grim milestone as it became the state with the highest death rate in the country. Punjab’s case fatality rate (2.95%) has surpassed that of Gujarat (2.93%) and Maharashtra (2.90%) --- the two worst-affected states ---- reveals the latest data. Concerned over the high CFR, the Centre recently rushed a team of experts to Punjab. The team comprising PGIMER community medicine expert JS Thakur, and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) deputy director Akshay Kumar is currently touring the worst-affected districts of Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar and SAS Nagar (Mohali) to assess the ground situation. These five districts account for nearly 63% of the total deaths in in the state, with Ludhiana recording the highest number of fatalities. The state has so far recorded 67, 547 total positive cases and 1,990 deaths. The Union government has already directed the worst-hit states to bring down their fatality rate to 1% by improving testing rate, contact-tracing and surveillance. Punjab witnessed 1,067 deaths (around 263% jump) in August alone, and by the start of September, it had surpassed the CFR of the national capital. As per a Punjab government’s status report dated August 16, state’s CFR was 2.6% as compared to Maharashtra’s 3.4%, Gujarat’s 3.5% and Delhi’s 2.8%. But while other states have managed to control the spike in deaths, Punjab is finding itself helpless. State Covid nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar attributes the surge to co-morbidities and late-reporting of the cases. “These two are the biggest challenges. If people don’t come forward for testing at the onset of symptoms, CFR will continue to go up. We need involvement of general public and community leaders to exhort people to go for testing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-covid-death-rate-highest-in-country/story-3tfFURDttuhBA3QqrbQ3mL.html
10-09-2020||City||Cities rapidly becoming concrete jungles: Bombay HC||MumbaiA Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court, on Tuesday expressed concern about rapidly disappearing green cover and open spaces from urban India and the fact that cities were speedily becoming concrete jungles.A two-member bench comprising justice Sunil Square and justice Anil Kilor said that with every passing year and every new census, data evidence showed more and more population living in urban areas as cities were becoming economic engines of the future.“Population is so congested in the lanes and streets of colonies in cities that people hardly find a place to relax,” said the bench, perturbed by sharp decrease in green cover in cities.The bench observed that cities were fast becoming a concrete jungle as green areas have started disappearing with astonishing rapidity and children hardly get opportunities to play out of their houses and experience the natural environment.The bench expressed serious need for protecting parks and gardens as they were the lungs of the localities while deciding a public interest litigation filed by Civic Action Guild Foundation, Nagpur.In the PIL, the non-profit organisation questioned legality of the tender issued by Nagpur municipal corporation in July this year for appointing a contractor to maintain a children’s park. It was particularly aggrieved by the clauses in the tender that allowed the contractor to commercialise the open space by setting up his own sports complex, swimming pool, restaurant, etc.The HC accepted the arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioner body that the development already carried out at the park was unauthorised and the civic body could not be allowed to further proceed with the tender. It also accepted that allowing commercialisation of the park, which is reserved in the sanctioned development plan as a garden, would amount to change in use.“There is no doubt that if the park is used for commercial purposes, it may frustrate the purpose for which the said open space has been reserved in the final development plan,” said the bench and struck down the tender. It has also directed Nagpur municipal corporation to examine if the construction work done so far was in conformity with the development control regulations and the broader requirement of protecting open and green spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cities-rapidly-becoming-concrete-jungles-bombay-hc/story-idZ8ntJAtFXw8Fli9qSmsI.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Working to save trees near Sevagram Ashram in Maharashtra: Aaditya Thackeray||State departments are now working together to come up with a solution to save 98 trees for a road-widening project from Wardha to Mahatma Gandhi’s Sevagram Ashram, the Maharashtra government said on Wednesday.Following a meeting with state public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan on Wednesday, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said multiple options were being looked at, to ensure affected trees were saved. The minister took to social media stating that several representations on the issue were received locally and internationally by the state.To allow ease of traffic and to facilitate the movement of tourists to Bapu’s ashram ahead of his 151st birth anniversary (October 2), the public works department (PWD) had proposed road widening (during the last week of July) from existing 10m to 14m along a 9-km stretch from Wardha to Sevagram, that would lead to the felling of 168 trees. While 70 of the 168 trees were felled, the local and ashram residents and three generations of Mahatma Gandhi’s descendants wrote a detailed letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, last Wednesday, requesting the project to be called off to protect the remaining green cover.“The issue lies across a 2-km stretch leading up to the ashram,” Thackeray said. “A team from the state PWD will visit the site to study alternatives in terms of diversion, transplantation or keeping the width as it (two-lane) along a 2-km stretch. They will submit the feasibility of each option to both the PWD minister and myself. The best option will be implemented to save the trees and ensure the road is safe for travel.”A senior PWD official said the assessment team would be headed by the additional chief secretary (PWD).The environment minister said he was thankful to Ashok Chavan for immediately asking PWD to coordinate with the environment dept and find a solution to save the remaining trees. “We are committed to sustainable development,” said Thackeray.Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar said he will be joining the site visit along with PWD and a Wardha forest range officer. “Since the existing road is narrow, our only concern was that it should not create a bottleneck when large traffic volume passes, and become an accident spot. Nonetheless, now everybody is on board to ensure maximum trees should be saved and all options will be explored by us before submitting our report,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/working-to-save-trees-near-sevagram-ashram-in-maharashtra-aaditya-thackeray/story-cGdbp2FB9mobsr6BAEsvYO.html
10-09-2020||City||Fresh tremor rocks Dahanu in Palghar, again||A mild tremor of 3.2 magnitude on Richter Scale was recorded on Wednesday at 4.17am in Dahanu, Paghar, confirmed Vivekanand Kadam, Palghar disaster management department. Earlier on Tuesday, two tremors of 3.8 and 2.5 magnitude on Richter Scale were recorded in Dahanu around 9.50am and 10.15am respectively, while the region saw a mild tremor of 3.5 magnitude on Monday.On September 5, four tremors of 2.8, 4.0, 3.6 and 2.7 magnitudes were recorded in some Dahanu villages. While there was no casualty, but a few houses developed cracks.Newly appointed Palghar collector Dr Manik Gulsale along with senior officials visited the areas where cracks were developed in some houses. He also visited the Covid hospital at Vikramgad to take stock of the arrangements.Since November 2018, villages around Dhundalwadi in Dahanu have been experiencing mild tremors at regular intervals, leading to fear in the minds of locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-tremor-rocks-dahanu-in-palghar-again/story-qVB9GM2QZGyHKdVFzxGCBM.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department forms panels to prepare report on NEP||In order to implement the National Education Policy, 2020 in the state, the Maharashtra education department has now formed several committees to give their suggestions and recommendations to the government.In a government resolution released on September 8, the department announced the formation of a five-member coordinating committee would collate suggestions from different study groups and committees. The coordinating committee, consisting officials from Pune and Chandrapur zilla parishads, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and state’s publishing bureau Balbharti, has to submit its report to the government by October 15.“The committee will collate suggestions received from various stakeholders in the past and in the coming days. A draft guideline would be prepared for its implementation in the state,” states the GR. After the Union cabinet passed National Education Policy, 2020 last month, the state education department held several consultations with experts and stakeholders over its implementation.“All the suggestions and recommendations made in these consultation meetings shall be taken into consideration for the report,” said a member of the coordinating committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-forms-panels-to-prepare-report-on-nep/story-woVnEUipeLw3hgAdFHQ6pI.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||27 persons booked for trying to usurp Mumbai civic body land using fake documents||Following a complaint from officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) H-East ward, 27 people, including developer and main proprietor, secretary and treasurer of a housing society, have been booked for allegedly forging documents to get flats and shops on BMC’s land. Shashikant Bhandari, senior inspector from Nirmal Nagar police station, said, “We have registered a first information report (FIR) and are investigating the case. We haven’t arrested anybody yet.”After receiving a complaint in February about people allegedly using forged documents to get property on BMC’s land at Ganpatram Dayma Marg in Bandra (East), Nirmal Nagar police conducted an inquiry. The allegations were found to be true, following which the police informed BMC. On August 31, based on a complaint by BMC, a case was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.BMC officials in the complaint said, “In 2004, residents of the plot of land in question formed an organisation named ‘Om Sai Sanstha’ to redevelop their houses and shops. In 2010, they came in contact with Saranga Estate Pvt Ltd to redevelop the plot, for which 42 of the total 48 residents submitted their documents.”“While examining the documents, BMC found 10 Gumasta licences and nine ration cards were fake, 11 people did not have any room on that plot, and eight persons had submitted documents having two different addresses. During initial inquiry, they have found Likhmaprasad Badgujar, main proprietor; Lalchand Gupta, secretary; Rajesh Tripathi, treasurer; Yogesh Gupta of Saranga Developers Pvt Ltd; and 27 others had planned and submitted fake documents to BMC to build houses and shops on BMC’s plot,” read the BMC complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/27-persons-booked-for-trying-to-usurp-mumbai-civic-body-land-using-fake-documents/story-YumJnkTpw6UDr7BYGfK9oJ.html
10-09-2020||City||Lightning kills two security guards in Palghar||Two security guards, who were on their way home in Bendgaon, Dahanu in Palghar district, died after a lightning struck them near Kurje dam in Talasari around 4pm on Wednesday. The deceased, Sachin Kuvara, 27, and Anil Gowri, 18, were on the bike when the lightning struck. Both worked as security guards o the state government-run Security Guards Board for Mumbai and Thane districts and were on duty in a private firm, said Rahul Sarang, Dahanu tehsildar. Earlier on September 6, Sagar Diwa, 17, of Ambiste village in Wada; and Nitesh Tumbda, 22, of Tava in Dahanu died in two separate incident s of lightning. Both the deceased were farmers by profession. Six others had also suffered burn injuries and were admitted to government hospitals.The state government’s revenue department will issue ₹4 lakh compensation each to family members of all four victims. The department has been told to speed up the process of issuing compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lightning-kills-two-security-guards-in-palghar/story-0ihXezcqRSCinxAYRaWGiL.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Water cut in central Mumbai on Friday and Saturday||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said there will 24 hours drinking water cut in several areas of Central Mumbai and, in several areas the water supply pressure will be low, owing to the replacement work of water pipelines that are older than 100 years and several other pipelines for its augmentation.The water cut will be between Friday 10am and Saturday 10am. According to BMC, areas like Parel, Sewri, Naugaon will face water cut for 24 hours or lesser and in areas like Lalbaug, Dadar and Hindmata the water supply pressure will be low. Hence, citizens are requested to co-operate with the civic body and make prior arrangements of storing water owing to the planned disruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/water-cut-in-central-mumbai-on-friday-and-saturday/story-UatkoXdB1ndQ4CmhisoSGO.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||24x7 suicide prevention helpline launched: Mumbai resident glad her efforts paid off||For 22-year-old Mumbai resident Raashi Thakran the launch of India’s first 24/7 suicide helpline KIRAN is like a personal victory. The Union social justice and empowerment ministry launched the helpline — 1800-599-0019 — earlier this week. In January 2019, Thakran lost her 18-year-old brother who died by suicide. Since then, she left no stones unturned to initiate a centralised 24/7 helpline number for suicide prevention. “When my brother died, out of curiosity, I called around 20 suicide prevention helpline numbers but only three responded. All these helplines are run by NGOs and none of the function round the clock. This left me thinking what if my brother had called one of them and didn’t get help on time,” Thakran said on the eve of Suicide Prevention Day on September 10. To highlight the issue, last year in June, Thakran, who currently works in Bengaluru, started a petition on Change.org addressing the Union health ministry which gathered almost two lakh signs within two months. She also met some government officials who showed interest in launching a centralised helpline or revamp an already established one. However, as Covid-19 hit India, her efforts got stalled.In June, after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide at his Bandra residency, her petition gained momentum again, garnering more than four lakh signatures. “It is saddening that despite having over one lakh suicides every year in India, authorities and public needed an actor to die to value the importance of mental health. More importantly, this country didn’t even have a government helpline number,” she added.India reported about 381 suicides daily in 2019, marking a nearly 3.4% increase as compared to 2018, a report by the National Crime Records Bureau stated. Maharashtra recorded the highest number of deaths by suicides. City-based psychiatrists welcomed the launch of the national suicide prevention helpline. “This is a major step towards suicide prevention in the country. But it is saddening that India didn’t have a national helpline for so long. What is even more disturbing is the fact that the authorities had to wait for a virus to hit or an actor to die,” said Dr Sagar Mundada, city psychiatrist. Dr Milan Balakrishnan, secretary of Mumbai chapter of Indian Psychiatric Society and consultant psychiatrist at Bombay Hospital, said, “People suffering from any mental illness often shy away from consulting psychiatrists. But often, they prefer talking to people on the phone through these helplines. It may not help to cure a depressed patient completely, but it is the first step.”He added, “There is need for similar helplines especially at night when patients are free and often feel lonely and want to talk to someone about their thoughts.”Thakran, who has called the recently-launched helpline a couple of times to check its responsiveness, said, “My brother can finally rest in peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/24x7-suicide-prevention-helpline-launched-mumbai-resident-glad-her-efforts-paid-off/story-sEicBdYFizMcwlmLPeWw1L.html
10-09-2020||City||Navi Mumbai man strangles his wife with towel, arrested||Khandeshwar police arrested a 36-year-old man for killing his 26-year-old wife over domestic issues on Tuesday. The accused, Suryakant Maruti Jadhav, a resident of Vichumbe in Panvel and a daily wage worker, strangled his wife Saarthi with a towel. “The wife used to suspect her husband of affairs, which frequently led to fights. She would also beat up the kids which her husband disliked,” said senior inspector Shyam Shinde, Khandeshwar police station. On Tuesday around 4.30pm, the deceased had allegedly started beating their five-year-old daughter and three-year-old son. “Seeing this, the husband throttled her to death in a fit of rage,” Shinde said. After the incident, he called up his sister and narrated the incident to her. While he stayed at home, his sister called Khandeshwar police as instructed by the accused himself. “He wanted to surrender himself, hence he stayed home. Our team reached his residence and arrested him,” Shinde said.The couple got married in 2014 and had been facing trouble since the past three years. Jadhav was produced before the court on Wednesday and has been remanded in police custody till September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-man-strangles-his-wife-with-towel-arrested/story-7XLRSSqclal0InqVu9qsGO.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Multiple options to be studied to save trees near Bapu’s Sevagram Ashram in Maharashtra: Aaditya Thackeray||State departments are now working together to come up with a solution to save 98 trees for a road-widening project from Wardha to Mahatma Gandhi’s Sevagram Ashram, the Maharashtra government said on Wednesday.Following a meeting with state public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan on Wednesday, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said multiple options were being looked at, to ensure affected trees were saved. The minister took to social media stating that several representations on the issue were received locally and internationally by the state.To allow ease of traffic and to facilitate the movement of tourists to Bapu’s ashram ahead of his 151st birth anniversary (October 2), the public works department (PWD) had proposed road widening (during the last week of July) from existing 10m to 14m along a 9-km stretch from Wardha to Sevagram, that would lead to the felling of 168 trees. While 70 of the 168 trees were felled, the local and ashram residents and three generations of Mahatma Gandhi’s descendants wrote a detailed letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, last Wednesday, requesting the project to be called off to protect the remaining green cover.“The issue lies across a 2-km stretch leading up to the ashram,” Thackeray said. “A team from the state PWD will visit the site to study alternatives in terms of diversion, transplantation or keeping the width as it (two-lane) along a 2-km stretch. They will submit the feasibility of each option to both the PWD minister and myself. The best option will be implemented to save the trees and ensure the road is safe for travel.”A senior PWD official said the assessment team would be headed by the additional chief secretary (PWD).The environment minister said he was thankful to Ashok Chavan for immediately asking PWD to coordinate with the environment dept and find a solution to save the remaining trees. “We are committed to sustainable development,” said Thackeray.Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar said he will be joining the site visit along with PWD and a Wardha forest range officer. “Since the existing road is narrow, our only concern was that it should not create a bottleneck when large traffic volume passes, and become an accident spot. Nonetheless, now everybody is on board to ensure maximum trees should be saved and all options will be explored by us before submitting our report,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/multiple-options-to-be-studied-to-save-trees-near-bapu-s-sevagram-ashram-in-maharashtra-aaditya-thackeray/story-Y6Esk2Wn6BA3uBTDlWoK5O.html
10-09-2020||City||Kangana Ranaut’s Pali Hill office in Mumbai takes centre stage||Mired in controversy for the past three days, actor Kangana Ranaut had purchased the standalone prime property at Pali Hill in Bandra in September 2017 and converted it into her office space. The renovation of the structure was completed earlier this year. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday demolished alleged violations to the structure, amid war of words with the actor. According to civic officials, the 3,000-sqft Bungalow no 5 in Chetak Cooperative Housing Society existed in their records as a residential property since the 1970s. Prior to the purchase in 2017, the property housed a playschool. Ranaut’s office, Manikarnika Films Private Limited, is surrounded by houses of several Bollywood personalities. It is a two-storey structure with a 500sqft separate parking space. Civic officials said on their inspection of the property on Monday, they found 14 types of structural violations and issued a notice seeking a reply on the violations. They said the violations could have been made during the recent renovation work. Kangana Ranaut or her representatives could not be reached for their comments. A civic official said, “The violations listed in the stop-work notice issued were changes made to a residential property converting the space as per commercial purpose. This could be a change of user violation.”“The owner has to carry out renovations according to the approved plans and needs necessary permissions to complete the change of user procedure,” he said.In a tweet, Ranaut said: “There is no illegal construction in my house, also government has banned any demolitions in Covid till September 30…” Meanwhile, Ranaut was also in a legal dispute with BMC over her flat in a posh residential housing society at Khar near Bandra. According to BMC in 2018, it had sent a notice to Ranaut over several structural changes to her house, which were termed violations. Ranaut had challenged it in the Dindoshi civil court. According to BMC officials, the matter has been sub-judice and no action was taken over it on Wednesday. A BMC official said, “The matter regarding her flat and violations is a different issue. The action on Wednesday was in her bungalow in Bandra.” On civic corporation’s notice of 2018 regarding her flat in Khar, Ranaut on Wednesday tweeted: “This was not just to me (the notice), but to entire building and this is not my flat issue but a building issue which builder needs to deal with.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kangana-ranaut-s-pali-hill-office-in-mumbai-takes-centre-stage/story-iPoAFPag9ClO7kmdzP1AtM.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||31% of Maharashtra’s total Covid-19 tests done using antigen kits||Although the use of rapid antigen tests in Maharashtra began in July, the diagnostic tool already accounts for 31% of the total Covid-19 tests, with more than 60% of the daily tests in Maharashtra being carried out using the kits, according to the state health department data. The rigorous reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is considered the gold standard for Covid testing. RT-PCR test results come in eight hours, while antigen tests give results in 30 minutes and are considered less reliable in comparison. RT-PCR test is carried out on symptomatic patients and those who come negative in the antigen test. Medical experts advise against over dependence on antigen tests due to its high false negative rate. Since the Covid-19 outbreak in March till September 7, Maharashtra has conducted 4,705,932 tests, of which 1,458,827 were antigen tests. The data, accessed by HT, shows that every day, 45,000-50,000 rapid antigen tests are conducted in Maharashtra, while around 25,000-odd tests are through RT-PCR. For instance, 46,961 of the total 72,248 tests conducted on September 2 were through rapid antigen-based kits. While less than 5% were TrueNat tests (originally designed to test tuberculosis), the remaining tests were via RT-PCR. Maharashtra, which is one of the worst-affected states, has one-fourth of India’s active cases. To boost testing, public health officials have asked all hospitals to use antigen tests as a primary testing tool to detect Covid-19 patients with severe acute respiratory infection or influenza-like illnesses. They have also recommended the use of antigen tests for high-risk contacts of patients and symptomatic healthcare workers. In a rapid antigen test, oral or nasal swab samples are taken to detect the presence of antigens (foreign substances that trigger antibodies inducing an immune response in the body) that are found on or within the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. Unlike RT-PCR, the biggest advantage of this rapid point-of-care testing method is that it can be performed on the spot and outside a conventional laboratory setting, as it doesn’t deal with a live virus, and gives results within 30 minutes. RT-PCR tests for genetic material of the Sars-CoV-2 virus and therefore needs a biosafety level 2 laboratory for analysis, and provides results in five to eight hours. The data shows that on August 2, 50,421 of the 78,711 tests were antigen tests. Again, 40,905 of the 68,175 tests conducted on August 28 were through antigen kits. Districts like Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Aurangabad, Nashik, Nagpur and Solapur are conducting maximum number of rapid antigen tests in the state, which is spending around ₹1 crore every day. “We are not overdoing rapid antigen tests in the state. We are focussing on 50:50 ratio for antigen tests and RT-PCR. In fact, if any person with symptoms tests negative in the state, we run a second confirmatory test under RT-PCR. The false negative reports are not even 1%,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) June 14 ‘Advisory on Use of Rapid Antigen Detection Test for Covid-19’, sensitivity (or the ability to detect true positives) of antigen tests ranged from 50.6% to 84%. “This implies that half of the negative reports given by rapid antigen tests may be incorrect. Also, considering 80% of people in India are asymptomatic, we will miss out on a large number of silent carriers due to ICMR rule [of RT-PCR tests for symptomatic people who test negative],” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India. Recently, after veteran actor Amitabh Bachchan and his son Abhishek tested positive for Covid-19 following the onset of mild symptoms, other family members — actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and daughter Aaradhya — who did not display symptoms tested negative through antigen tests, the first line of testing. Later, in RT-PCR, the duo, who continued to be asymptomatic, tested positive for Covid-19. “This is why antigen tests are more likely to miss an active coronavirus infection,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra. Healthcare experts said that while a testing strategy combining RT-PCR and antigen tests is a good decision, they warn that antigen tests should be restricted to containment zones and specific cases. “Antigen kits can prove effective in containment zones and faster diagnosis of suspected patients with SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) and ILI (influenza-like illness). But deployment of antigen tests for mass-based diagnosis is debatable. The more we increase the testing, the chances of kits throwing up negative results in asymptomatic patients gets higher,” said Anant Bhan, public health expert. As HT reported on August 15, amid scepticism over high false negatives in the rapid antigen test, state government data showed that a mere 0.17% of the samples tested in Maharashtra failed to identify the presence of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. At present, the state has 156 Covid-19 government accredited testing laboratories. But medical experts from the state’s Covid-19 task force said despite increasing testing capacity, it was only through antigen testing that they could bring testing facilities closest to the public as it doesn’t need laboratory set-ups. “In the early stage of the pandemic, when we relied only on RT-PCR, laboratories were getting overwhelmed with samples. Some laboratories even took two-three days to provide the reports which delayed treatment. At least, with antigen tests, people are getting reports on time,” said a senior health officer who requested anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to media. “Our focus is to identify super spreaders.” In Mumbai, 95,342 antigen tests were conducted till September 8. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered another one lakh testing kits. “So far, we have concentrated only on running antigen tests in Covid Care Centres (CCC) and hospitals along with containment zones. But now, we will extend the testing to civic-run peripheral units and dispensaries,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Considering the growing demand, ICMR has evaluated 23 brands of antigen test kits. Three of them have been approved— SD Biosensor, LabCare Diagnostics and Coris Bioconcept. The health department can procure any of the three approved kits through the Union health department, while private hospitals can buy it from approved vendors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/31-of-maharashtra-s-total-covid-19-tests-done-using-antigen-kits/story-hOnY3IcIESrTKpyeVMwqWI.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps BMC for finishing razing of Kangana Ranaut’s office before its order; hearing today||Observing that the demolition undertaken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) at the Pali Hill premise of actor Kangana Ranaut on Wednesday morning “did not appear bona fide and smacked of mala fide”, the Bombay high court (HC) ordered the civic commissioner to stop the action in the afternoon. However, by then, BMC had completed the razing. Taking note of it, HC rapped BMC for trying to waste the court’s time by resorting to delay tactics to ensure the demolition work was completed. The civic authorities have been asked to explain their stand and conduct through an affidavit at 3pm on Thursday. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla while hearing the petition filed by Ranaut through advocate Rizwan Siddiqui was informed through video conference that the executive engineer of H-West ward had posted a stop work notice on the outer door of the actor’s premise on Tuesday around 10am. Siddiqui submitted that the alleged unauthorized construction pointed out in the notice was false and hence, even though Ranaut was out of Mumbai, a response to the notice was filed on Tuesday itself and submitted to the H-West ward office. Siddiqui told the court that Ranaut was to arrive on September 9 and had sought seven days to respond to BMC’s stop-work notice. The response, the advocate said, had also called BMC not to misuse its dominant position “to cause prejudice to the petitioner (Ranaut) with any hidden agenda coupled with ulterior motives” as it had given the actor only 24 hours to respond. When the bench took up the matter for hearing at 12.30pm, no one appeared for BMC. After 10 minutes, a counsel appeared, claiming she did not have a copy of the petition filed by Ranaut nor did she have an officer to instruct her with regards to the demolition. On hearing this, the bench directed BMC to stop the demolition work and asked BMC’s counsel to convey it to the municipal commissioner. After 35 minutes of the commencement of the hearing, senior counsel Anil Sakhare appeared and informed the court that BMC officials would answer the queries of the court. The officer informed the bench they had undertaken a survey of the premise and found various unauthorized construction in the premise on September 7. The officer said he had issued a notice under section 35 (A) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act to Ranaut on the same day and had the stop-work notice posted on the outer door of the premise on September 8. After hearing the submissions the bench held: “We find the above conduct of the MCGM highly deplorable, more so since the MCGM was well aware that a Writ Petition would be filed by the Petitioner before this Court at any time, and an application seeking urgent orders will be moved by the Petitioner, and MCGM had therefore filed a Caveat before this Court. We therefore, informed Senior Advocate Shri Sakhare that such conduct on the part of the MCGM is totally unacceptable to the Court.” BMC had filed a caveat on September 8 in HC stating that as Ranaut was expected to file a petition, the court should “Let nothing be done unless prior notice is given to the Corporation.” The bench further observed, “Though the manner in which the MCGM has proceeded to commence demolition work of the said Premises, prima facie does not appear to be bonafide and smacks of malafide, we are giving an opportunity to the MCGM to explain its stand / conduct on Affidavit by 3pm tomorrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-bmc-for-finishing-razing-of-kangana-ranaut-s-office-before-its-order-hearing-today/story-GlO2hyK7czso1Je4OZN1YM.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai releases final-year exam dates; to be conducted online in multiple choice format starting September 15||Almost two weeks after the Supreme Court (SC) clarified that final-year students can only be promoted based on examination results, the University of Mumbai (MU) on Wednesday released an official circular detailing the examination dates and format.Addressed to all affiliated colleges, the varsity has clarified that all exams will be conducted online in multiple choice question (MCQ) format and only in special cases where students have not been able to appear for exams online will they be allowed to appear for offline exams.In the circular, MU has stated that practical and theory exams for repeater candidates will begin from September 15 and 25, respectively, whereas fresh candidates will appear for exams from October 1 to 17. Colleges have been asked to share a sample paper and question bank with students, and conduct a mock test online in the new format for all their students before the final exams begin.“As discussed earlier, online exams will be in MCQ format and students will have one hour to appear for 50 marks in each subject. These 50 marks will then be converted into the 75/80/100 marks as prescribed by each subject. Only handicap students will be allowed an extra 20 minutes for the same paper and will also have the option of choosing a writer for the examination,” said an MU spokesperson.He added that colleges have also been asked to ensure early assessment of all papers to avoid any further delay in announcement of results. “Answer sheets in the MCQ format will not be eligible for re-evaluation, so results should not take very long,” he said.For starters, all MU affiliated colleges will have to conduct an online survey of their students to find out where they are residing at present (due to the lockdown), and what gadgets (mobile phone, laptop/desktop) and internet facilities are available to them. This will help them find out how many can conveniently appear for online exams.“Colleges have also been asked to start a helpline to counsel students and listen to grievances if any,” added the spokesperson.While MU has clarified its stand on examinations and have left colleges to take forward the process, many heads of institutes are not happy about the convenience with which all onus of exams has been pushed on individual colleges.“In less than a week, we will have to start practical exams for repeater candidates and by October 1 final exams for fresh candidates. In between all this, each teacher needs to submit 250 MCQ format questions for each subject, set final and mock test question papers, conduct online survey for students, as well as ensure that a helpline is up and running for student queries. The amount of work expected from teachers is unacceptable, that too at a time when they are already busy with online classes for the current batches,” said the principal of a suburban college, on condition of anonymity.Colleges will have the option of setting their own time table as long as they follow the dates as prescribed by the university. Once all subject marks are submitted by individual colleges to the university, the final results will be announced, states the MU circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-releases-final-year-exam-dates-to-be-conducted-online-in-multiple-choice-format-starting-september-15/story-YctDWzJeXvx6i7aZN7VDXP.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Interim stay on Maratha quota: Maharashtra to move CJI to get SC order revoked||Facing a political setback with the Supreme Court’s Wednesday order – an interim stay on Maratha quota in jobs and education, which will halt the ongoing college admissions, leading to chaos and discontent among the community – the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will file an application before the Chief Justice of India (CJI) for its revocation. The three-judge bench stayed the reservation for Marathas in jobs and college admissions in 2020-21, while transferring the case to the constitutional bench. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018 gives the community reservation of 12% and 13% in employment and admissions, respectively. The interim order could affect the appointment of more than 3,000 Maratha youths in government jobs, besides impacting college admissions for thousands of students, including in medical colleges. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), whose government had passed the bill two years ago, is also expected to use the issue politically to corner the MVA government, comprising three ruling parties Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress. Terming the decision surprising, former chief minister and public works minister Ashok Chavan, who also heads the cabinet sub-committee on reservation, said the government will fight the case to safeguard the interests of Marathas. “We had demanded the transfer of the case to the constitutional bench and it has been admitted to. However, the stay on the quota is incomprehensible as a few other reservation-related cases were transferred to the constitutional bench without any such stay. The petition has been transferred to the constitutional bench for further hearing and thus, it cannot be said that the reservation has been stayed,” he said. “We have convened a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday to discuss the issue and decide the course of action,” he said. “The admissions for post-graduate medical courses have been completed, while admissions to other courses are underway. The stay will disturb the entire admission process of colleges and universities. The Maharashtra Public Services Commission has recruited 127 deputy collectors and tehsildars from the quota recently, although they have not been given the appointment letters. Similarly, 3,000 employees recruited in 2014 under the reservation given by the Prithviraj Chavan government, too, are awaiting the final decision,” the officer said requesting anonymity. The BJP slammed the MVA government. “The MVA government was never serious about the reservation and its legal battle. Had it taken all stakeholders into confidence, the result would have been different. Our government worked day and night to safeguard the interest of the Maratha community and ensure the quota was upheld in the courts. Today’s order is the result of insensitivity and indifference of the government. I am distressed by the development,” said leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. BJP’s state chief Chandrakant Patil said it was the failure of the Thackeray government. Vinod Patil, who is one of the respondents in the petition in the Apex court, said: “When the 10% reservation for the Economically Weaker Section was transferred to the constitutional bench, there was no stay. The stay to our reservation is surprising.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/interim-stay-on-maratha-quota-maharashtra-to-move-cji-to-get-sc-order-revoked/story-M4GiXeaRUxEPwEHXvAGgEP.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||BJP backs Kangana Ranaut, Shiv Sena terms it conspiracy to separate Mumbai; Pawar says no need to take her seriously||After distancing itself from actor Kangana Ranaut’s remarks about Mumbai and city police, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday backed her and slammed Shiv Sena for the vengeful demolition of her office. The Sena said that BJP’s support to Kangana is a conspiracy to ultimately separate Mumbai from Maharashtra.On Wednesday, BMC demolished illegal structural changes allegedly carried out at the actor’s office at Pali Hill. Sena, which is locked in a verbal spat with the Hindi film actor, controls the Mumbai civic body for more than two decades.Former chief minister and leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis termed BMC’s demolition of Ranaut’s office as `state-sponsored terrorism’. “While one cannot support the statement made against Mumbai police or Maharashtra, one also cannot support such action by the government. It maligns the entire state in the country. Until yesterday, this construction was legal, only because someone spoke about you, you take action and point to illegalities. Then what about other illegal constructions in the city. This is state-sponsored terrorism,” said Fadnavis.Fadnavis also termed Thackeray led government as the most scared and undemocratic government in the history of Maharashtra. BJP chief Chandrakant Patil also slammed the government and asked Sena leadership to keep Sena MP Sanjay Raut under control. “This `dadagiri’ won’t work. Kangana, as an Indian, can travel wherever she wants to. Is this how a woman is respected? What is the language that is being used? Raut should be kept under control,” said Patil.Meanwhile, in an embarrassment for the Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said that the timing of the action taken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation gave rise to “doubts” over it. He also said that there was no need to take Ranaut seriously.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai on the statements made by Ranaut in the last few days, Pawar said, “We are giving too much importance to the people making such statements. One must understand the impact of such statements on the people at large.”Pawar said he had no information about the legality of the construction at Ranaut’s office which was demolished by the BMC today, but said the action has allowed the people to raise doubt indicating that it could have been avoided.“I don’t know if there was any illegal structure; I read about it only in the newspapers. It won’t be appropriate to comment on this without having proper information. Illegal work is not a new thing in Mumbai. However, BMC’s action in the backdrop of the ongoing situation allows people to raise doubt over it. BMC officials have their own rules and may have found it appropriate to take the action,” the veteran leader said.Sena on Wednesday took on the Union home ministry for providing Y-plus security to actor Kangana Ranaut calling it an insult to Mumbai and its police. In an editorial in Sena mouthpiece, Saamana published on Wednesday, the party alleged that the BJP’s support to the actor looked like a conspiracy to ultimately separate Mumbai from Maharashtra.“There is always a danger to Mumbai because those who support disrespect to ‘Mumbadevi’ are sitting in Delhi and Maharashtra’s assembly… First, defame Mumbai, then weaken it. Make Mumbai completely bankrupt and then one day separate it from Maharashtra. It is seen that these steps are being taken again,” the Saamana editorial said. It added, Comparing Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir and insulting the khaki uniform by calling Mumbai police as mafias are signs of a disturbed mindset…”The editorial, without naming the actor referred to her as a “supari actor”. The Sena mouthpiece added the Maharashtra unit of BJP should have not supported the ones who referred to Maharashtra chief minister in a disrespectful manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-backs-kangana-ranaut-shiv-sena-terms-it-conspiracy-to-separate-mumbai-pawar-says-no-need-to-take-her-seriously/story-2PPIQKjIZ2JNiOGkTQK2qN.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||237,200 passengers landed in Mumbai since Unlock 3.0 in August, 170,600 took off, shows airport survey||With Mumbai gradually easing travel restrictions, a survey by the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has shown that more than 237,200 passengers arrived at the city airport since the commencement of Unlock 3.0 in August. In comparison, around 170,600 passengers travelled out of the city during the same period — 66,600 lesser. According to the survey, which was released on Wednesday, while passengers arriving at the Mumbai airport doubled in August as compared to July, there was a marginal increase in passengers flying out of the city. During Unlock 2.0 in July, Mumbai airport registered over 108,500 arriving and around 162,800 departing passengers. In contrast, during Unlock 3.0, Delhi, Varanasi and Hyderabad recorded arrivals of more than 51,200, 19,700 and 16,100 passengers, respectively. Mumbai airport authorities said that it is witnessing a steady growth in passengers arriving at the airport. “When domestic flight operations initially resumed on May 25, CSMIA had observed more passengers departing and travelling back to their hometowns. With the rising trend of business travel as the purpose of flying, the airport has observed growth in arriving passengers since August 1,” said airport operator Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL). It added, “Since the resumption of commercial domestic flight operations, CSMIA has catered to a total of 47 sectors in the country, operated by 10 airlines.” Jitender Bhargava, former executive director of Air India, said, “I do not think that business travel has increased, considering that all meetings are taking place virtually. Increase in arrivals is because of increase in the number of international passengers after quarantine rules have been relaxed. They have their onward domestic flights from airports like Mumbai and Delhi. Similarly, even departing passengers from small cities arrive at big airports and then depart for their international destinations.” The airport was recently allowed to increase its daily flight operations from 100 (till August) to 200 this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/237-200-landed-in-mumbai-since-unlock-3-0-in-august-170-600-took-off-shows-airport-survey/story-azewlWx1wEhESTNb31ZsdP.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||FYJC admissions in Maharashtra stayed until notice; no clarity on taken seats||In line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the Maratha quota in jobs and education, the Maharashtra education department has stayed the admission process for first-year junior college (FYJC) until further orders. There is no clarity on what happens to students who have already been admitted through the quota. On Wednesday evening, the department released an official statement announcing the postponement of second merit list which was supposed to be published on Thursday. “The list is postponed and the admissions are stayed until further notice. Revised timetable for FYJC admissions would be released later after getting instructions from the state government,” read the statement. Officials at the education department said they would wait for a detailed court order and the instructions of the state government before deciding the further course of action. On September 4, HT had reported that more than 80% seats under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota, also referred to as Maratha quota, had no takers in FYJC admissions this year. For the 17,844 seats reserved for SEBC students out of the total 3.1 lakh seats in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region this year, only 2923 (16%) students had applied, of whom 2,309 were allotted seats in the first round of admissions. This is a considerable dip from 2019 when 30% of SEBC seats were claimed. However, with an interim stay on the quota, the entire seat matrix for admissions to FYJC is likely to change. Principals said the delay in the admission process might impact all students. “We don’t know what will happen with those students who have already taken admission. Also, with the change in the seat matrix, the seats would have to be recalculated before a new merit list is out,” said the principal of a suburban college. On June 27, the Bombay high court had allowed 12% reservation in education under SEBC category and struck down the state’s proposal of reserving 16% seats to these students. The decision was challenged in the Supreme Court, which stayed the reservations in its interim order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-in-maharashtra-stayed-until-notice-no-clarity-on-taken-seats/story-gCY40mQQbJ0ioEy75cSKrN.html
10-09-2020||City||Three arrested for trespassing, attacking security guard of CM Thackeray’s farmhouse||Three people were arrested for allegedly attacking a security guard of chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray’s farmhouse in Raigad on the night of September 8, by Khalapur police station. The three accused, two of whom claim to be journalists of a leading English news channel, allegedly asked the security guard for direction to the farmhouse. When the guard refused to share the information, the three allegedly followed him and assaulted him physically and verbally. The three were arrested after the security guard lodged a complaint. According to Khalapur police officers, the incident took place on Tuesday at Bhilawali village. A police officer said, “The complainant was going for his night duty at the farmhouse around 7pm when two accused approached him and asked for the route to the CM’s farmhouse. The complainant, who got suspicious, said he was not aware of any such farmhouse and walked ahead. The trio later followed the guard and when they saw him inside the bungalow, they entered the farmhouse and started arguing about why he lied to them. The accused later thrashed the guard. After the accused left, the security guard filed a complaint with the police. “ Superintendent of police, Raigad, Anil Paraskar, said, “We have arrested the trio for trespassing and attacking the security guard of the farmhouse. Two of the accused claimed to be employees of a popular television media. We are verifying these claims.” Khalapur police registered a case under sections 452 (house-trespass after preparation for assault), 448 (house-trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The three have been remanded in police custody till September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-trespassing-attacking-security-guard-of-cm-thackeray-s-farmhouse/story-cAoIWlMDQyzUcHOKuhbnTP.html
10-09-2020||City||KDMT bus services resumes on 3 routes, to start from depot near Kalyan railway station||More than 170 commuters boarded the civic buses in Kalyan-Dombivli on the first day of resumption of its services for the non-essential staff on Wednesday. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) resumed its services on three routes. Under the Mission Begin Again of Unlock 4.0, the KDMT resumed its services on Kalyan-Umbarde (Shree Complex), Kalyan-Bhiwandi and Kalyan-Malang Gad routes.A KDMT officer requesting anonymity said, “We have resumed services on three different routes as people have been facing a lot of trouble to commute. The civic bus service will ease their woes. Although the services have resumed, strict guidelines mentioned as per the state government will be imposed throughout the services.”A total of seven buses will ply in the morning along these routes and nine in the afternoon.As per KDMT, only 50% passengers will be allowed and five passengers in standing will be allowed inside the bus. Each seat will allow only one passenger. Wearing a face mask will be mandatory inside the bus while bus driver and conductor will ask the passengers to maintain social distancing.All the buses will start at the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) depot near Kalyan railway station. “Passengers willing to take a bus will have to come to the depot,” added the officer.“With no auto rickshaws available, it was very difficult to travel to work. I used to take my two-wheeler daily but could not afford that. The civic bus service resumption is a great relief. Proper social distancing is being followed inside the bus,” said Jayesh Rane, 38, a passenger who took the civic bus to Bhiwandi for work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmt-bus-services-resumes-on-3-routes-to-start-from-depot-near-kalyan-railway-station/story-sMCmVUYwC7s9dx0rzrkDnN.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Hema Upadhyay-Haresh Bhambani murder case: 5 years later, 1 accused on run, 10 witnesses examined||After more than four years in jail and five rejected bail pleas, artist Chintan Upadhyay’s sixth bail plea will be heard on Thursday in the Bombay high court (HC). Upadhyay is the main accused in the double murder of his estranged wife and artist Hema Upadhyay and lawyer Haresh Bhambani. Since his arrest on December 22, 2015, Upadhyay has filed for bail repeatedly. After his applications were rejected by magistrate, sessions and the Bombay high court, Upadhyay moved Supreme Court (SC) for bail in December 2018. In February 2019, Maharashtra state submitted an affidavit that opposed the bail plea but assured the trial would be concluded within nine months. While rejecting Upadhyay’s plea, the SC bench of justices RF Nariman and Vineet Saran had noted, “If the trial is not concluded within a period of nine months, it will be open to the petitioner to apply for bail afresh.” Despite the state’s assurance of a prompt trial, the first witness in the double murder case was examined on August 22, 2019. So far, the prosecution has examined 10 witnesses, none of whom are directly linked to the murders. Advocate Bharat Manghani, representing Upadhyay, said, “The prosecution had voluntarily made a statement in SC during his bail plea that they will conclude the trial within nine months and that period is long gone. Till date, merely 10 witnesses are examined. Why do they make such statements if they can’t stand by it? There is no iota of material to connect Chintan with the alleged crime.” Special public prosecutor Vaibhav Bagade said, “The trial presently is stuck because of the pandemic situation. We are ready with all the witnesses and evidences to present it before the court as soon as the situation becomes normal.” According to Mumbai Police, which submitted a 1,658-page charge sheet in the case in March 2016, it was upon Upadhyay’s instructions that Hema and Bhambani were murdered by metal fabrication artist Vidyadhar Rajbhar. The police believe Upadhyay and Hema’s divorce case and property dispute had led him to plot the murders. Rajbhar allegedly killed Hema and Bhambani on December 11, 2015 and the bodies were then disposed of by his associates Shiv Kumar Rajbhar, Pradip Kumar Rajbhar, Vijay Kumar Rajbhar and Azad Rajbhar. The bodies were discovered on December 12 and within days, Shiv Kumar, Pradip Kumar, Vijay Kumar and Azad were arrested as was Upadhyay. Rajbhar remains on the run. A key element of Mumbai Police’s case against Upadhyay was Pradip Kumar’s statement. However, in June 2016, he retracted the confession, saying it was extracted from him under duress. Mumbai Police maintains the case against Upadhyay remains strong, with statements of 60 other witnesses and call detail records (CDR) that prove contact between Rajbhar and Upadhyay.So far, Rajbhar is at large. According to Mumbai Police’s crime branch, he has not been in touch with his family, including his wife and daughter. “We have checked their CDRs as well but the accused has never contacted them. The last time we got to trace his location was on February 2, 2016, when Vidyadhar had called his brother-in-law to check on the family’s well-being from a different number and a different mobile,” said an officer. The police were able to trace Rajbhar to Assam but his mobile phone was switched off on February 10, 2016, and there has been no update since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hema-upadhyay-haresh-bhambani-murder-case-5-years-later-1-accused-on-run-10-witnesses-examined/story-EgKfqKCH2mCmwyyk1SFwXK.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||SC directs Mumbai-based consumer body, airlines to file affidavits on refunds on tickets booked during Covid-19 lockdown||The Supreme Court (SC) on Wednesday directed consumer rights body Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), party to the plea, to file an affidavit on suggested amendments to the aviation regulator’s affidavit on refunds for air tickets booked during the Covid-19 lockdown.Last week, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), in its affidavit to the Apex court stated that all airlines will refund the amount for tickets that were booked in the first and second lockdown period. It had, however, said that a financially unstable airline can offer credit shells to passengers. In Wednesday’s hearing, SC also asked airlines to reply to DGCA’s affidavit on refund to passengers booked to fly during the first two lockdowns. According to MGP, senior citizens should not be asked to use credit shells, and airlines should not ask passengers to pay the fare difference. Instead, they should be allowed to fly on the original ticket price until March 2021. A credit shell is an open ticket, issued when an airline holds on to the booking amount in the form of credit.“Spice Jet and Indigo are more or less comfortable but Go Air was not happy with the DGCA affidavit. MGP wants some changes in the affidavit too. Hence, all stakeholders who have anything to say on the government proposal are asked to file their affidavits in one week,” said advocate Shirish Deshpande, chairman, MGP. The next hearing is scheduled for September 23. SC has asked all the airlines as well as MGP to submit their affidavits by September 16.“On the whole, the proposal of the civil aviation ministry is welcomed by us, as it tries to harmonise and balance the interest of both passengers and the airlines. There is, however, a need for further relief. In the present situation, senior citizens are advised not to travel and hence it will be in consonance with government policy to direct airlines to refund the ticket amounts to senior citizens forthwith. There’s also a need to protect these passengers against the possible fare hike and they should be allowed to travel till March 31 on the same fare,” said Deshpande. DGCA, in its affidavit to the SC, stated that tickets booked for domestic and international carriers between March 25 and May 3 will be fully refunded within 15 days. “If on account of financial distress, if the airlines are not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected. This credit shell shall be issued in the name of the passenger who has booked the ticket,” it added.The DGCA affidavit stated that passengers will be able to use the credit shell up to March 31, 2021, and change the flight sector. This means that a passenger booked on a Mumbai-Indore flight can change his/ her sector and fly to any other destination until March 2021.An order was issued by SC on June 13 asking private airlines and the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) to find a way to refund the airfare of passengers whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown. It was then the meetings were held with all the stakeholders in July and it was decided that tickets booked directly by passengers during lockdown 1 and 2 will be fully refunded.Questioning DGCAs affidavit, a former DGCA official said, “Which airline is doing financially well with this pandemic? Why will an airline provide a refund when they can state that they are currently financially unstable and hence, cannot provide a refund?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/supreme-court-directs-mumbai-based-consumer-body-airlines-to-file-affidavits-on-air-ticket-refunds-to-passengers/story-UepkkVrDa5dXWMRrcKrwPI.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine trials put on hold at KEM Hospital in Mumbai after move in UK||The King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital in Parel has decided not to commence trials for the Covid-19 vaccine, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, as they have been put on hold after a participant had an “adverse event” in the United Kingdom (UK). KEM Hospital was expected to start the trials on September 11 after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had selected two civic-run hospitals – BYL Nair being the other one – in Mumbai to conduct the trials.“We have decided to halt the trials. Until the causality factor of the adverse event is identified, the safety of the vaccine can’t be guaranteed. The sponsor of the trial and the manufacturer will report this to the regulating authority and ethics committee. Once, they respond, we will start giving the vaccine,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean, KEM Hospital said. “It is not in my hand. It is up to the regulating authority to decide.”Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines in terms of volume, and British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca have partnered to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate formulated at the University of Oxford. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has been named Covishield in India.SII issued a statement, which said: “We can’t comment much on the UK trials, but they have been paused for further review and they hope to restart soon. As far as Indian trials are concerned, it is continuing and we have faced no issues at all.”The vaccine is a viral-vector vaccine that harnesses a cold-causing ‘adenovirus’ (a group of common viruses). It has been modified in such a way that it can no longer replicate in cells, and it modifies the ‘spike’ protein in human cells that the novel coronavirus targets to infect people. “The volunteer has been diagnosed with Transverse Myelitis that causes inflammation of the spinal cord. But ‘adenovirus’ doesn’t cause that. So, there is a possibility that this would not happen in India. But it needs proper analysis as the trials are being conducted on healthy people.”Meanwhile, KEM Hospital has received applications from more than 100 volunteers who want to be part of the pan-India clinical trials. The hospital authorities plan to conduct the requisite medical examination of the volunteers till the trails are on hold. “Without wasting time, we will keep the volunteers ready for the trials,” said Deshmukh.Doctors said some volunteers may back out after the reports of the UK participant come out, as the hospital is already getting inquiries regarding it. “We have received more than 40 calls till [Wednesday] afternoon inquiring about the adverse effect on volunteers. But such hiccups are common in clinical trials. Therefore, volunteers are covered by insurance,” said a doctor, on condition of anonymity. Dr Trupti Gilada, infectious disease specialist, Masina Hospital, said, “Such temporary holds are not uncommon in large clinical trials of vaccines or drugs. This is a standard safety check in the process to investigate if any potentially unexplained serious event seen is owing to the vaccine or is a mere coincidence. In fact, this is the reason why large clinical trials are done on new vaccines or drugs to ensure safety in addition to its efficacy. This shouldn’t cause any apprehension.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-vaccine-trials-put-on-hold-at-kem-hospital-in-mumbai-after-move-in-uk/story-lklGH1tJZnMljarp28aB3J.html
10-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sports minister and former Olympian Sandeep Singh front runner for HOA chief post||Haryana sports minister and two-time hockey Olympian Sandeep Singh is a front runner for the post of president of the Haryana Olympic Association (HOA). The state Olympic body polls are scheduled for September 19 at HOA Bhawan in Panchkula. Former Indian hockey skipper Sandeep, who made his debut in the Vidhan Sabha from Pehowa constituency on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket, is all set to challenge incumbent president former ADGP PV Rathee’s group. Rathee is believed to be close to former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. He had taken the reins of HOA during the Congress regime. If Sandeep is able to topple the Rathee group, he will become the first Olympian to head the body. Other politicians, who are heading sports associations are Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh, who is leading the Haryana Rifle Shooting Association and Paralympics Association of Haryana; BJP MP Dharambir Singh in swimming; and Congress Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda the wrestling unit. A number of bureaucrats and police officers are also heading the state sports associations. The HOA has a voting strength of 124. There are three votes each for the 33 affiliated state sports associations and one vote each for 21 district Olympic associations. There are four institutional members --- Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban, Motlilal Nehru Sports School, Rai, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation and Shah Satnam Sports, Sirsa, who have a vote each. All 21 district Olympic associations had dues pending for HOA’s annual subscription for the last four to 10 years, but with the state sports minister jumping into the fray, all district bodies cleared their arrears before the last day of submission, which is September 10. “Sandeep being an Olympian and holding the sports portfolio in the Manohar Lal Khattar cabinet is the most-eligible person for heading the HOA. Many state associations have extended their support to Sandeep and hopefully he will be able to sail through,” said the secretary of one of the affiliated state sports associations. In the past, control over HOA has always been seen as a prestige issue for the government in power. Be it the Congress or the Indian National Lok Dal, in their tenure they had used their political positions to capture the state Olympic body. During the previous tenure of the BJP government, Rathee had the numbers, so the government refrained from jumping in the direct HOA elections. In 2015, for a short one-year stint, BJP member of Parliament from Bhiwani, Dharambir Singh, was unanimously made the president with an understanding with Rathee, and later in 2016, Rathee became the HOA chief. “The last state games were organised in 2012. There has not been a single activity in the last four years. This is going against the incumbent group and many sports associations are hoping that the sports minister will strengthen their units and they will be able to hold activities with the government support,” says Sajjan Kumar, who was a joint secretary in the Rathee-led HOA and resigned on September 4. “But, at the same time, you can’t take Rathee ji lightly. He has been at the top of the affairs of HOA for a long time, so some associations might be loyal to him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sports-minister-and-former-olympian-sandeep-singh-front-runner-for-hoa-chief-post/story-zN2MAuhDZzCox9wrndBiJL.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Four policemen arrested for assaulting a 22-year-old to death in Mumbai’s Juhu area||Four constables attached with Juhu police station have been arrested by a special investigation team (SIT) for allegedly assaulting a 22-year-old to death, on Wednesday. The constables were suspended from service in August after the Bandra division’s assistant commissioner of police (ACP) informed the Bombay high court (HC) that he had identified the four police personnel from Juhu police station who assaulted the victim Raju Velu Devendra. The accused policemen were identified as naik Santosh Ganptrao Desai, naik Anand Sitaram Gaikwad, constable Digambar Sakharam Chavanm and constable Ankush Ambadas Palve. According to the police sources, following the seriousness of the case, an SIT was formed under the supervision of Sakinaka ACP Milind Khetle. The SIT during the course of investigation found the involvement of the four policemen for assaulting the victim and arrested them. The accused will be produced before the court tomorrow.Police sources said last month an internal inquiry had revealed that the four policemen had assaulted Devendra after he was found outdoors during the Covid-19 lockdown. Devendra was subsequently found dead. Juhu police had, however, maintained that in the intervening night of March 29 and 30, Devendra was spotted by locals while allegedly trying to enter a house near Mutthi Swami Chawl in Vile Parle. According to Juhu police, he attempted to flee by climbing the roof but slipped and fell on the ground. A mob chased him to an open space and beat him up, which led to him losing his consciousness. A patrolling police van later took him to Cooper Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival, Juhu police claimed. The police had also registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 141 (unlawful assembly), 142 (intentionally joining unlawful assembly), 143 (member of unlawful assembly), 144 (joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code against eight people. The matter, however, reached the high court later when advocate Firdause Irani brought to the notice of the high court Devendra’s death, which according to his family members, was caused due to police brutalities, in an attempt to highlight the police high-handedness in enforcing lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. It was only after the high court took serious note of police brutalities that the ACP of Bandra division admitted that Devendra’s death was not a case of mob lynching and that he was assaulted by four policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-policemen-arrested-for-assaulting-a-22-year-old-to-death-in-mumbai-s-juhu-area/story-gwRGO5dR54MAhjO2I9DnAP.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Highest 24-hour spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and Mumbai||Maharashtra and Mumbai on Wednesday recorded highest single-day spikes in Covid-19 cases with 23,816 and 2,227 fresh infections taking the state’s and city’s tally to 967,349 and 160,744. The state also reported 380 fatalities, including 55 deaths that were reconciled after an update on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website.The active cases in Maharashtra climbed to 252,734, while the state’s recovery rate touched 70.96% as 13,906 people recovered on Wednesday. The count of total recovered patients in the state stands at 686,462.The state is nearing one million Covid-19 infections, and going by the daily trend of fresh cases, it is likely to surpass the mark in the next two to three days. Mumbai, where the case curve had flattened in August, has witnessed a sudden surge in cases since the beginning of this month. Before Wednesday, the city had reported its highest 24-hour rise in infections of June 27, when 2,077 cases were reported. Mumbai has reported 15,227 cases in just the first nine days of September as against 30,474 in entire August. The city has reported an average of 1,691 cases every day so far September, while in August it had recorded an average of 983 daily cases. Meanwhile, according to the state health department, there was duplication of cases in Mumbai’s tally owing to which 239 cases were removed on Wednesday. The city currently has 25,665 active cases and its toll stands at 7,985 with an addition of 43 deaths on Wednesday. The case fatality rate of the city is 4.9%, while the recovery rate is 79%. The state, too, has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases over the past fortnight. In September so far, it has added 175,137 cases to it tally. State health department officials attribute the spike to relaxations in lockdown norms. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who held a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, expressed concern over the spread of the infection in rural and semi-urban areas. An official said the CM has directed district officials to increase hospital beds with oxygen supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/highest-24-hour-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-and-mumbai/story-lQBpnxvy2IMl4WiIFb9afN.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||BMC razes, Kangana Ranaut dares as row with Maharashtra government escalates||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday ignited the latest flashpoint in a raging political row by demolishing “structural violations” at actor Kangana Ranaut’s office in Bandra’s Pali Hill, a day after it had issued a notice to her and hours before she landed in the city amid tight security. The day-long drama saw the Bombay high court (HC), based on a petition filed by Ranaut, staying the demolition by the Shiv Sena-controlled BMC two hours later. The HC, which said the civic body’s conduct was “malafide”, has slotted the issue for hearing at 3pm today.Stemming from the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, the 33-year-old actor has been involved in a bitter war of words with Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena over her remarks likening Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). She reiterated the same after the demolition and also criticised chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The Maharashtra government has accused Ranaut of carrying forward the political agenda of the BJP. It had moved breach of privilege motions against her on Tuesday, along with saying it will probe a drug-use allegation against her. The building at the centre of all this is Manikarnika Films Private Limited office, located in Bungalow No. 5, a ground-plus two-storey structure at Chetak Row Houses in Bandra’s plush Pali Hill area, which was bought by Ranaut in 2017. Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner, BMC’s H-West ward, said “We carried out demolition work of the structural violations at Kangana Ranaut’s office in Bandra’s Pali Hill. Post the demolition process, further action will be taken legally.”The actor took on Thackeray, saying, “Uddhav Thackeray do you think that you and the film mafia today have demolished my house and taken revenge? Today my house is broken, tomorrow it will be your pride. It is all about time, and it will not remain the same always. Uddhav Thackeray, it is good that this aggression and terror happened with me because this will have some significance.”Arvind Sawant, Sena MP and party spokesperson, refused to comment on Ranaut’s video clip where she challenged Thackeray. Despite attempts, Sena MP Sanjay Raut could not be reached for comment on the clip. Earlier in the day, Raut declined to comment on the ongoing issue and said, “I was in Saamana office since morning, I am unaware about happenings outside.” Sena insiders said that the party leadership has asked leaders to not wade into the controversy. “Only Uddhavji or if required, Sanjay Raut, will speak on this matter,” a senior party leader said. The episode started on Monday when a team of BMC officers visited Ranaut’s office and conducted an inspection. The BMC on Tuesday issued a notice to Ranaut over 14 structural violations. The notice was pasted on the gate of her office after her staff refused to take it. Post this notice, Ranaut through her lawyer, wrote to the BMC, seeking seven days to respond to the notice, instead of 24 hours. She also said the notice was in bad law and a misuse of a dominant position. The BMC on Wednesday said they were not satisifed with the reply and went ahead with the demolition. However, two hours after the demolition started with the help of a JCB machine (small earthmover) and cutters, HC ordered a stay.According to civic officials, when structural details were cross-checked by them, they found out that the structure exists in their records since 1970s. They also found out that the office has several structural violations, including illegal extension pointed out in the notice. The BMC listed 14 violations, including toilet converted into office cabin, kitchen constructed in storeroom, illegal pantry on ground floor, wooden partition in living room, staircase orientation changed, balcony enclosed, position of main gate changed, among others.A BMC official said, “We have taken action legally and we will inform the court on Thursday. Further, any action will be taken after HC’s hearing on Thursday. The penalty levied on violators is based on the expenditure for demolition, but now all these calls will be taken after court’s hearing tomorrow.”In tweets on Wednesday morning, Ranaut said, “As I am all set for Mumbai Darshan on my way to the airport, Maha government and their goons are at my property all set to illegally break it down, go on! I promised to give blood for Maharashtra pride this is nothing take everything but my spirit will only rise higher and higher. There is no illegal construction in my house, also government has banned any demolitions in Covid till September 30, Bollywood watch now this is what Fascism looks like.”Meanwhile, according to BMC, every year they have been carrying out around 1,500-2,000 demolitions against illegal constructions. However, this year, BMC officials said the figure will go down considering the outbreak of Covid-19. As per data available between January 2016 and July 2019, the BMC received 94,851 complaints of illegal constructions and that they have taken action against 5,461. RTI Activist Shakeel Ahmed said, “BMC received over 90,000 complaints, but has acted only on over 5,000 cases. This means so many illegal structures or violations are not being acted upon by BMC. What is the reason behind acting selectively? Why did the BMC not act earlier if there were earlier violations?”Advocate and BJP leader Vivekanand Gupta said, “BMC cannot demolish any property in view of Covid-19 situation. The HC has ordered on their own motion, all orders of dispossession / demolition of any court /tribunal /authority are in abeyance till 30th September.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-razes-kangana-ranaut-dares-as-row-with-maharashtra-government-escalates/story-D9Omi5Sdr0dldjcVv4WAcO.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty moves for bail, plea says she was ‘falsely implicated’||Actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik on Wednesday approached the special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for bail as their pleas were rejected by the magistrate court. The court will hear the bail application on Thursday. Rhea, 28, was arrested by NCB on Tuesday for her alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and was remanded in judicial custody September 22 by the magistrate court. This is her second attempt to seek release after a magistrate court on Tuesday refused to grant her bail as the prosecution raised objection regarding the jurisdiction of the court to hear her plea. Showik, Sushant’s house manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant, and Bandra residents Zaid Vilatra, Abdel Basit Parihar, who were arrested for allegedly peddling drugs, were produced before a magistrate court, which sent them to judicial custody till September 23, said NCB officials. They have all applied for bail and the matter was taken on board and further adjourned for September 10. Rhea, in her plea, stated that she was innocent and falsely implicated. Further, it was claimed that Rhea “was coerced into making self-incriminatory confessions and by her application on September 8 the applicant has formally retracted all such incriminatory confessions.” Rhea and her brother Showik have been booked under Section 27A of the NDPS Act which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders. As per the provisions, if found guilty the two can face imprisonment of not less than 10 years, but cannot be extended up to 20 years and can also be fined Rs2 lakh. The two have been arrested for allegedly arranging narcotic substances for Rajput. After her arrest, Rhea was taken for a medical check-up and Covid-19 test, following which she spent the night at NCB’s office in south Mumbai and was shifted to Byculla jail on Wednesday.The bail pleas of the two were not entertained by the magistrate court, followed by which their lawyer Satish Maneshinde has approached the special court. The pleas are scheduled for hearing on Thursday where the investigating agency would be required to file their reply before the special court. The defence has raised issue of applicability of charges of Section 27A of NDPS Act against the two. In Rhea’s plea, the defence has stated, “the allegations against the present accused would at the most make out a case of purchasing small quantity of drug, which is in essence a bailable offence. There is not a shred of evidence to connect the applicant with financing any illicit traffic or harbouring any offender and hence the ingredients of Section 27A of the NDPS Act are not made out in present facts and circumstances.” “The respondent [NCB] is silent as to the amount of financing, quantum of drugs and the type of drugs allegedly procured and financed by the present applicant. The case of the respondent in the layman term is that the applicant would co-ordinate the delivery of the drug for her then boyfriend and occasionally pay for them herself. In essence, her alleged role if any is purchase of a small quantity of drugs for her then boyfriend which would squarely fall within the ambit of Section 20 (b) (ii) (A) (produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-State, exports inter-State or uses cannabis,) which is punishable with a maximum imprisonment of upto a year or with fine or both,” read the bail plea filed by Rhea’s lawyer. The defence alleged that even though the role attributed to Rhea and her brother Showik is identical to that of another accused in the case, Kaizan Ebrahim, NCB selectively invoked charges of Section 27 A only against Rhea and Showik. “The co-accused, Kaizan, was in fact released on provisional cash bail on the very first day of his remand by the magistrate court,” the defence claimed in Rhea’s bail plea, adding that the agency did not even ask for his custody. The defence have cited several rulings of the Apex court to support their contention and stated that in a case when the person is found to have been booked under bailable offence, he/she is entitled for bail. In the plea filed by Rhea, her lawyer has mentioned that she was questioned for three days by all level of officers of NCB on September 6 to September 8 before she was formally arrested. “There was not a single woman officer who interrogated the present applicant as mended by the law. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Sheela Barse VS State of Maharashtra, has held that the interrogation of females should be carried out only in the presence of female police officer/constable,” read the bail highlighting, that the agency failed to comply with the guidelines of the Apex court. Meanwhile, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday indicated that the investigation by multiple central agencies in the actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case could have been politically motivated. He said someone from the Centre or union home ministry may have directed to focus on the case. Pawar also confirmed to have received seven threat calls.“I don’t know but someone may have directed them or someone from the Centre or home ministry may have insisted to focus more on the case, following which, it is clear that they (investigation agencies) have taken such a stand,” the veteran leader said in response to a question over central agencies under pressure from the Centre to investigate the case.Pawar was speaking to reporters at YB Chavan Centre at Nariman Point, Mumbai after a book launch ceremony.Currently, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are investigating Rajput’s case and all three comes under the union home ministry being headed by Amit Shah.BJP has started a poster campaign seeking justice for the late actor in poll-bound Bihar.Coming out supporting the Mumbai Police force, Pawar said people of Maharashtra and Mumbai have an experience of years of the police and knows how dutiful their force is. “In my view, people don’t take such statements seriously. They have an experience of years of the police force and are aware how dutiful they are. We don’t need to take it seriously even if someone is saying that very often,” the former chief minister said.Pawar confirmed that he has received seven threat calls recently and said he doesn’t take them seriously. “The home minister (Anil Deshmukh) has given a record of the phone calls. There were seven such calls. I have received such calls before as well and don’t take them seriously,” he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state home minister Anil Deshmukh, too, had received threat calls in the last past two days. Security was also beefed up at Matoshree, Thackeray’s residence at Bandra, following threat calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-chakraborty-brother-showik-move-for-bail-before-special-ndps-court-hearing-on-sept-10/story-zrvl4bG48Txs23WHoRyWsL.html
10-09-2020||Mumbai||14 booked for protesting against BMC outside Kangana Ranaut’s office in Mumbai||Khar police on Wednesday booked 14 persons including 10 women for protesting against BMC’s demolition drive in front of actor Kangana Ranaut’s office. On Wednesday, when BMC officials were conducting a demolition drive at Ranaut’s office, 15-20 people gathered and protested against the BMC officials. According to the police, the protesters were holding placards with messages- #IndiaForKangana #BharatForKangana on it. An officer from Khar police station said, “We have registered a case against 14 persons under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 143, (unlawful assembly), 144 (joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon),145 (Joining or continuing in unlawful assembly), 34 (common intention) and 134 of Maharashtra Police Act.” “We served the women a notice under section 41 of CrPC and allowed them to go,” said an officer from Khar police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/14-booked-for-protesting-against-bmc-outside-kangana-ranaut-s-office-in-mumbai/story-cIqY8nCItfb4EpiOTwN28I.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Tests per million in Delhi crosses 1 lakh-mark||The number of Covid-19 tests per million in the national capital crossed the one-lakh mark on Wednesday, as the authorities conducted a record 54,517 tests in the last 24 hours, government data showed.  According to the latest health bulletin issued by the Delhi government, the test-per-million count stood at 1,00,198.  As many as 11,101 RT-PCR, CBNAAT, True Nat and 43,416 rapid-antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, it said.The national capital recorded 4,039 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike so far, as the tally breached the two lakh-mark, while the death toll mounted to 4,638, authorities said.This is the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic that over 4,000 cases have been recorded in Delhi in a day.The previous highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases was recorded on June 23.Twenty fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin.The tally of active cases rose to 23,773 from 22,377 the previous day, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-tests-per-million-in-delhi-crosses-1-lakh-mark/story-fBN0KYl8Ft9IL0Bwp3B4BN.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 patients at risk of developing lung fibrosis||Doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) have recommended lung transplants for two patients who have recovered from Covid-19, because of extensive fibrosis — a condition where lung tissues harden, with lesions caused as the infection heals. The country’s first lung transplant in a Covid-19 patient was performed in Chennai in the end of August. While most people recover fully from Covid-19, some experience persistent symptoms like breathlessness, fatigue, erratic heartbeat, gastrointestinal problems, and muscle and joint pains for several weeks. A few develop irreversible cardiovascular and respiratory damage.“If you look at the available data, about 60 to 80% of the individuals who have recovered from Covid-19 may have some form of sequelae (a condition caused by another disease). It can be mild in the form of fatigue and body aches. But it can also be very serious in the form of individuals requiring to be on long-term oxygen therapy. We have had two individuals who have had extensive lung fibrosis and are being advised lung transplants. And we have people who have significant cardiac abnormalities and stroke,” AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said in the weekly ‘National Grand Rounds’ to present current evidence to doctors across the country. Also read | Delhi: Cases cross 4k for first time but drop in positivity rateApart from lung and heart conditions, Dr Guleria also warned about psychiatric disorders as a result of not just the infection, but the lockdown and social isolation imposed to prevent the spread of the infection. Referring to a study from Italy, Dr Anant Mohan, who heads the pulmonary medicine department in AIIMS said only 12.6% of all recovered Covid-19 trial participants were completely symptom-free after two months, 32% had one or two symptoms, and 55% had three or more symptoms — the most common of which are fatigue, shortness of breath, joint pain, chest pain, and cough. Dr Saurav Mittal, from the same department, presented three cases of post-Covid-19 complications and how they can be managed. The first case of a healthy 65-year-old man demonstrated that there could be persisting fibrosis in previously healthy patients that makes them oxygen dependent. The second case of a 43-year-old healthy man was to demonstrate how even after getting better. Covid-19 patients might develop blood clots in the lungs and secondary infections that can lead to deterioration. And, the third case of a 45-year-old man with mild disease who developed a fever 15 days later was to shows that other infections like dengue could be the reason for the second phase of symptoms. When it come to fibrosis in the lungs, Dr Mohan said that although there was no estimate of the prevalence, he thought the doctors would see several patients in the clinics with such cases. “There is no estimate of prevalence of post-Covid-19 fibrosis but given the volume of Covid-19 cases, even if it is a small percentage, the absolute numbers are likely to be huge,” he said. The doctor said based on knowledge of fibrosis without known causes, and fibrosis caused by other coronavirus diseases like Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers) shows that people above the age of 65, those who had severe disease, had a long stay at the intensive care unit (ICU) and needed mechanical ventilation, and those who smoke and drink are at a higher risk of developing fibrosis. “Lung transplant is an option for a very select group of people — those with extensive fibrosis and acute respiratory distress but who do not have other co-morbidities like renal dysfunction and muscle wasting after Covid-19,” said Dr Mohan. As for the heart, Dr Ambuj Roy, professor from the department of cardiology at AIIMS, said patients with severe pneumonia and other respiratory infections have a higher risk of heart attacks. “Once a patient recovers from Covid-19, we cannot lower our guards. As we have seen in the case of severe pneumonia, the risk of heart attack goes up by as much as six times. We need to closely follow the recovered Covid-19 patients who have multiple risk factors. Those who are on cardio-protective medicines should continue taking them diligently and those with higher risk should also be prescribed these medicines,” he said. The doctor also referred to a study from Germany which showed that among 100 recovered Covid-19 patients, 78 had some cardiac involvement and 60 had ongoing inflammation of the heart muscle. Professor Pratima Murthy, head of psychiatry at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, who also joined the rounds via video conference said, “In the beginning, there was a lot of anxiety of getting Covid-19 and stress and depression due to the lockdown. When patients get admitted to hospitals, there are various social and economic factors at play that can lead to extreme depression, suicidal attempts and suicides. People may also develop post traumatic stress disorder about their hospitalisation experience. The inflammatory diseases are known to impact the central nervous system and may trigger mood disorders. It can also increase risk of schizophrenia and psychosis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-patients-at-risk-of-developing-lung-fibrosis/story-MUUEWzj7BB7LqRm6v2VGNL.html
10-09-2020||City||Possession of two parking lots not taken, Ludhiana MC scraps contracts||Three months after a contractor failed to take possession of the parking lots at Feroze Gandhi market and Sarabha Nagar Block-I, the municipal corporation (MC) on Wednesday cancelled the contracts and forfeited the earnest money. Following an e-auction, MC’s finance and contracts committee (F&CC) on June 9 had approved the resolution to allot the two parking lots to the same contractor for Rs 1.1 crore and Rs 4.5 lakh, respectively. Mayor Balkar Sandhu has now directed MC officials to float fresh tenders for all six lots in the city, as the contract period of other four lots will also end on September 30. Though the contracts were to end in August, a one-month extension was given to contractors to compensate for the losses during the lockdown.The civic body had earlier recommended cancellation of the contracts to the F&CC. But, with no meeting of the panel scheduled in the near future, the mayor, who is head of the committee, cancelled the allotments.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said as per norms, a contractor, who failed to take possession of a lot, had to be blacklisted. But, MC had not yet taken any decision in this regard. Members of the Feroze Gandhi Market Association have been demanding that the corporation run the lots itself rather than handing them over to a contractor to avoid fleecing of visitors. They had also escalated haphazard parking of vehicles on roads by the staff of the contractor. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said, “The mayor has cancelled the contracts of two parking lots. We are working on preparing fresh tenders for the e-auction of all six parking lots. Terms and conditions are also being drafted.” Fresh tenders will be floated for the parking lots at Feroze Gandhi market, Bhadaur House, BRS Nagar, Model Town Extension, Multi-storey parking near MC’s Zone A office and Sarabha Nagar market (Block-I).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/possession-of-two-parking-lots-not-taken-ludhiana-mc-scraps-contracts/story-NW0SXkv3nH4GOUSu3WVIcL.html
10-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC invites residents to help improve city’s cleanliness ranking||Roping in citizens to help improve the city’s ranking in Swachh Survekshan 2021, the municipal corporation (MC) has announced competitions for hotels, educational institutes, hospitals, government offices, resident welfare associations and market associations. In a public notice issued on Wednesday, MC has invited voluntary participation through forms by September 30. The establishments will be judged via different categories on the basis of different parameters. Top three facilities in each category will be awarded Swachhta certificates. In similar competitions organised last year, 72 institutions/establishments had participated. MC officials said the competitions carried 70 marks under the yearly Swachh Survekshan. The parameters include waste segregation at source, installation of dustbins on the premises, any campaign taken up to promote swachhta, condition of toilets and innovation, among others. Ludhiana was ranked 34th among 47 cities with a population over 10 lakh in the Swachh Survekshan 2020. However, it bagged the “Best big city in innovation and best practices” award. MC community development officer Maheshwar Singh said, “The swachh ranking competitions are being organised on the directions of the union ministry of housing and urban affairs. The forms can be downloaded from MC’s website mcludhiana.gov.in and submitted via email at ldh.sbmumc@gmail.com. These can also be handed over in person at the MC office near Leisure Valley in Sarabha Nagar by September 30.”Appealing to the residents to participate in the competitions, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Residents’ participation will not only help MC improve the city’s ranking, but also provide a clean and hygienic environment to visitors in the respective establishments/institutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-invites-residents-to-help-improve-city-s-cleanliness-ranking/story-TXljhTIYroKWqBMx9YdrgI.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Work on drain damages 30 trees in Lodhi Colony||At least 30 tree bases are believed to have been concretised along Meera Marg-IV Avenue Road in Lodhi Colony during construction of a drain by the Delhi government’s public works department (PWD). Work on a part of the stretch is still on despite the state forest department issuing a ‘stop-work’ order to the agency last week. The tree line on both sides of the road has been damaged with digging and cementing work being done within a one-metre radius of the tree trunks. The stretch has old and full-grown trees numbered by the forest department.According to forest department officials, a preliminary assessment of the stretch was done last week. The stop-work order was issued when violations were noticed . Digging and filling concrete within one metre of a tree trunk is a violation of the National Green Tribunal’s 2015 order and the Delhi Trees Preservation Act, 1994. Environment activist Verhaen Khanna has filed multiple complaints with the forest department, the PWD and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai’s office about the violation of green norms during the construction. “At least 30 trees on the route have been damaged. Some corrective measures were taken by the PWD after the forest department asked them to stop work and restore the trees,” Khanna said. When HT visited the spot, the roots of a number of trees lay exposed, or covered with fresh soil as a corrective measure by the PWD. Elsewhere, the tree bases were cemented with a gap of less than a metre, blocking the flow of water to its roots. Piles of concrete and mud were dumped around several trees. A huge Semal tree (no.147) had its roots almost exposed due to digging and fresh soil was put to cover the damage. Deputy conservator of forests (DCF) South, Amit Anand, said he had issued a ‘stop-work’ order to PWD last week. “We received a complaint after which we conducted a field inspection. Digging was done too close to the tree trunks (within one-metre radius). Moreover, because of rainfall, the soil ran off the tree surface and its roots were exposed. We asked the agency to take corrective measures to restore the trees and share their plan on how they will carry out rest of the construction without harming the tree line. We have a hearing with PWD officials on Thursday,” Anand said. “Final orders will be issued after another round of inspection,” he said, adding the stretch has around 30 trees. A senior PWD official, who did not wish to be named, said they had taken corrective measures. “We will ensure none of the trees is damaged,” the official said. Khanna said the stretch has a variety of full-grown trees including semal, pilkhan and amaltas. “Concrete around trees causes the roots to become weak. The tree may dry up or die. Damaging trees will also affect the local flora and fauna that depend on trees for food and habitat. I have been repeatedly filing complaints in the matter, but the damage has already been done. The tree line was extending underneath the footpaths, but now the agency dug up at least 5-6 feet deep to construct the drain, which damaged the root system,” Khanna said. Faiyaz A Khudsar, scientist, biodiversity parks programme, Delhi University, said, “When tree roots are covered by tiles or concrete, they are not able to perform their functions of nutrient uptake and moisture absorption, which leads to weakening of the tree. When a tree is weak, it becomes vulnerable to attack of pest and pathogens, which can result in its decay. The maximum mortality in trees occurs post-monsoon, when most of the underground roots are flooded with rain water and the lateral roots responsible for performing major functions, in case being covered with concrete, will not be able to do their work and hence result in gradual decay.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tree-bases-damaged-concretised-during-drain-construction-in-lodhi-colony/story-QGOzNDXG4iNdLV7biVJCkJ.html
10-09-2020||City||90 Ludhiana govt schools given ₹20,000 grant to set up educational parks||To hone students’ mathematic reasoning and inculcate a scientific outlook, the government has asked 90 government schools in the district to set up educational parks where concepts will be illustrated with two-dimensional and three-dimensional models. Each school has been given a grant of ₹20,000 for the same. The project is part of the Centre’s Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, under which the district was given ₹18 lakh. The educational parks can be designed according to the space available at schools. In case of dearth of space, a single park, which covers concepts of all subjects can be setup. Schools have been advised to avail the help of art and craft teachers to make the models standout. Schools have been instructed to ensure a bilingual exhibit, with information displayed in English and Punjabi. ‘WILL HELP BREAK MONOTONY OF CLASSROOM TEACHING’ The parks aim to provide students with practical exposure and better concept clarity. Threeke Government Senior Secondary Smart School science teacher Rapwinder Kaur says, “The parks will help to break the monotony of classroom teaching as concepts will be explained through models. I had developed a science park at my school last year where innovative models were made out of waste and construction material lying around the school. The science park had received an overwhelming response from students and teachers of other schools. Science models such as a pinhole camera made of PVC pipes, Newton’s cradle, gyroscope made of a wheel, Newton’s disc made of basket covers, DNA model made of broken water pipes, sound pipes, whispering dish, windmill made using non-functional fans, and a periscope, have been displayed in our schools’ park.”Government Senior Secondary School (Multipurpose) principal Navdeep Romana said, “This is a great initiative by the government as it promotes activity-based learning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/90-ludhiana-govt-schools-given-20k-grant-to-set-up-educational-parks/story-3NnhGQYzu35JKLzzdTh0qO.html
10-09-2020||City||75-year-old victim’s co-worker masterminded armed robbery outside Ludhiana bank||A well-concocted plan by a co-worker of the 75-year-old victim with his criminal friends was behind the Rs 2.8-lakh robbery outside IndusInd bank on Gill Road on September 1, police said on Wednesday.Two of the accused – mastermind Arjinder Singh, alias Robin, of Mohalla Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, and Deepak Lalka, alias Dabbu, a resident of Deep Nagar – have been arrested.“Police have recovered Rs 43,500 from their possession, besides an Aadhaar card, a mobile phone and the motorcycle that was used in the crime,” said commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal.Raids are underway to arrest their accomplices – Himanshu Marwaha of Parbhat Nagar, Dholewal; Kuntal Sachdeva of Sadar Area; Abhijit Mand of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Dugri; Gurpreet Singh Kalsi of Vishwakarma Colony; Kashish Bhinder of LIG flats, Dugri; and Mudit Sood of Phase 1, Dugri.DETAILED PLAN FOR EASY MONEYEach of the eight accused had a role to play in the robbery – from establishing the routine of Kuljit Singh, the 75-year-old victim, to following his movement, driving to the bank on a motorcycle, robbing him at gunpoint and arranging a hideout thereafter.The police chief said Arjinder worked in the same factory as the victim and was aware that the latter, as the firm’s cashier, regularly visited the IndusInd bank on Gill Road to deposit and withdraw cash.Eyeing easy money, he roped in his seven friends, who are all drug addicts and habitual offenders. They are facing multiple cases of attempt to murder, kidnapping and assault, and were even involved in the firing incident outside a restaurant in Dehlon a few days ago.In line with the plan, the gang members conducted a recce of Kuljit’s movement and decided to rob him on August 31. “But, they cancelled the plan on Arjinder’s insistence that Kuljit was not carrying a big amount. On September 1, Arjinder got to know that Kuljit will deposit Rs 2 lakh in the bank. He called Gurpreet and Deepak via WhatsApp and shared the victim’s identity,” the top cop said.While Deepak, Kuntal and Kashish monitored Kuljit’s movement, Himanshu, along with Abhijit and Mudit, drove to the bank on a motorcycle.As Kuljit was about to enter the bank around 11.30am, Abhijit and Mudit snatched his bag containing the cash and also threatened security guard Baghel Singh with a gun when he rushed to Kuljit’s aid on hearing his cries.The duo then fled with Himanshu on the motorcycle and reached Gurpreet’s house, where they distributed the booty among themselves.NABBED ON TIP-OFFArjinder and Deepak were arrested from a police naka near Trikona Park in Miller Gunj following a tip-off on Tuesday. They tried to flee on spotting the cops, but were nabbed after a chase.During questioning, the duo admitted to the robbery and shared the names of their accomplices. All accused are facing a fresh case of robbery.Agrawal said they were looking into the gang’s involvement in other similar unsolved crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/75-year-old-victim-s-co-worker-masterminded-armed-robbery-outside-ludhiana-bank/story-vdxhS28p21nFWl9iFGrpVJ.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Police form dedicated teams to prosecute those without masks, others to return to crime control||The Delhi Police will constitute a dedicated team in each police station to prosecute those not wearing masks, violating social distancing norms and spitting in public.The other personnel deployed at pickets points on the road as well as patrolling teams will no more be doing this task and will instead focus on their “primary job of crime control”. The dedicated team will be deployed at specific locations within the jurisdiction of each police station from 10am to 6pm daily to prosecute hygiene norms violators.On Tuesday, an order issued by police commissioner SN Srivastava said the dedicated team will have two personnel, overseen by an inspector-rank officer.The order comes just a day after the traffic police were taken off these tasks and told to focus on traffic management and violations, given that vehicular volume has increased on Delhi’s roads with the easing of lockdown restrictions.“Other district police personnel engaged in checking at picket points, patrolling parties and others engaged in crime control should concentrate on the primary job of crime control and law and order management,” the order said. A senior police officer, on condition of anonymity, said the decision to cease prosecution at pickets points was taken because of “scarcity of resources”. “Normalcy has returned to the city and people are stepping out of homes more often. So, we have to focus on our core job of preventing crimes,” the officer said.The officer said it was observed that at picket points, it took about five minutes to prosecute each violator. “While the personnel are engaged in this task, a large number of vehicles pass through without any checks. The entire purpose of having picket points was being lost,” the officer said.Since March this year, the Delhi Police have issued a total of 306,693 fines for various hygiene rules violations until Tuesday evening. These include 277,131 for not wearing masks, 27,116 for social distancing violations and 2,434 for spitting in public.During this period, the police also saw nearly 3,000 of its personnel contracting Covid-19 and at least 17 of them had succumbed to the disease.A deputy commissioner of police (DCP), who did not want to be named, said while it is mandatory to have at least one special team for prosecuting Covid rules violations, he has formed three to four such teams in each district. “They’ll be deployed in markets, bus stands and outside Metro stations,” the DCP said. The dedicated team will identify spots where violations are likely to be high and prosecutions shall be carried out in rotation. The primary attention of the traffic police shall be on regulating traffic in view of the near normalcy of traffic on the roads,” the order said. When the lockdown was announced, the traffic police personnel had stopped prosecuting traffic violators. While they returned to their primary task in July, the department is yet to resume prosecution of drunk drivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-form-dedicated-teams-to-prosecute-those-without-masks-others-to-return-to-crime-control/story-I4ffEb5FbabLTrm1pDBe6I.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro ridership crosses 53,000 as Blue and Pink lines reopen||The Delhi Metro on Wednesday resumed services on the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21 to Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) and the Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar), which also meant the opening of nine interchange stations that led to an increase in the number of people taking the Metro. The Yellow Line, connecting Huda City Centre and Samaypur Badli, together with the Blue and Pink lines registered a total ridership of 53,400 on Wednesday. Services continued in two shifts, from 7am to 11am and from 4pm to 8pm. The Yellow Line, which was the first corridor to be thrown open to public on Monday, recorded a total ridership of 26,900. The Blue Line saw 22,600 passengers while 3,900 people travelled on the Pink Line in the morning shift. The opening of these two new lines also made available interchange facilities at nine interchange stations. From Thursday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will also resume service on the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Ballabhgarh), Red Line (Rithala to Shaheed Sthal/New Bus Adda), and Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh/Bahadurgarh). Also read | Delhi metro tokens might return once the pandemic is over, focus on smart cards: DMRC chiefWith all three lines from the Kashmere Gate station becoming operational, Thursday will also be the first true test of DMRC’s crowd management protocols. “The DMRC will be running 35 trains on the Red Line, which will make 413 trips during the morning and evening hours on Thursday. Similarly, 40 trains will make 344 trips on the Violet Line and 20 trains will make 268 trips on the Green Line,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said. Dayal said, “The number of trips will be increased subsequently, as will the operational timings, as and when the other lines are opened in a graded manner.”  On Wednesday, on the Blue and Pink lines, operations largely remained smooth with passengers self disciplining themselves into wearing masks and maintaining social distancing at stations and on trains. However, there were some glitches. At certain Metro stations, such as New Ashok Nagar and Mayur Vihar Extension, commuters faced issues in recharging their smart cards at ticketing counters. Metro officials were seen pushing back the cards, while asking passengers to get them recharged online. However, card recharge facility was available at all interchange stations. Ajit Kumar Singh, a resident of New Ashok Nagar, said he was turned away from the station by Metro authorities for not having adequate amount on his Metro card. “I had to go to Dwarka from New Ashok Nagar. At the station, I got to know that the amount in my card was not enough. Earlier, there used to be a facility to recharge cards at the ticketing counters but today they turned me away saying recharge was not possible. I had to exit the station and recharge it online,” Singh said. Metro rider Anupama Rastogi said she also faced a similar problem and had to get her brother to recharge her card. “I wanted to take the Metro to reach my office at Mandi House but my card had insufficient balance. The Mayur Vihar Extension station officials said that there was no facility to recharge smart cards at the counter and it has to be done online. I don’t use online payment modes so I requested my brother to do it,” she said. DMRC said that recharge facility was available at customer care counters of all operational stations. However, since the recharge system has switched to digital, there are some teething issues which will be addressed, it said.“Smart card recharge is available at all stations.One can recharge the card by available cashless options be it online or at the customer care centres (using credit/debit card) at the stations. Wednesday’s mights have been some temporary connectivity issue with the POS (point of sale) terminals.These are teething issues which will be sorted out at the earliest,” Dayal said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/blue-and-pink-lines-open-many-face-trouble-in-recharging-travel-cards-at-station-counters/story-mp0oHaOi9IAxxa0vOYIh9O.html
10-09-2020||City||Punjab’s Covid capital Ludhiana grows health wise||The importance of social distancing has finally rung in among Ludhiana residents who until recently could be seen crowding in markets and defying Covid norms. With the district crossing the 12,000 mark in cases, the markets have started wearing a deserted look despite shop timings being extended to 9pm. On Wednesday, the usual hustle and bustle was missing from the main markets of the city, including Chaura Bazar, Pink Plaza market, Ghumar Mandi and Model Town market, among others. Even malls reported a low footfall. Chaura Bazar Shopkeepers Association president Parampal Singh Witty said, “The recent relaxations announced by the government have provided relief to shopkeepers, but the footfall in markets is still low. We are only receiving around 30% of our usual customers.” “Loss of income is also a major reason behind low footfall as many families are struggling to make ends meet amid the financial crisis,” said Witty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-grows-health-wise/story-1GgVLNJmHcLaqVT5N7jPjO.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt constitutes committee to suggest measures to augment excise revenue||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday constituted a committee under the chairmanship of excise commissioner Ravi Dhawan to suggest measures for augmenting the state excise duty revenue, the Delhi government said.This committee will also suggest measures for simplifying the liquor pricing mechanism in the city and checking malpractices and evasion of duty in liquor trade. “The panel will formulate a policy to generate more jobs in the restaurant and hospitality industry and to boost the business. It will hold consultations with stakeholders and it is also authorised to consider the representations received by the government on the issue. The committee will submit its report within two weeks,” Sisodia said. In a statement, the government said the panel will also look into changes in the excise duty structure that will promote ease of doing business for the restaurant and hospitality industry in Delhi.The members of the committee include deputy commissioner (excise) Sandeep Mishra and additional commissioner (trade and taxes) Anand Kumar Tiwari as members.“The hotel and hospitality industry has been one of the worst affected industries during the Covid pandemic. Millions of people work in this industry and it produces about 8% of the jobs in Delhi. But the pandemic has devastated this industry,” Sisodia said. Build consumer confidence: JainDelhi health and industries minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a “drastic drop” in the average spend of people, and emphasised that there is a need to work towards building consumer confidence to avoid a long-term downward spiralling effect on the industry.Jain also suggested that there may be a moratorium of no or minimal government interference for at least a year to help the industry get back to growth, the Delhi government said in a statement.Delivering the keynote address at the Delhi Business Week session hosted by Confederation of Indian Industry, CII, the minister said, “Delhi government has taken many steps to build consumer confidence by handling the pandemic and retaining key subsidies on essential services like electricity, water among others. There is a need to create demand for and by the industry to survive the Covid pandemic. The pandemic-induced uncertainties and insecurities led to drastic drop in the average spend or demand from the consumers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-constitutes-committee-to-suggest-measures-to-augment-excise-revenue/story-Ii6XIzVnpPXSpMicGKU1iL.html
10-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi schools put in place safety measures, say ready for guidance visits by students||A day after the Union ministry of health and family welfare issued detailed guidelines for “partial reopening” of schools for students of classes 9 to 12 on a voluntary basis from September 21 to seek academic guidance, principals of several private and government schools in Delhi said they are ready to receive students on their campuses after a gap of around six months.According to the Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs on August 30, schools will continue to remain closed till September 30. At the same time, it stated, “Students of class 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the containment zones only, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers. This will be subject to written consent from their parents/guardians and will be permitted with effect from September 21, 2020, for which SoPs will be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare.”The health ministry on Tuesday issued the standard operating procedures (SoPs) which include maintaining a physical distance of six feet, sanitisation of school premises with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, 50% strength of teachers and staff members at a time, mandatory use of face masks, utilisation of open spaces for the teacher-student interaction and prohibition of sports and other assemblies, among others. Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said the school is ready to “partially re-open” for the students of senior classes if they want to visit to seek guidance from their teachers but it has to be with the permission of their parents and if the Delhi government gives a green signal. “As per the government’s guidelines, the students can only visit for guidance and there won’t be full-fledged classes. We are absolutely ready for it if they want to come with their parents’ consent. We have arrangements to ensure social distancing. We have also procured necessary items such as sanitisers and thermal scanners. All the guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare will be followed,” she said.A senior official in Delhi government’s education department said there is no decision on reopening of schools or holding classes. “The Delhi government is still evaluating the situation. We are also discussing with the stakeholders if it will be feasible for us to partially reopen the schools in Delhi as per the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines. The government will soon take a decision on this,” said the official. Terming the SoPs “strict as they meant to be”, Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Schools said, “This partial return of students will be like testing waters for opening schools. We will call students who are willing to visit the school in small groups in a staggered way. We are expecting that students of class 12 might visit seeking help in practicals. The school is prepared in case they want to come.”Principals said they will also have to prepare a separate time table since teachers will also be taking online classes simultaneously. “We will have to make sure that a subject teacher is available at the school for the students who want to visit the campus to take up their queries and doubts. We will also have to procure masks, sanitisers, gloves and thermal scanners. There will be staggered timing for arrival and departure for students at the campus and disinfection of the building on a regular basis,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini.Many schools, including Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, have also installed contactless water taps and sanitiser dispensers at their campus for the safety of the students. “We have also installed cameras in the classes. So, whatever the teacher will be teaching to the students who visit the schools to clear doubts, other students can also watch sitting at home,” said school principal Alka Kapur. Even though the Centre has permitted schools to run transport facilities if required, several principals said that they might avoid it as of now. Tania Joshi, principal of Indian School, said, “Many schools don’t have their own vehicles and they run vehicles on contract. We can’t control children on the buses. We will convince parents to drop and pick the kids to the school.”Officials at government schools said students will benefit if they start visiting their teachers on regularly. AK Jha, head of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said, “Students of government schools have limited access to smartphone with sufficient data and if they come to school our teachers can provide them with proper guidance so that they can bridge the learning gap. For the safety of students, every precaution and social distancing method will be followed. Students will be made aware of how to live with coronavirus in the first week then the teaching will go on.”Meanwhile, several teachers said that parents should not hold them responsible in case anything goes wrong. Alok K Mishra, a mentor teacher at government boys’ senior secondary school in Mangolpur Khurd, said, “Schools should be partially reopened with all the precautions. It’s important both from the perspective of education and for the mental and social health of students. But there will always be a possibility of infection amid a pandemic. If any student gets infected the teachers should not be held responsible for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-schools-put-in-place-safety-measures-say-they-re-ready-for-class-9-12-students/story-YAzjFHwB2SrFPm8b4p7kLK.html
10-09-2020||Pune||Wagholi gram panchayat declares public curfew from Sept 12-17 amidst rising Covid cases||The Wagholi gram panchayat has declared a public curfew between September 12 and September 17 in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 patients in area with a population nearing two lakh. According to Wagholi gram panchayat officials, the number of Covid-19 patients had increased significantly in the past three days and an emergency meeting was held in the presence of elected members, district administration and health officials after which a decision of implementing a public curfew was taken.As of September 9, there are a total of 910 Covid-19 positive patients in Wagholi, as per health department officials.Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) director Sanjeev Patil, said, “People must co-operate with the authorities. Most of the virus spread is occurring due to violation of social distancing norms and people’s participation in public events. The situation is getting out of hand and the gram panchayat has ordered a self-imposed public curfew to curb the spread of the virus in the area.”Wagholi health officer Varsha Gaikwad, said, “The Covid treatment centre at Ayurvedic College and BJS College are full to their capacity as patients from villages as far as Shirur have been admitted there. The citizens must adhere to social distancing rules, wear masks and follow the guidelines of the government. Observing isolation alone can lead to breaking of the chain.”As per officials, the virus spread in the area took a turn for the worst after many people attended a marriage ceremony. One family saw 35 members testing positive for Covid and this in turn led to further spread of the virus.Wagholi gramsevak Anil Kumbhar, said, “Earlier, citizens were following the regulations, but now they are breaking all the rules which has led to a rapid spread of the infection in the area. The situation is alarming as people are stepping out in large numbers and not following the norms of social distancing.”Wagholi sarpanch Vasundhara Ubale, said, “Taking into account the number of positive patients found at a single place, the area has been declared as a containment zone and sealed wherein shops have been ordered to shutdown as a preventive measure. The connecting and internal roads of those areas have been barricaded and the area has been sealed as we don’t want to take any chance of further Covid spread. Every Wagholikar must take care of his or her health and stay indoors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/wagholi-gram-panchayat-appeals-for-public-curfew-from-sept-15-17-amidst-rising-covid-cases/story-cOHzlif13CMY5venLqDJRJ.html
10-09-2020||Pune||24-hour testing facility at Naidu Hospital||The Covid-19 testing facility at Naidu hospital will run 24 hours, announced Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).Additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goyal issued the circular on Wednesday. Goyal said, “Over the last few days, the number of Covid-19 positive patients has been increasing. Right now all the testing facilities operate only during the day time. To facilitate citizens and early detection, it is important to run a few facilities 24 hours. I was instructed to make necessary arrangements and keep a 24-hour testing facility at Naidu hospital.”PMC officials said that the testing facility operates between 9am and 4pm. There is a huge rush at all the testing facilities and private hospitals in the city. A PMC official on the condition of anonymity said, “Actually the testing work starts at 9am, but people wait outside since 7am at the testing facility to the tests done early. It takes at least two hours to complete the test procedure at any centre because of the rush.”PMC has not mentioned when the 24 hour facility will start as it need to deploy more manpower for it. One of the officials from Naidu hospital on the condition of anonymity said that they would need at least 24 hours -48 hours to execute this order as the health department will need time to make necessary arrangements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/24-hour-testing-facility-at-naidu-hospital/story-QsPgyEXKckwsxfqC0nkR3L.html
10-09-2020||Pune||Man kills wife over suspected infidelity in Pune||A woman was killed by her husband over suspicion of having an extra-marital affair in Pune on Tuesday afternoon. The man is on the run. The deceased was identified as Pooja Dhamdhere (30) while her husband was identified as Tushar Dhamdhere, according to the police. The couple has a three-year-old child. The police complaint was lodged by Santosh Paygude (43), the brother of the deceased and a resident of Donaje in Haveli [Pune]. According to the complainant, his sister married the accused in November 2011. The accused is a farmer and own a poultry farm in Khadakwadi. On suspicion of infidelity, he took his sister’s mobile phone and used to verbally and physically abuse her. “Two days before the incident, the victim had told her brother that the accused had chased her with a knife in his hand with an intention of hurting her. On Tuesday, the day of the incident, the couple visited their farm house in Khadakwadi in the morning where they allegedly got into a fight and he hit her on the head with a heavy object. The body was later found by the parents of the accused during their regular walk post-lunch,” said assistant inspector PM Waghmare of Uttamnagar police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 498(a) (domestic violence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Uttamnagar police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-wife-over-suspected-infidelity-in-pune/story-8UiYeEwhfGQq7b4hJeCjNO.html
