11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Documentary film on historic Gurdwara Bhabour Sahib released||A documentary film titled “Prayer of Protection”, depicting the historic Gurdwara Bhabour Sahib in Nangal, Punjab, was held on Friday at Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha in Sarabha Nagar, Ludhiana.The documentary film, made by advocate Harpreet Sandhu, depicts the historical significance of Gurdwara Bhabour Sahib where Guru Gobind Singh compiled “Chaupai Sahib” sitting on the banks of Sutlej river during his stay there between years 1700-01.While releasing the documentary, poet Surjit Patar said it is impressive work, showcasing the significance of the Gurudwara Bhabour Sahib and the hyms of prayer Chaupai Sahib.Harpreet Sandhu shot the documentary during the lockdown in May and tried to portray the original nature surroundings in and around this place.GLADA chief Parminder Gill also admired the concept of the documentary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-documentary-film-on-historic-gurdwara-bhabour-sahib-released/story-LsihfxeKoZU0Rwwindca3N.html
11-09-2020||City||Ferozepur man held for making extortion call in gangster’s name||A resident of Ferozepur working as a labour contractor was held for demanding extortion money from the owner of a dhaba in the name of gangster Jaipal Bhullar, the police said on Friday.Accused Raghav Nagpal, who is an engineering graduate, was arrested near the railway bridge in Kothe Khajura village. On August 23, Nagpal had threatened dhaba owner Parminder Singh Raja and demanded ₹25 lakh as extortion money in gangster Bhullar’s name. When Raja ignored his threats, he had intercepted him on the way and threatened him again.He told the police that he had used the gangster’s name for making easy money, adding that he had no connection with him. The police, however, said they didn’t believe him and were investigating the gangster’s role in the matter.Inspector Surjit Singh said the police were trying to ascertain the role of the gangster in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ferozepur-man-held-for-making-extortion-call-in-gangster-s-name/story-blPUgThKQafeEdfo7hF2DM.html
11-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Shopkeepers found serving food to people drinking in the open to be booked||The police arrested 64 people from different residential areas of the city for drinking in their parked cars on Wednesday and Thursday. The police said strict directions have been issued to all shopkeepers, cart owners and restaurant owners in markets of residential areas, asking them not to serve food to people in cars to prevent them from drinking in the open. The police said action will be taken against shopkeepers if they do not follow the orders. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that only takeaway services will be allowed from food joints that do not have a dine-in facility. “We have received over 200 complaints from different residential areas of open drinking following which teams were formed on Tuesday. The teams have been directed to take action against those shopkeepers who are found serving food to people drinking in the open or in their cars. They will be booked under the Excise Act,” he said. The police said those drinking in the open were mainly arrested from Sector 56, 17/18 dividing road, Sohna Road, Sector 71, Sector 14, Palm Vihar, Sector 22, 23, and Golf Course Extension Road. The police said the people who were arrested were found drinking inside their cars and had even set up a bar on their car bonnet. In some of the cars, people had set up bars in their car boot space. Rao said the drinking in the open has increased after the lifting of the lockdown and opening of the liquor shops on May 6. People who find restaurants expensive prefer drinking in the open or in their cars,” said Rao. The police said it is important to curb drinking in the open to prevent drink driving. Recently, six accidents were reported where the suspects who rammed into cars were under the influence of alcohol. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that if in any case the offender is found creating nuisance under influence of alcohol, the person will be booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and can even land up in jail. “We conduct raids between 9pm and 2am in the market areas based on complaints. After two days of night patrolling, the number of parked cars in these markets have come down,” he said. Haryana excise and taxation department in February 2017 had notified that no person shall consume liquor at a place that has not been licenced or authorised under the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, except one that is a dwelling house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-shopkeepers-found-serving-food-to-people-drinking-in-the-open-to-be-booked/story-JhtbG0LWKKkNQG8g4eFhVK.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Public window closure forces Chandigarh Police to shift complaint system online||The Covid-19 pandemic has forced the Chandigarh Police to opt for online complaint system following the closure of public window at the police headquarters, a move that caught many residents unawares. People have been turning up daily at the police headquarters to lodge complaints, only to find about the transition to the online complaint system. However, the website needs to be streamlined as the copies of most FIRs are yet to be uploaded on regular basis. Residents are finding it hard to file complaints through the online channel. Public window to open after employees’ recoveryWith four out of five police personnel posted at the public window testing positive for Covid-19 and one employee with high fever proceeding on leave, the Chandigarh Police department had on September 1 closed the facility. “The SSP public window on the ground floor at the police headquarters in Sector 9 was closed after four of the five cops deployed there tested positive for Covid-19 . The area was sanitised and will reopen only after the employees recover,” said Dilbagh Singh, in-charge of the public window. “We have pasted email addresses to which people can send their complaints. Many have started filing online complaints and the same are being forwarded to the officials concerned, but still people are turning up and we have to guide them to file online,” he added. “Residents can also approach us on Twitter. We will soon review how we can make the process more citizen-friendly,” said Vineet Kumar, Chandigarh senior superintendent of police. People can also send their complaints on dgpchd@nic.in; pssut-chd@nic.in and police-chd@nic.in till the public window reopens. “I had lost money to a developer, so had come to lodge a complaint here. But now I have learnt that the complaint is to be filed through email. They should have informed people about the closure of the public window,” said a resident of Sector 39, who didn’t wish to be named. Dip in complaintsThe public window closure has led to a drop in complaints received by the police, who said only about 10% complaints have been filed online. “Earlier, on an average, about 50 complaints were filed daily at the public window that were marked to different officers and police stations depending on their nature. But now, there is a dip, maybe because of lack of awareness or trust that online complaints would be looked into,” said a senior police official. The police department on its website had already shared email addresses of its officials, but residents used to visit the public window regarding their issues ranging from cyber or financial frauds to pending complaints or complaints against policemen. 44 cops infected so far At least 44 Chandigarh cops have tested positive for Covid so far, including one DSP (who has recovered), an inspector, three sub-inspectors, five ASIs, seven head constables and 27 constables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/public-window-closure-forces-chandigarh-police-to-shift-complaint-system-online/story-z8xOY8ildyPz5baEEEAXKL.html
11-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Man booked for raping woman, her minor daughter after sedating them||Gurugram: A man was booked for allegedly raping a 31-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter at gun point, on separate instances, after giving them some substance laced with a sedative, said police on Friday. The police said the suspect had recorded a video of the first incident and blackmailed the woman to molest her several times. He had allegedly threatened to shoot her and her daughter if they told anyone of the assault. According to the police, the two incidents took place in March and August this year, but the woman or her daughter did not approach the police earlier out of fear. The woman, a homemaker, lodged a police complaint at Sector 10 police station on Thursday, following which an FIR was registered. The police said the suspect was arrested by a team of crime branch earlier this week in another case related to the possession of an illegal weapon and booked under Arms Act at City police station. In the complaint, the woman said that the man posed as a friend of her husband and started visiting their house on the pretext of checking upon her husband, who was bed-ridden then and later died in June. In March, the woman’s husband had gone out of town to stay with his brother after suffering a heart attack. She said that on March 19, the suspect came to her house on the pretext of giving her a medicine. “I was lying down as my blood pressure was low. He gave me a medicine and said that my husband had sent it. It was probably laced with a sedative. After consuming it, I fell unconscious. He raped me and also recorded a video of the incident. When I confronted him, he pulled out a gun and threatened to kill my family. I did not share my ordeal with anyone as I was scared,” she said in the FIR. The police said after the incident in March, the suspect molested the woman several times but she kept to herself. A few weeks later, she accompanied her husband to Rohtak as he had suffered another heart attack and was admitted to a hospital there. The woman said that during her stay in Rohtak, her daughter had been staying at her mother’s place in Gurugram. “The suspect went to my mother’s house to pick up my daughter and made up a lie that he had come to take her to Rohtak to meet me. Instead, he took her to his friend’s house where he gave her a sedative, and sexually assaulted her. He threatened her too with a gun and told her that he would kill us all if she told anyone,” she told the police. The police said the woman returned to her house in Gurugram recently. The landlord told her that all her belongings were taken away by the suspect, who told him that he was their relative. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The incident was reported to the police on Thursday after the woman’s daughter shared her ordeal with her mother. Her mother, till then, was unaware that the accused man had sexually assaulted her daughter too. An FIR was registered immediately, and the woman and her minor daughter were provided counselling.” Sanjay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 10 A police station, said, “The accused was arrested two days ago for a case of Arms Act and was sent to judicial custody. The victims said that they did not report the incident earlier due to fear. We will take the accused under production remand for this case.” A case was registered against the suspect under sections 376 (rape), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc with intent to commit and offence), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code, section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and relevant sections of the Arms Act at Sector 10 police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-man-booked-for-raping-woman-her-minor-daughter-after-sedating-them/story-lT7j5vH7lrzZu13qQ3ollJ.html
11-09-2020||City||Three masked men booked for opening fire at 23-year-old in Ludhiana village||After asking a man out on the street on the pretext of discussing a matter, three masked men opened fire at him in Jassar village of Dehlon on Friday afternoon and fled.The victim, identified as Karamjit Singh, 23, suffered three bullet injuries on his wrist, shoulder and ankle. He was rushed to a private hospital, where his condition is said to be stable.The police suspected the accused were known to the victim and that personal rivalry was the reason behind the crime.Nirmal Singh, the victim’s father, said the three men had knocked at their door and asked for his eldest son Kamaljit Singh. When he told them that Kamaljit was not home, they asked for Karamjit.Nirmal said when he rushed outside after hearing gunshots, he saw his son lying in a pool of blood and the accused fleeing on a motorcycle.Inspector Sukhdev Singh said that a case of attempt to murder was lodged against the unidentified accused. The police were scanning CCTV footage to identify the trio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-masked-men-booked-for-opening-fire-at-23-year-old-in-ludhiana-village/story-RuUrquc50H65oFrtg1LwyO.html
11-09-2020||Gurugram||Five large illegal structures demolished in Alipur near Sohna||Five large buildings that had come up without any permission in Alipur village in Sohna were demolished on Friday. Of the five, four had come up in a 10 acre colony being illegally carved out in Alipur village.  “The developer of the colony had no permission to sell, purchase or develop the land. The buildings were also illegal. The department had issued notices and carried out demolitions in this area earlier also but despite warnings, the land owners did not desist from selling plots and constructing illegal structures, which were demolished,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram who also has the charge of enforcement wing that spearheaded Friday’s demolitions. A large team of DTCP officials supported by Gurugram police reached the spot around 11am. Officials said no one came forward to oppose the demolition of the four buildings.The enforcement team also demolished another large illegal structure close to the Gurugram-Sohna road. “The owner of this building approached us and sought time but we did not give it as the building had no valid permission. We will keep demolishing the illegal constructions in the illegal colonies to send a message to dealers and owners that demolition will take place irrespective of the fact whether it is a boundary wall or an entire building,” said Bhath.As per an estimate by the department, around 100 illegal colonies have come up in the district due to unauthorised colonization and action had been taken against these. However, a systemic response to prevent these colonies from mushrooming the department has initiated a process for online issue of NOC and also starting mapping unauthorised colonies on urban map of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-large-illegal-structures-demolished-in-alipur-near-sohna/story-HIlRMMfB7RDsY7H0uzw7uO.html
11-09-2020||Gurugram||Illegal call centre busted in Gurugram; 4 held||The police busted an illegal call centre, operating from the basement of a guest house in Sushant Lok-1, that was allegedly duping people, especially those in English-speaking countries, under the garb of providing them with technical support. A raid lasting for several hours was conducted on early Friday morning and four people, including the owner, were arrested, said the police. At least 20 employees were let off after questioning. According to the police, the intelligence unit had received a tip-off that an illegal call centre was operating from the premises behind Galleria Market. A patrolling party of policemen took a round of the area and raided the premises around 1.30am. The police said, in the basement, 23 men and five women were found making calls, in a western accent, to potential customers abroad and offering them technical support services. During questioning, the employees allegedly said that they had been working on the directions of four individuals, identified as Manu Singh Tanwar, Arun Singh, Pushpendra Singh and Pankaj Yadav. Manu Singh, who earlier had a liquor business in Bhiwani, was the owner, and along with the other three aides, he started the operations. The police said Manu paid ₹15,000 per month to his aides, along with some incentives. The police said the accused persons were unable to furnish the documents required for running a call centre such as a licence from department of telecommunications, company registration, source of customers, and mode of payment. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The probe has found that the accused targeted people mainly in the US. They used voice-over internet protocol (VoIP) calls to dupe people into paying for technical support services. One computer, which had all the data, has been seized and a probe has been initiated.” Explaining the modus operandi, the police said the accused used to send an email to potential victims with fake pop-up error messages stating that a malware had infected their computer systems and if not rectified immediately, their personal and financial data would be compromised. “The pop-up messages would lock the user’s browser and repeated warnings such as “malicious malware detected” and “personal information is not safe” would flash on the user’s screen. In panic, the users would contact the helpline number mentioned on the screen. The calls were answered by call centre agents, who use fake aliases, and claimed to be from ‘Best Buy’ chain of stores. The user was asked to install a bogus paid application for a fee ranging between $100 and $3,000. The fee was taken in the form of gift cards from iTunes or Amazon,” said a police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity. A case was registered against the accused persons under sections 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 66 D and 75 of the Information Technology(IT) Act at Sector 29 police station on Friday, said the police. Last week, in a joint raid of police and state crime branch, an illegal call centre, operating from a basement in Udyog Vihar Phase 4 was busted. The accused allegedly misled job seekers by falsely promising jobs and in return charged a registration fee from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/illegal-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-4-held/story-FN0HkmDnAGKVYxGJv5BNzK.html
11-09-2020||City||Gurugram: High court allows HSVP to auction residential plots after gap of two years||Gurugram: The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) will be able to hold auctions of residential plots in the city after a gap of almost two years, as the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which had put a hold on such auctions, has now removed these limitations. According to the authorities, the stay order, granted due to objections raised by oustees whose land had been acquired by the authority, has now been vacated by the high court.Officials said that as claims of the oustees are being processed by HSVP on priority, the high court has given a nod to the sale of the residential plots.As per HSVP rules, only those land owners, also called oustees, whose over 75% land has been acquired for development of residential sectors, are entitled to get a plot from the authority at concessional rates.The online auction will be held on September 29, and plots in sectors 5, 9, 9A, 19, 28, 31, 32A, 38 and 39 will be auctioned at a reserved price.Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, Gurugram said that they have prepared a list of residential plots and submitted it to the headquarters. “We have worked towards hearing the claims of the oustees whose land has been acquired and their claims for plots, under the oustees quota, are being processed on priority. The matter has been brought into the notice of the high court and we have received permission to conduct the auction for residential plots,” said Yadav. Apart from plots in estate one and two in Gurugram, HSVP will also auction residential plots in the estates of Daruhera and Narnaul on September 29. Officials said that a resident of Sector 4 had obtained the stay order from the high court on the submission that HSVP had allegedly not allotted plots to oustees, whose land had been acquired by the authority for various residential and infrastructure projects. The oustees had submitted in the court that till oustees are given plots, the authority should be stopped from selling residential plots, after which the high court had granted stay on the sale of residential plots.Last week, HSVP administrator had started processing the claims of around 300 oustees and during the hearing, held that several oustees were ineligible for getting a plot. The same was conveyed to the court after which permission was granted for auction of residential plots. Last month, the authority had sold commercial plots to the tune of Rs 65 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-high-court-allows-hsvp-to-auction-residential-plots-after-gap-of-two-years/story-jE0NE05qAkvEW6Rbdvy0vL.html
11-09-2020||City||Centre issued ₹50 crore for development of constituency, claims Dakha MLA||Having completed 11 months as a legislator, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and MLA Manpreet Sigh Ayali on Friday presented a report card of the development works undertaken in the villages of Dakha constituency.In a press conference convened at his office, Ayali said the central government had issued a grant of ₹20 crore from the 14th financial commission, besides ₹26 crore under MGNREGA scheme in the accounts of the workers and another ₹4 crore for construction material like bricks, crusher, sand, iron bars, interlocking tiles, and for playgrounds.He said that over 7,000 workers had benefited from these grants. Ayali, who had won the bypolls from the Dakha constituency defeating Congress candidate Sandeep Singh Sandhu in October last year, said that in the last three and a half years, said the state government had failed to initiate rural development in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-issued-50-crore-for-development-of-constituency-claims-dakha-mla/story-HZk7SHWIJqcBPKlA7E7bVL.html
11-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram police deploy 974 cops to curb snatching cases||The police have deployed 974 cops across the city from 43 police stations and crime investigation agency (CIA) to detect snatching cases. These personnel will regularly monitor the snatching-prone areas of the city and analyse CCTV footage, said the police. The police said the personnel have been instructed to reach the crime spot within 10 minutes of an incident being reported so that they can help the victim to lodge the case, record their statements, and monitor the spot. They have been provided with the latest GPS-enabled, wireless communication system, which is connected to 147 spots, 79 police control room vans, and 123 patrol bikes. They will also track the suspected stretches which can be used by criminals, said the police. According to the police, till August 31, at least 126 snatchings have been reported in the city this year as compared to 308 in the previous year. This period includes the 68 days of the lockdown, when only three cases were reported. Over one-fourth have been reported from the east (from places such as DLF phases 1, 2, Sector 29, Sushant Lok and Sohna Road) followed by the south (Sector 65, Sohna and Bhondsi), the west (Sector 5 and Palam Vihar) and Manesar. According to the police, the snatchers usually target victims near market areas and hospitals. Unsuspecting morning and evening walkers, majorly women, are their prime target. While 88 incidents were caught on CCTV cameras, the police are yet to identify suspects in 38 cases. A total of 46 snatching incidents have been reported from July 1 till August 31, including 17, which were reported in August itself. Besides, six incidents were reported in September. During the 68-day national lockdown, only three snatching cases were reported, said the police, adding that there was a spurt in snatching cases as soon as the lockdown was lifted. Thanks to the lockdown, the total number of cases till August this year are fewer when compared to the same period last year, said the police.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that from January to March, 71 cases were reported from all zones as compared to 104 the previous year. “Since the beginning of the year, there has been a dip in the snatching cases. Last year from January 1 to August 31, 308 cases were reported and this year, 126 snatchings were reported. In 2019, 28 cases were reported in August as compared to 17 of this year,” he said. Sangwan said they had conducted a crime mapping of the city, that has helped them in arresting 28 suspects involved in snatching. The police have solved 88 cases so far. The police said with the increase in the movement of people, the snatchers have also got active. “However, we have set up barricades across the city at 147 points to check street crimes, including snatching. We are hoping to witness a dip in snatching cases this year as compared to the last three years,” said Sangwan. In July, the police had identified 147 spots across the city that reported most of the crimes, including snatching.According to the data analysed for mapping crime, incidents of snatching were regularly reported from Old-Delhi Gurugram Road, Railway Road, Civil Lines, MG Road, Golf Course Road, Sector 23, Palam Vihar, sector 56, 57, 65 and Sohna Road. Police commissioner K K Rao said that the recent crime prevention programme will help in checking snatching cases. “We have chalked out a plan to control such cases and the crime teams have already been deployed in plain clothes with the new action plan. We are also analysing the CCTV footage to identify the suspects and the motorbikes used in the crime,” he said. The police said they have changed the positioning of checkpoints on the basis of the crime pattern that has emerged through mapping over the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-deploy-974-cops-to-curb-snatching-cases/story-zEWmDmlpNtldLqvFYzQQTP.html
11-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Victims of snatching to get psychological counselling||The Gurugram Police will conduct counselling sessions for victims of snatching after several women, who were injured while resisting snatchers, had to undergo counselling sessions for trauma from private hospitals, said officials on Friday. The sessions would start from Saturday. According to the police, three counselling sessions will be provided to each victim free of cost and a regular weekly update on each case will be taken.The psychologists working with the police will conduct the sessions on the second floor of the commissioner’s office near Rajiv Chowk. Further, in case of an emergency, they will also visit the victim’s house to provide counselling. The police said that the decision was taken after reports emerged that a few of the injured victims in the past few months were allegedly under tremendous mental distress. In some cases, the police had conducted private counselling sessions to help these women overcome their fear of being attacked by snatchers. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that the cases of chain snatching and vehicle theft are a major concern for the police. Since January this year, a total of 126 cases have been registered under Section 379A (snatching ) and 379 B of Indian Penal Code(IPC) across different police stations in Gurugram. “Out of 126 victims, 86 were women who lost their mobile phones and gold chains. They were dragged for a considerable distance before the suspects fled from the spot on their two-wheelers. These counselling sessions will be held for the victims and if needed for their family members as well,” he said. The police said, in many cases, the women had reported that the ornament that was snatched was a gift from their in-laws. As such, they were reluctant to reveal the incident to their in-laws as that would have led to harassment or a rift in the relationship. Apart from trauma, this is another cause mental distress, said the police. Alpana Sharma (45), a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, who was visiting her sister-in-law in Gurugram’s Sector 5, became a victim of snatching on June 26. She said she had to attend counselling sessions because of the trauma but her condition is yet to improve.Sharma said, on June 26, she had reached Gurugram with her family to meet her ailing mother-in-law and had parked car near a sweets shop on the main road near the Sector 5 market. She was walking towards the shop when two boys wearing helmets came from behind and tried to snatch her gold chain, which was gifted to her by her in-laws. In the ensuing commotion, she fell down. “They dragged me for about 50 metres. When I felt that I could not hold on to my chain, I had to surrender. They fled the spot.I was bleeding and in terrible pain. My husband informed our relatives and took me to the hospital for first aid. I was discharged from the hospital on the same day but the incident still haunts me. I took a few counselling sessions but nothing much has changed,” said Sharma. In another incident, a 28-year-old housewife, a resident of Sector 23, was returning home on a two-wheeler from the hospital where her husband was undergoing treatment for kidney stones. It was around 7.30 pm, when two bike-borne men snatched her gold chain and sped away, leaving her injured. She suffered a fracture on her right arm and injuries on her head and face. “I could not tell anyone in my family. I took help of my friend to lodge a complaint and had to lie to my husband. The suspects grabbed me and pulled my chain. The impact was so hard that I lost control and fell down,” said victim on the condition of anonymity as her family is unaware of the case registered. The police said apart from the counselling session, they were also starting a preventive action programme for which the modus operandi of snatchers would be studied and crime teams and the staff of the police station concerned would discuss all the cases one by one. “The teams will study the timings of the incident, the spot from where it was reported and the modus operandi based on which a prevention plan will be made, so that it will be easier for crime teams to arrest them,” said Rao. All the police stations will share the details of the victims with the counsellors and a call will be made from the commissioner’s office to book appointment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-victims-of-snatching-to-get-psychological-counselling/story-DOJPZds9WoGwfDR9OFA4bO.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two drug addicts arrested for robbery, assault in Chandigarh||Two drug addicts were arrested for executing robbery and assaulting a senior citizen in Sector 56 here, police said on Friday. The accused, Honey and Vishal alias Chundi, both in their 20s and residents of the same locality, have been sent to judicial custody. The police said Honey attacked a tailor, Mohd Ayub, 73, with scissors after he caught him trying to steal three mobile phones from his house in the wee hours of Friday. The victim has been hospitalised. Honey has been booked under sections 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 458 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking) of the IPC. Vishal also used the similar method to commit a theft at the house of one Rizwan Ahmed, but was caught by locals. A case under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 458 of the IPC was registered against him. As per the police, the duo used to conduct a recce before stealing mobiles and wallets from houses. They then used to sell the stolen items at throwaway prices to buy drugs, the police said, adding that they were not related and used to operate independently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-drug-addicts-arrested-for-robbery-assault-in-chandigarh/story-rs1Da5WBE1uajn29JgiDzN.html
11-09-2020||City||Social distancing norms flouted at PSPCL office in Ludhiana||With only one employee deployed to handle the cash counter at Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) office at Fountain Chowk, a huge rush was witnessed here with residents thronging the office to deposit electricity bills on Friday.A visit to the office, which has limited space, at 10.30am revealed that over 30 people were standing in a queue and close to each other, brushing aside all social distancing norms. This, despite the growing number of Covid-19 cases in the district.Till July 31, a bill payment machine was installed at the office for those who wanted to avoid standing in queues at the cash counters. However, residents on Friday seemed to be unaware of the development. They said the authorities must increase the cash counters at the Fountain Chowk office due to more footfall.Surinder Kaur, 68, said, “Earlier, I used to deposit the cash in the bill payment machine and never had to visit the cash counter. But today, it took me one hour to deposit the bill at the counter. The authorities must increase the number of counters and deploy more staff so that long queues can be avoided.”‘Don’t know how to pay online’Another resident, Alok Khanna, said, “I prefer depositing the bill at the cash counter as I don’t know how to pay it online. The last date is September 20, I thought it is better to do it today. But after reaching the PSPCL office, I waited for 45 minutes and had to stand in a long queue.”Ramesh Kaushal, executive engineer (XEN, distribution), said, “We have limited space in the office at Fountain Chowk and a single employee is deployed. Instead of coming to the office, residents must switch to the online mode and pay bills from the safety of their homes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-distancing-norms-flouted-at-pspcl-office-in-ludhiana/story-vJkcaxAQ3YR364INPB0MIM.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Fake degree scam at Manav Bharati University: 19-member CID panel to hold probe||Congress MLA from Sujanpur Rajindra Rana raised the matter of a fake degrees scam at Manav Bharati University (MBU) on the fifth day of the Monsoon Session and asked whether the state government would hand over the probe to the CBI. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the fake degrees scam will be probed by a 19-member special investigation team (SIT) of the Crime Investigation Department (CID). Thakur said the enforcement directorate (ED) and income tax department have also been asked to investigate the scam. He said that investigation was immediately initiated as soon as the scam surfaced and five persons were arrested. Three accused have been granted bail by the court while two are still in jail, he said. The probe will be headed by director general of police Sanjay Kundu. The government was directed to constitute a 19-member special investigation team (SIT). The SP Solan will liaise with the DC to provide a secure office in the jurisdiction for the SIT and will provide required logistics and secretarial support. The SIT chief may request additional vehicles. The SIT chief of SIT will review the progress of investigation on a regular basis. The undersigned will review the investigation every fortnight. To unearth the full spectrum of the conspiracy and its ramifications, the money trail and money laundering charges will be investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fake-degree-scam-at-manav-bharati-university-19-member-cid-panel-to-hold-probe/story-7O82FzVu46rKGMleG0mdDK.html
11-09-2020||City||Toddler’s body exhumed for autopsy a day after his family accused ANMs of medical negligence||A day after a family from Rajiv Colony blamed medical negligence for the death of their one-month-old baby, his body was exhumed and autopsy conducted reportedly on the orders of Panchkula DCP. High drama was witnessed at the Panchkula civil hospital on Thursday after the child’s parents alleged negligence on the part of auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), which led to his death.The mother said, “On Wednesday, ANMs from the civil dispensary had visited their home and the toddler was administered an injection after which he developed fever. The next morning, his condition deteriorated and he was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.”The family, however, demanded an inquiry into the matter and submitted a written complaint to the cops at Sector-16 police post after burying the child’s body.“We got an order from the DCP following which, the body was exhumed and autopsy was performed. The reports will be out in a few days,” said a police official privy to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/toddler-s-body-exhumed-for-autopsy-a-day-after-his-family-accused-anms-of-medical-negligence/story-pHT3UPXpWKfZ6qHH0z03iO.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Caught on cam: ‘Drunk’ cop creates ruckus in Chandigarh||After a video showing a head constable verbally abusing and thrashing people with a hockey stick in Sector 32, Chandigarh, went viral on social media, the Chandigarh police department has initiated a probe into the incident. The police personnel in the video was identified as Rajbir Singh, who claimed that he is the driver of Inspector Sher Singh who is the station house officer of Sector 3 police station.Rajbir Singh, in uniform, had parked his car right in the middle of the main road in Sector 32, Chandigarh, and in the supposedly inebriated state is seen verbally abusing people and tried to hit them with a hockey stick when asked to remove the wrongly parked vehicle. Head Constable, Rajbir said that the video is of Wednesday and the wire of the clutch of his vehicle had got snapped, thus the vehicle stopped right in the middle of the road. He alleged that a group of 4-5 persons was unnecessarily arguing with him. “We are inquiring into the matter,” said SSP Vineet Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/caught-on-cam-drunk-cop-creates-ruckus-in-chandigarh/story-DQbi7vEAStLQ4vqXihsCXN.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal slashes legislators’ salary by 30%, Bill passed||The Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly on Friday adopted a bill slashing the monthly salary and allowances of ministers, the speaker, deputy speaker, legislators, chairmen and vice-chairmen of boards and corporations by 30% for one year in view of the worsening Covid crisis.The Himachal Pradesh Regulation of Salaries and Allowances of Different Categories in Certain Exigencies Bill replaces the ordinance promulgated by the governor on April 11.During the debate, Congress MLA Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu pushed for a 50% salary cut. He was supported by Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPI(M) legislator Rakesh Singha. Some legislators demanded that the bill be sent to the select committee.Responding, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said he had no objections regarding the bill being sent to the select committee. He said legislators may voluntarily surrender a greater portion of their salary. The bill was passed with a voice vote. The CM had introduced the bill on September 9 saying, “The coronavirus pandemic has necessitated the importance of providing expeditious relief and assistance and therefore, it is expedient to take certain emergent measures to prevent and contain the spread of the said pandemic.” Thakur had said that it had become necessary to raise resources by reducing the salaries and allowances of ministers, speaker, deputy speaker, chief whip, members of the legislative assembly and other dignitaries in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-slashes-legislators-salary-by-30-bill-passed/story-jyyfwiV42EgmIgZD2h2NMM.html
11-09-2020||City||Hoardings on NH-21: Residents accuse Mohali administration of ‘pick and choose’||As the Mohali administration continued with its drive to remove illegal hoardings from National Highway-21 (on the stretch between Balongi barrier and VR Punjab mall) on Friday, residents accused it of adopting ‘pick and choose’ policy, claiming that there exist several illegal hoarding in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi, Lalru and other parts of Kharar.On September 3, Mohali sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal had issued notices to private building owners, asking them to remove illegal advertisement hoardings on National Highway-21 within seven days or face action. Some of the owners removed on their own, but most of them didn’t comply with the orders. In the past two days, around 30 hoardings have been taken down. Ajit Singh, president, Shivalik Welfare Society, Kharar, said, “We welcome the move of the administration to remove hoardings from the NH-21 as per the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court, but at the same time, the enforcement team in its two-day drive left few hoardings on the highway intentionally.”Former general secretary of Confederation of Residents’ Welfare Association, Zirakpur North, Manoj Sharma, said, “Our area is full of illegal hoardings, but the authorities concerned are not taking any action and simply following pick and choose policy to appease a few people.”The Punjab and Haryana high court had in 1995 issued directions to all deputy commissioners to remove hoardings on national as well as state highways as “these were not just eyesores but a traffic hazard which could divert motorists’ attention”. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We will not spare anybody who has installed hoardings in violation of the high court orders in the district .We would soon be holding drives in other subdivisions of Mohali. In case any person has any grievance for a hoarding on NH-21, he/she should lodge a complaint with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hoardings-on-nh-21-residents-accuse-mohali-administration-of-pick-and-choose/story-XuPblpTtVIlDOsWWKeMpqJ.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Question hour: Centre provided 500 ventilators to Himachal, says CM||The Union government provided 500 ventilators to Himachal to tackle the pandemic, 322 of which were used in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and 178 in portable units, health minister Rajiv Saizal told the House on the fifth day of the Monsoon Session on Friday. He was replying to a question jointly raised by Congress members Jagat Singh Negi and Nand Lal. The minister said 472 ventilators had been sent to different hospitals in the state, of which 310 were being put to use. Saizal said 320 ventilators were purchased from Bharat Electronics for ₹4,48,000 each; two ventilators were purchased from Allied Medical Limited for ₹ 8,62,400 each and 178 ventilators were purchased from AgVa for ₹1,66, 376 each, taking the total cost to ₹17.46 crore. In response to a question jointly asked by Ramesh Dhawala, Arun Kumar and Jiya Lal, Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh said as many as 7,061 houses had been damaged due to heavy snowfall in winters. The affected families have been disbursed relief amounting to ₹10.68 crores for repairs. This amount will be increased in the future as per the regulations of the Indian government. Responding to a question asked by MLA Asha Kumari, education minister Govind Thakur said the state government had decided to implement the National Education Policy in the state and a notification to this effect had already been issued. He said preference will be given to impart education in Hindi. The rule will also be applicable in private schools, the minister said. Raising a supplementary question, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri asked whether the state government was doing anything about the 2,630 school management committee (SMC) teachers. To this the chief minister replied that state government had made efforts to provide all possible help to SMC teachers and the state government was considering approaching the Supreme Court over the matter. OPPOSITION LEADER CONCERNED OVER SAFETY OF MLA After the question hour, leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri raised the matter of Congress’ MLA from Kullu Sunder Thakur’s security. The MLA has alleged that he is being threatened by former Kullu MLA Maheshwar Singh.Sunder said Maheshwar was acting as though he owned the Raghunath Temple and his supporters had staged a protest at the MLA’s house. He said the state government will be responsible if any harm was done to his family. To this the CM said protests were being organised throughout the state as well as in Kullu against Maharashtra government in support of Kangana Ranaut and some protesters had gathered ear Raghunath Temple. In the meantime, Congress workers also reached there and started to raise slogans. FIRs were registered against both the parties, said CM said, assuring an impartial probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/question-hour-centre-provided-500-ventilators-to-himachal-says-cm/story-DIHOje465OfN6DT5sOr7TI.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays 5% fee hike by Panjab University||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday restrained Panjab University (PU) from effecting a 5% hike in fee for the academic session 2020-2021. The high court bench of justice Jaishree Thakur while seeking a response by October 5 from the varsity and vice-chancellor, ordered that a 5% hike in the charges will remain stayed till the next date of hearing. The high court was hearing a plea from Sachin Galav and seven other students of the varsity who had sought a direction that varsity be directed to adjust the semester fee, hostel fee and other charges already deposited in the previous semester for the upcoming semester. For five months now, neither online classes have been held nor students have availed facilities such as library, internet, hostels, etc., so, the fee deposited should be adjusted for next semester, they had demanded. The court was told that students from different backgrounds study at the university. Hence, varsity should be directed to waive off all the charges except the minimum tuition fee as parents have been badly affected by the Covid-19 outbreak. The varsity should be restrained from increasing fee by 5% as announced by it, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-5-fee-hike-by-panjab-university/story-zO5pfrlfK9PwI1hlbxWqOP.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal HC issues bailable warrants against officials of IPH department||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Friday issued bailable warrants against principal secretary, engineer-in-chief, superintending engineer (Shimla circle) and executive engineer (Sunni division) of the irrigation and public health department with an amount of Rs 25,000 each to the satisfaction of the arresting officer.Justice Vivek Singh Thakur passed these orders on a contempt petition filed by one Govind Singh for violation of the orders issued on April 23, 2019, passed by the Tribunal, as per which the respondent IPH department was directed to allow him to serve upto the age of 60 years. The petitioner has prayed to direct the respondents to release his salary till date along with 12% interest.After abolition of the erstwhile Tribunal, the petition was transferred to the high court. Despite several opportunities granted to the respondents to file response/compliance affidavit, the same was not filed. The respondents were directed to appear in person on September 10 in the court, in case of failure to file the compliance affidavit. However, they neither filed the response nor appeared in person. Also, nothing was on record on their behalf for exemption from presence in the court.The court observed that in the aforesaid circumstances, it has no other option except to issue bailable warrants for securing the presence of the respondents along with record, enabling the court to proceed further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-hc-issues-bailable-warrants-against-officials-of-iph-department/story-1jG3MyqKXCTlJ50XuqtOVO.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Supply crunch pushes veggie prices up again in Chandigarh||After a brief respite, vegetable prices in Chandigarh have shot up due to reduced supply from other cultivating regions. According to market committee officials, prices are likely to stay on the higher side for the next couple of weeks.Onions, which were being sold for ₹30 per kg last week, are now being sold at ₹40 per kg. “As farmers in Punjab have not planted a lot of vegetables this season, we have to depend on Himachal Pradesh, which is why prices fluctuate,” said Rashwinder Singh who works as an auction recorder for Chandigarh Market Committee. He added that onion prices had gone up in Maharashtra with Nasik onions coming in the city at the wholesale price of ₹28 per kg from ₹17-18 per kg in the last week. The supply chain of vegetables coming from Himachal Pradesh has also been affected. The price of peas reduced to ₹10 and then went up by ₹40 in a span of two weeks. Officials said that prices of green chilies, tomatoes and potatoes may increase in the coming weeks as they are mostly coming from the hill state.Meanwhile, residents complain vendors are charging higher rates than those fixed by the market committee. “Every day, we receive complaints from various RWAs of overcharging. Most vendors were marking up prices by at least ₹10,” said Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation chairman Hitesh Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/supply-crunch-pushes-veggie-prices-up-again-in-chandigarh/story-bfKXadEh2B3DvzQdwBZwUM.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn notifies up to 200% hike in water tariff||Chandigarh residents will have to shell out up to three times for water with the administration on Friday notifying the revised tariff.The hike is between 50% and 200% depending upon the category of user and consumption level (see box). In addition to the tariff, water cess of ₹20 per month per connection is charged for maintenance of parks and green belts.The rates were last revised in 2011. The proposal for further hike was first mooted in 2014. Another attempt was made in 2018, but the municipal corporation House rejected it while seeking additional water supply for the city first.With Chandigarh, last year, receiving an additional 29 MGD (million gallons per day) water from Phases 5 and 6 of the Kajauli waterworks, the House approved 200-300% hike in June 2019. In face of opposition, the hike was slashed. Now, finally the administration has notified the revised tariff.While the House had recommended 10% increase in tariff every three years, the administration has kept it at 3% annually.‘Will also discourage wasteful use’Justifying the increase in rates, MC commissioner KK Yadav said: “The hike was very much needed, as for nearly a decade there was no revision. The city has one of the lowest water tariffs.”An audit department report had also asked the MC to revise the rates, since its annual losses from water supply had crossed ₹135 crore per annum from ₹41 crore in 2011. The report also observed: “As the annual recurring expenses are increasing by 10% to 15% every year, losses will further increase in the future, putting huge pressure on the MC’s coffers.”“The MC collects ₹90 crore per annum as water charges, but expenditure incurred to maintain the supply to its 1.8 lakh consumers is ₹225 crore,” said Yadav. Struggling to even pay salaries to its employees because of a severe financial crunch, the civic body expects to earn an additional ₹60 crore from the hike.The tariff increase will also discourage wasteful use of water. “The MC is not putting any additional burden on residents, particularly if there is no misuse. In the first two slabs, the increase is by ₹1 and ₹2 per kilolitre. Consumption of most of the households in the city is within these two slabs,” said Yadav.Sample this: A family of five persons, consuming around 21kl water per month (at 135 litres per person per day) is paying ₹54 right now. After the hike, it will be shelling out ₹81.Residents, Oppn decry moveStating that the hike would further burden residents who are already reeling under Covid-19 pandemic, Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation, said: “Why is there so much urgency in revising the tariff. They could have done it next year. They have also not improved or introduced 24x 7 water supply in the city.”Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of opposition, said: “What else has the BJP government done except burdening people with taxes? They could have at least left water alone. We strongly oppose this move. The MC under the current mayor is rudderless and creating only problems for residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-notifies-up-to-200-hike-in-water-tariff/story-zycOE025IYA75OS5cWFybL.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC Bar poll committee refuses to hold elections||The election committee of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) has refused to conduct elections for the high court Bar association. It was on Thursday that the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH), a statutory body, had asked district Bars in both the states and Chandigarh; and high court Bar association to hold elections for the executive committee on September 30 and October 1. The high court has nearly 4,000 registered voters. As of BCPH, it has over 1 lakh advocates as members in two states and Chandigarh and oversees the functioning of Bar associations. Chairman election committee, senior advocate, KS Sidhu in a letter to BCPH has said that the election committee met on Friday and unanimously decided not to participate in the elections. Thirteen out of 16 members had participated in the online meeting. On the one hand, Bar Council is making an endeavour to have the physical hearing of the cases expressing problems of online hearing but on the other hand, taking a contradictory stand to hold online elections without any serious necessity, the letter stated that many advocates have gone back to their native places with no online infrastructure to participate in voting. “The elected members of the committee stated that neither are any provisions in the Advocates Act or the rules which authorised Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana to suo motu conduct the elections of any Bar associations without the request of the concerned Bar nor there is any emergency of holding the elections,” the letter reads. It also says that two of the judges refused to be associated with the BCPH move because of a lack of transparency and secrecy of votes in the online mode, which is of paramount importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-bar-poll-committee-refuses-to-hold-elections/story-lhgOtoWMiXAkauqWYYQPeI.html
11-09-2020||City||Civil society groups urge SC to reconsider its slum eviction order||New DelhiMany members of the civil society, NGOs, and organisations working for the welfare of the poor and their land rights have urged the Supreme Court to reconsider its recent order to evict residents of 48,000 slum settlements on railway land within three months. In a statement issued on Friday by over 65 organisations, movements and associations of residents of affected slums, the civil society members pointed out that the SC order did not take into account the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) policy on relief and rehabilitation of slums, which was notified in 2015. They said the apex court also didn’t consider the Delhi high court’s 2019 order in the Ajay Maken vs Union of India case, where it said DUSIB’s policy applied on railway land too. According to the DUSIB policy, slum residents who have valid documents to prove that they have been living in that place since January 1, 2015, would have to be rehabilitated, even if the settlement is on government land. In the statement, the organisations raised the following demands:The SC should review its order; the Delhi government should accept and assert its responsibility to apply DUSIB policy on railway land; no demolition during the coronavirus pandemic; railways should work with communities to move these people to safe areas without forced eviction among others. The statement said the order would have “devastating consequences” for nearly 50,000 households, or over 2.5 lakh people”, during the pandemic. Some organisations that have come out in support and signed the statement are: Housing and Land Rights Network, Centre for Advocacy and Research, Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reform, Delhi Rozi Roti Abhiyan, Railway Basti Jan Sangharsh Morcha, Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action among others. Gautam Bhan, urban researcher part of the team that drafted the statement, said the apex court had not taken some factors into consideration. “There is a history of legal right to resettlement and protection against forced eviction. The city has a policy for rehabilitation of slum residents and it is applicable on those living on railway land. This fact, we think, was not placed before the court partly because those affected by the order were not part of the case,” Bhan said. Bhan said displacing more than 250,000 lakh slum dwellers during a pandemic will only make matters worse for them. “They are already suffering because of the impact of the pandemic on their livelihoods. This forced eviction will condemn a generation to destitution”. Various organisations working for the welfare of urban poor and their rights are planning protests and events in the days to come to demand a review of the order. Shakeel Ahmed, convenor of Basti Suraksha Manch, said, “We want their voice to be heard. The order pertains to an old case and the affected parties didn’t even know about it. There is a need to rehabilitate these people. We are against forced eviction. We are planning to protest against it.” Indu Prakash, facilitator, CityMakers Mission International and member of the SC-appointed committee on monitoring of homeless shelters in Delhi, said, “….It is supreme injustice done to these people, especially at a time when the country is fighting a pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-society-groups-urge-sc-to-reconsider-its-slum-eviction-order/story-HiQY6LyE9bPqzsgcgL9OXI.html
11-09-2020||City||Delhi court convicts 9 ISIS operatives for conspiring to launch terror attacks in India||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Friday convicted nine operatives of terror outfit ISIS for hatching a criminal conspiracy to establish its base in India by recruiting Muslims carry out acts of terrorism in the country.Special judge Parveen Singh convicted accused Abu Anas, Nafees Khan, Najmul Huda, Mohd Afzal, Suhail Ahamed, Obedullah Khan, Mohd Aleem, Mufti Abdul Sami Qasmi and Amjad Khan after they pleaded guilty.Their advocate Qausar Khan said the court convicted them under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, and various sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Explosive Substances Act.The judge accepted their application pleading guilty and posted the matter for September 22, when he will hear the arguments on quantum of sentence.On the next date of hearing, the court will also hear arguments on the quantum of sentence of six others — Mudabbir Mushtaq Sheikh, Mohammad Shareef Moinudeen Khan, Asif Ali, Mohammad Hussain Khan, Syed Mujahid and Mohammad Azhar Khan — who were earlier convicted after they pleaded guilty.The court have directed the jail authorities to file reports regarding their conduct and asked the defence counsel to inform about their background and family’s condition.While pleading guilty, the accused told the court that they were “remorseful for the acts alleged against them”, and undertook not to indulge in similar acts and activities in future.Advocate Khan further told the court that the accused wanted to return to the mainstream society and rehabilitate themselves.“The accused are having clean antecedents, even their conduct in jail are satisfactory and there is nothing adverse against them... the accused are pleading guilty voluntarily without any pressure, threat, coercion, inducement or undue influence and he that he understands the consequences,” their plea had said.The advocate said though the maximum punishment for the offences in which the accused persons are convicted after pleading guilty is life imprisonment, the court may consider all other aspects mentioned before it while pronouncing quantum of punishment. The case, registered by the NIA on December 9, 2015 under relevant sections of the IPC and the UA(P) Act, pertains to the larger criminal conspiracy hatched by the ISIS to establish its base in India by recruiting Muslim youths for the proscribed terror group through different social media platforms, the NIA said.The accused had formed Junood-ul-Khilafa-Fil-Hind organisation, seeking to establish a caliphate in India and pledging allegiance to ISIS, to recruit Muslim youths to work for the ISIS and commit acts of terrorism in India at the behest of Syria-based Yusuf-Al-Hindi who is purportedly the media chief of ISIS, the NIA said.The NIA filed chargesheets against the accused persons in 2016-2017.This case was first of its kind in which terrorist conspiracy of this magnitude involving online radicalisation was effected on cyber space in the aftermath of declaration of Islamic Caliphate by ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi in 2014, the NIA had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-court-convicts-9-isis-operatives-for-conspiring-to-launch-terror-attacks-in-india/story-3sd0pqMl3HZb9dXrA2T1wM.html
11-09-2020||City||AS Covid cases spike, Ghaziabad moves to secure containment zones||With the total Covid-19 cases in the district crossing 10,000 and rising, the Ghaziabad district administration has turned to ensure compliance of all containment zone protocols. As on September 10, the district has 321 containment zones that are supposed to remain closed to all activities and movement of people except for essential services. That, however, has not been the case on the ground. On September 4, HT had highlighted that the surveillance and barricading measures to check these restrictions were lax in several containment zones. “We reviewed the situation and asked the secretary of the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) to take help of municipal commissioner and respective incident commanders (in-charges of the containment zones) to ensure that all protocols, including sealing, are followed” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. According to official records, there is a major surge in number of Covid-19 cases in prime localities of Ghaziabad. The highest affected localities are under Kavi Nagar police station area that had 293 fresh cases from September 1 to 10. The other police station areas are Indirapuram with 278 fresh cases, Sihani Gate 201, Sahibabad 195, Kaushambi 71 and Vijay Nagar with 123 cases, among others. “We suspect that most fresh cases are coming in from existing containment zones. These zones must be secured in order to contain the spread of infection,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. Dr. V B Jindal, president of the Ghaziabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association, agreed. “It would also be handy if all residents of these containment zones are tested,” he said. The district magistrate said that the secretary of the Ghaziabad development authority has been given additional responsibility to supervise the containment zone activity after the previous officer, an additional district magistrate, had turned positive for Covid-19. The Ghaziabad district, according to state control room records of September 11, has tally of 10219 Covid-19 cases which includes 1642 active cases which is the highest single day figure since March. MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner, said that the corporation will be most willing to help out the district officials. “On our part, we have got prepared rolls of tapes like the ones which are used to secure scene of crime, which we have provided to all police posts to mark and secure the zones. If the administration requires wooden poles instead, our quick response teams will make them available,” he added. According to the July 24 order of the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary, the area of category-1 zones, having one positive cases, is defined in a radius of 100 metres or an entire Mohalla, whichever is less, while the category-2 zones are created in a radius of 200 metres along with a buffer zone on outer periphery whose area is to be assessed on the basis of local conditions. In the recent unlock 4 directions issued by UP chief secretary, RK Tiwari, had said that the lockdown in containment zone will continue till September 30 and the containment zones are to be defined on the basis of July 24 directions besides only essential services will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-cases-spike-ghaziabad-moves-to-secure-containment-zones/story-r1rkE4HIgYaY0vJPenLa8K.html
11-09-2020||City||UP allows on-demand Covid testing for certain categories of people||The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed on-demand testing for certain category of persons who can now get themselves tested without having to produce any medical prescription. It also puts the onus on laboratories to ensure details of those tested are accurate.The categories of patients cleared for on-demand testing include those who wish to travel to any such place where authorities require a “Covid negative” report; those who came in contact with a Covid-19 patient; those who have symptoms like cough, fever or breathlessness, among others linked to influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory illness, and those who need to be admitted to a hospital or require surgery. The state order issued by UP additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad does not expand the testing fully considering the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) new guidelines issued earlier this week allowed for testing of all, without categories, on demand. The ICMR, however, is an advisory body and state health authorities are allowed to prepare their own testing rules.The state now requires laboratories to keep copies of the testing subject’s particulars.“At times, people provide incorrect phone numbers. The government order mentions that it will now be the responsibility of the laboratories to verify the phone numbers. They should keep a photocopy of the identification (Aadhar, voter id etc) from the person getting tested. Further, those who are getting tested will also have to act responsibly else they may face action. If a person is getting himself/herself tested at one or more laboratory, they will have to produce the same mobile number and same identification document at all locations. This will help authorities in identifying contacts,” he said. The order also specified the modalities for people who need to be tested as part of routine surveillance in containment and non-containment zones besides those in hospital settings, as per the new ICMR guidelines. Ghaziabad health department said it will soon implement the directions. “We have about 20 government testing locations. There have been instances where people provided wrong addresses and mobile numbers. In such cases, we provided details to police to trace them. Our staff at the testing centres are also verifying the mobile numbers (by calling the given number) on the spot,” said Dr. NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad. Health minister’s visitOn Friday, UP health minister Jai Pratap Singh visited Gautam Budh Nagar and reviewed the situation in the district and Ghaziabad, and stressed on contact tracing.“I’ve asked the health officials of GB Nagar district, to increase the testing and contact tracing to the maximum limit. They have also been asked to keep a constant watch on spread of the virus and make the containment zones accordingly,” he said. Gautam Budh Nagar CMO Dr. Deepak Ohri, who was also present in the meeting, said that the minister analysed daily sampling data. “He also took the details of patients presently admitted in different Covid-dedicated hospitals. He also asked for the details of patients under home quarantine,” he said. “The minister stressed on contact tracing in order to control spread of infection and also asked officials to keep in check the fresh rise in number of Covid cases,” Dr Gupta said.Officials added that about 90% of testing in Ghaziabad is done at government facilities while the rest at private laboratories. Till September 10, the district completed 231192 samples of which test reports of 228232 were received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-allows-on-demand-covid-testing-for-certain-categories-of-people/story-bHSHhdH5EeAWS3qrenyFKO.html
11-09-2020||City||NEET 2020: 10,000 students scheduled to appear for exam at 17 centres in Noida, Ghaziabad||Around 10,000 students will appear for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) at 17 centres in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad on Sunday. The National Testing Agency (NTA) has appointed eight centres in Ghaziabad, two in Noida and seven in Greater Noida. Jyoti Gupta, principal of DPS School, Sahibabad and city co-ordinator for Noida-Greater Noida chapter of NEET, said NTA has made elaborate arrangements to conduct the exam at these centres. “The NEET will be held from 2pm – 5pm. Around 5,000 students will appear in the exam in Ghaziabad and a similar number of students in Noida and Greater Noida. The NTA will ensure that entry is smooth and the candidates are checked through a metal detector which will be contactless,” she said.Gupta said as per the guidelines of the Ministry of health and family welfare, students would need to mandatorily use face covers/masks and maintain social distancing at the exam centres. “The important instructions for the exam and advisories regarding Covid-19 have also been issued to the candidates in their respective admit cards. The exam centres would allow entry from 11am onwards. The candidates have to report as per the staggered time slots given in their respective admit cards, to avoid crowding at the centres,” Gupta said.The officials have also coordinated with local police and administration to ensure the exam is conducted well. Students must carry their admit cards and a government ID proof. They may carry personal, transparent water bottles, personal hand sanitizers, masks and gloves inside the exam hall. In Noida, Cambridge School in Sector 27, and Kendriya Vidyalaya in Sector 24 are designated NEET exam centres, while in Greater Noida, the exams will be held in DPS School, DPS World School, NIMT College, Ascent International School, Galgotia Engineering College, Blue Diamond Public School, etc. In Ghaziabad, Indirapuram Public School and Diamond Public School, are among the NEET exam centres.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said the police have received information about the NEET exam in Noida. “We have reviewed the centres and we will provide security personnel on the exam day,” he said. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) in a statement said the metro train services on Phase-III sections, which usually begin at 8:00 am on Sundays, will begin at 6:00 am this Sunday, on September 13, 2020. “This arrangement is being made to facilitate candidates appearing for NEET 2020,” the DMRC said. NEET, a pan India exam, will be held in 155 cities across the country on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/neet-2020-10-000-students-scheduled-to-appear-for-exam-at-17-centres-in-noida-ghaziabad/story-RjEFFW4hDbKbLfkQ2vfugM.html
11-09-2020||City||Minor brothers on cycle crushed to death by speeding truck on Ludhiana-Delhi highway||A 13-year-old boy and his 10-year-old brother were mowed down by a speeding truck while they were on their way to buy notebooks on a bicycle on the Ludhiana-Delhi highway near Jugiana village in Sahnewal on Friday morning The truck driver, Ranjit Singh, 40, of Kapurthala, tried to flee from the spot, but was nabbed after a chase by onlookers. He was handed over to the Sahnewal police.Police said the deceased, Neeraj, 13, and Ashu, 10, were residents of Bihari Colony, Jugiana, Sahnewal. Neeraj was riding the bicycle, while Ashu was sitting behind him.Their father, Sanjay Kumar, said around 7am on Friday, his sons left the house on their bicycle to buy notebooks before their online classes for the day. As they got on the service lane of the main highway, a speeding truck crushed them to death. Locals rushed to his house to inform him about the accident.Inspector Inderjit Singh, SHO, Sahnewal police station, said the truck driver claimed that he could not notice the children on the bicycle in the service lane. He has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.SURVIVED BY PARENTS, THREE SISTERSSanjay Kumar, the father of the children, is a labourer. Hailing from Bhagalpur, Bihar, Kumar said besides Neeraj and Ashu, he and his wife had three daughters, who were older than their sons.The distraught father said he had been toiling to provide his children education to help them stand on their feet. As their schools were closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, he had arranged mobile phones for them so they could attend online classes.“I woke up early everyday to ready my kids for their online classes. I should not have sent them to the market. I should have bought the notebooks myself,” he rued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-brothers-on-cycle-crushed-to-death-by-speeding-truck-on-ludhiana-delhi-highway/story-VbBQiA9c5HWKSSLZNY720L.html
11-09-2020||City||SC scholarship scam: Lok Insaaf Party stages protest outside Ludhiana MLA’s house||Demanding dismissal of cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot over the alleged multi-crore post-matric SC scholarship scam, the members of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) staged a protest outside the house of Congress MLA (Gill constituency) Kuldeep Singh Vaid in Sarabha Nagar on Friday.A protest march was organised that commenced from Pakhowal Road railway crossing and ended outside the house of the MLA where heavy police force was deployed.Burning the effigy of Dharamsot, the protesters raised slogans against Vaid for allegedly keeping mum on the issue despite belonging to the scheduled caste (SC) community.In-charge of Gill constituency and chief spokesperson of LIP, Gagandeep Singh (Sunny) Kainth, said, “The protest was staged to wake [MLA Vaid] up from the deep slumber, so that he, too, raises a voice against the minister and SC students can get justice.”LIP leader Manwinder Giaspura said, “In the report submitted by the additional chief secretary of his own department, Dharamsot was found involved in embezzlement of ₹64 crore, but no action was taken against him. A CBI inquiry should be marked in the case.”Despite several attempts, MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid was unavailable for comments.Social distancing neglectedSocial distancing went for a toss as many of the leaders were not even wearing masks while protesting. Kainth said the state government could not suppress their voices by restricting gatherings and asking them to wear masks. The protests were being staged for getting justice for the SC students and they will continue the agitation in the coming days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-scholarship-scam-lok-insaaf-party-stages-protest-outside-ludhiana-mla-s-house/story-vh8uC035eluuKYNCnsrsiP.html
11-09-2020||Noida||Yamuna authority gears up to develop state’s first ‘medical device park’ in Noida||Aimed to assist the Make In India initiative and supply world-class merchandise at an inexpensive price for therapy, Uttar Pradesh’s first ‘medical device park’ will be built in Noida by the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida). While around 250 acres of land has been identified in Sector 28 close to Yamuna Expressway for this, the Kalam Institute of Health Technology (KIHT), Visakhapatnam, has been assigned to make the detailed project report (DPR) for this park.Arun Veer Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida, said that as per the requisition of the Central government, the authority has sent its application to the state government. “The state will send this application to the Centre before September 27. The Centre, in consent with the Niti Aayog and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), will check its feasibility, after which the in-principle approval may be given to us,” he said. He further said that after getting in-principle go ahead from the Centre, Yeida will submit its DPR, which is being made by the scientists at KIHT. “If the Centre approves our proposal, it will give ₹25 crore or 70% of the project cost of setting up of the medical device park, whichever is less. The park will provide necessary infrastructure where companies can easily plug and play. The main reason behind setting up the medical device park is to support the Make in India initiative and provide world-class products at an affordable price for treatment,” he said. Singh, who is also the CEO of Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the nodal agency for the international airport scheduled to come in Jewar, said that if everything goes hassle free, the project will take shape within six months. “What gives us an upper hand is that the proposed site is near to the upcoming airport at Jewar. Its connectivity will certainly attract overseas investors,” he said. It may be noted here that the government had earlier given approval for setting up four medical device parks in Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yamuna-authority-gears-up-to-develop-state-s-first-medical-device-park-in-noida/story-VuTNvgi0irzA69c49AygtJ.html
11-09-2020||City||Woman held for planning, executing murder of younger brother over a personal grudge||The Ghaziabad police Friday arrested a 45-year-old woman for allegedly planning and killing her 35-year-old brother who, six years ago, had allegedly shot at her son in Loni. The police said that the man was gunned down Thursday night, allegedly by the woman Warisha, her family members and accomplices. All except Warisha and one of her sons Golu are on the run, police said. According to eyewitnesses, Asif Malik was waiting for a construction contractor in Prem Nagar locality of Loni, along with his brother Nafees Malik and sister Shirin Malik, when a group of their relatives arrived there around 8.30pm Thursday and opened indiscriminate fire on Asif, killing him on the spot. “The victim sustained multiple gunshot wounds and was rushed to a hospital in Delhi where he succumbed to injuries. Shirin identified one of the assailants as her older sister Warisha and gave a police complaint against her and named five others as well. We registered an FIR against the seven suspects and arrested Warisha for the conspiracy and murder of her brother,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). Asif, police said, owned a fleet of cycle-rickshaws and autos which he used to rent out on a daily basis. According to police, Asif and his nephew Golu (Warisha’s son), aged 25 years, had some previous enmity. Police said Asif had allegedly shot at Golu, and also stabbed him, about six years ago over some dispute. Asif had an attempt to murder case against him in that incident, which was being heard by a Ghaziabad court. Shirin said in her police complaint, “Golu nursed a grudge against Asif after that. On Thursday night, Warisha had come along with her husband, her other son and a few men to the spot where we were waiting. Warisha then asked the men to open fire at our brother. They fired multiple shots and fled the spot. I took my brother to a hospital in Delhi but he could not be saved. I identified all the assailants and gave a police complaint.” The FIR names Warisha, her husband Wahabuddin, her sons Sajid and Golu (only for conspiracy as he is currently in jail in connection with another murder). The FIR also names two others who were part of the group, according to Shirin. “During the investigation, it came to light that Warisha was in constant touch with Golu, who is currently lodged in Delhi’s Mandoli jail, over phone. Since phone calls to family is allowed, he and his mother planned Asif’s murder. We have arrested Warisha while the others are on the run. They will soon be arrested,” Jadaun said. Warisha has been booked under the IPC sections 302 (murder), 120b (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Loni police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-held-for-planning-executing-murder-of-younger-brother-over-a-personal-grudge/story-VgiG68pKV7V6jb8JfX4ZOI.html
11-09-2020||City||200-bed multi-specialty hospital and trauma centre to come up along Yamuna Expressway||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Friday allotted 2,000 square meters of land for the construction of a 200-bed multi-specialty hospital and trauma centre in Sector 20 along the 165km Yamuna Expressway.Officials said the hospital and trauma centre would be developed under the Central government’s National Health Mission and once operational will not only cater to farmers from villages along the Yamuna Expressway but will also provide immediate, specialized medical assistance to those who suffer serious injuries in accidents on the Noida-Greater Noida and Yamuna expressways.“We have allotted 2,000 square metre land for the purpose of building a hospital and trauma centre construction in Sector 20. The trauma centre will cater to farmers and accident victims who need immediate medical aide,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO), Yeida .Yeida has allotted the land free of any cost.As per the estimate of Yeida officials that manages the Yamuna expressway, two to three accidents take place daily on it. The expressway has witnessed over 750 deaths since it opened in August 2012. Accidents on the Noida-Greater Noida and the Yamuna expressways are often severe leaving victims in need of immediate treatment than can be available in the vicinity. In accident cases, the first hour – referred to as the golden hour – is crucial as prompt medical treatment during that time can prevent many deaths, said officials. “The facility, once operational, will prove to be beneficial because the accident victims will be able to get medical help without any loss of time,” CEO Singh said.The district administration said that official formalities to get the work on the facility started are ongoing.“As of now, a deadline as to when the work will start on the ground has not been set. But, the project has been sanctioned and formalities such as preparing a tender and a budget are under process. The Yeida has allotted the land for free for this project,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh said that on August 24, he had met Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and health minister Jai Pratap Singh and raised the demand for setting up a multi-speciality hospitality in the area.“After we met the UP CM and the health minister, the state government has approved a 200-bed multi-speciality hospital along with a trauma centre. In the absence of a hospital, the farmers and accident victims would depend on Delhi hospitals for emergency cases. We are happy that the state government and the central government together will start work on this project at the earliest,” MLA Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/200-bed-multi-specialty-hospital-and-trauma-centre-to-come-up-along-yamuna-expressway/story-r83C5oUqkaAYDYJMNomn2N.html
11-09-2020||Election:||‘Big blow’: Ahead of Bihar polls, two Congress MLAs and RJD senior join JD(U)||In a blow to the Congress party ahead of Bihar assembly polls, two of its sitting MLAs - Purnima Yadav and Sudarshan Kumar - quit the party to join the Janata Dal (United) on Friday.Former minister and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Udai Narain Rai alias Bhola Rai, who represented Rabhopur assembly constituency of Vaishali district, also accepted the JD(U)’s membership at a function held at the party office in presence of Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh.Purnima Yadav, who is the wife of JD(U) legislator from Nawada Kaushal Yadav, was fielded on the Congress’s ticket from Govindpur constituency of the same district in 2015 under an adjustment and won the seat. Her husband had previously declared that she would be joining her original party (JD-U) ahead of the assembly elections and contest from the same seat.Barbigha MLA Sudarshan Kumar, grandson of former Congress stalwart Rajo Singh, finally joined the JD(U) on the insistence of minister Ashok Choudhary. Sudharshan was among the legislators who had planned to leave the Congress after Choudhary was removed as the state chief in September 2017.Also read: ‘BJP won’t rest till Sushant Singh Rajput gets justice’ - FadnavisCongress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, however, said that the party was aware of the desertions well in advance and never sought to keep them in its fold after they kept them disassociated from the party’s functions.“Their departure would not affect the health of the organisation anyway,” said Mishra.The JD(U) eyes a major gain in Bhola Rai’s desertion to the RJD as he had allegedly left his Raghopur constituency for election of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his family members, including opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Currently, Tejashwi Yadav is an MLA from the same constituency.RJD chief spokesman Bhai Birendra said that Bhola Rai was made MLC and a minister by the party chief for his gesture. “No other party would give him the honour and respect which he received by the RJD. However, he had left the party long ago and his joining to the JD(U) would not affect the RJD’s prospects anyway,” said Birendra.Last month, three RJD MLAs - Chandrika Rai (Parsa Assembly constituency), who is also the father-in-law of RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav; Jaivardhan Yadav alias Baccha Yadav (Paliganj) and Faraz Fatmi (Keoti) - had joined the JD(U). Fatmi was expelled from the party on the charges of indulging in anti-party activities.Spokesman of Upendra Kushwala-led Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP), which is the constituent of Grand Alliance, Abhishek Jha also bade adieu and joined the JD(U). Building construction minister Ashok Chaudhary was also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/big-blow-ahead-of-bihar-polls-two-congress-mlas-and-rjd-senior-join-jd-u/story-dP9U32TyiZSrRvt4WHLOIO.html
11-09-2020||City||Gautam Budh Nagar gets permanent Lok Adalat to hear public utility related grievances||The Gautam Budh Nagar district has got permanent Lok Adalat (PLA) which will redress grievances of the people regarding public utility services.The Uttar Pradesh State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) recently announced to constitute permanent Lok Adalats in 24 districts of the state. Complaints against educational institutions, hospitals, nursing homes, housing societies and developers, among others, can be filed at the permanent Lok Adalat (PLA). In GB Nagar, PLA will function from Alternate Disputes Redressal Centre building at district courts complex in Surajpur, its newly appointed chairman Allah Rakha Khan, a retired district judge, said on Thursday.“I have joined, along with two members. Other staff members are being appointed. We have started registering complaints,” said Khan.“Public utility services complaints can be filed at the permanent Lok Adalat, which include complaints against educational institutions, hospitals and housing societies which have been added to public utility services,” said Khan, adding that some other services whose complaints can be filed at PLA include transport , telephone, insurance, and municipal services.Cases having value up to Rs 1 crore can be filed at the PLA. The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) secretary Sushil Kumar said, “PLA will function from Alternate Disputes Redressal (ADR) centre. It has two floors and presently DLSA offices are located at the ADR centre. Now, the ground floor will be used for PLA, while DLSA offices will be shifted to the first floor. Till staff for PLA are appointed, DLSA staff will work for the adalat.A permanent Lok Adalat is a special tribunal which is not a court and its decision is not subjected to successive appeals. National Lok Adalat and other Lok Adalats being held from time to time in the district will function as usual at the scheduled period, DLSA officials said.Sanjeev Verma, president, District Courts Bar Association, said, “Permanent Lok Adalat will be very beneficial for resolution of complaints related to public utility services. Students and housing society residents can utilize this platform for early resolution of their issues.” Sardar Singh Bansal, an advocate, said, “I have started motivating clients to file cases at PLA as it is a way to get speedy redressal.”Residents have welcomed the SLSA’s move. Pawan Mangal, a resident of SDS NRI Residency, said, “Permanent Lok Adalat will be a good platform for us to get our issues resolved. UP-Rera is interested in possession or refund cases, and consumer courts take years to decide a matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gautam-budh-nagar-gets-permanent-lok-adalat-to-hear-public-utility-related-grievances/story-9ljcBXAKDma682hDF5GCeN.html
11-09-2020||City||10-year-old rivalry behind property dealers’ murders; two suspects held||The Greater Noida police on Friday arrested two suspects for allegedly killing two property dealers in the parking lot of a high-rise in Greater Noida west on Monday night.The police said the arrested suspects Mohit Vats, 28, and his uncle Suresh Sharma, 51, hired two sharpshooters – Tek Chand and Daya Chand – and one Omveer, to murder the property dealers to seek revenge from them. The two suspects were arrested from the Galaxy Roundabout in Greater Noida West. The police have launched a search to arrest the two sharpshooters and their Omveer.The police said the victims, Dal Chand Sharma, 32, who is from Faridabad in Haryana, and his friend Arun Tyagi, 22, and the arrested suspects shared an enmity that goes back to more than nine years, and five persons have been killed in the aftermath of the feud so far. Both the group members are residents of Faridabad in Haryana.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida central, said the property dealers Dal Chand Sharma and Arun Tyagi, were inside Dal Chand’s Tata Harrier SUV in the parking lot of Ajnara Le Garden, a Greater Noida west residential society, on Monday night when they were killed. “Two sharpshooters - Tek Chand and Daya Chand – entered the society after conducting a recce. They approached the victims, knocked on the car’s windows, and sprayed bullets from both the front windows. Sharma received seven bullets and died on the spot, while Tyagi received three bullets and was wheeled to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead,” DCP Chander said.The double murder had sent shock waves in the society and Bisrakh police had registered a case of murder against unknown persons and launched an investigation. The victim’s family told the police, they said, that they had an enmity with Mohit Vats’ family. The police also said nine years ago, Dal Chand’s father was chosen as the head of his village and a rivalry ensued with the suspects due to the election.“Police investigation further revealed that in the past, victim Dal Chand’s elder brother Rajendra Sharma and Vats’ elder brother Krishna used to work in partnership. However, their relationship turned sour and they parted ways later. In 2011, Krishna allegedly killed Rajendra and his friend, one Kapil, in Haryana,” Chander said.The police said that in 2017, Dal Chand had allegedly killed Krishna in Mathura to avenge his brother’s death. He had served six months in jail after in connection with the murder.Chander said that when Dal Chand was released on bail four years ago, he shifted his base to Panchsheel Greens Society in Greater Noida West. “He opened a property dealership office in Ajnara Le Garden in Greater Noida West, where the murder took place,” he said.Meanwhile, six persons— including Mohit, Suresh, Omveer, and others—were in jail for six months in connection with Rajinder’s murder.Chander said Vats, Suresh roped in Omveer, Tek Chand and Daya Chand to murder Dal Chand. “Omveer had conducted a recce and informed the two sharpshooters about the latter’s whereabouts. The two shooters had reached the society’s back door, but the security guards refused them entry since they were not residents of the society. The two gunmen then came to the front gate and had an easy entry into the society somehow. The criminals sprayed the bullets at the two victims and fled the spot in a car parked outside,” Chander said.Mool Chand Sharma, Dal Chand’s brother, admitted that the two groups had a personal rivalry for some ten years. “The two persons arrested on Friday are the masterminds behind the murders. We hope the police arrest the sharpshooters who are on the run currently,” he said.The police have also served a notice to the maintenance department of Ajnara Le Garden society for alleged security lapses. R P Singh Pawar, owner of Evergreen Securities Private Limited—who is responsible for the society’s security— said that the suspects had entered through a smaller gate which was unmanned. “There was a security guard at the parking area, and this gate was unmanned at that time of the incident. We have closed this gate now,” Pawar said.Greater Noida police said they will also soon ask all the high-rises in Greater Noida and Greater Noida west to conduct a security audit of their premises and sensitise the security personnel not to allow entry of any outsider without proper checking and verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-year-old-rivalry-behind-property-dealers-murders-two-suspects-held/story-pFFMDsbmVO1ZhENbvN0OGK.html
11-09-2020||City||25-year-old man assaulted by four persons in Greater Noida over personal enmity||A 25-year-old man was assaulted allegedly by four persons in Rabupura in Greater Noida on Thursday. A case has been registered in the matter and the suspects are yet to be arrested.The victim, Deepak Sharma, is a resident of Kaswan Mohallah and was admitted to a private hospital, where he is now out of danger, after the attack.Deepak’s cousin Sanjay Sharma, said that his brother was sitting outside his house when four suspects, all identified by their first names, Aslam, Murli, Wasim and Idrish, reached there on two motorcycles and started abusing the victim. “They forcibly made him sit on the motorcycle and took him to some distant place and beat him up. My cousin received injuries in his head and body and informed us. We then informed the police and a team from Rabupura police station reached the spot,” he said.Sanjay Sharma said his family had named the suspects in some cases of petty crimes (causing hurt etc) and were being pressurised to reach a compromise. “We feel that the four suspects have attacked my cousin over the same issue,” he said.Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station, said that the victim’s family and the suspects live in the same neighbourhood and share a personal enmity. “Based on a complaint given by the family, we have registered a case against four persons under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 324 (causing hurt with deadly weapon), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have registered a case against the four persons and launched a search to arrest them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-man-assaulted-by-four-persons-in-greater-noida-over-personal-enmity/story-5kvgolUY8AfIWofvsJMt9K.html
11-09-2020||Noida||Respite from heat likely in two days||There may be some respite from the soaring mercury over the weekend, the weather department has said. With no rain, dry weather conditions dominate most of north-west India, including western Uttar Pradesh. According to the weather analyst, the region may start receiving easterly winds from Saturday night to Sunday onwards which will bring the mercury down marginally. However, the mercury may drop by three to four degrees only after September 15 with high some chance of rains. “The region is receiving hot and dry weatherly winds and the rainfall activities have also stopped. It is not just in the national capital region but the rest of north-west India as well. With clear skies, the temperatures have soared too. We can expect light rains only after September 15. The easterly winds will reach the region in next two days, which will bring moisture and start showing their effect, however, the temperatures will fall by three to four degrees a day after by September 14,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The Friday’s maximum temperature was recorded at 37.8 degrees Celsius, four degrees above the season’s average, against 36.4 degrees a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 26 degrees Celsius, against 25 degrees a day earlier. The humidity oscillated between 77 to 47 percent, with day getting drier towards the afternoon. “The temperatures may marginally drop by next 24 to 48 hours due to the moist and comparatively cold easterly winds due to a low pressure area being built over the Bay of Bengal. Though the temperatures will begin to fall but so will the humidity rise. There are high chances of rains after September 15, with a maximum probability between September 17 to 18,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/respite-from-heat-likely-in-two-days/story-R8vrD7fAo8yqD141N5H68H.html
11-09-2020||City||Panchkula man robbed of car at gunpoint||In a carjacking incident, four unidentified persons snatched a car from a Panchkula resident at gunpoint in Sector 12A market on Friday afternoon.The victim, identified as Kunal Goyal, a resident of Sector 12A, was going to the market in the same sector when the incident took place. The vehicle was driven by his driver Suresh Kumar. He had parked the vehicle a few meters away from the footpath. When they returned from the market and reached near the car, four unidentified persons alighted and pointed a pistol at them. They snatched the keys from Suresh and sped away. An FIR was registered under Sections 25, 254, 259 of the Arms Act and Section 329 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 14 police station.The police are scanning the CCTVs installed in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-man-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint/story-tjrsJKNsgb5E0p3FVqky2H.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGI researchers find more manifestations of a rare genetic disorder||A pioneering research carried by the rheumatologists at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, in the field of systemic vasculitis has shown that a disease called DADA2 which was previously known to occur predominantly in children, also occurs in adults.DADA2 is a rare genetic disorder that involves inflammation of the body’s tissues, especially the tissues that make body vessels.This disease was recognised very recently in 2014 and is caused by a defect in the ADA2 gene which results in a deficiency of the ADA2 enzyme.“What was known till now was that this disease manifests in the form of vasculitis, immunodeficiency and bone marrow failure. The median age of involvement of all the 210 cases known till now was 4 years, whereas the present study has had a median age of 15 years with patients presenting even as late as in the fourth decade of life. This disease was known to present with brain strokes, bad extensive skin rashes, limb gangrene and also other internal organ involvement,” the researchers noted.The researchers led by Professor Aman Sharma, rheumatology services, department of internal medicine, have reported manifestations not known to be associated with this disease till now like hemorrhage in the lungs, infarction of the pancreas, and heart involvement.The research findings have been published online in ‘Arthritis and Rheumatology’ an official journal of the American College of Rheumatology.Prof Aman Sharma said that it is important to recognise this entity since strokes do not recur if the treatment is started. Researchers called for spreading the awareness about a disease that can have various devastating manifestations including stroke in young and other significant major organ involvement, the recurrence of which can be prevented by prompt diagnosis and early appropriate therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgi-researchers-find-more-manifestations-of-a-rare-genetic-disorder/story-JjQUewslhxFi7mNvKIZSBI.html
11-09-2020||City||Agitation to continue, farmers need say in policy making: Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union chief||A day after the administration used force on farmers, Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni remained defiant, saying that their agitation will continue till the Centre withdraws the three agri-ordinance. In this interview, he says farmers need to be involved in policy making. What went wrong at the protest rally?We had informed the district administration that the rally will be peaceful and were on our way to the venue. Police imposed restrictions and did not allow farmers to reach Pipli grain market. Even elderly farmers were beaten up, forcing us to block the national highway 44. Due to covid-19, norms on protests and rallies are in force. The government has adopted double standards. Ruling party leaders have been holding rallies, with even deputy chief minister Dushayant Chautala himself addressing a rally in Shahabad just recently. Are these guidelines only for farmers? The government wanted to suppress farmers’ voice and brought in these ordinances during the lockdown, instead of discussing these bills in Parliament.You had unsuccessfully contested assembly polls on an Aam Aadmi Party ticket. Are you using this protest for politics? Everybody has a right to join politics. I am not using this platform for political ambition. Farmers should be involved in policy making. If farmers had representation in Parliament, nobody would have dared to pass such anti-farmer laws.Political parties are now supporting farmers. Your take?I don’t know why parties are coming forward now, but what did they for farmers, when in power is my question to them. They must also explain what will they do, if they return to power. Farmers should not be used for political advantage. What next for farmers?The government must withdraw the ordinances by September 14. Otherwise, protests will be held in all district headquarters on September 15. After four days, on September 20, all roads in the state will be blocked for three hours.A farmer, who got injured, was a Cong worker and accompanied party leader Randeep Surjewala to a press conference.Some farmers might have political connections, but there were also farmers who were supporters of other leaders, like Dushyant Chautala at the protest. They had gathered to protest as a farmer. They were beaten up for being a farmer.You have been booked for attempt to murder, among others.These are pressure tactics. Farmers remained peaceful. The government can suppress farmers, but we are not worried about such FIRs. The agitation will continue, till we force the Centre to withdraw these black laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agitation-to-continue-farmers-need-say-in-policy-making-haryana-bharatiya-kisan-union-chief/story-xYfK87OHb8tD0Ejbab43XK.html
11-09-2020||City||Mohali: 16-year-old boy killed in road mishap||A 16-year-old pedestrian was killed in a road accident after being hit by a car on the Zirakpur-Patiala highway on Friday. The victim has been identified as Karan, a resident of Nabha Sahib. The victim was the only brother to his four sisters. The incident took place at around 10.30 am. Karan was crossing the road when a Bolero jeep coming from Patiala side hit him and left him severely injured. He was taken to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where he was declared brought dead, said assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Ramesh Lal, who is investigating the matter. He said that the driver of the vehicle sped away leaving his vehicle behind. A case has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-16-year-old-boy-killed-in-road-mishap/story-5zoW8kpnjEzzsV00hf4C1J.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||20,000 tickets issued on Delhi buses in trial run of e-ticketing system||Around 20,000 tickets have been issued to passengers on Delhi buses on select routes, as part of the ongoing trial run of the new contactless ticketing system, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said Friday. The minister reviewed the trial run of the new system Friday by hopping on to a cluster (orange) bus and purchasing a ticket through the phone application ‘Chartr’. This is the second phase of trials being undertaken by the state transport department to introduce contactless ticketing on each of its over 6,600 buses. “Now that we’ve increased Covid-19 testing and are witnessing another spike in cases, an app-based contactless ticketing is crucial in minimising person-to-person and surface contact. The second phase trial of the e-ticketing app was started on 332 cluster buses on 14 routes earlier this week. The trial will also be extended to 29 DTC (Delhi Transport Corporation) buses on Route Number 534. So far, around 20,000 tickets have been issued through the app, of which more than 75% are pink tickets for female passengers,” Gahlot said. He added that passengers can now buy up to three tickets for a journey. Female passengers can now book a single ticket for their entire journey. Women are allowed free rides on Delhi buses. Gahlot along with the officials from the transport department conducted a real-time inspection of the app on a cluster bus on Route Number 429, and used the app to purchase the ticket.“I’m extremely happy to note that, within five days of starting the trial, 6% of the total ticketing on the selected routes are being done through the app now. It is particularly encouraging to see the response from female passengers, who account for more than 75% of the total tickets issued through this app,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/20-000-tickets-issued-on-delhi-buses-in-trial-run-of-e-ticketing-system/story-5RvmmyGOO4GSlYYi06eJ9M.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Vice-president congratulates PU for winning Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy||Vice-president, M Venkaiah Naidu and chancellor of Panjab University, Chandigarh called for an urgent revival of sporting culture in the country. He said that games, sports, yoga, or any physical activity must become integral to people’s daily routine for good health and stress-free life.Delivering an online congratulatory address to Panjab University for winning the coveted Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy for the top-performing University in sports for the second time in a row for the year 2020, he stressed the need for schools and other educational institutions to actively promote sports and games.Observing that excellence in sporting comes by relentless hard work coupled with planning and determination, he lauded the coaches, management, staff, and students of Panjab University for achieving sporting excellence along with academic brilliance. It also requires iron-clad willpower to become an exceptional sports person with a strong body and strong mind, he said. Urging more colleges and universities to offer degrees and diplomas in sports management, he also wanted the creation of a pool of highly skilled sports medicine experts and practitioners to improve the performance of our sportspersons.Earlier, PU vice-chancellor Professor Raj Kumar said that the university has a long tradition of achieving excellence in all spheres of education apart from bringing laurels in sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vice-president-congratulates-pu-for-winning-maulana-abul-kalam-azad-trophy/story-l3DYq1ve9qlEyGlmaYTmEP.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Equip police with high-tech gear, give them better pay, training||Better training, payThe goals of the commission should be to improve police infrastructure, upgrade the functioning of the police force, including investigation, prosecution, forensic investigation, training and intelligence in Chandigarh. Training and skill enhancement techniques should be developed. The functioning of lower level personnel can be improved by better training, pay and allowances and by creating a system that rewards initiative and positive action. Ishita NaraBuild trust between public, policeEquip the force with the latest technology to lessen the workload of personnel and to curb crimes. Long duty hours need to be shortened to allow people to be well rested to tackle their duties diligently. Awards should be given to those carrying out duties with utmost professionalism. No political interference should be brooked. Trust should be built between the common man and the police to enable the former to approach the latter without fear.Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliKeep ‘controversial’ officials awayA one-man commission often proves successful as the person can work unhindered and keep a strict eye on implementation of changes suggested. However, it should be ensured that controversial officials are not in charge of law and order and allowed to behave like dictators who think they have the right to take the law unto their hands. Gurpreet S Malhotra, KansalMore surveillance of ‘sensitive’ areasAnyone planning to overhaul the policing system should recommend dividing the city into sensitive points and zones and deploying extra force to cope with problem areas. Health is crucial so police personnel should be made physically fit by exercising daily and take care of those bulging bellies. Counselling and training programmes should be conducted from time to time to cope with mental health issues. Personnel also need to be friendly so that the public can approach them without hesitation in case of need. Staying active and alert is mandatory to tackle the surge in crime rates in the tricity. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliSeek help from intellectualsThe police reforms commission is not likely to improve the functioning of the force until intellectuals from the civil society are invited to share their suggestions. A team comprising local advocates, retired police officers, journalists and social activists should be part of the body. Their recommendations should have legal status to help in implementation of all changes. Only then can the reforms be effective.Sukhpal SinghPunish the corrupt, step up surveillanceReforms are not likely to work and to set up a panel for the same is a waste of time. Installing more CCTV cameras will help curb crimes in the city, especially in remote areas. For improved policing people should be able to send in their complaints through WhatsApp. Exemplary punishment should be given to personnel who are caught favouring people and taking bribes.Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh Latest crime-fighting technology neededThe police need to have the latest crime-fighting technology, CCTV cameras at vantage points, seal the porous borders, streamlined coordination among all the police stations and security guards at public places. Personnel should be given the latest cameras and equipment to fight crime. Their service conditions too need a rethink. They should be given at least one day off during the week, be posted near their home towns and be given extra compensation/financial support in case of injury/death on duty. Civil society should be sensitive to their challenges and stress. Both the sides should live in harmony. Usha Verma, ChandigarhBritish-era mindset has to change A serious effort should be made to ensure that the report of the commission does not meet the fate of previous reports on police reforms that are gathering dust. Ways and means should be looked into to free the police force from British-era mindset, where ruling politicians and top bureaucracy consider the police force as their personal army.Overworked personnel should be given relief both in terms of duty hours, salaries and working conditions.AK Sharma, ChandigarhNo political pressuresThe only wish of the citizens of the city is that they remain safe and secure where rule of law prevails sans police acting as a law unto itself. The commission should ensure that fear of law is instilled among criminals who get away by ‘managing’ the police. Delayed action by the men in khaki in any case adds salt to injury. The bane of our electoral democracy is that politicians of all hues wield power, even to meet their partisan ends and they misuse the force, twisting facts at times.There is no dearth of talent and professionalism but these get eclipsed because of the pressures policemen face from the powers that be.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaSensitive handling of seniors requiredInternal matters and power allocation in a new police set-up does not bother the common man, who is more concerned about better policing, more so in times of coronavirus. Many police personnel have put in an exemplary performance as Corona Warriors and have been honoured by various resident welfare associations. They need to be firm in their dealings with people flouting Covid safety norms, but apart from taking on criminals, they have to be sensitive enough to reach out to lonely and infirm senior citizens and take care of their needs. Let us hope the overhauling in UT police is result orientedSC Luthra, Chandigarh No threat of danda pleasePolice personnel should be given behavioural training to deal with the urban educated population in UT and understand that the threat of the ‘danda’ (stick) can only distance them from the common manCol TBS Bedi (retd)Advice of local police crucialLocal police personnel are required to have complete knowledge of the region they operate in, especially spots with frequent criminal activities and nature of operations required to tackle antisocial elements. The commission must factor in advice from local police as well as market and resident welfare associations to draw out plans to tackle crime. Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhTransparency is keyPolice personnel need to deal sensitively with the public, hear their grievances patiently and attempt to solve matters quickly. There should be transparency in the working of the police.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali Public should understand challenges faced by policeThe public-police relationship needs to improve, with the former made aware of the challenges men in khaki face. The latter need to understand what expectations people have of them. Apart from the physical and standard training imparted to the police, lower ranks need to learn how to interact with the general public. Besides training, the force should get the latest equipment, including belts loaded with pistol, taser weapon, baton and handcuffs. A metallic badge issued to personnel should have details of their respective departments and personnel number for quick identification, which should be worn prominently. Also, community policing should improve as it’s not as effective as it should be in the city. As military service is mandatory in some countries, community policing should also be widely open to all people, though on voluntary basis, to enable the public to work with police personnel and experience the challenges they face. Beat police officers to be provided with bicycles to keep fit and simultaneously carry out their duties of patrolling as obesity has been a serious problem in the police department. Suggestion boxes should be installed in police lines and stations for the public to share ideas on streamlining the force. Naveen Sharma, ZirakpurBetter pay, training are mustsPolicemen need to be given professional training and skill sets to handle law and order efficiently and better pay packages. They also need to be equipped with modern and user-friendly equipment, especially bulletproof vests. Attacks on police personnel should be dealt with strictly, with maximum punishment for undermining the legitimate authority of the state. An image makeover is urgently required in the force to create a fear psychosis among criminals. Exemplary behaviour should also be exhibited by personnel at all times, so that the taint of corruption is removed with censures and suspensions from service as per CrPC and IPC. Physical fitness of cops is a major area of concern. Yoga, meditation and other exercise camps should be organised regularly. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurCitizens should check police functioningPolice should be first made accountable for their conduct, ie cases of corruption against personnel should be dealt with strictly. Second, this biased attitude: Challaning cars without pollution certificates and not buses and trucks, should change. The commission must suggest setting up of a citizen’s councils to check the functioning of police. Also filing of FIRs must be a smooth process. Police should stand for P: Polite, O: On Alert. L: Live wire, I: Intelligent, C: Courteous and E: Ever readyCapt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), Mohali. The commission has to evolve strategies to counter strong political, bureaucratic and other pressures on police personnel that stop them from doing their duty. To understand more about the problems of the common man and win over their confidence, the commission may liaise with the residents welfare associations . Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhUpgrade recruitment processFirst, the recruitment process needs an upgrade. Both mental and physical standards for screening need to be a level higher (for every candidate, irrespective of whether they have a reservation or not), which should be revised and upgraded time to time. This will ensure quality personnel in the force. Also, police stations and officials should get the latest equipment training to upskill and upgrade. Some changes in infrastructure of police stations is also required. Krrish Madaan, Ambala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-equip-police-with-high-tech-gear-give-them-better-pay-training/story-X4R3ts2bCg94iyKvU56woJ.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Parents’ consent a must for children attending school from Sept 21||The UT education department has asked schools to upload Google forms on their websites with consent from parents allowing their children to attend classes 9 and above from September 21.Latest Union home ministry guidelines permit states and UTs to call 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff for online teaching, tele-counselling and related work from September 21. Students of classes 9 to 12 can go to school voluntarily for guidance from their teachers, subject to the written consent of their parents/guardians. Commenting on the matter, UT director school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “All the schools of Chandigarh have prepared their individual Google forms for consent to be given by parents to allow their wards to visit school from 21st September onwards. The Google form of the particular school will be uploaded on the respective website of the school also.”Students who are unable to respond through the Google forms will have the option to use WhatsApp or text messages so that the final list of students going to school can be compiled and arrangements made accordingly, Brar added.However, with the surge in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh most parents are still reluctant to send their children. A large number of parents are not likely to give permissions to their wards, said the Chandigarh Parents’ Association.Compartment exams for Class 11 on the cardsBrar also pointed to the possibility of compartment exams being held soon after schools reopened from September 21. “We will get permission from parents before a date is finalised. After feedback from Class 11 we will conduct the same for class 9,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-consent-a-must-for-children-attending-school-from-sept-21/story-VVwDvY3Y9rfs4aXzxVArYJ.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Truck driver thrashed over petty issue||A truck driver was thrashed by a group of men near Ram Darbar on Friday. The victim, identified as Harender Pal, is working as a driver with Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) at the city-based laboratory Defence Institute of High Altitude Research (DIHAR) near 3BRD Air force Station, Chandigarh. In his complaint to the police, Harender said that he was going to drop labourers and when he reached near Ram Darbar, he found two men standing in the middle of the road. As he told them to move aside, the duo landed in a duel and started thrashing Harender. Soon, some more persons gathered and started thrashing the victim, who got severely injured in the attack. The accused then fled the spot. Harender was taken to GMCH, Sector 32 for treatment. Based on his complaint, a case under Sections 323, 341, 332, 353 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 31 police station. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-truck-driver-thrashed-over-petty-issue/story-DKVafzMavGApyCcbzjusbL.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 4,266 new Covid-19 cases, 21 more deaths||Delhi reported 4,266 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking national capital’s tally to over 2.09 lakh.There are 26,907 active cases in the national capital while 1,78,154 cases have recovered or have been discharged.“Delhi reports 4,266 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths in last 24 hours; 2754recovered/discharged. Total cases in the national capital rise to 2,09,748 including 4,687 deaths and 1,78,154 recovered/discharged/migrated. Active cases 26,907,” said the Government of Delhi.Meanwhile, India’s tally of active Covid-19 has reached 9,43,480 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-reports-4-266-new-covid-19-cases-21-more-deaths/story-bu3PYpU970I8Dg9bzua98H.html
11-09-2020||Patna||1,710 new cases push Bihar’s Covid tally to over 155,000; toll nearing 800||Bihar on Friday registered 1,710 fresh cases and 797 deaths due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, which pushed the state’s tally and death toll to 155,444 and 797 respectively, a health department bulletin showed. The active cases have climbed to 15,189 while 139,458 people have recovered from the disease so far, the bulletin added. Bihar’s recovery rate stands at 89.72 per cent. Out of the fresh cases, Patna added the maximum cases (211), followed by Gopaalganj (207), Bhagalpur (90), Muzaffarpur (89) and Katihar (82). Bhagalpur and Muzzaffarpur have reported over 6,000 cases till now and six other districts reported over 5,000 cases, the bulletin showed. Bihar has tested over 4,600,000 samples for Covid-19 till now out of which 105,074 samples were tested on Thursday. Meanwhile, city-based schools are preparing for a partial reopening following the state home department’s order under Unlock 4 provisions. Under Unlock 4, the Union home ministry stated that all schools, colleges and coaching institutes will remain closed till September 30. Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi allowed schools outside containment to call their students from classes 9-12 who voluntarily wished to visit the premises for seeking academic guidance with a written consent of their guardians from September 21.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/1-710-new-cases-push-bihar-s-covid-tally-to-over-155-000-toll-nearing-800/story-NNyLmw6CtPeZ9sVLpNwMJP.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid tally crosses 7,000 mark||With 305 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, the number of confirmed cases in Chandigarh went past the 7,000 mark on Friday. The Union Territory also recorded three casualties, taking the toll to 83.As many as 7,292 cases have surfaced so far, of which 2,606 (35%) are active. Also, with 269 people being discharged, the number of those cured has risen to 4,600.The pandemic has been surging with 40% cases reported in just 11 days this month. Among those dead is an 83-year-old woman from Sector 32, who had diabetes and hypertension. The other two, men aged 68 and 59, from Sectors 48 and 50, respectively, also had pre-existing health problemsKharar SDM tests +ve, Mohali count past 6KKharar subdivisional magistrate Himanshu Jain is among 204 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Friday, taking the district’s tally past 6,000. Also, one more person succumbed to the virus while 271 were discharged after being cured. The district has reported 6,060 cases so far, of which 2,067 remain active. While 3,867 people have recovered, 126 have died.The patient whose death was confirmed on Friday has been identified as a 66-year-old woman from Nayagaon, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Meanwhile, confirming that the Kharar SDM’s report has come positive, civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said he is in home isolation. “Most people who tested positive today are asymptomatic,” he said. Among the fresh cases, 79 are from Mohali city, 36 from Dhakoli, 35 from Gharuan and 27 from Kharar.Steepest single-day surge in PanchkulaWith 180 fresh cases, Panchkula district recorded its steepest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections. Also, two people died of the virus on Friday, taking the toll to 40.They have been identified as a 47-year-old woman from Sector 4 and a 60-year-old woman from Sector 20. Both had comorbidities.The district has reported 3,812 cases to date, of which 2,508 have recovered and 1,264 are still active. Amid the surge, the deputy commissioner has advised health workers to “behave properly” with Covid-19 patients and provide them better facilities in government hospitals. Also, a committee has been constituted to ensure proper care of patients in home isolation via a common control room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-tally-crosses-7-000-mark/story-99P8vOOg0JXK7ZszSY8ddP.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sukhna Lake opens at weekends again||The Chandigarh administration on Friday ended the weekend lockdown at the popular tourist destination Sukhna Lake.However, administrator VPS Badnore directed the police to ensure strict enforcement of social distancing and wearing of masks by visitors.It was on July 31 that the lake was closed for visitors on weekends in the wake of a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken crowds swelled at the lake as lockdown restrictions were eased in June.Meanwhile, Badnore allowed procurement of 10,000 additional antigen kits to enhance testing. Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, health, said those in containment zones will be tested with antigen kits on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sukhna-lake-opens-at-weekends-again/story-dHCFiUDeRqk7rTsLEDDh2O.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||29 MLAs get tested for Covid ahead of assembly’s special session on Monday||Twenty-nine Delhi MLAs on Friday underwent Covid-19 tests at a temporary testing centre set up at the assembly complex here ahead of a one-day special session to be held on September 14.Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said all the legislators attending the session will have to carry the report of their Covid-19 test.An official said that so far, three people posted at the secretariat, including a security person and a private secretary to the deputy speaker, have tested positive for coronavirus infection.All the assembly staffers are being tested for Covid-19. Those who enter the assembly hall will have to undergo an RT-PCR test and others a rapid-antigen test, officials said.According to the Delhi Assembly Secretariat, the session will commence at 2 PM on Monday.The MLAs will have to wear face masks and practice social distancing compulsorily. They will also carry and display their identity cards while wearing face masks in the Legislative Assembly Complex.In view of the social-distancing norms, the existing seating arrangement will not be applicable during the session. Seats will be reserved for the chief minister, deputy chief minister, ministers, deputy speaker, chief whip and leader of opposition.Other MLAs will take their seat in the House on a first-come, first-served basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/29-mlas-get-tested-for-covid-ahead-of-assembly-s-special-session-on-monday/story-xneLQkrBq9AzeRioX6K0EK.html
11-09-2020||Election:||Ahead of Bihar polls, EC declares timeline for advertising criminal records||Ahead of the Bihar assembly elections, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday declared a revised schedule for advertising of criminal antecedents by candidates with the first one coming within four days of the last date of withdrawal of nomination. The second publicity has to be made within the 5th to the 8th day after the last date of withdrawal and the third one from the 9th day till the last day of the campaign, i.e. two days before the date of poll.“Commission has decided to further streamline the instructions concerning the publicity of criminal antecedents by candidates concerned and by the political parties who nominate them for elections. Commission has always emphasised on this moral yardstick for overall betterment of electoral democracy,” the ECI said in a statement. The statement further added that this timeline would help the voters in exercising their choices in a more informed manner. It said that uncontested candidates will also have to follow the same rules for publicity. Also read: Nirav Modi won’t get justice in India, claims ex-SC judge Katju“Regarding the publicity by uncontested winning candidates as well as the political parties who nominate them, it is clarified that uncontested winner candidates, as well as the political parties who nominate them, shall also publicise the criminal antecedents, if any, as prescribed for other contesting candidates and political parties,” the statement said. As per the existing EC guidelines, the candidates have to publish this information thrice - once in a national and twice in a regional newspaper and thrice on TV channels. According to the poll panel’s notification of October 2018, the declarations are done after the last date of the withdrawal of nomination and two days before the end of campaigning. Only those candidates who contest elections needed to publish the detailed records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/ahead-of-bihar-polls-ec-declares-timeline-for-advertising-criminal-records/story-xFP8uhMWSHe2g0i2SdCbwJ.html
11-09-2020||City||Seven get life term in murder case in Haryana||Seven people were sentenced to life imprisonment by a local court in Sirsa on Friday in a murder case. The court also acquitted four others by considering their time spent in jail as punishment.Additional sessions judge Chandrahas slapped a fine of ₹10,000 each on the victim’s brother Karan Singh and other relatives Vikas alias Vicky, Mukhtair Singh alias Kaka, Jagtar alias Baba, Butta Singh, his wife Rani Singh and Balbir Kaur, all residents of Darbi village in Hisar. The four accused who have already undergone the punishment are Rani, Baljinder Kaur, Bimla and Hardeep. They have been fined ₹1,000 each. According to the prosecution, Manmeet Singh of Darbi village ran away and got married to his neighbour Amandeep Kaur on August 10, 2014. “They got police protection on August 15 for seven days. On August 30, the couple was going on a motorcycle and Amandeep was kidnapped by her family, who strangulated her to death,” the prosecution stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-get-life-term-in-honour-killing-case-in-haryana/story-bWYsKcWQuCE8jbd02nVTnL.html
11-09-2020||Bhopal||MP incurred loss of Rs 9,500 crore due to heavy rainfall, floods: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said that torrential rainfall and floods during the last week of August resulted in a loss of Rs 9,500 crore to the state adding that the same was communicated to a central team which arrived in MP on Thursday to assess the damage. “Extremely heavy rainfall and flooding caused Rs 9,500 crore loss as crops, houses, livestock and roads suffered damage,” Chouhan told reporters after meeting the central team.He directed the central team to tour affected areas, speak to those who suffered losses and then prepare the damage assessment report.The chief minister also said that crops over an area of 11.30 lakh hectares were destroyed, leaving 11.34 lakh farmers affected, while around 60,000 houses were damaged. Chouhan pointed out that though the crop insurance scheme was helping the farmers, central aid was also required to compensate the damage caused by insects.Also read: Flood batters Madhya Pradesh; 8 killed, over 9,000 moved to relief camps“Insects have caused immense damage to crops and the Centre should send a separate team to assess it,” he said.Madhya Pradesh during the last week of August witnessed heavy downpour which caused flooding in several districts. Teams from the Army, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were deployed to rescue people from inundated areas. On August 29, Chouhan chaired a high-level meeting to assess the rain and flood situation in the state. He directed officials to pay close attention to the Narmada River and its tributaries as heavy rains will hit the state in the next 48 hours and also urged people living in affected areas to move to safer places. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-incurred-loss-of-rs-9-500-crore-due-to-heavy-rainfall-floods-cm-chouhan/story-jgK9kVrehWT33PEbxwzFKO.html
11-09-2020||City||Effective grievance redressal is crucial to good governance: L-G||In a step towards making grievance redressal robust and efficient, lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha launched the Jammu and Kashmir Integrated Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (JK-IGRAMS) here on Friday.The revamped system will decentralise handling and redressal of public grievances by making district collectors and deputy commissioners the primary level of receiving, disposing and monitoring grievances.The existing portal has been integrated downwards to the district level by mapping nearly 1,500 public offices in 20 districts of the UTs. From the existing 250 to the proposed 1,500 offices, this is the widest possible coverage that has been conceived and enabled in online management of public grievances in J&K.Officials claimed that this makes it the first online grievance management system in country which is linked to the central government (on the top level) and districts, tehsils and blocks (at the bottom level).The administrative secretaries of different departments are also linked to the mechanism.In addition to this, the new system will be available 24x7 with applicant OTP authentication, acknowledgement to applicant at each stage, feedback by complainant, and grievance submission through call centre via phone call between 9.30 AM -5.30 PM on all days except Sundays.The L-G said that government is committed towards undertake all radical reforms to put in place a people-centric good-governance structure which will have an institutionalised grievance redressal mechanism.He added that it is the most important component of a well governed responsive administration and an indicator of efficiency and effectiveness of all administrative processes.Terming it a step towards gaining peoples’ trust, the L-G said that an effective grievance redressal mechanism is the lifeblood of any good governance system and is the top priority for the J&K administration. “The new system is initially being launched on a pilot basis for three districts of Jammu, Srinagar, and Reasi. It will gradually be rolled out in the remaining districts by or before October2. It will replace the current portal which was launched back in 2018,” an official spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/effective-grievance-redressal-is-crucial-to-good-governance-l-g/story-RN8B7QZ4iWCDeYWZ0UcZ1M.html
11-09-2020||City||Farmers’ stir: BJP, JJP leaders demand a fair probe into lathicharge on protesters in Kurukshetra||After the Congress and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) condemned the lathicharge on farmers in Kurukshetra’s Pipli on Thursday, many leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP government have come out in support of the protesters and demanded a fair probe into the incident.Former finance minister and senior BJP leader Captain Abhimanyu tweeted: “I was very disappointed after seeing the pictures from Kurukshetra where police restored to lathicharge on farmers. I hope Haryana chief minister and home minister will solve this issue.”BJP’s Hisar MP Brijendra Singh said farmers have the right to raise their own issues and that he was ‘disappointed with the Kurukshetra episode’. “ I condemn the attack on farmers by police, who resorted to lathicharge to disperse the mob in wake of Covid-19. I hope a thorough probe will be done and the government will resolve the issue after talking to farmers,” he said.Haryana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Om Prakash Dhankar described the police action as uncalled for. “The police and the administration should have exercised restraint,” he said. Dhankar also chastised the farmers, saying they should have given preference to dialogue instead of confrontation to resolve the matter. He said the rumours about the government stopping MSP and closing grain markets were baseless and that the state will procure every grain. He has also constituted a three-member committee comprising Bhiwani MP Dharambir, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini, and Hisar MP Brijender Singh to hold talks with the farmers.The Jannayak Janata party’s Badhra MLA Naina Chautala, her son Digvijay Singh Chautala and Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag also condemned the attack on farmers and demanded a probe into the incident.Wrestler Bajrang Punia and boxer Vijender Singh also extended their support to the farmers and slammed the BJP-JJP government for ‘curbing the voice’ of farmers. The farmers were protesting against three ordinances promulgated by the central government. These bills include: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance; and the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-stir-bjp-jjp-leaders-demand-a-fair-probe-into-lathicharge-on-protesters-in-kurukshetra/story-hhq5xS3TQW1oLKmmkOpEZO.html
11-09-2020||City||Cong leaders make beeline for Kurukshetra, extend support to protesting farmers||Three senior Congress leaders, including former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja and party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, held separate press conferences in Kurukshetra on Friday to extend support to farmers who are protesting against the Centre’s agriculture ordinances.The leaders also condemned the BJP-JJP government for police action against the agitating farmers at Pipli.While interacting with mediapersons, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda extended his support to the farmers, who have threatened to launch a statewide stir if the cases registered against them are not withdrawn in the next 10 days.He flayed the Bharatiya Janata Party and Janayak Janata Party leaders for depriving the farmers of their fundamental rights. “Though it is a farmers’ movement, the Congress will continue to support them,” Hooda said. He said the police action against farmers reminded him of the Kandela episode. “The BJP-JJP will have to face severe consequences for using force on farmers,” he added. The former CM said the Congress will also hold a state-level rally in support of farmers at Pipli in the near future. Kumari Selja, who was the first to reach Kurukshetra along with an injured farmer, said this incident has exposed the anti-farmer policies of the BJP-JJP government. She said the ordinances were framed to benefit the corporate houses by forcing farmers to sell their produce according to prices set by them. Selja also alleged that the government’s ordinances will promote contract farming. She has demanded that the government should withdraw the FIRs registered against the protesters.Meanwhile, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the farmers will never forget the brutal action on them and the BJP-JJP will have to pay for it in the future. He also demanded an investigation into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-leaders-make-beeline-for-kurukshetra-extend-support-to-protesting-farmers/story-9dZBP2jXiLeHtblhUtp9FO.html
11-09-2020||City||Farmers, sacked PTIs gherao Haryana deputy CM’s house in Sirsa||Farmers and sacked Physical Training Instructors (PTIs) staged a protest outside the residence of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala in Sirsa on Friday to condemn the use of force on protesters in Kurukshetra’s Pipli.A farm leader, Vakil Pachar, expressed outrage over the lathicharge on farmers and middlemen.“Dushyant Chautala has not spoken a single word over the lathicharge incident. The farmers are protesting against three ordinances promulgated by the Centre. Instead of raising their issues, he is sitting in the BJP’s lap. His brother Digvijay Chautala is making a fool of the farmers by demanding a probe into the matter. The Jannayak Janata Party has failed to raise our issues before its ally (the BJP),” he added.Pachar said the agrarian community wants either Dushyant to pull back his support to the BJP or clear his stand over the issue. “It is shameful that the BJP ministers are lodging FIRs against the protesters and calling them Congress workers. On the other hand, Dushyant Chautala is mum on this issue. People have voted for him to raising their grievances and not to enjoy power,” he said.A standoff between the police and protesters continued for an hour outside Chautala’s house. Later, the protesters were sent back by the police and administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-sacked-ptis-gherao-haryana-deputy-cm-s-house-in-sirsa/story-HqrCGVmmroR561A6cPfufO.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Olympic Association elections postponed||The returning officer has postponed the Haryana Olympic Association (HOA) election, which were earlier scheduled to be held on September 19, till further notice.A circular in this regard was issued on Friday by returning officer Sandeep Vermani, who has been appointed for conducting the elections of the executive committee and officer bearers of the HOA. The communication has also been copied to HOA president and Panchkula deputy commissioner. The four-year tenure of the current HOA body will be ending in September-October. On September 6, HT had mentioned that the association was planning to hold its elections on September 19 by ‘defying MHA guidelines’ on Covid-19 pandemic, which restricts any sports or political congregation till September 20. As per the current MHA guidelines, any social/academic/sports/cultural/religious and political functions and other congregations are only allowed from September 21 onwards with a ceiling of 100 persons.The Panchkula administration had also written to the returning officer to refrain from holding the elections on September 19. HOA is led by former additional director general of police (ADGP) PV Rathee. As many as 33 sports associations are affiliated with it, each unit having a voting right of three, while there are 21 district Olympic associations and four independent and departmental units, each having a single voting right. The total voting strength of the state Olympic body is 124. As per the election schedule, the deadline for the HOA affiliated units to submit the name of representatives, who have been authorised to cast their votes in the polls was September 10 by 5:00pm. The deadline to display the names of authorised representatives of the members units was September 11.Haryana sports minister and two-time Olympian Sandeep Singh’s name has been forwarded by Haryana Cycling Association as one of three-authorised representatives to cast their vote in the elections. By virtue of being part of the electoral college, Sandeep is planning to contest the state Olympic body’s president election.Sandeep Singh is also a front runner for the post of president of the HOA. Former Indian hockey skipper Sandeep, who made his debut in the Vidhan Sabha from Pehowa constituency on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket, is all set to challenge incumbent president former ADGP PV Rathee’s group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-olympic-association-postpones-elections/story-z49vnNSbGXryK8GJghfkDO.html
11-09-2020||Lucknow||CM asks officials to chalk out effective strategy to check Covid spread in Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed senior officials in the state to hold a meet with authorities and chalk out an effective strategy in order to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the city of Lucknow. As per an official statement, Adityanath at a meeting directed the additional chief secretaries of the Health, Rural Development and the Panchayati Raj departments to hold a meeting with senior officials of Lucknow, including district magistrate, chief medical officer, chief development officer and ‘nagar ayukt’, to chalk out an effective strategy for checking the spread of the disease.The chief minister also urged officials to increase the bed capacity in Covid-19 dedicated hospitals in Kanpur Nagar besides making use of the command and control centre in Prayagraj for surveillance work.Stressing on the fact that the Uttar Pradesh government is constantly working towards checking the spread of Covid-19 and its treatment, Adityanath took note of more than 150,000 Covid-19 tests conducted on Thursday and urged that these tests were carried out in accordance with the prescribed norms. The state government on Thursday revised the rates for tests conducted by private labs to Rs 1,600 from Rs 2,500.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh on Friday registered 7,016 fresh Covid-19 cases and 76 more related fatalities, which pushed the overall tally and death toll to over 299,000 and 4,282 respectively. The active cases in the state have climbed to 67,321 whereas nearly 228,000 have recovered from the disease so far. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cm-asks-officials-to-chalk-out-effective-strategy-to-check-covid-spread-in-lucknow/story-vMFpItDqDtmdCKrfm24Z8K.html
11-09-2020||City||Nagpur: Three media persons die due to Covid-19||Three journalists have died of Covid-19 in Nagpur since Thursday while at least 50 others have been infected with the virus in the city so far. Around 25 journalists from a major newspaper group and almost all reporters of a regional periodical have contracted the disease, officials aware of the matter said. One of journalists who died was from a well-known Marathi daily while two others worked for a news agency and a local cable network, they added.Nagpur district has registered 2,053 Covid-19 cases since Thursday that has taken its tally to 46,610. The city reported 64 deaths during the same period that pushed the toll from the disease to 1,521. Also Read: Health ministry to document data on post-Covid complications among recovered patients: ReportVikas Thakre, Congress’s legislator from Nagpur, met the deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and urged him to issue directives to private hospitals to provide cashless hospitalisation to Covid-19 patients having health insurance and also under the state government’s Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. Also Read: 5 states account for 60% of daily recoveries from Covid-19: Centre “Middle class and service class people do not have cash in hand to pay up to Rs three to four lakh advance per head. They are totally dependent on their mediclaim policies. Similarly, poor patients are not able to get beds in government-run Covid care hospitals. Such patients can get timely treatment in private hospitals if they are given cashless hospitalisation facility under the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana,” Thakre said in a memorandum submitted to Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nagpur-three-media-persons-die-due-to-covid-19/story-9OfaO9m35jbUVMZlvCs8MI.html
11-09-2020||Bhopal||Congress declares first list of candidates for bypolls in Madhya Pradesh||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) declared its first list of 15 candidates on Friday for the upcoming by-elections for 27 seats in Madhya Pradesh (MP), which will be held along with Bihar assembly polls as was announced by the Election Commission of India (ECI) recently. Bihar is slated to go to polls in October-November. The bypoll candidates’ list was released by AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik, said Narendra Saluja, media coordinator, MP Congress.Also Read: BJP to take out Ram rath yatra ahead of bypolls in Madhya PradeshThe bypoll candidates have been declared for most of the constituencies in MP’s Gwalior-Chambal region: Ravindra Singh Tomar for Dimni assembly constituency, Satyaprakash Sankhwar -- Ambah, a Scheduled Caste (SC)-reserved constituency; Mevaram Jatav --- Gohad (SC); Sunil Sharma (Gwalior); Suresh Raje -- Dabra (SC); Phul Singh Baraiya -- Bhander (SC); Pragilal Jatav-Karera (SC); Kanhaiyalal Agrawal (Bamori); Asha Dohre -- Ashok Nagar (SC); Vishwanath Singh Kunjam – Anuppur, a Scheduled Tribe (ST)-reserved constituency; Madanlal Choudhary-Ahirwar --- Sanchi (SC); Vipin Wankhede --- Agar (SC); Rajveer Singh Baghel (Hatpipalya); Ram Kishan Patel – Nepanagar (ST); and Premchand Guddu -- Sanwer (SC). Of the 27 assembly seats, where the bypolls will be held, 16 fall under the Gwalior-Chambal region. The Congress is yet to announce the candidates’ names in the remaining seven seats in the region and five seats in the other regions. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), too, had announced eight candidates’ names on August 27 for the seats in the Gwalior-Chambal region. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has not announced its candidates’ names for the upcoming bypolls yet. Of the Congress candidates, Guddu has been a member of Parliament (MP) from Ujjain and was also the lawmaker from Sanwer seat. He had left the Congress and joined the BJP in November 2018. He rejoined the Congress sometime ago . He is expected to take on state water resources minister Tulsi Silavat in the bypolls, who had represented the seat until March. Agrawal, the candidate for the Bamori seat, has been a minister in the erstwhile BJP government between 2008 and 2013. He had also joined the Congress sometime ago. He is expected to take on state minister for rural development and panchayati raj Mahendra Singh Sisodia. Baraiya has been state BSP president. He was also in the BJP before joining the Congress. Tomar, the candidate for the Dimni seat, is likely to face BJP’s Girraj Dandodiya, minister of state for farmers’ welfare and agriculture development. Sharma, the candidate for the Gwalior seat, is expected to lock horns with the BJP’s Pradyumn Singh Tomar, who is the energy minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet. Similarly, Raje for the Dabra seat is expected to challenge state minister for woman and child development minister Imrati Devi. Kunjam, who has been nominated for the Anuppur seat, is expected to challenge minister for food and civil supply Bisahulal Singh. Choudhary-Ahirwar is expected to face BJP’s Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary, who is the health minister in the Chouhan cabinet. Saluja exuded optimism about the party’s bypoll prospects.“The party has selected the best candidates for these constituencies. They are all going to win the upcoming by-elections,” Saluja said. State BJP vice-president Vijesh Lunawat said, “Rumblings have already started within the Congress after the names of some of the bypoll candidates were declared. However, the selection of the candidates is the Congress’s internal matter. The BJP has been confident of its victory in the bypolls right from the outset.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/congress-declares-first-list-of-candidates-for-bypolls-in-madhya-pradesh/story-NilyirOYmZoMOTWUo5Ri2N.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Anand Teltumbde moves court against NIA’s extension of his custody||Anand Teltumbde, one of the intellectuals accused of conspiring with Maoists to foment violence in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village two years ago, moved the Bombay High Court on Friday against a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court’s order extending his custody by 90 days last month.In his plea, he challenged the order, saying the extension on July 12 was not as per the norms laid down under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and hence should be set aside. Teltumbde, who is lodged in Mumbai’s Taloja jail along with other accused in the case, added the special court should be ordered to grant him bail. The plea is expected to be heard next week as justice Revati Mohite Dere on Friday recused from hearing it after it came up before a bench she headed.The plea said Teltumbde on July 12 completed 90 days in custody. But as the investigation had not been completed in the case, the extension of his custody was sought along with that of his co-accused, Gautam Navlakha. Teltumbde surrendered to the NIA on April 14 as per a Supreme Court direction.NIA cited the Covid19 pandemic and voluminous draft of the charge sheet and said that is why it has been unable to file it. It added that interrogation of witnesses and perusal of forensic evidence was also pending due to the pandemic while seeking the extension of Teltumbde and Navlakha’s custody as per the Section 43 (D) of the UAPA. The section says the extension for 90 days can be sought citing if there are compelling reasons for it.Teltumbde’s plea said the special court did not heed the information provided in NIA’s application for the extension to his custody. It added the application said “sufficient evidence has been being collected” and added the special court did not abide by a Supreme Court order which states that a person cannot be detained beyond 90 days if investigators are unable to complete the investigation and file a charge sheet within that period.Teltumbde said his custody would not contribute towards the recording of statements of witnesses or receiving forensic reports. Hence, the special court should not have granted the 90-day extension.The violence in Bhima Koregaon was triggered a day after an event called Elgar Parishad was held in Pune on December 31, 2017. Hundreds of activists attended the event. Investigators say that speeches made at the event, which Maoists allegedly funded, aggravated caste clashes that broke out in Bhima Koregaon during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war Dalits commemorate. One person died in the clashes that also sparked widespread protests by Dalit groups that shut down Maharashtra later that month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-anand-teltumbde-moves-court-against-nia-s-extension-of-his-custody/story-fLB484tfmJOoWRHGpJv5eO.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Investigate suicide cases on priority: Himachal DGP amid increase in cases during Covid lockdown||With the number of suicides doubling in Himachal Pradesh during the Covid-19 lockdown and the exact cause not known in most cases, the state director general of police, Sanjay Kundu, has directed all 12 district police chiefs to ensure that such cases are investigated on priority. “I have given directions to fast track investigation into suicide cases,” Kundu said, expressing concern over the spike in the number of suicides in the state during the lockdown. 481 COMMITTED SUICIDE TILL JULY 31 The number of suicides in Himachal Pradesh in the first three months of the lockdown, imposed on March 24, was twice those recorded in the previous three months. According to police data, 40 suicides were reported in January, 45 in February and 32 in March. In April, 47 people committed suicide, 89 in May, 112 in June and 101 in July. So, a total of 117 suicides were recorded from January to March and 248 from April to June. A total of 481 people committed suicide till July 31 this year. Of them, only 55 cases were that of abetment to suicide. In the rest, domestic quarrels, chronic illness, mental illness, financial crisis and drug abuse were reasons behind victims taking the extreme step. According to a reply filed by the home department in the ongoing monsoon session of the assembly, more than 600 people commit suicide in Himachal Pradesh every year, while about 1.3 lakh people end their lives every year in the country. A total of 1,946 people have committed suicide in the past two-and-a-half years. Among the victims, 1,197 were male and 749 female. STRESS ON SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION The state police have renewed guidelines for investigating suicides. It is now mandatory that in cases where the suicide victim is a female, the investigation will be conducted by a woman officer. Station house officers have been asked to ensure that responsible officers supervise suicide cases and visit the crime scene to make sure it is properly photographed, videographed and the sketch is prepared for record keeping. The victim’s post-mortem examination should be conducted preferably in a medical college to get the best forensic expert opinion on the cause of death. The new orders say that the investigation officer should unearth full reason(s) for the death that is if there is any crime or conspiracy or if there’s any money, sexual, drug or network angle involved. The officers will gather documentary, technical, expert, forensic, digital and other evidences to strengthen the case. The interview of all relevant witnesses and evidence will be conducted with stress on scientific investigation. The DGP said that the police must also ensure the timely arrest of the accused, make recoveries of the seizures, conclude investigation and prepare a final report expeditiously. He asked police personnel to look into suicide cases closely and not treat them as routine. LEADING CAUSE OF DEATH AMONG YOUTH Suicide is a leading cause of death in the 15-29 years age group. “Early recognition of depression and suicidal behaviour is important to prevent suicide,” says Dr Dinesh Sharma, an associate professor in the psychiatry department of Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. Speaking at a webinar organised at IGMC on ‘Working together to prevent suicide’ on World Suicide Prevention Day, September 10, Dr Sharma said, “The global health crisis due to Covid-19 has increased mental health issues. It is important to be sensitive towards the mental health of everyone, including ourselves.” “We should be aware of warning signs such as social isolation, talking about suicide, saying goodbye to friends and family, giving away a valued possession or writing a will,” he said. He said all suicidal threats should be taken seriously and help should be sought at 104, the medical helpline of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/investigate-suicide-cases-on-priority-himachal-dgp-amid-increase-in-cases-during-covid-lockdown/story-drOOkmBOMcz4ji320D9llI.html
11-09-2020||City||Dead gangster Vijay Sidhu’s aide lands in Ludhiana police net||The Division Number 8 police on Thursday arrested an aide of dead gangster Vijay Sidhu, alias Chhota Lalla. The accused, identified as Shubham Sidhu, alias Ganju, 24, of Ambedkar Nagar, was wanted by the police in a case of illegal weapon for over a year.Sub-inspector Rajinder Singh, in-charge at Kailash Nagar police post, said Sidhu was arrested near Upkar Nagar Dussehra ground following a tip-off. He said when the police arrested gangster Vijay Sidhu on August 6, 2019, they had recovered an illegal .32-bore pistol and three bullets from his possession. A case under the Arms Act was lodged at the Division Number 8 police station in this regard. During interrogation, Vijay revealed that he had procured the weapon from Shubham, following which the police had booked the latter as well.Vijay was murdered on October 20, 2019, but the police continued their search for Shubham and nabbed him on Thursday. He was produced before a court on Friday and sent to one-day police remand.The sub-inspector said during questioning, Shubham claimed that he had found the pistol abandoned near a railway crossing and had handed it over to Vijay. “The accused is a drug addict and already facing trial in a case of drug peddling lodged at the Moti Nagar police station. Further questioning is underway for more information,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dead-gangster-vijay-sidhu-s-aide-lands-in-ludhiana-police-net/story-3oBpExfUxqk8Mih7wCOq4K.html
11-09-2020||Pune||Maharashtra CID arrests two in cheating case of ₹3,700 cr||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of Maharashtra has arrested two directors of a Pune-based company, Samruddha Jeevan State Multi- Purpose, in a cheating case worth ₹3,700 crore. There are four different cases registered against the company in the state. The two directors have been identified as Hrushikesh Vasan Kanse (30) and Supriya Vasant Kanse (36), according to a statement issued by the CID. They were arrested on Tuesday and remanded to seven days’ police custody by a local court. The companies launched various investment schemes and offered commission as high as 12% to agents to attract investors. “During the investigation, CID found that these companies were not registered by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as non-banking financial companies (NBFC) and had no rights to collect fixed deposits,” read a statement by the CID issued by Sandeep Diwan, superintendent of police, EOW. Earlier, at least 25 people have been arrested in the case. The company accepted deposits worth ₹3,700 crore with promises of profits and did not money to the investors, the police statement claims. The chargesheets in all four cases have been filed. The police have seized assets worth Rs 233.33 crore from those arrested earlier. Further recovery is expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maharashtra-cid-arrests-two-in-cheating-case-of-3-700-cr/story-RRzbsXc3wtnY1WFKl0DQzI.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nepal man arrested for defrauding Army personnel of Rs 69,000||A Nepalese national (25), who had worked as a contractual agent with two banks, would secretly install a remote access application (app) in mobile phones of his customers he had helped obtain credit cards and would later use the app to withdraw money from their accounts, the Delhi Police said. The police have arrested the suspect following a six-month hunt. The suspect’s modus operandi was uncovered after he had gained illegal access to the mobile phone of an Indian Army personnel in the national capital and withdrew Rs 69,334 from the latter’s credit card account, said Devender Arya, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (south-west), Delhi Police. The arrested accused has been identified as Mukesh Okheda, a native of Nepal, who had moved to Delhi from Bengaluru late last year in search of a job. Okheda allegedly started committing these frauds from February after he was employed as an agent by credit card departments of two banks. “His job was to look for customers, who wanted new credit cards. Initially, he would convince his customers to take new credit cards and later facilitate the process of obtaining the cards for them,” said a Delhi Police investigator, who didn’t wish to be identified. Okheda allegedly took advantage of the card issuance process.“He would get hold of a customer’s mobile phone during the card issuance process on some pretext. Then, he would secretly install a remote access app in the customer’s mobile phone and return the device to him (the customer),” said the investigator. All that Okheda needed to carry out a fraudulent transaction was a one-time password (OTP) since he had the other credit card details of his victim. The rule stipulates that an OTP must be sent to a customer’s mobile phone number to validate a transaction.Okheda would use that app on his own mobile phone to gain remote access to the victim’s mobile device and then steal the OTP.Okheda would delete the OTP from the victim’s mobile phone after making a bogus transaction, the investigator said. Okheda would never leave behind any trail of evidence about his crime and the victim would be unaware that his mobile phone and privacy was breached to defraud him, he added. Okheda got busted after the Indian Army personnel approached the Delhi Cantonment police station authorities on March 9 after he had lost Rs 69,334 through a fraudulent transaction.“The Indian Army personnel found out that Rs 69,334 was withdrawn from his credit card even though he didn’t share the card and OTP details with anyone,” said DCP Arya. Delhi Police’s cyber cell in the south-west district was assigned the case and they approached the bank that had issued the credit card to the victim. “The bank authorities informed us that the money was transferred to two online payment apps and from there to a bank account registered in the name of Okheda. Some mobile phones registered in Okheda’s name were also recharged using the duped money,” said the DCP. Okheda had allegedly been changing his address repeatedly to evade arrest, the police said. Finally, acting on a tip-off, the police nabbed him from Baprola village in Dwarka on Wednesday. A probe is in progress to ascertain how many other credit card holders were allegedly cheated by Okheda, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fraudster/story-fNqShP2pEApzb2VA9UEppJ.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Senior leaders demand action against Himachal Congress vice-president for remark against Anand Sharma||Taking issue with Himachal Congress Committee vice-president’s statement against Congress’ deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma and other 23 leaders who had expressed concern over the party’s state in a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi, senior members of the District Congress Committee (DCC) demanded that disciplinary action be initiated against Kehar Singh Khachi. The joint statement was issued by state Congress Committee member Arun Sharma, former DCC president (Shimla, Urban) Pradeep Singh Bhujja, PCC delegates Pradeep Verma and Harendra Singh Rawat, former Rohru block Congress president Ishwar Das Chawaru, former Jubbal-Kotkhai block Congress president Laiq Ram Oujta, former Shimla rural district Congress vice-president Lok Pal Chhajta, former Rampur block Congress president Satish Verma, former Theog block Congress president Brahma Nand Sharma, former Kasumpti block Congress president Bhupinder Singh Kanwar, and former Rajiv Gandhi Panchayati Raj Organization general secretary Om Prakash Verma. The leaders said, “It was not Khachi’s place to question the loyalty of leaders who have been pillars of the Congress party for so long. The senior leaders have always been loyal to the Nehru-Gandhi family and casting aspersions on them is unbecoming and ridiculous.”They said Sharma was both politically but emotionally connected to the Gandhi family and had never courted any controversy and as such his loyalty to the party was unquestionable. At a time when the party must unite, it is disheartening to see a party member make such disparaging remarks against senior leaders. Khachi’s statement will only bring instability to the party and is a cheap publicity gimmick, the leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dcc-leaders-demand-disciplinary-action-against-himachal-congress-committee-vice-president-khachi/story-LEBFRpZyNeenk4beLecLZO.html
11-09-2020||City||NIA files chargesheet against 7 ULFA-I cadres for killing of Assam police officer||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a charge sheet against seven cadres of the banned United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I) for their involvement in the killing of an Assam Police officer two years ago. Also read: Security forces nab 5 ULFA bomb experts in Assam, bust recruitment driveThe charge sheet, under various sections of Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Explosives Substances Act and Arms Act, was filed on Thursday in the court of a special NIA judge in Guwahati. The seven ULFA-I cadres names as accused are Bijit Gogoi alias Arunodoi Dahotia, Kanto Bora alias Rupom Asom, Santosh Gogoi, Jushinta Moran alias Yankho Asom, Bubul Moran alias Tiger Asom, Dipankar Borah alias Ghutuk and Mamun Dihingia. As per the charge sheet, on May 4, 2018, the officer-in-charge of Bordumsa police station in Tinsukia district, Bhaskar Kalita, received specific input regarding presence of ULFA-I cadre inside a house in Kujupathar village. Following this, a joint operation was launched by police and paramilitary forces to nab the cadres. “During the process of cordoning of the suspect premises, ULFA-I militants hiding inside a locked house started firing indiscriminately at the police, which resulted in the death of OC Bordumsa Sub-Inspector Bhaskar Kalita,” an NIA release issued on Friday stated. “Taking advantage of poor light conditions, ULFA-I militants managed to escape into the nearby jungle. While escaping, they snatched away the AK-47 from the deceased police officer,” it added. The case was handled by Assam Police till June 2019 after which NIA stepped in and started their investigations. It was revealed during investigation that the killing of the police officer was the result of a conspiracy hatched by the accused on instructions of Arunodoi Dahotia. Subsequently, four of the seven accused and another ULFA-I cadre (who has died since) came from their Myanmar camps to Tinsukia district, armed with assault weapons, IEDs and explosive powder etc. with the aim of raising funds for the banned outfit and committing terrorist acts across Assam. “On receipt of the said information, the same was sought to be thwarted by OC Bordumsa Sub-Inspector Bhaskar Kalita and his team. During the process of laying the cordon, the ULFA-I cadres fired indiscriminately on OC Bordumsa, who was leading from the front, thus killing him,” the release stated. While three of the accused named in the charge sheet, Bubul Moran, Dipankar Borah and Mamun Dihingia have been arrested, the other four are still absconding. Further investigations into the case are still on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-7-ulfa-i-cadres-for-killing-of-assam-police-officer/story-1O1ICMxzUW1LLxkKUwvqoN.html
11-09-2020||Pune||Hoteliers in Pune claim ₹10 crore in dues pending for city’s use of hotels as quarantine facilities||Hoteliers in Pune have sought the state government’s intervention in the release of payment for hotels which were “forcibly requisitioned” by the district administration, under the Disaster Management Act, to quarantine Covid-19 medical staff, as well as patients, at the initial outbreak of the pandemic in April. The total amount due, according to the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India and the Pune Hoteliers association (PHA), is approximately ₹10 crore for 24 hotels used. The rates decided by the administration were ₹2,000 for a five-star hotel room, and ₹500 for a non-star hotel room, per day. The rooms were requisitioned from April onwards when the lockdown was enforced in Pune. The association has registered its grievance with district collector Rajesh Deshmukh seeking release of the compensation. “The hoteliers have approached the administration and I am looking into their complaints,” said Deshmukh. “I have sought all the details on requisition and bills from the concerned department and based on the details, further action will be taken,” Deshmukh added.“It is reported by members that although their hotels have been requisitioned and taken over, no payment of compensation has been made so far in any of the cases. This has led to further losses and our members are unable to meet even the daily expenses during these times. Hence, it may not be bearable to sustain the further burden of forced operations due to the requisitioned housing of guests,” stated a letter written by the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India to the district collector and chief minister of Maharashtra on September 8. “We did what the government asked us to do. Hotels were requisitioned for the purposes of accommodating health workers and doctors, and were promised compensation against the services provided, but we are still waiting for it. Hotel staff risked their lives to serve those who were quarantined in their hotels during the lockdown,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, president, of the association. “We are hurt at the ‘use it and throw’ policy of the government. It is the ultimately the government which is bringing down this sector through its step-motherly treatment of the hotel industry. They are treating us like doormats. The industry is dying thanks to the state government as we are shut since five months. We stood by the government and it has failed us . They promised us compensation, but nothing has happened and we are sitting like beggars for their alms. Forty percent of the industry will shut down due to the indifferent attitude of the government,” Kohli said. Sharan Shetty, president, Pune hoteliers association, said it is unfortunate that the hotels have to bear the brunt of a decision made in good faith. “Hotels were made to open and carry out operations by the state when they actually were closed. They have incurred expenses which they wouldn’t have if they were to remain shut. Now hotels are receiving electricity bills with penalties for not paying on time,” said Shetty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hoteliers-in-pune-claim-10-crore-in-dues-pending-for-city-s-use-of-hotels-as-quarantine-facilities/story-hvAGH077HsxDWedidxQkFI.html
11-09-2020||Patna||Bihar medical aspirant shoots self while taking selfie with father’s pistol||A 17-year-old medical aspirant in Bihar’s Gopalganj district died after accidentally shooting himself in the head while trying to click a selfie with a firearm licensed to his father. The victim was identified as Himansu Kumar alias Kunal, a resident of Imalia village under the limits of Manjha Garh police station of Gopalganj district. The firearm belonged to the victim’s father, Omprakash Singh, a farmer-cum-BJP activist. Police said the deceased was studying in Kota, Rajasthan and had recently returned to his native place during the lockdown.Imalia village head Ranjan Singh said Kunal accidently pulled the trigger of his father’s gun while posing for a picture at his home on Friday morning. Kunal’s neighbour and former minister Ram Pravesh Rai said he called the police after hearing a gunshot.“I heard a gunshot, and then I heard somebody screaming. I realised that somebody had been hurt. I called the police straight away and when they arrived, they found that he (Kunal) was still alive,” Rai said. Kunal died at the Sadar hospital due to the bullet injury in his head. Following his death, family members and villagers accused the hospital of medical negligence and some relatives of the deceased allegedly attacked a few doctors and health workers at the hospital. A big contingent of police force was rushed to the spot to pacify the mob. Station house officer (SHO) of Manjha Garh police station Dinesh Kumar Yadav said all angles were being probed.Also Read: Over 3,000 doctors’ appointment cleared in Bihar, move to help fight Covid“Though it appears that the deceased accidentally shot himself, we are investigating the case from all angles, including murder or death by suicide. Some of his family members are being questioned,” said Yadav. Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari said further clarity in the case will come after the preliminary investigation.“The family has claimed that the boy died while trying to take a selfie with his father’s gun. We will be able tell more after we conclude our preliminary investigations,” he said, adding that the family was in a state of shock.Also Read: Noida police nab two men from Bihar for duping former state DGP of nearly ₹75,000The state has seen a spate of incidents of people, especially teenagers and youth, dying in accidents while taking a selfie.Earlier on June 15, 2019, a 22-year-old youth from Bhagalpur, identified as Pawan Kumar, died in Sahebganj (Jharkhand) when a pistol went off while he was posing for a selfie with the illegal weapon during a wedding function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-medical-aspirant-shoots-self-while-taking-selfie-with-father-s-pistol/story-PyKYbCc12ZKNEIh0RPHuKI.html
11-09-2020||Pune||Lost jobs, but not their spirit; these individuals in Pune know how to shine, even during a pandemic||The pandemic has been tough on the economy and on businesses. Many people lost their livelihoods, but Covid-19 has not been able to crush the spirit of the people. From finally pursuing life-long dreams to changing professions for the better, some city residents have transformed their lives despite facing adversities.“I had been working as a bank manager at one of the cooperative banks in Kalewadi over the past 10 years, which was shut down due to the pandemic, so I started my own business of selling sanitary napkins,” said 48-year-old Prashant Gaikwad. Working to empower women had been Gaikwad’s dream and starting this business, helped his ideas grow. “I started my new business at Akurdi on August 15. I have always observed that women ignore menstrual hygiene especially in slums and even those who belong to middle-class families and use cloth instead of sanitary napkins. My aim is to change the habit of these women in order to improve their overall hygiene,” added Gaikwad who is also approaching non-government organisations and social organisations to promote menstrual hygiene.Along with Prashant, his wife and daughter are now also spreading awareness regarding menstrual hygiene in Pimple Gurav.Like Gaikwad, Vivek Temkar, who was unsure about his future due to the lockdown-induced unemployment, decided to start a chicken and mutton shop at Manchar, Ausari Khurd, Ambegaon taluka.“I decided to start my own business instead of depending only on my regular job for a living,” said Temkar, who started the quality chicken shop in June. Suddenly, the days have become longer for Temkar as he starts his day at 6am and ends at 11pm. In the morning he completes his office duty as an engineer and from 3pm onwards, he attends to his shop.“In our area many people had complained that chicken and mutton centres do not maintain cleanliness. So cleanliness is our top priority here and people have encouraged my business venture. I have been able to earn good profit over the last three months,” Temkar who works at Varroc Engineering Limited, Chakan.His family had first objected to his idea, however, now all are onboard. “Business is business and if you give quality products, then people will keep coming to your shop without any hesitation. I will keep growing my business,” added Temkar.Gaikwad and Temkar were guided by Abhay Bhor, president, Forum of Small Scale Industries Association.“Bhor has always been there for guidance and he has helped many people start their own business during these hard times,” added Temkar.For Vaibhav Hinge, the decision of leaving his profession turned out to be for the better, as his Matoshree plant and fruit nursery on a two-acre land – is now earning him profit.“Due to cost cutting, my company terminated the contract on April 30. I had been reading that organic plants and fruits have a lot of demand in the city so I decided to set up a nursery and it is attracting many people,” said Hinge who started his Nursery on June 5.People who love flowers have started making queues at the nursery.“First I was thinking of starting a hotel but in our taluka, we don’t have such a nursery and since we have farms at our home, I took to the idea of maintaining a nursery,” added Hinge who worked as the project head at a cable line at one of the private firms in Chakan.Earlier, Hinge had to work in various shifts at his company, but now he doesn’t have to travel every day to earn money.Abhay Bhor, president, Forum of Small Scale Industries Association, who has provided many such people guidance, adds, “To overcome the current situation of unemployment, our firm is always pushing new ideas and innovation for the people and we are also creating opportunities for them.”Bhor runs different forums to give consultation to unemployed people, women self-help groups and youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lost-jobs-but-not-their-spirit-these-individuals-in-pune-know-how-to-shine-even-during-a-pandemic/story-BYtvmBtqvaWljXNEzFPN8I.html
11-09-2020||City||Vardhman MD Sharma dies of covid-19||Ludhiana Darshan Lal Sharma,72, managing director of Vardhman Yarns and Threads Limited succumbed to covid-19 at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H) on Thursday evening. He was being treated for the disease at the hospital for the past 10 days.Suffering from comorbidities, including diabetes and hypertension, his heart had been hit due to the infection. Experts of a special task force that the state government has formed to check the spread of covid-19 were monitoring his condition. Cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, a member of the task force, said his condition suddenly deteriorated during the evening, and he suffered a massive heart attack. An engineer, and also an alumnus of Harvard Business School, Sharma had been associated with the Vardhman Group for 47 years. He served the textile industry for five decades and held several prominent positions, including chairman of Punjab State Council of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), deputy chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI) and president of Ludhiana Management Association (LMA). He served on the boards of Vardhman Nisshinbo Garments Limited, Guetermann India Private Limited and Ralson (India) Limited. He was also a member of Guru Nanak Bhawan Management Committee. Chairman and managing director of the group SP Oswal expressed profound grief on his untimely death. “It is a great personal loss for me as I have not only lost a valuable companion, but also a talented professional. He contributed immensely to the evolution of Vardhman Group from a stand-alone manufacturing unit to a multi-product and multi-unit entity. “ Kamal Wadhera chief executive officer, TCY; past president, LMA and ex-director, Ludhiana Smart City, said, “DL Sharma was a great senior and friend. It is an irreparable loss to the textile industry, his organisation, the city and all of us who he touched with warmth and love.” Ajit Lakra, head of textile division, FICO while expressing shock over the demise, said this was not the time to go for such a visionary man. Sharma is survived by a son, two daughter and wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vardhman-md-sharma-dies-of-covid-19/story-hgRhbe07K6C7zdtNcvKpVM.html
11-09-2020||Pune||Pune’s SPPU to hold final year exams, online and offline, from Oct 1 to Oct 30||The final year exams will be conducted in Maharashtra post an order by the Supreme Court of India. In light of the order from the apex court, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has declared its schedule for the final year exams. The exams, in both online and offline formats, will be conducted from October 1 to October 30. The practical exams will be held from September 15 to September 25. Giving details of the exam schedule, Mahesh Kakade, director, SPPU board of examination and evaluation, said, “The practical exams will be held first, starting from September 15 to 25. We have instructed colleges to conduct the practical and oral examinations through Google Meet, Microsoft Teams, Zoom, Webex or telephone. It is mandatory for college to keep a copy of the video recordings of these examinations. Colleges should submit the internal marks to the university by October 5.” “While written exams will start from October 1, exams for backlog students will be held from October 1 to 9 in both online and offline mode. And for regular students, the written exams will be held from October 10 to 30. Both these exams will be of multiple-choice questions (MCQ) of 50 marks with one-hour duration. We have started the online login portal in which students need to choose their option between online and offline mode of examination.” Kakade said. The detailed stream and subject-wise schedule of the examination will be declared soon by the SPPU examination department. The deadline for students to fill up the option form for online or offline mode is September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-declares-final-year-exams-schedule-oct-1-30-online-and-offline/story-DqLDE82AFoy8HylkQ4lZeP.html
11-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand speaker urges MLAs to attend House session virtually||With at least five of them testing positive for Covid-19, the Uttarakhand assembly speaker Premchand Agarwal has urged lawmakers above 65 to attend the session of the House from September 23 virtually. “Amid the pandemic, we are taking all necessary precautions for the safety of the legislators during the session... We will especially urge those MLAs [members of legislative assembly] who are above 65... to attend the session on virtual platforms only...,” said Agarwal. The development came a day after ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Pranav Singh tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Agarwal said the assembly members will have to undergo Covid-19 tests two days before the session starts. “They will have to carry their negative test reports to enter the House as well as undergo rapid antigen tests at the its entrance of the assembly also to ensure safety. [The members] will be seated with proper social distancing and with masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-speaker-urges-mlas-to-attend-house-session-virtually/story-HPVCuwjqfgktqNG9dHyP5I.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||DGCA seeks report from IndiGo for violating social distancing norms on a flight with Kangana Ranaut aboard||The aviation regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), has sought a report from budget carrier IndiGo on alleged violation of safety and social distancing norms related to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic by mediapersons on board a Chandigarh-Mumbai flight, where actor Kangana Ranaut was one of the passengers, on September 9. The IndiGo flight, 6E 264, which took off from Chandigarh on its scheduled time at around 12 noon, landed in Mumbai at around 2.15 pm on September 9. Also read: Kangana Ranaut episode is a closed chapter, no role in Mumbai civic corporation’s action, says Shiv Sena on demolition of part of actor’s officeThe flight had Ranaut on board, along with her sister, Rangoli, who has been in the news over the past few days after she had an argument with one of the members of Parliament (MPs) on social media. A few media persons were on the same flight to cover Ranaut’s movement. Ranaut has been at the centre of a controversy with the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, comprising allies Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death probe. Ranaut, who has been provided Y+ security detail by the Union Ministry for Home Affairs (MHA) following her request, did not speak to any media person on board the flight.Also read: Complaints against actor Kangana Ranaut filed with Mumbai Police after ‘derogatory’ remarks against Maharashtra CMHowever, the media persons allegedly violated social distancing norms as they kept on leaving their seats during the flight in a bid to get up, close and personal with Ranaut. An airline official said, “The cabin crew kept on requesting the media persons on board the flight to remain seated. The pilot also announced not to use their camera phones or shoot on board. However, they refused to obey.” Arun Kumar, director-general, DGCA, said, “We have asked the airline to submit the report about the situation during the flight and the safety and social distancing norms violated by a few passengers. The report is expected soon.” Responding, IndiGo said, “We have given our statement to DGCA regarding the matter pertaining to flight 6E 264 from Chandigarh to Mumbai, on September 9, 2020. We would like to reiterate that our cabin crew, as well as the captain, followed all the requisite protocols, including announcements to restrict photography, follow social distancing and maintain overall safety. IndiGo also followed the requisite protocol of documenting this matter in its post-flight report. We are committed to providing a safe, hassle-free experience to our passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dgca-seeks-report-from-indigo-for-violating-social-distancing-norms-on-a-flight-with-kangana-ranaut-aboard/story-vd645JB9I0oxsMJpDCXZZJ.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mumbai firm to dismantle thermal plant at Bathinda but iconic towers will stay||A Mumbai firm has been awarded the contract to dismantle the 46-year-old Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) in Bathinda and make way for a mega industrial park spread over 1,350 acres. The firm made a final bid of Rs 164.6 crore to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, PSPCL director, finance, Jatinder Goyal said on Friday. “The official order will be released within two weeks to the successful bidder to start dismantling the defunct plant. Details of the top bidder in the e-auction held on Wednesday will be made public after completion of the official procedure of work allotment,” Goyal said. “The PSPCL had fixed a reserve price of Rs 132 crore but we got Rs 32 crore above it. The e-bidding got an encouraging response,” he said. The state cabinet has decided to develop a mega industrial park on 1,350 acres over which the plant is built. “The land will soon be handed over to Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) on a 80::20 revenue sharing scheme, as decided by the cabinet. Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) recently offered to install a solar power plant at the GNDTP site but that is not under consideration. The PSPCL may consider a renewable energy project at another site,” said Goyal, who also holds the charge of director, generation. TOWERS TO STAND TALL The four mega cooling towers of the power facility, that are often confused with smoke-emitting chimneys, are deemed to be monuments and will not be brought down. Only civil structures, including chimneys and machinery used in power generation besides cables and pipes, will be disposed of. The GNDTP plant was shut in 2018 as per the modalities worked out by a Punjab government’s sub-committee set up on August 24, 2017, for the closure of the state-owned thermal plants in view of the Central Electricity Agency (CEA) guidelines to retire non-viable thermal power plants that have exceeded 25 years’ life span. SYMBOL OF MALWA’S PROGRESSThe foundation stone of the thermal plant, credited with playing a significant role in the development of the semi-arid Malwa belt of Punjab, was laid in November 1969 by then chief minister Gurnam Singh. He was the first Akali chief minister. The power facility was dedicated to the first Sikh master Guru Nanak Dev to mark his 500th birth anniversary. Construction started in 1970 and the plant was completed in 1982. It had four thermal units, each having a generation capacity of 110MW. The first unit started generating electricity in 1974. Opposition parties such as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) besides employees of the state power department and farmer unions have been protesting against the decision to wind up the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-firm-to-dismantle-thermal-plant-at-bathinda-but-iconic-towers-will-stay/story-vOruwqKchaNFjGdqhLpQDP.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||‘You don’t demolish Dawood’s home’: Devendra Fadnavis’ jibe at Shiv Sena over Kangana Ranaut||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday accused the Shiv Sena of blowing the Kangana Ranaut issue ‘out of proportion.’ Fadnavis took a jibe at Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s party, saying that while it ordered the demolition of the Bollywood actor’s office in Mumbai, it won’t demolish fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s home in the city.“Kangana Ranaut’s issue was blown out of proportion by you (Shiv Sena). She is not a political leader. You don’t go to demolish Dawood’s home but you demolished her place,” the former Maharashtra chief minister said.Watch l ‘You don’t demolish Dawood’s house’: Fadnavis slams Sena over Kangana case The action by the Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC) came in the backdrop of the party’s recent war of words with the actor over her comments comparing Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). It has led to allegations that the demolition by the civic body was an act of ‘witch-hunt.’Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, one of the key figures in the said faceoff, on Thursday dismissed these allegations, saying that the Maharashtra government has no connection with the action taken by BMC. Later, he also said the Kangana issue is now over for his party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/you-don-t-demolish-dawood-s-home-devendra-fadnavis-jibe-at-shiv-sena-over-kangana-ranaut/story-laxdM2ZECSr4bV0ggyFiyN.html
11-09-2020||City||Farm unions scale up efforts to get youth, women into their fold||Sangrur The district chapter of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) formed women’s wings in eight villages of Bhawanigarh block of the district recently. The development came as part of a plan to oppose the three new agricultural ordinances that the Centre has passed. Other farmer outfits, mostly seen as armies of old men, are also working to ‘recruit’ youth and women into their fold. BKU leaders claim that the ‘anti-farmer’ policies of the government will affect the lives of women and the young. “In 2018, we decided to focus on increasing the participation of women and youth in unions. Now, we need to organise our youth and women. This is the need of the hour, as we combat these ordinances,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, state general secretary of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan).Kokri Kalan added that the anti-farmer policies of successive governments had meant that youth and women were already against the government. It was up to the farmer leadership to channelise this energy, he claimed. “These ordinances will damage the farm economy and women have to suffer more. We are getting a huge response and women are joining the battle against anti-farmer policies,” he added.Harinder Bindu, 42, state leader of women’s wing of BKU Ugharan, said they already had a women’s wing in Sangrur, Bathinda, Mansa and Barnala districts. “The Modi government passed three ordinances under the shadow of covid-19. Women protested from August 25-29. Our women activists also protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the NRC (National Register of Citizens) and the National Population Register (NPR) in Malerkotla,” she added. “Women are the most oppressed section, and farm debt and patriarchy impact them the most. We are getting organised in Malwa,” she added.Kirti Kissan Union, another farmer outfit, recently formed youth wings in Sangrur, Moga, Ludhiana and Muktsar districts. Union activists are holding meetings with youth for the Barnala rally scheduled on September 14, the first day of the new Parliament session, to oppose the agri-ordinances“We have formed five units of youth in Sangrur district. They wanted freedom, when elders were leading the movement. We will form units in other districts by September 28,”said Bhupinder Longowal, 35, state leader, Kirti Kissan Union.“Youth must not waste time and energy in gathering votes for political parties. Agriculture is our profession and we will not allow the government to snatch it from us,” added Longowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-unions-scale-up-efforts-to-get-youth-women-into-their-fold/story-hwviQp9UluNxzgo29GyOuJ.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||DMRC MD asks commuters to stagger time of journey and break peak hour rush||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) Managing Director Dr Mangu Singh has appealed to commuters to stagger the timing of their journeys and break the peak hour rush so that more passengers can be carried by the system.“DMRC MD, Dr Mangu Singh appeals to commuters to stagger the timing of their journeys and break the peak hour rush so that more passengers can be carried by the system,” DMRC stated. It also added the hashtag ‘MetroBackOnTrack’ to the tweet.Delhi Metro services continue to function for the fifth consecutive day post resumption of services on September 7, after a gap of more than five months.Earlier on Thursday, the total ridership of the metro lines till 7:30 pm was approximately 84,841, the DMRC said.“With the services available on most of the metro lines now, the total ridership was approx 84,841 between 7 am to 11 am and 4 pm to 7:30 pm today,” DMRC said yesterday.The metro, which had suspended its services in March due to the Covid-19 outbreak reopened with caution putting into place a series of measures such as closed token counters, limited entry and exit points, thermal scanners and sanitisers among others to enable commuters to adhere to Covid-19 protection protocols.Apart from regular frontline staff at the stations, the DMRC has made the additional deployment of around 1,000 officials/staff across the line(s)/network to assist and guide passengers in the wake of new norms of Metro travel, which may take some time to settle in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dmrc-md-asks-commuters-to-stagger-time-of-journey-and-break-peak-hour-rush/story-V79SGtKTiZf6vyZRqn8jNI.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||What’s the hang out scene? Pandemic times are ‘lit’ with drive throughs, outdoor cafes and walks||No young life, in Delhi, is lit without a trip to GK for street shopping or visit to Paharganj for chhole bhature! These places have been hit hang-out zones among college crowd since forever. But, what’s changed in the Covid-19 world? While some say they now prefer to go to select cafes, others are only opting for a drive with friends. Drive-through funDU student Vanshika Rana, who prefers fun drives with friends, says, “In Covid times, my hang-out spot is either my house or my friend’s car. I usually chill at home with buddies at a game of UNO or monopoly, and we order out pizza or momos. But it’s more fun is to be in a car, listening to hip songs, and relish this food while on a drive to nowhere! Or may be a drive through movie...” Outdoor joints, a hit Mihika Gulati, a Delhi-based student, says, “I went nowhere for a very long time. Then, my friends and I met at each other’s houses. But now, I’ve returned to my fave joints that are sanitised well. And the best part is they have outdoor seating, which allows us to laze there for hours together... I really miss club hopping on special occasions, but no one knows what the future holds and when will we be able get back to that. Until then, here’s where all the fun lies!” Miles to Go... Partying A Hindu College graduate Ankrish Khanna, says, “My core friend group used to meet only at one of our houses until recently we started going out for walks. Now we order food wherever we are and have an old school picnic in the greens. Abhi ke liye toh this is the only scene where there’s music and drinks. At least it’s some change from being at home.” Jacqueline Joseph, a Jesus and Mary College graduate, seconds the thought adding, “Since we have gone in unlock mode, I have started visiting malls. I hang-out there with my friends since there are a lot of tea and coffee places where there’s hardly any crowd these days. What best that to chill over coffee dates!”Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/what-s-the-hang-out-scene-pandemic-times-are-lit-with-drive-throughs-outdoor-cafes-and-walks/story-7Myxa0QWerfo6gl1sX1guI.html
11-09-2020||Bollywood||Mumbai-based artist on a quest to immortalise Bollywood with these time capsules||A walk down the older quarters of Bandra, Mumbai will open a world of nostalgia for cinephiles. Painted in bright colours and very retro styles are murals of old Hindi films and the stars that inhabit the cineverse. From the sleepy lanes of Chapel Road and Waroda Road to the more popular Bandstand and Sea Link, the murals have left an indelible mark on the cityscape. So who is the artist creating these time capsules? Meet Ranjit Dahiya, a self-confessed film buff who moved to Mumbai in 2009 for work. He paints these murals under his art collective, Bollywood Art Project. His latest offering is a mural of late actor Rishi Kapoor, which took him six days to complete. He unveiled it on his social media on September 4, the actor’s birthday. “It was my tribute to him and I wanted to celebrate it in my own style,” says the NID, Ahmedabad graduate. Read: Freedom from taboo: Artists help remove stigmas around prisons  . We don't think that he had ever put an end to his journey. Legacy continues! . The Rishi Kapoor image etched in our collective memory will always remain as that of the youthful, lover boy Raja, entertaining a teenage Bobby played by Dimple Kapadia. . BAP pays tribute to the legend! . #kapoorfamily #ranbirkapoor #kareenakapoor #karishmakapoor #saifalikhan #saraalikhan @neetu54 #bollywoodartproject #bollywoodstar #bollywood #chocolateboy #romanceking #charmer #wallart #streetart #bandstand #bandrawest #bandra #mumbaikars #mumbaiA post shared by  Bollywood Art project (BAP) (@bollywoodartproject) on Sep 2, 2020 at 9:00pm PDTA mural takes about 10-14 days to paint, and volunteers also pitch in to help. “We take permissions from the residents to use their walls and once we have painted them, it automatically becomes a landmark,” he says. He feels happy when people come and take selfies in front of the murals. “When I painted Amitabh Bachchan’s mural, he tweeted about it, saying something like Deewar pe kisi ne Deewar banaa di,” he says. The original 2017 tweet said: “They build a ‘DEEWAR’ on a deewar. In Bandra, Mumbai.” Read: Colourful murals painted on flyover pillars in Noida wow netizens. Watch  Happy Birthday to @amitabhbachchan we painted India’s tallest mural 2 years back with @ranjitdahiya @bebachha @chai_coffee_booze @curvesndcolorsA post shared by  Bollywood Art project (BAP) (@bollywoodartproject) on Oct 10, 2019 at 9:49pm PDTHis love for the movies began as a child who grew up on a steady diet of VCR tapes. “It is a Bollywood city and my mission is to immortalise it,” says the 42-year old artist who works as a freelance graphic designer and also paints on commissions. The money he makes from these assignments is spent on sourcing materials for these murals.  A tribute to Bollywood’s true legend Shashi Kapoor! You will always be in our heart ❤️A post shared by  Ranjit Dahiya (@ranjitdahiya) on Dec 6, 2017 at 9:55am PSTThe pandemic has affected his work, as he is not getting as many freelance assignments, so funds are scarce. But this hasn’t deterred him from planning his next murals. “We do wear masks and maintain distance while painting, but I still go and paint. I want to paint so much more, from legends to forgotten celebrities,” he concludes.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htshowbiz for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/mumbai-based-artist-on-a-quest-to-immortalise-bollywood-with-these-time-capsules/story-pIeAWRq5OrALb6vcnmtSiK.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||US-based Sikh body starts restoration of Gurdwara Choa Sahib in Pakistan||A Sikh organisation based in America has adopted 19th century Gurdwara Choa Sahib in Jhelum district of Pakistan’s Punjab province for its restoration. The organisation — Ranjit Nagara — began the restoration work in August this year. The Pakistan government reopened the abandoned gurdwara and the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) had unveiled a plan to reopen the gurdwara after restoration. Satpreet Singh, director of Ranjit Nagara, said they wrote to the ETPB in December 2019, seeking permission to carry forward the restoration work at the gurdwara and the approval was given in August this year. “We have hired experts, including Amrik Pahala who worked in UAE and had restored more than 40 sites. He has a team of 70 engineers and they are voluntarily supporting us. Another Architect Rubab Farha Chisti and her team are also on the preservation job,” said Satpreet Singh, who is a businessman in California. He said they expect the restoration work to be complete by August next year. Was closed since the Partition Built in 1834 under the command of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, Gurdwara Choa Sahib was lying closed since the Partition. Located on the northern edge of Rohtas Fort — a UNESCO world heritage site — near Jhelum, it fell prey to neglect. The gurdwara commemorates the site where Guru Nanak is believed to have created a water spring during one of his (udasi) journeys. A water spring is called “choa” and the place was named Choa Sahib. Even today, residents of the Rohtas Fort use the water of the same spring. In 2019, 500-year-old Babe-de-Ber gurdwara in Sialkot in Pakistan’s Punjab province also opened its doors for pilgrims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/us-based-sikh-body-starts-restoration-of-gurdwara-choa-sahib-in-pakistan/story-PQbhxlrSIqcumm0kNqzqkI.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Metro 2A, 7 trial runs to start from January 14||Trial runs for two Metro lines – Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East) – will commence from January 14, 2021, said commissioner of Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) RA Rajeev on Thursday. Commercial operations for the two lines are expected to start from May 2021. “We will receive the first set of trains in December 2020. Post which, system integration will take about five months. We can assure citizens that the operations will start from May 2021,” Rajeev said at a press conference on Thursday. MMRDA will commence operations with 10 train sets, with a headway of 20-25 minutes between trains initially. The Metro was expected to be operational by December this year, but the Covid-19 lockdown resulted in delays. Rajeev said MMRDA was making up for lost time by readying teams for each site and “maximising” labour force for Metro 2A and Metro 7. According to MMRDA, 7,109 labourers were working at the Metro sites on March 16, before the lockdown was announced. Now, 6,332 labourers are at the Metro sites. “We have almost reached the pre-lockdown count. We are also arranging special trains for labourers to reach Mumbai,” Rajeev said. While the authority was looking to employ locals at its sites, only 150-200 labourers at the two Metro sites are from Maharashtra. Officials said labourers from Maharashtra are trained for industrial jobs and not for working at construction sites. No depot for Metro 6 yet A right-to-information (RTI) query dated September 8 by environment activist Zoru Bhathena revealed that the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which is executing Metro 6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) on behalf of MMRDA, has not been allotted land for the Metro 6 depot yet. “Exact location of depot is not yet finalised. The plan shall be prepared only after finalization of the land,” the reply stated. Officials from MMRDA said there are two land parcels under consideration. “Whichever is allotted by the state government, we will start work,” the official said. Direct connectivity for Metro 7 stationsMMRDA has approved two proposals for direct connectivity with Metro 7 stations. Sonia Sethi, additional metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said two foot overbridges – one from Aarey station to Oberoi Realty; and another from Poisar station to Shapoorji Pallonji – have been approved. “We are looking at other proposals too. The cost of construction will be undertaken by the developers,” Sethi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-metro-2a-7-trial-runs-to-start-from-january-14/story-z4Z389gTYhMHrvOCeNA7yI.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut asks Sonia Gandhi to tell MVA govt to uphold constitutional values||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Friday asked Congress president Sonia Gandhi to take note of the ‘harsh treatment’ being meted out to her by the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, in which Congress is a coalition partner. In a series of tweets Kangana Ranaut also appealed to Sonia Gandhi to intervene as she alleged that the Shiv Sena-led government is harassing women and has made ‘a total mockery of law and order.’ She also said that history will judge her for her ‘silence and indifference.’She wrote, “Dear respected honourable president Sonia Gandhi ji being a woman aren’t you anguished by the treatment I am given by your government in Maharashtra? Can you not request your Government to uphold the principles of the Constitution given to us by Dr. Ambedkar?”In another tweet, she further added,“You have grown up in the west and lived here in India. You may be aware of the struggles of women. History will judge your silence and indifference when your own Government is harassing women and ensuring a total mockery of law and order. I hope you will intervene.”The 33-year-old actor has been at loggerheads with the Maharashtra government after the Shiv Sena-led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation razed alterations made to her bungalow in Bandra. She levelled allegations of misuse of power against the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a video posted on Twitter. She came to Mumbai on Thursday after being granted a Y+ security cover and met union minister Ramdas Athawale who said that the Maharashtra government had a role to play in the demolition drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-asks-sonia-gandhi-to-tell-mva-govt-to-uphold-constitutional-values/story-5XoDf0p1lUF4mRfV3eJ0IK.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Biryani king of Mumbai Jaffer Bhai Mansuri passes away||Jaffer Bhai Mansuri (83), fondly known as the Biryani King of Mumbai passed away at Breach Candy Hospital on Thursday. He was being treated for Covid-19. “He was taken to Breach Candy last week. But his oxygen saturation decreased and he was shifted to a ventilator on Sept 2. He died yesterday due to a heart attack,” confirmed a source from Breach Candy hospital. Mansuri had not been feeling well for the past month, according to his family members and was put on a ventilator last week. The founder of Delhi Darbar and Jaffer Bhai’s Delhi Darbar chain, Mansoori’s death is being mourned by the hotel industry at large. Mansuri founded the Delhi Darbar restaurant in 1973 in Grant Road, Mumbai. In 2006, he set up a chain of restaurants called ‘Jaffer Bhai’s Delhi Darbar’ after branching out from the family business. Known for its tasty kebabs and mouth watering biryani, the Delhi Darbar chain owns several restaurants in the city from Grant Road to Jogeshwari. The chain also has several restaurants in the UAE. Also Read: Covid-19 respite for Mumbai unlikely till New Year says BMC, it has a logicShivanand Shetty, president of the Association of Hotel & Restaurant (AHAR) said that Jaffer Bhai was a pioneer in the hotel industry who had many firsts to his name. “Delhi Darbar was one of the earliest attempts of brand building in the city. At the time, even when people owned multiple eateries, they did not have the same name. Jaffer Bhai built Delhi Darbar into a big, credible brand. His kebabs and biryani are known across the globe. He also introduced the idea of a central kitchen, wherein the main ingredients are sent from a single place to ensure the same taste across multiple branches,” he added. Jaffer Bhai was one of the founder-members of AHAR when the association was formed in 1979. “From a single restaurant in Grant Road, Jaffer Bhai managed to build an empire of restaurants and food delivery joints across the city all the way to Navi Mumbai,” said culinary anthropologist and food historian Kurush Dalal. Known for being ahead of his times, what with starting paperless food orders in his restaurants and introducing the Afghani biryani to those who preferred their biryani less spicy, he was the man at the forefront of all new ideas.“He loved cooking and up until very recently, he would be fiddling in the kitchen and making magic happen. I wish the family all the luck in taking his legacy to greater heights,” added Dalal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biryani-king-of-mumbai-jaffer-bhai-mansuri-passes-away/story-lmHlCZl6zOOWm9UrU4dzSP.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||HC tough on Maharashtra quack whose allopathic pills killed patient||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has refused to grant any relief to a quack, who practised medicines claiming to be a graduate in Ayurvedic medicines and was booked for negligently causing the death of one of his patients.The quack, Padmanath Patil, has been booked by Amalner police in Jalgaon district for allegedly committing offences punishable under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and section 33 (practicing medicines without registration) of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961.The FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by one Vidya Mahajan, alleging that Patil prescribed two allopathic medicines to her husband, Shaligram, in January 2019, although he claimed to possess a BAMS (Bachelor in Ayurvedic Medicines and Surgery). She said her husband died due to reaction after consuming those medicines.Patil was also booked under section 33 of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961, after it was found that contrary to his claim of having finished medical studies prior to 1976, his certificate of registration didn’t mention the year in which it was issued.Also Read: Ensure enough beds, doctors available for Covid-19 patients: Bombay HCPatil had moved the HC seeking quashing of the FIR, primarily relying on the June 2014 amendment to the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961. He claimed that after the amendment, even BAMS doctors can prescribe allopathic medicines, and therefore, he could not be prosecuted for prescribing allopathic medicines.Also Read: Over 3,000 doctors’ appointment cleared in Bihar, move to help fight CovidThe division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar, however, rejected the contention. The bench noted that the amendment requires the BAMS degree holders to undergo training in allopathy before they are allowed to prescribe allopathic medicines to the extent of their allopathic training.The bench said since Patil had not undergone any training in allopathy, he was not allowed to practice it and prescribe allopathic medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-tough-on-maharashtra-quack-whose-allopathic-pills-killed-patient/story-NbnKuU7HCOBhWscQxMcwBP.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||National Commission for Women urged to look into allegation of BMC harassing Kangana Ranaut||Taking suo motu cognizance of the recent harassment of actor Kangana Ranaut by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that demolished parts of her office besides Mumbai Police and political leaders, including Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, the Himachal Pradesh State Commission for Women has written to the National Commission for Women (NCW) seeking appropriate action in the matter. “Kangana hails from Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh and has made the state proud at the international level,” the state commission wrote in the letter to the NCW on Thursday, urging it to take up the matter with “appropriate authorities”. Officials said in Shimla on Friday that the state panel requested the NCW to share an action taken report at the earliest while marking a copy of the letter to the member secretary, Maharashtra State Commission for Women. Meanwhile, the Hindu Jagaran Manch’s Himachal unit has submitted a memorandum to governor Bandaru Dattatreya, seeking the arrest of Sanjay Raut and dissolution of the Maharashtra government. The state unit president of the Manch Kashmir Chand Sadiyal said that stern action should be taken in the matter otherwise the organisation would intensify its movement. Kangana was locked in war of words with Raut on social media after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Despite her controversial remarks targeting Bollywood celebrities over nepotism and drug abuse ever since actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, and the criticism of Mumbai Police and the Maharashtra government, led by Uddhav Thackeray, the people of Himachal Pradesh have supported her. Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party Mahila Morcha and Karni Sena took out marches seeking justice for her on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/national-commission-for-women-urged-to-look-into-allegation-of-bmc-harassing-kangana-ranaut/story-D2CSSx6kZSVmijkmhRgPlK.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Special court in Mumbai rejects bail plea of actor Rhea Chakraborty and 5 others||Actor Rhea Chakraborty was on Friday denied bail by a special court in Mumbai after her arrest over drugs charges linked to the probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) into the Sushant Singh Rajput case. The bail pleas of her brother Showik Chakraborty and four other accused have also been rejected by the special court constituted under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Rhea Chakraborty had said in her plea that she was innocent and falsely implicated. Rhea and Showik have been booked under section 27A of the NDPS act, which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/special-court-in-mumbai-rejects-bail-plea-of-actor-rhea-chakraborty-brother-showik-chakraborty/story-td0mFlKvQoX99uhHPB4cfN.html
11-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal observes September’s 2nd Covid lockdown, it will probably be the last||The West Bengal government is enforcing the second complete state-wide lockdown in September, which is likely to be the last one, according to a top state government official. “This is probably the last state-wide lockdown the state government is enforcing to control the pandemic. No decision has been taken on any further lockdown as of now. The lockdown scheduled on September 12 has been cancelled,” said a senior official of the state government. The union government, in its Unlock 4 guidelines, had directed the state not to impose lockdown restrictions at the local level without consulting the centre.The Mamata Banerjee administration, which had declared three complete state-wide lockdowns on September 7, 11 and 12, cancelled the September 12 lockdown due to the national entrance cum eligibility test (NEET) scheduled to take place a day later on September 13. Also Read: NEET 2020: Bengal government cancels lockdown on September 12Since Friday morning, the police have put up barricades on roads and set up checking points. People were being sent back home or were being arrested if they failed to provide valid reasons for violating the lockdown. Earlier in August, the state government had enforced a state-wide lockdown on six different days, in an attempt to break the chain of Covid-19 infections. Around 5,000 people were arrested for violating lockdown orders and around 2,500 people were booked for not wearing a mask on lockdown days. “Situation is gradually improving even though there is no room for complacency. Even though the daily numbers of new cases have shot up, the positivity rate has dropped and the discharge rate has improved,” said a senior health official. Also Read: Kolkata Metro to run special NEET trains on Sunday, services resume MondayTill September 10, the state has recorded 193,175 Covid-19 cases with around 3,000 cases added daily over the last few weeks. The discharge rate is nearly 86%. Till Friday, Kolkata had recorded 44,957 cases. The district of North 24 Parganas, the second most populous district in India, was close second with around 39,979 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-observes-september-s-2nd-covid-lockdown-it-will-probably-be-the-last/story-LiPG13tbwJZKVZ3BUZai4N.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 respite for Mumbai unlikely till New Year says BMC, it has a logic||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) does not see much improvement happening in Mumbai’s Covid-19 situation until the New Year due to fears that the upcoming festival season-- comprising at least one big festival including Diwali, Navaratri, Christmas and New Year falling every month-- will lend itself to regular spike in infections, before a possible significant decline is noticed.Mumbai had witnessed a plateauing of cases in August, however, Ganesh festival, relaxations in Mission Begin Again and increased testing, are widely believed to be behind the resurgence of cases in the city. The civic body is expecting Covid-19 cases to further go up by the end of this year.All ward officials have been put on alert and told to strengthen contact tracing of the infected in slums and in residential buildings. Nearly 80 percent of Covid cases in the city are being reported from high rises and housing societies, contrary to the spike earlier seen in slums.As per expectations, average daily Covid cases shot up after Ganesh Chaturthi from nearly a 1000 cases in August to 1,800 + cases in the first week of September. The city reported record-breaking single-day spikes on the last two consecutive days with 2,227 and 2, 371 cases reported on Wednesday and Thursday respectively.Also Read: Covid-19 winners gain in public share saleSuresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said, “Next two to three months will be crucial because there are major festivals lined up when people are likely to come in contact while greeting each other.”Also Read: Positivity rate dips in Mumbai even as Covid-19 cases surgeAmid the recent spike in infections, the BMC has also increased Covid testing in the city. On Wednesday, it conducted a record 15, 701 tests. More than 60 % of total tests are conducted using rapid antigen kits, which deliver results within 15-20 minutes but are less accurate compared to the RT-PCR tests. In Mumbai, 95,342 antigen tests have been conducted till September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-respite-for-mumbai-unlikely-till-new-year-says-bmc-it-has-a-logic/story-BVjs8qV9hkkSOekE6XAiAM.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Wait for high-end cycles to get longer amid surge in global demand||If you are a recently converted fitness enthusiast and have discovered that a high-end bicycle is your preferred route to health, you need to develop muscle for patience. The wait for premium cycles is expected to get longer after October, when existing supplies (gear components) used in high-end bicycles are likely to be exhausted with the makers. The reason: Bicycle manufacturers in Ludhiana will not be able to order select gear parts used in high-end cycles as Japanese companies that manufacture these are not taking new orders for the next six months till February 2021. The huge global demand for these has led to the situation. Leading brands like Hero and Avon in Ludhiana are facing shortage of such components, leading to huge waiting time with dealers. Japanese firm Shimano, a major supplier, is shifting its unit from China to Singapore, adding to the delay. Some firms make these parts in India, but these are not good quality, rue manufacturers. The prices of these high-end cycles are likely to jack up, with fear of black marketing. Ludhiana, which accounts for nearly 90% production of cycles in the country, has witnessed 100% growth in figures post-easing of lockdown. Brands are delivering with 10-15 day waiting, due to huge orders. Manufacturers said there was a global shortage of multi-speed gear components (front and rear derailleur and shifters). “Shimano had its first factory in Japan years ago, but shut it down as labour costs are prohibitive. They have automatic plants in China, Malaysia and Singapore. The company is not taking orders, as it is clearing a huge backlog. The order we placed three months ago, will reach us in some time, but will not be enough,” said Omkar Singh Pahwa, chairman and managing director (CMD) of Avon Cycles. Pahwa added the parts were key components. “This forms the basic transmission system of these bikes. Other parts are manufactured indigenously, but we have always been importing these three components, as clients demand it,” he added. Hero Cycles CMD Pankaj Munjal told HT that the demand for cycles has gone up, hence shortages have doubled. “Shimano and other companies of that league have always worked with a six-month demand forecast. Some Japanese companies are planning to move out of China, hence the disruption. It is this huge shift towards outdoor fitness that is changing the world’s landscape,” said Munjal. He added India was among the lowest in the world for fitness penetration ratios until covid and the ratio was shooting up. “With smart cities and cycling tracks coming up, demand surge will continue,” added Munjal. Neelam Cycles Ludhiana chairman KK Seth said scarcity of raw material for high-end cycles was a grave concern. “We receive calls from dealers for high-end cycles. When we say it is not available, they settle for traditional bikes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wait-for-high-end-cycles-to-get-longer-amid-surge-in-global-demand/story-rSC4eDxhjwWDKLqGCO5UAL.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini moves SC after high court dismisses bail petition||Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini has moved the Supreme Court, seeking anticipatory bail in a case related to the alleged abduction and disappearance of a junior engineer, Balwant Singh Multani, in 1991.Saini, who is likely to be represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, moved the apex court on Thursday evening after the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday dismissed his bail plea. Punjab Police too filed a caveat requesting the Supreme Court to hear it before any order is passed in the case. The matter is likely to come up for hearing next week, lawyers from both sides said. Saini, a 1982-batch Indian Police Service officer, who was the youngest DGP in the country, was booked along with six others on May 6 at Mataur police station in Mohali for the alleged kidnapping of Multani in 1991. Murder charge was invoked in August after two of the accused policemen turned approvers.Multani worked with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco) and was picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was then Chandigarh senior superintendent of police. Saini was injured in the attack and three policemen were killed. Saini retired in 2018 after 36 years of service.‘POLITICALLY MOTIVATED CONSPIRACY’Saini claims that the case against him is an example of “politically motivated conspiracy” by the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab. He says he was granted bail by the trial court after the registration of the FIR, hence, it should continue. In 2008, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also registered a case against him that was later quashed by the Supreme Court. This is another argument put forward by Saini who added that when Covid-19 was at a peak, under “a politically motivated conspiracy, an FIR was registered against him on the same facts by the state machinery. Saini was part of the then director general of police KPS Gill’s team that helped eliminate terrorism in the state. His bail petition mentions his outstanding service record.“When the state of Punjab was going through a difficult period, he took active part in counter terrorism and anti-insurgency operations. The applicant is a decorated officer and was awarded the President’s Police Medal for gallantry and The Wound Medal (now referred to as Parakram medal). He has been a target of anti-national and terrorist elements,” the petition said. The petition also said that after abatement of terrorism in Punjab, the applicant has been involved in unearthing scams and scandals. He served as head of the state Vigilance Bureau from 2007 to 2012 and during his tenure “a number of criminal cases were registered against members of the political party, which is now in power in the state of Punjab”, the main reason Saini mentions in his plea on the registration of the FIR. On September 8, the high court dismissed his anticipatory bail plea, observing that the same cannot be allowed as there is every likelihood of Saini stifling fair investigation and trial. “The investigating agency has woken up and gathered courage to investigate its own officer and therefore, the vital pieces of evidence which would come handy in leading to various leads would inch towards unravelling this puzzle, which too has baffled the citizenry who are looking upon the justice system as a last resort to get justice,” the high court bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh observed on why Saini’s custodial interrogation is warranted. According to Punjab Police, Saini has ‘Z’ category security cover but his whereabouts are not known for nearly a week now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-punjab-police-chief-sumedh-singh-saini-moves-sc-after-high-court-dismisses-bail-petition/story-17oo3Eh8KQ0BRJEV40Lu0K.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||High-speed Mumbai-Nagpur train corridor can slash travel time by 50%||The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) plans to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the construction of a high speed 753 km railway corridor that is expected to cut the travel time between Mumbai and Nagpur by half from over 11 hours currently to just six, officials aware of the matter said.The fastest Duronto Express between the two cities departs from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 8.15 pm and reaches Nagpur the next day at 7.30 am.“The speed of [bullet] trains between Mumbai and Ahmedabad will be 320 km per hour [along an under-construction high-speed corridor]. ...the exact speed and time [trains will take along the Mumbai-Nagpur corridor] will be determined after the DPR is prepared but we expect to reduce the travel time by up to 50%.” said an NHSRCL official.NHSRCL on Tuesday floated a tender for a survey to identify overhead, overground and underground utilities that will be required for the proposed corridor.The survey will also include identification of power sourcing options for substations along the Mumbai-Nashik-Nagpur high-speed railway corridor.“DPR will be prepared on the basis of the details we get from the survey. It will be crucial as it will determine the area required, the pathway of the railway corridor, and other technicalities. Once data is received, we will begin preparing the DPR,” said another NHSRCL official.Passenger associations have welcomed the move and said the proposed high-speed railway corridor will help Maharashtra’s economy. “The capital of Maharashtra is Mumbai but Nagpur is a very important city. The reduction in travel time will not just help passengers but will also businesses,” said Subash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/high-speed-mumbai-nagpur-train-corridor-can-slash-travel-time-by-50/story-ndavh7fCeIq5tSM3Sr9ibN.html
11-09-2020||Kolkata||Accident in Bengal’s Hooghly leaves three police personnel, including woman officer, dead||Three personnel of Kolkata Police, including a senior lady officer, was killed when the car by which they were travelling rammed into a stationary truck in West Bengal’s Hooghly district early on Friday morning. Also read: Facebook alert saves man after suicide bidThe dead have been identified as Debasree Chatterjee, Tapas Burman and Manoj Saha. While Chatterjee was the commandant of the Kolkata Police’s 12th battalion, Burman was her security guard and Saha was the driver. “Around 6.30 am when the vehicle was heading towards Kolkata from Burdwan district, it rammed into a truck from behind. The truck was parked on a side of the Durgapur Expressway,” said a police officer. The injured were rushed to a state-run hospital where they were declared dead. The accident took place more than 60 kilometres north of Kolkata. Police said that the truck was parked on the side of the expressway, which did have a metal surface coating, after one of the vehicle’s tyres had burst. “We are trying to find out what caused the accident. It could be that the driver had fallen asleep at the wheel or there could be some malfunction in the car. A forensic analysis will be done,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/accident-in-bengal-s-hooghly-leaves-three-police-personnel-including-woman-officer-dead/story-98ekZ9E7v2FkSDcj4iwXBI.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Not many in Maharashtra adept at construction work, authorities find||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has found that many people from Maharashtra are not adept at construction work. The search had started after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had asked the authorities to employ “sons of the soil” for the construction work for the ongoing Metro Rail projects and not depend on migrant workers.There was an exodus of migrant workers from Mumbai following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and its resultant lockdown restrictions for over two months.Also Read: Maharashtra has come a long way in fight against Covid, says CM Uddhav ThackerayAt present, around 200 people from Maharashtra are employed at the Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East) sites. Altogether, 6,332 workers are engaged at various Metro Rail construction sites in Mumbai. In June, the MMRDA had released a requirement for 16,000 construction workers at its sites following the CM’s instructions. “Labourers from Maharashtra are more equipped for industrial or factory works,” said RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, at a press conference on Thursday. He said the authorities would make arrangements to ferry construction labourers from other states such as Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Around 60% of migrant labourers had left Mumbai after nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced from March 25 in a bid to contain the spread of the viral outbreak. The lockdown has also led to delays in the Metro Rail construction work. The two Metro Rail lines --- 2A and 7 ---- that were to be operational by December are likely to become functional by May next year.Rajeev said Maharashtra chief secretary had also written to the Railway Board recently to arrange for special trains to ferry migrant construction workers to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-many-in-maharashtra-adept-at-construction-work-authorities-find/story-NsQ7tL02BLUY5izM8EcnKM.html
11-09-2020||Bhopal||Bhopal woman booked for abetment to suicide of 15-year-old boy||A woman was booked in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, on Thursday for allegedly abetting the death by suicide of a boy (15), whom she had scolded over the phone for spending Rs 50,000 on an online game along with her son. The money was allegedly withdrawn from the woman’s father-in-law’s bank account, said the police. Also read: Same-sex couple in Madhya Pradesh lived as heterosexuals for 8 years, reveals autopsyThe woman has been identified as Sumanlata Rathor, a resident of Royal Market in Bhopal. No arrest has been made so far, the police said.The victim, a student of class VIII of a private school and a resident of Bhopal’s Shahpura locality, had allegedly died by suicide on August 26 when his parents were not at home, the police said.“His parents found him dead when they returned home in the evening. The boy’s father informed the police about the incident and alleged that his son was upset after the mother of one his classmates had called him over the phone and scolded in the afternoon,” said Rajesh Bhadoria, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Bhopal. “During the investigation, the woman, Sumanlata Rathor, admitted that she had spoken to the boy over the phone because he and her son had withdrawn Rs 50,000 from the bank account of her (Rathor’s) father-in-law and they had spent the money on an online game. However, she denied that she had scolded the boy, who later died by suicide,” the ASP said. “Rathor has been booked under section 305 (abetment of suicide of a child or an insance person) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A probe is in progress,” the ASP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/bhopal-woman-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-of-15-year-old-boy/story-1aF18jL5o4JIxUrqNSU7aK.html
11-09-2020||Indore||7 robbers held for Shiv Sena leader’s murder in Indore||The Madhya Pradesh police have arrested seven robbers for allegedly killing former Shiv Sena state chief Ramesh Sahu, 70, after breaking into his house in Indore on September 2. The accused, Rahul Bhilala, Prem, Kamal, Sunil, Kalu Solanki, Vijay and Antim, allegedly barged into Sahu’s house and thrashed his wife and daughter before shooting him dead. Sahu was no longer an active Sena member for over a decade and ran a dhaba next to his house.Inspector general (Indore Zone) Vivek Sharma on Thursday said several teams had been constituted to nab the culprits. “As Sahu had a political background and also faced over 20 criminal cases, police teams investigated the crime looking into political rivalries and property disputes angels also. However, no political rivalry came to light in respect with the crime.”He added Bhilala, 30, worked at a nearby dhaba and had been missing since the murder. “...this raised doubts about his possible involvement in the crime. He was arrested from Gujarat. He confessed to having committed the crime. He told us that he had passed on information to his two friends Prem Singh and Kamal Sirvi about Sahu’s wealth. They planed loot at Sahu’s house and involved five more...”Sharma said they have recovered ornaments looted from Sahu’s house and also seized a car and weapons used in the crime.  Another accused in the case is absconding, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/7-robbers-held-for-shiv-sena-leader-s-murder-in-indore/story-FwmiCADpjRHrdbSvuG0KCJ.html
11-09-2020||Bhopal||Four arrested in Madhya Pradesh for developing fake IDs to get SIMs for online fraudsters||The Madhya Pradesh police have arrested four men associated with telecom companies from Shivpuri for allegedly issuing SIM cards using forged identity cards to defraud people. Bhopal police superintendent (cyber cell) Gurukaran Singh said Pankaj Gupta, 28, Indrapal Singh, 24, Pankaj Joshi, 20, and Manish Namdeo, 24, were arrested after Bhopal-resident Yogesh Sood lodged a complaint that a person called him up and asked for some bank details to increase the limit of credit card in January this year. “The fraudsters [later] transferred Rs 122,000 from Sood’s account to different digital payment wallets.”Also read: 3 Chandigarh residents fall prey to online fraudGurukaran Singh said the cyber cell traced the numbers used to open the wallets and found they were registered in the names of different residents. “During investigation, we found that a distributor Pankaj Gupta and retailers Indrapal Singh, Pankaj Joshi and Manish Namdeo used to make fake identification cards by using cards of genuine customers by morphing their names and photos. Later these fake cards were used to issue SIM cards.” The SIM cards were sold to fraudsters in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar for up to Rs 5,000.Gurukaran Singh said more people were involved in the racket and were going to be nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/four-arrested-in-madhya-pradesh-for-developing-fake-ids-to-get-sims-for-online-fraudsters/story-pSEpK1tchPtAXKUKIKVp3O.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Man found dead in East Delhi’s Yojna Vihar; police register murder case||A 37-year-old man’s body with some injury marks on throat and a beer bottle in his hand was found in his rented flat in East Delhi’s Yojna Vihar on Wednesday. The Delhi police registered a case of murder on Thursday and questioned at least three men but were yet to make arrests, investigators said on Friday.Deputy police commissioner (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said a person known to Sanjeev Kumar went to meet him and found the latter dead in his room while its air conditioner was on.Also read: 3 held for killing 20-yr-old for gold chain, dumping body in Vasai creek“The main door was ajar. Kumar was lying on the bed. A beer bottle was there in his hand. There were no signs of any robbery as everything including his mobile phone was intact. Although, there were no signs of any struggle on the crime scene, we registered a case of murder after finding some marks on his throat,” said Sharma.Kumar lived alone in the flat. He was unmarried and his parents died around five years ago. Police have learnt that Kumar sold his ancestral property in Jwala Nagar and had been living in rented accommodations. “Prime facie, it appears that Kumar was murdered. But we are probing other possibilities in the case as well. We are trying to know about the source of his livelihood, friends and other antecedents,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-found-dead-in-east-delhi-s-yojna-vihar-police-register-murder-case/story-dQw2QUCz8z7KbJ9nKclyUP.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||We should start to learn to live with coronavirus: Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that activities have to begin during the unlock phase in the battle against coronavirus and everyone has to take precautions to fight the pandemic.“Delhi government is of the opinion that we should learn to live with corona. While the activities have to begin during the unlock phase, everyone has to take precautions to fight the pandemic,” Sisodia said.Sisodia met the representatives of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Northern India and heard about their challenges. They presented about the different issues pertaining to hotel business in Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi.An official release said the Chief Minister suggested innovative ideas that ensured safety as well as helped in revenue generation.“We should learn from innovative global practices in hotel and restaurant business so that we can also develop a locally relevant model for ourselves. The Delhi government is committed to helping businesses in these difficult times and their issues will be resolved at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/we-should-start-to-learn-to-live-with-coronavirus-manish-sisodia/story-p95GC8ZIm51GKMjiS9WISN.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to another hot, humid day||Delhi woke up to another hot and humid day on Friday with clear skies, bright sun and high moisture levels. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast mainly clear skies for Friday. The dry weather is also expected over the weekend since there is no forecast for any rainfall. “The day and night temperatures are likely to remain on the higher side,” said an IMD official. Also Read: Monsoon to pick up over peninsular and west central India: IMDOn Thursday, the day temperature recorded was 36.4 degrees Celsius (C), three notches above normal, while the minimum temperature settled at 26 degrees C, a degree above normal. “Delhi’s neighbouring regions are experiencing rainfall following which there is high moisture content in the atmosphere leading to humidity. Clear skies and sun are also contributing to the heat,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-another-hot-humid-day/story-hWYrtMrMv15nMpTdas6tzM.html
11-09-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 test rate in UP private labs slashed to Rs 1600 from Rs 2500||Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday revised the rates for Covid-19 tests conducted by private labs in the state to Rs 1,600 instead of Rs 2,500 it cost earlier.Revision has been done keeping in view the fall in price of reagents used in tests and price rationalisation carried out by other states, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health). “The prices of RT-PCR test kits and reagents used for Covid tests have come down. Hence, the earlier order on pricing of the test (issued in April) is amended. The maximum price will now be Rs 1,600,” said Prasad in an order issued during the day. “The order comes into effect immediately,” said Dr DS Negi, director- general, medical health. The price of confirmatory test through TrueNat was also fixed at Rs 1,600. Prasad, in the order, said a violation in charging the prescribed fee for the test will call for action under the Epidemic Act. Also Read: Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, CM Yogi calls for special attention to 4 districtsThis is the second time that the price for Covid test has been reduced. When private labs were first allowed testing via RT-PCR, the fee for each test was set at Rs 4,500 and then reduced to Rs 2,500. Now, labs cannot charge over Rs 1,600 per test. Also Read: Many top Lucknow schools reject option for partial reopening from September 21“It’s a welcome move by the government. If there has been a fall in price of reagents, then reducing the fee for test is the right step,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, association of international doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-test-cost-in-up-private-labs-slashed-to-rs-1600-from-rs-2500/story-zKH1JdaS4yI78LGyk58UiI.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Magenta and Grey lines reopen today||The Delhi Metro Friday reopened two more corridors, the Magenta and Grey lines, for public use. With this, all the major Metro lines of the network are now in service.On Friday, the Metro corporation began services on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden) and Grey Line (Dwarka to Najafgarh).Also Read: Delhi Metro tokens might return once the pandemic is over, focus on smart cards: DMRC chiefOperational hours on Friday have also been increased—from 7am to 1pm and 4pm to 10pm. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said the Airport Express Line (New Delhi to Dwarka Sector-21) will reopen Saturday, and, with this, all lines of the Delhi Metro will become fully functional and operate between 6am and 11pm—the pre-lockdown timings.“Owing to the new norms of social distancing, which have significantly reduced the number of passengers allowed on a train, DMRC has decided to run the system with peak-hour frequency from 8am to 8pm, doing away with the concept of off-peak hours from 11am to 4pm, wherein there would be fewer trains/trips,” a DMRC statement read Thursday.Also Read: Delhi Metro returns with its fun factors: Doodles, books as surprises to be expected soonDMRC said once they resume normal service on Saturday, trains will be available every 3 to 15 minutes from 6am to 8am. From 8am to 8pm, on all main corridors, the frequency of trains would be in the range of 2.45 minutes to 6 minutes, and after 8pm, train frequency will return to the 3-15 minute range.The Delhi Metro had closed its operations on March 22, given the increasing spread of Covid-19 in the national Capital. From Monday, the system started opening up in a graded manner, starting with the Yellow Line (Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli).For travel, DMRC has prepared a standard operating procedure(SOP) to ensure that passengers follow social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-magenta-and-grey-lines-reopen-today/story-XViJgLcVr3Q3D18tRVxLBJ.html
11-09-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC to hear Lalu Prasad’s bail plea in fodder scam case||The Jharkhand High Court will on Friday hear former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav’s bail plea in the Rs 950-crore fodder scam. The Jharkhand HC had on August 28 deferred the case to Friday as the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) counsel, assistant solicitor general Rajiv Sinha, had fallen ill.The fodder scam case concerns fraudulent withdrawals amounting to Rs 33.67 crore from the Chaibasa treasury when Lalu Prasad was the chief minister of Bihar.Devarshi Mandal, the former chief minister’s lawyer, had earlier said that Lalu Prasad’s chances of securing bail are high as the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader has served half of his jail term and that his health is deteriorating.The RJD chief has been convicted in three-fodder scam cases so far. A trial court in Ranchi had held him guilty in the first of the six cases registered against him in September 2013 sentencing him to five years in prison. He was also banned from contesting polls and disqualified from Parliament.He was again convicted in December 2017 in three other fodder scam cases. He was shifted from Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Jail in March 2018 to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences due to his health conditions and is currently being treated there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-to-hear-lalu-prasad-s-bail-plea-in-fodder-scam-case/story-hzeCySHoQWZDodGW7QwxvK.html
11-09-2020||Election:||The importance of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh||Dr. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh (74), or Raghuvansh babu for those who have a ready connect with him, is a prized upper caste asset of a party that survives on backward caste politics, a loyal lieutenant of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad since the late 1980s, the party’s intellectual powerhouse and a doctorate in mathematics. He is also the unsung architect of India’s biggest welfare programme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) of 2005. Singh, a man of unquestionable integrity, was the Union rural development minister during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA-1) government (2004- 09) when his political boss Prasad was the minister for railways. An MP from Bihar’s Vaishali constituency, Singh was entrusted with the key social sector ministry amid a flurry of welfare activities that would soon transform welfare models for poor Indians. To be sure, MGNREGA faced its usual delay as at least three Congress heavyweights were not fully convinced of its utility and saw the programme as a leaky cauldron of public funds. One afternoon, as UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi was passing through the Central Hall in Parliament, Singh walked up to her and briefed her about the inordinate delay in framing the scheme. Within a few minutes, Gandhi summoned the then defence minister Pranab Mukherjee, who headed the Group of Ministers (GoM) on MGNREGA, and told him to expedite the project. Soon, MGNREGA was rolled out in 200 districts in the country in 2006. Singh was also instrumental in launching the disabled, widows and old age pension schemes. And it was during his tenure that the government started the process of amending the land acquisition law, which took final shape during UPA’s second tenure. Singh’s association with Prasad goes back over three decades. And, he is also perhaps the only leader who could openly criticise Prasad and get away unscathed. Once he was asked in an interview how he would rate Prasad’s achievements. Singh replied that in political management, his boss would score a perfect 10 on 10 but as an administrator, he deserved nothing more than a zero. Singh’s baiters within the RJD pounced on the opportunity to paint him in poor light before Prasad. They quickly brought the paper clippings to the RJD boss, demanding action against the former mathematics professor. The RJD chief, however, disappointed them: “Yes, he should not have said such a thing publicly, but whatever he has said is also not incorrect.” It’s the Prasad bond that kept Singh alive in the RJD. He didn’t leave Prasad even though the Congress and other parties were always willing to accept him. In 2009, the Congress had again offered him the rural development ministry, even though the RJD had ceased to be an UPA ally. But Prasad didn’t agree. Weeks before the upcoming Bihar elections – slated to be held on schedule in October and November, despite the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak – Singh on Thursday, submitted a hand-written resignation letter to Prasad. It said: “After (former Bihar chief minister) Karpuri Thakur’s death, I stood by you for 32 years, but no more.” Party insiders said his equation with the new generation of RJD leaders has been under strain for a while now. At present, Singh is admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi and is recovering from Covid-19-related complications. Prasad responded to Singh’s letter and urged him not to join another party. “A letter written by you is circulating in the media. I cannot believe it. Me, my family and the RJD family want to see you recover soon. We will talk after you recover. You are not going anywhere. Just mind it,” the RJD chief said. There have been swirling rumours that Singh could be headed towards Bihar CM Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), ahead of the assembly polls. The entry in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) camp may also help him regain his Vaishali seat, which he has not won since 2009. It could be a win-win situation for both CM Kumar and Singh. CM Kumar, who once got five pieces of advice on how to run the Bihar government from Singh written in a paper napkin on a flight, will get a trusted voice to represent the party in Delhi or even in the Modi cabinet. Singh, a low-key politician known for his grassroots brand of politics, has been an unflinching champion of the poor. Once he had written a letter to the then PM Manmohan Singh accusing a top-ranking minister of being anti-poor, or gharib-virodhi. The then Planning Commission chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia had tried to mediate and told Singh that the senior minister was pained about his letter and he would want to accompany him to some of the villages to see how rural programmes were in progress. “No”, Singh had replied, “he should come with me in the peak of summer in north Bihar and stay in an unelectrified village for at least three nights. Only then he would understand what it means to live in an Indian village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/the-importance-of-raghuvansh-prasad-singh/story-RFdbUdSRVUFthdcJF0LRdK.html
11-09-2020||Bhopal||Viral post claims 3 MP Covid deaths due to lack of oxygen, probe reveals truth||Even as the Madhya Pradesh government is trying to restore supply of oxygen from Maharashtra, a social media message claiming at least three Covid patients had died in a private medical college’s hospital due to want of oxygen in Dewas district--153 kilometres south west of Bhopal-- went viral, prompting the district administration to institute an inquiry and later deny any such happening, as per an official statement. “A joint team of chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr MP Sharma, civil surgeon Dr Atul Kumar Bidwai, assistant hospital manager Dharmendra Jat inspected the hospital at the instruction of the district collector Chandramauli Shukla after news did rounds on social media/electronic media about the death of three patients due to want of oxygen on September 8. The team found that there was availability of 400 oxygen cylinders in the hospital and there was enough oxygen for 156 patients admitted,” said an official press release from the CMHO office on Thursday. The release further stated that the four deaths at the hospital were not related to coronavirus.“There were deaths of four patients in the hospital on September 8- Shantabai, 65, Ashok Nanuram Kumawat, 42, Jubobai, 74, and Anandrao, 52. They died due to different diseases and all these four patients had tested negative for coronavirus,” it said. Also Read: MP CM Chouhan asks Uddhav Thackeray to resume oxygen supply to his stateA district administration official said, “No one came forward to lodge any complaint regarding any death caused due to want of oxygen but the inquiry was instituted in view of the social media post.” Earlier, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said he had a talk with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday and urged him to resume supply of oxygen to Madhya Pradesh for Covid patients.Also Read: Maharashtra has come a long way in fight against Covid, says CM Uddhav Thackeray Talking to journalists, Chouhan said the state government was also working on short-term and long-term plans to increase production of medical oxygen in the state itself. Notably, Maharashtra government, on September7, ordered that 80% of oxygen produced in units in the state will be used only for medical treatment in the state and the remaining 20% can be used for industrial purposes in Maharashtra itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/viral-post-claims-3-mp-covid-deaths-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-probe-reveals-truth/story-ZLCNOSqCsGRwJO0xapyaeK.html
11-09-2020||Kolkata||Asian Games gold medalist Pinki Pramanik joins BJP||Asian Games gold medalist Pinki Pramanik on Thursday joined BJP, party president in Bengal Dilip Ghosh said.“From today onwards Pinki is part of the BJP family,” Ghosh said after handing her the BJP flag.Pinki was a member of the Asian Games gold medal and Commonwealth Games silver medal winning quartet in the 400m relay event in 2006.In 2012, Pinki was embroiled in a gender controversy when her woman friend accused her of rape and gender misrepresentation.She was kept in custody for 25 days and was made to undergo sex verification tests to confirm her gender.She was cleared of rape charges by Calcutta High Court in 2014 and had resumed her work in Eastern Railway.Arjuna awardee Jyotirmoyee Sikdar, who had represented the CPI-M in the 14th Lok Sabha, had joined the saffron party earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/asian-games-gold-medalist-pinki-pramanik-joins-bjp/story-bwmi25uFLmya6YuvyNlBbK.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Magenta, Grey lines resume services today after gap of 173 days||Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line and Grey Line resumed operations on Friday after being closed for 173 days due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, officials said.Services started at 7am as part of the second stage of the graded reopening of Delhi Metro, which was closed on March 22 to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.“With the people of Delhi-NCR efficiently following our safety guidelines, we have successfully begun operations on the magenta and grey lines today,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said, according to news agency ANI. This is the second stage of the graded manner in which Delhi Metro services are being brought back to operation after being closed for over five months.In this stage, trains will operate in batches of six-hour each from 7 am to 1 pm and 4-10 pm. Services on other lines which had opened under stage one from Monday through Thursday would now also follow the stage two schedule. Prior to this, Yellow line and Rapid Metro were the first ones to be reopened on Monday, followed by Blue line and Pink line resuming services on Wednesday.Delhi Metro trains were back on track on September 7 after a gap of almost six months. In the fourth phase of unlocking, the ministry of home affairs allowed metro services to begin.On Thursday, three days after the DMRC resumed its services in a phase-wise manner, the total ridership of Delhi Metro was approximately 47,600 between 7 am to 11 am. Red line, Violet line and Green line were made operational yesterday. “After resuming services on most of its lines under stage-I of the graded resumption from September 7-10 where services being run for four hours each in the morning and evening, the Delhi Metro will now resume services on its last major corridor, Line-8 i.e, Magenta Line from Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden (37.5 KM/25 stations) tomorrow, (with 26 trains)” the DMRC said in a statement. Also Line-9 or Grey line from Dwarka to Najafgarh (4.3 KM with three stations) will also be resuming services from Friday with two trains, it said. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. The train services will follow broadly the same frequency which used to be before lockdown, it said. Normal timing of services throughout the day from 6 am to 11 pm will become applicable from September 12 onwards. All lines will have resumed services when Airport Express line from New Delhi to Dwarka Sec-21 (22.7 km with six stations) is made operational under stage-III, the last stage under graded resumption plan of metro services, the statement said. On Sundays (starting from September 20) the services will commence at 8 am from all such sections which had this practice in vogue before the lockdown also. However, on this Sunday-- September 13, the services on these lines will commence at 6 am as per the existing schedule, it added. Thus, all lines of the Delhi Metro network comprising 349 km and 253 metro stations will be fully operational once again from September 12. Owing to new norms of social distancing in place now which has significantly reduced the number of persons to be carried in a train, DMRC has also decided to run the peak hour frequency of trains from 8 am to 8 pm, doing away with the concept of off-peak hours from 11 am to 4 pm where services were available with less trains or trips earlier, the statement said. From start of services till 8 am, it will be available in the range of 3 minutes to 15 min as the trains are gradually inducted from depots to lines.  From 8 am to 8 pm, on all the main stretches of lines, frequency will be in the range of 2 minutes and 45 sec to 6 minutes, the DMRC said. From 8 pm to close of services, frequency will be in the range of 3 minutes to 15 min as the trains are gradually returning to depots, it said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-magenta-grey-lines-to-resume-services-after-gap-of-173-days/story-tNGVqdHYRf1sMibAfj9gOK.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar meets Japan Consul-General, discusses need to expand bilateral relations||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday had a meeting with Japan Consul-General Michio Harada during which the latter emphasised the need of expanding bilateral relations between India and Japan.Taking to Twitter, Pawar said he is honoured for the opportunity to welcome Harada and thanked the Japenese official for inviting him to Tokyo Olympics 2021.“Feeling honoured for the opportunity to welcome the Consul-General of Japan Michio Harada. During his visit to my office, Harada emphasized the need of expanding bilateral relations between India and Japan, especially strengthening relations with Mumbai & Maharashtra,” Pawar tweeted.“I am thankful to Harada for inviting me to the Tokyo Olympics 2021. He also invited me at his residence for further discussions on Indo-Japanese relations over the dinner,” he added.During the talks with Harada, Pawar recalled his visit to Japan during his “early days in politics”. “Harada was keen to know my views and thoughts on Indo-Japanese relations. It was a pleasure to have shared my experiences with him and I am looking forward to taking our camaraderie further,” he said in a series of tweets.NCP leader and Lok Sabha MP Supriya Sule was also present during the meeting between Harada and Pawar.She expressed her liking for Japanese food and praised the hugely popular tradition of Cherry Blossom season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-meets-japan-consul-general-discusses-need-to-expand-bilateral-relations/story-RFPmf05vElnXi5fCZNz3XK.html
11-09-2020||City||Rattled by missing ‘saroops’ episode, SGPC starts door-to-door counting of holy book||In a first-of-its-kind move, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which was rattled by the episode involving the missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib, has started a door-to-door counting of the Sikh holy book across Punjab.The gurdwara committee employees will visit each gurdwara or place in Punjab, where Guru Granth is placed. The SGPC has asked its all dharam parchar (religion propagation) committee staff to visit even private residences to record the number of Guru Granth Sahib and their place of printing. “The exercise will be undertaken to locate every saroop of Guru Granth Sahib. The motive is to find the missing saroops. Once we get some clue, then SGPC can link the chain to ascertain how the saroops were taken without record and how many such saroops are there,” said an SGPC official.Every saroop of Guru Granth Sahib printed from the SGPC carries a serial number, while private publishers also do the same. As per a letter issued by the dharam parchar committee, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal has ordered to get the serial number and other details of every saroop. Two pro forma were also supplied to officials wherein they will fill details of saroops in gurdwaras, in private residence, etc. The SGPC has asked its employees to complete the exercise in a week.The SGPC faced severe criticism as an inquiry committee formed by the Akal Takht indicted several of its officials, including top functionaries, for missing saroops from its publishing house where a fire broke out in 2016. Then the SGPC decided to lodge an FIR against the erring official, but later did a U-turn.Parnam Singh, SGPC employee and head granthi at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, Patiala, briefed several teams which will start the process in eight SGPC segments of the district. Similar exercise has been initiated in other parts of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rattled-by-missing-saroops-sgpc-starts-door-to-door-counting-of-holy-book/story-RDwHxjuk75iLPp8y8dchII.html
11-09-2020||City||Ex-DGP Saini, suspended IG Umaranangal main conspirators in Behbal Kalan firing: SIT member to court||The special investigation team (SIT) on Thursday told the district and sessions court in Faridkot that the then Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umaranangal were the main conspirators in the Behbal Kalan firing episode. Last week, the SIT probing the 2015 police firing incidents had approached the court with a petition seeking pardon for prime accused inspector Pardeep Singh, the then reader to former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma, as he wanted to turn an approver in the case. On Wednesday, the district and sessions judge Sumeet Malhotra directed SIT member inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh to appear in the court as his presence was required to a decision on the plea. The court adjourned the matter to September 15 for order. The court allowed the SIT’s plea seeking a copy of the statement recorded by inspector Pradeep to the court. The 18-page sealed statement of Pardeep was opened in the court and a copy was supplied to SIT.Resham Singh, one of the prime witnesses and brother of firing victim Krishan Bhagwan Singh, had approached the court claiming enough evidence on record that the application of Pardeep Singh and SIT should not be accepted.During the arguments, Resham’s counsel said Pardeep should not be pardoned as he is the prime accused in the case. When the court asked as who were the prime accused in the Behbal Kalan firing case, the IG said the then DGP Saini and now suspended IG Umaranangal (then Ludhiana police commissioner) were the main conspirators in the episode. Umaranangal was specially deputed in the district in the wake of the protests. He further said besides Pardeep’s statement, the investigation team has sufficient “independent evidence” against them to prove its claim. The SIT told the court that it will soon file a supplementary chargesheet in the case.Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala village had died in the police firing on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. Besides, many were seriously injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/behbal-kalan-firing-ex-dgp-saini-suspended-ig-umaranangal-main-conspirators-in-episode-sit-to-court/story-VX9Rhtw8fXKy2VKOAcKaRN.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Singer posing as cop to dupe man arrested in Chandigarh||A Punjabi singer has been arrested for posing as a Punjab Police cop to try and dupe a man on the pretext of getting him a home guard’s job.The accused has been identified as Rajvir Singh, 27, of Amritsar. The victim, Ankush, resident of Zirakpur, had complained to the police that Singh pretended to be an inspector with the Punjab Police, and assured him a home guard’s job in exchange for Rs 1 lakh. He demanded Rs 5,000 as initial payment and summoned Ankush to Neelam Theatre in Sector 17 to pay the amount.Meanwhile, Ankush approached the UT Police, who arrested Rajvir from near the theatre on Thursday. He has been booked under Sections 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector-17 police station.According to police, Rajvir had performed during the Chandigarh Carnival in 2019. He was also facing another case where he had duped a Maloya man of Rs 4,000 in lieu of getting his driving licence made, while posing as a motor vehicle inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/singer-posing-as-cop-to-dupe-man-arrested-in-chandigarh/story-TGPQSJnHnworLbDMsIoeqO.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Travel to 16 destinations in Punjab, Haryana via CTU buses from September 16||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has shortlisted 16 destinations to resume inter-state bus services to Punjab and Haryana from September 16.The destinations are Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Una up to Mehatpur, Ludhiana, Dinanagar and Bathinda in Punjab; and Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi up to Kundli border in Haryana. The tickets can be purchased online at http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in, via the mobile app, “CTU Musafir” or through the conductor. The buses will be operated with 50% occupancy to adhere to the social distancing guidelines issued by the Chandigarh administration.Bus crew will have to ensure passengers wear mask during the journey and maintain social distancing. No passenger will be allowed to deboard without wearing a mask.The decision to resume the inter-state bus services was taken in the September 4 war room review meeting chaired by UT administrator VPS Badnore. It came following the central government’s Unlock 4 guidelines rolled out from September 1.The services will restart after a hiatus of over five months. Though the buses were resumed for two days in June, they were discontinued after a sudden surge in cases. There are 153 CTU buses plying on the various interstate routes.TRYCITYBUS APP GOES OFFLINEAfter complaints regarding the recently launched CTU mobile app “trycityBUS”, the transport department has decided to take the app offline till the problems are rectified. It is expected to be available again by September 12.The app, launched by Badnore on August 21, is part of the Intelligent Transport System (ITS). It provides access to the bus timings, fares and routes, besides locations of nearby bus stops. Through the app, passengers can also find out the exact location and arrival time of a bus. In the first phase, ITS has been introduced in 100 buses covering 14 routes. CTU plans to cover the entire fleet of 350 buses on 64 routes by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/travel-to-16-destinations-in-punjab-haryana-via-ctu-buses-from-september-16/story-1TLlZHeX5hFn6OFeb4qJNL.html
11-09-2020||City||Chandigarh tricity area logs over 700 cases for third day in a row||The number of new Covid-19 cases in the tricity crossed the 700 mark for the third consecutive day, with 732 people testing positive on Thursday.As many as four people also succumbed to the virus – three in Chandigarh and one in Mohali.Among the fresh infections, Chandigarh led with 283 cases, followed by Mohali with 275 and Panchkula with 174.The tricity patient tally was 782 on Wednesday – the highest single-day surge so far, while 714 cases cropped up on Tuesday.283 TEST POSITIVE, THREE DEAD IN UTChandigarh’s Covid count rose to 6,987 on Thursday with 283 residents testing positive.The virus also claimed three lives, taking the toll to 80.Of the total cases, 2,573 remain active, while 4,331 patients have been discharged.Among the latest fatalities was a 46-year-old man from Manimajra. He was suffering from bilateral pneumonia, hypertension and acute kidney injury with sepsis, and died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, on Thursday.A 66-year-old diabetic man from Sector 48 died at the same hospital on September 6.The third deceased was a 59-year-old woman from Sector 22. She was suffering from pneumonia and died due to Type 4 respiratory failure at Grecian Hospital in Mohali on September 4.As per health officials, reports of 153 samples are awaited.MOHALI’S TOLL RISES TO 125, 275 NEW CASES CONFIRMEDA 64-year-old man became Mohali’s 125th Covid fatality, even as the district confirmed 275 fresh infections on Thursday.Mohali’s tally now stands at 5,856. Thursday also saw 293 patients being discharged, bringing down the number of active patients to 2,135 and taking the total recoveries to 3,596. According to health officials, the 64-year-old man, a resident of Phase-7 Industrial Area, was suffering from diabetes and kidney disease, and died at PGIMER, Chandigarh. Among the new cases, the maximum, at 92, were from Mohali city, 59 from Dhakoli, 43 from Gharuan, 40 from Kharar, 31 from Dera Bassi, nine from Boothgarh and one from Lalru.174 NEW CASES IN PANCHKULAPanchkula confirmed 174 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. The district now has 3,632 confirmed cases, of which 1,187 are still active and 2,407 have recovered. As many as 38 people have succumbed to the virus in the district.Most of the new cases on Thursday were reported from Pinjore, Sectors 8, 15 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-over-700-cases-for-third-day-in-a-row/story-tHTRkt1gwyYQNeOov26G0I.html
11-09-2020||City||BJP-Shiv Sena fight gets fiercer over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death probe||The proxy war between the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Sushant Singh Rajput probe has widened the rift between the former allies-turned-foes, diminishing scope for reconciliation in Maharashtra in the future. The BJP’s shadow attack on Sena scion and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray in the case and now Centre’s backing of actor Kangana Ranaut has rankled and irked the Sena. A close political aide of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the CM and his wife Rashmi Thackeray were upset with the way Aaditya, who has been groomed and launched as the political heir of the Sena, got dragged into the controversy. “The CM has been hurt with the way the BJP twisted the entire SSR probe narrative to defame and malign his son, when he had absolutely nothing to do with the case. He even conveyed his displeasure through his aide and minister Anil Parab to the former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis around 10 days ago, asking the latter to back off from personal attacks,” said this aide of Thackeray. It is learnt that Thackeray conveyed that while he understood there would be political attacks like in the case of Palghar lynching of sadhus, he was dismayed with the way his son was attacked through trolls and BJP leaders. Parab’s missive, the aide added, had prompted Fadnavis to point out in public that the BJP had never directly named any Sena minister in connection to Rajput’s death. And, there had been a toning down of the attack from BJP after this. When asked, Fadnavis did not comment on this missive to HT; Sena also did not officially confirm this. However, soon after this missive from Sena, Ranaut versus Sena verbal tussle cascaded, leading to the demolition of the actor’s office on Wednesday. The beginning of Ranaut’s verbal spat with Sena MP Sanjay Raut is also linked to the BJP. She said she was scared of Mumbai Police in response to a tweet from BJP leader Ram Kadam, who questioned why the Maharashtra government had not offered protection to the actor, who had said she could expose Bollywood and drug mafia.The ongoing clash with actor Ranaut has further hardened party lines. “By providing security to Ranaut, the Centre has in a way unleashed this actor on our leadership. The way she has spoken about Thackeray will not be taken lightly by us,” added this leader. He added there was no question of a future reconciliation with the BJP given that the latter was openly attacking Thackeray’s leadership. A senior state BJP leader also said that the way SSR probe narrative had been played out dealt a death knell on any future alliance with the Sena. “This is a point of no return. It stems from this government’s lack of political acumen and arrogance because they failed to get even an FIR filed in nearly three months in the case. Our party decisions are made in Delhi and not here. It is clear that for now focus is on Bihar polls,” he said. The leader added, “For now, there are no plans for Maharashtra. But we don’t see a future alliance with the Sena or NCP possible now. An alliance with disenchanted Ajit Pawar, if he breaks out ahead of elections, can be imagined, but our party seniors are in no rush at the moment.” Political analyst Hemant Desai also opined that post SSR probe, the Sena had now closed all doors on BJP and the party would sharpen its attack on the Opposition and vice versa. “The way Aaditya was targeted and the way Ranaut has taken on Thackeray with a clear backing of the BJP-led Centre, one can say reconciliation is not possible now. The Sena and NCP alliance will get cemented, although Ajit Pawar’s role remains shaky. And, BJP will keep that door open,” said Desai. BJP state spokesperson Keshav Upadhyaya said the party was only focussing on taking up people’s issues and playing the role of a strong Opposition. “We are not thinking about future relations, reconciliations etc. Our job is to be a responsible opposition and we are expressing people’s sentiments and anger over SSR probe, that’s all.” Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the issue of Ranaut was over for the party. “This issue is over for us. Our alliance is doing fine as is our government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-shiv-sena-fight-gets-fiercer-over-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-probe/story-lePvi6K4Pm36OppDpomPfI.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Artist Chintan Upadhyay withdraws interim bail plea in murder case of wife, her lawyer; sessions court in Mumbai asks prosecution to take steps to begin trial||Artist Chintan Upadhyay, the alleged key conspirator in the murder case of his wife Hema and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani, withdrew his plea for interim bail on Thursday.Hema and Bhambani were allegedly smothered to death by Vidhyadhar Rajbhar on December 11, 2015, with the help of other accused allegedly at Upadhyay’s behest. Their bodies were then dumped in cardboard cartons after being wrapped in plastic sheets. The next day, a garbage collector discovered the bodies, following which the police filed a first information report and began probe into the case. Upadhyay was arrested on December 22, 2015 for the murders. While Rajbhar continues to be absconding, the other accused in the case – Shiv Kumar Rajbhar, Pradip Kumar Rajbhar, Vijay Kumar Rajbhar and Azad Rajbhar were arrested during the probe. Upadhyay’s plea for interim bail reached the sessions court last month and was scheduled for hearing on Thursday. However, his lawyer Bharat Manghani made an application to withdraw the plea. “Chintan’s regular bail application is pending in the (Bombay) high court. This application was preferred through jail on April 2, soon after the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19. However, it was sent to the court quite late. Now, as the matter is pending before Bombay high court, we decided to withdraw the plea for interim bail and pursue his regular bail plea,” said Manghani. The court also rejected the bail plea of Vijay Rajbhar. The special court also asked the prosecution to bring witnesses before the bench to resume the trial in the murder case and to “take necessary positive steps to secure the presence of its witnesses and for production of accused person during the trial either physically or through video-conferencing.” “We are ready to resume the trial. If the witnesses are available, we would make an attempt to examine him (Upadhyay) on the next date on Monday,” said special public prosecutor Vaibhav Baghade. The prosecution has so far examined 10 witnesses. However, the evidence of one of the witnesses was partly recorded as he was not available on some occasions. The prosecution on Thursday informed the court that they would try to complete the evidence of the pending witness and with that resume the trial. The court asked the prosecution to make the necessary arrangements for the trial through video-conferencing by using many of the available apps, if the witnesses cannot remain present (in court) due to the Covid-19 situation. The court also asked the prosecution to take the necessary steps pertaining to the absconding accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/artist-chintan-upadhyay-withdraws-interim-bail-plea-in-murder-case-of-wife-her-lawyer-sessions-court-in-mumbai-asks-prosecution-to-take-steps-to-begin-trial/story-jTwYlO7ZTJZ9jWatPyNBzO.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police investigate fake SRA circular on social media||Nirmal Nagar police registered a first information report (FIR) on September 8 against an unknown person for allegedly circulating a fake circular of Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) with the alleged signature of SRA CEO Satish Lokhande. The fake circular, which was shared on social media platforms, stated that beneficiaries of houses under SRA could sell or transfer his house in five years instead of the 10-year lock-in period.Lokhande said, “My office staff told me about the circular making rounds on social media. The accused even forged my signature. The circular claimed that the beneficiary of SRA house may now sell or transfer his house in five years instead of 10 years of lock-in period. Under SRA scheme, slum-dwellers get houses free of cost and they can’t sell or rent them out for 10 years.”Last week, Lokhande wrote an application to Mumbai Police requesting legal action against the person behind such act.Shashikant Bhandare, senior inspector from Nirmal Nagar police station, said, “We have registered a case against an unknown person and are looking for him. The said circular was circulated through WhatsApp.” The FIR has been registered under sections 193 (false evidence), 465 (forgery), and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/case-registered-against-fake-sra-circular-circulation-in-mumbai/story-7H6Zgq9V0QfsPxhUW3ZLDM.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||‘Vikel Te Pikel’ initiative: Maharashtra government to connect farmers with 1,370 market-based value chains||The Maharashtra government has launched a new initiative ‘Vikel Te Pikel’ (sow that sells) to connect farmers with over 1,370 value chains, which will be developed across the state. The system will enable the farmers to grow crops based on the demand of end consumers, and established supply chains will guarantee the sale of their produce at competitive rates. State officials said that this will also help farmers to minimise the post-harvest loss of crops as produce can be stored properly and sold without delay.The initiative was inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday.“Farmers are worried about minimum support price but we want them to move from guarantee price to good price against their produce. We have thus come up with this initiative through which demand-based farming will be promoted,” said Thackeray, while addressing a group of farmers, virtually.Eknath Dawale, secretary, state agriculture department said that the government is planning to develop 1,370 value chains that will be linked to the agricultural markets. “They will be developed with the help of farmer-producer groups and self-help groups that are into the business. Our approach is market linkage of the crops, and market access to the farmers by connecting them with these value chains. The farmers will take up crops based on the demand from the value chains, and thus won’t have to face hardships in selling the produce,” said Dawale.“Besides, farmers will be able to get proper remuneration against the yield, as against the present situation. They can also minimise post-harvest losses, which come to around 30% of their total produce, as their produce will be bought without delay. This means farmers can earn more and also avoid losses,” he added.The state agriculture department has called for applications on its portal — www.smart-mh.org — from farmers groups, self-help groups and others that are in the business.“The farmers are working blindly as they are unaware of the demand at both the fronts — quality and quantity. They need to work like a business that does research before starting. What’s the point if, after so much hard work, the agrarian community doesn’t get proper remuneration and cannot take care of their families,” Thackeray added.Dawale also said that till date, the approach of the agriculture department was to increase yield but now it has been changed to realisation of the produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-connect-farmers-with-1-370-market-based-value-chains/story-xqMYcW3q5l2QhPiTVQSyZO.html
11-09-2020||City||Kangana Ranaut’s neighbour designer Manish Malhotra gets Mumbai civic body notice over ‘illegal construction’, given 7 days to reply||Along with actor Kangana Ranaut, her neighbour and fashion designer Manish Malhotra was also issued a show-cause notice on Monday over alleged illegal construction in his Pali Hill bungalow. He was given seven days to reply. Ranaut had to respond to the show-cause notice in a day. At the time of going to press, Malhotra had not responded to HT’s messages, and his spokesperson too had no comments. Malhotra was issued the notice (a copy is with HT) under section 351 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC), Act alleging illegal erection/commencement of work. The notice mentions four violations – contrary to the section 342 and 346 of the MMC Act. It mentioned there is unauthorised change of user from residential to commercial office and addition and alteration by way of erecting partitions/cabins on the first floor; unauthorised construction of structure with brick wall and shed with sheet roof on the second floor terrace. The notice asked Malhotra to show evidence for the construction and alterations. The notice also added if Malhotra failed to show sufficient cause to BMC’s satisfaction, the said work will be pulled down and BMC can also take action under section 475A of the MMC Act, which includes imprisonment and fine.Ranaut was issued notice under section 354 (A) of the MMC Act giving her 24 hours to explain the alleged illegal construction or face action. BMC officials claimed work was going on at Ranaut’s bungalow and therefore as per procedure she was given notice under relevant sections, seeking her reply in 24 hours. “We have informed the Bombay high court our basis for issuing notice under section 354A of Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act and further giving her 24 hours, as per the provision. In case of Malhotra, we found alterations, but no work was ongoing at the time of inspection,” said a BMC official. The affidavit filed by the BMC in HC in Kangana’s case read: “At the time of inspection, workmen, materials and tolls were also found present and work was found to be going on in the property. Photographs pf the unlawful work carried out were also taken.” Ranaut in one of her tweets has also mentioned that there was some leakage related work ongoing at her house during BMC’s visit for inspection. In series of tweets she said, “Because of the criticism that BMC received from my friends on social media, they didn’t come with a bulldozer today, instead stuck a notice to stop leakage work that is going on in the office...”Advocate and BJP leader Vivekanand Gupta said, “Ranaut was deliberately issued notice under 354(A) to harrass her by asking for a reply to notice in 24 hours whereas alleged illegal construction notice to her neighbouring bungalow was given seven days to respond. I don’t see any urgency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kangana-ranaut-s-neighbour-designer-manish-malhotra-gets-mumbai-civic-body-notice-over-illegal-construction-given-7-days-to-reply/story-xAzg5mxLU3fpzlziZiYVzO.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Delay in FYJC admission due to stay on Maratha reservation worries Maharashtra colleges over completion of syllabus||With the state government’s decision to stay admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC), in line with the Supreme Court’s (SC) interim stay on Maratha reservation in jobs and education, colleges said they are worried about how these students will cope with the academic year. The general admission rounds to FYJC usually conclude by August, after which colleges begin. This year, however, due to late declaration of the Class 10 results, with the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the process began in August and only one admission round has concluded so far. With the stay on the admission process, colleges are now worried about completing the syllabus and conducting exams for Class 11. “Usually, colleges begin by August, and we conduct the first unit test by September. Then the first terminal exam is usually conducted before the Diwali break. This year the entire schedule has gone haywire, and we don’t know if there will be enough time to teach everything, even with the reduced syllabus,” said Satram Verhani, vice-principal, Chandibai Himathmal Mansukhani (CHM) College, Ulhasnagar. Verhani said that the education department can consider pushing the academic year for these students up to June instead of April. Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal at VG Vaze College, Mulund said that since Class 11 students are not known to the teachers, it might be a challenge to understand their learning needs in an online-only mode. “Getting used to the students is difficult because teachers have not seen them in the past. This is going to be a challenge for both, the teachers and students,” he added. On Tuesday, the education department released an official statement announcing a postponement of the second merit list which was supposed to be declared that day, after the SC stayed the Maratha quota in jobs and education. “The list is postponed, and admissions are stayed until further notice. Revised timetable for FYJC admissions will be released later after getting instructions from the state government,” stated the official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/delay-in-fyjc-admission-due-to-stay-on-maratha-reservation-worries-maharashtra-colleges-over-completion-of-syllabus/story-l8gEgQW8OgHK2JKhFCkR4H.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Interim stay on Maratha reservation: Maharashtra government to move CJI; CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks opinion on course of action||In the wake of the major setback the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government received after the Supreme Court (SC) stayed the Maratha quota in jobs and education on Wednesday, chief minister (CM) Thackeray held a high-level meeting with his cabinet colleagues to address the matter. He will hold a second round with experts and senior counsels to decide the next step in the case. The government is expected to approach the Chief Justice of India with a request for revocation of the stay.Thackeray chaired a meeting which was attended by deputy CM Ajit Pawar, public works department minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on the reservation, four other ministers and senior officials from the government. In the meeting held at the CM’s official residence Varsha on Thursday evening, the ministers were briefed about the orders and ways for the state government to request the court to vacate the stay.According to the members of the cabinet sub-committee, the court order has contradictions and lacks merit. “There was no reason to initiate an interim stay on the quota while transferring the case to the larger bench. In none of the previous reservation cases that were transferred to the larger bench, the quota was stayed. The three-judge bench has observed that the reservation given to Marathas was not in an ‘exceptional and extraordinary’ situation. The report by the Maharashtra State Backward Classes Commission had proved the backwardness of the community with the help of extensive data it collected,” said a minister, requesting anonymity.All these factors will be brought to the notice of the SC, the minister said. He added that the court will also be apprised about the chaos-like situation regarding college admissions, owing to the order.The group of ministers will hold a video conference with senior counsels to the government and experts on Friday afternoon.Meanwhile, alleging that some elements are trying to instigate the community in the wake of the stay order, the government has appealed to the Maratha community to maintain calm. “A few anti-social elements are active in instigating the community by posting misguiding matter on social media. They are aiming to provoke the community to resort to violence, and in turn, defame it. It is time to understand the conspiracy and maintain peace,” said Chavan.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded concessions to the Maratha community in education and jobs until the stay was vacated. “In the wake of the delay in enacting the law for the reservation, our [BJP] government had given the concessions to the community. Similar concessions are required to be given until the stay is vacated,” said BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/interim-stay-on-maratha-reservation-maharashtra-government-to-move-cji-cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-opinion-on-course-of-action/story-5Juus3AtQjP0XowEW6yHNK.html
11-09-2020||City||Kangana Ranaut episode is a closed chapter, no role in Mumbai civic corporation’s action, says Shiv Sena on demolition of part of actor’s office||Distancing itself from the ongoing spat with actor Kangana Ranaut, which led to demolition of alleged structural violations in her Pali Hill office on Wednesday, the Shiv Sena on Thursday said the “episode is a closed chapter”. Sena leader and party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut met party chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. However, Raut denied that the meeting was about the controversy. The Shiv Sena leadership, according to party insiders, has directed its leaders and spokesperson to not engage in any verbal spat on the actor’s statements. “I had met him in connection to an event. We have stopped discussion on that topic. What is left to discuss? The [Ranaut] episode is over and we have forgotten about it already. We are back to our daily political, social and administrative work,” Raut told reporters after meeting Thackeray. “The action at Ranaut’s office was carried out by BMC. It has no connection with the Shiv Sena. BMC has their legal department. You can talk to the mayor or BMC commissioner about it,” he said. However, Sena mouthpiece Saamana, which is edited by Raut, carried a page one story with headline “ukhaad lia” (demolished it) in reference to one of Ranaut’s’ dares to Sena to “do whatever they can”. The Sena leader also dismissed news that Congress president Sonia Gandhi had called Thackeray over the issue. “Do not spread such rumours. No such thing happened,” he said. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party was left red-faced by chief of ally Nationalist Congress Party Sharad Pawar on Wednesday when he publicly questioned the timing of the action taken by BMC and said the actor’s statements should not be given much importance. Raut, however, downplayed Pawar’s statements and said, “Whether it is Pawar saheb or Sonia ji, nobody has made any statement expressing disappointment [over the issue].” Meanwhile, Ranaut continued her attack on the Sena, accusing it of diluting its ideology to be in power and even called it “Sonia Sena”. In an indirect reference to Sena chief, the actor called him an “example of a dynast”. “Because of these petty crimes that they do @Dev_Fadnavis ji must have suggested that BJP does [no] alliance with them, one must never succumb to bullies, after losing elections ShivSena shamelessly made milavat sarkar and turned in to Sonia Sena. (sic),” she tweeted. Raut chose not to respond to it but said, “I don’t know what she tweets. I have not seen them. We do not read them, we only read Saamana.” In a veiled jibe at Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who summoned CM’s advisor Ajoy Mehta on the Ranaut issue, Raut said, “The governor’s job is to take stock of the happenings in the state. He must have thought that this is an important development.” Ahead of Raut’s visit to New Delhi on Friday, the security outside his residence in the capital has been beefed up following protests by members of the Karni Sena. “I do not have any idea about it. I will have to see; I am going to Delhi tomorrow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kangana-ranaut-episode-is-a-closed-chapter-no-role-in-mumbai-civic-corporation-s-action-says-shiv-sena-after-part-of-actor-s-office-is-demolished/story-J0fkbrZC8b2m5pDu0bs4bN.html
11-09-2020||City||Nallasopara man cuts wrist on windowpane during fight with neighbour, bleeds to death||A 29-year-old auto driver from Nallasopara allegedly bled to death on Thursday early morning, after he smashed his hand into a windowpane during a fight with a neighbour. However, the victim’s wife claims he was murdered.According to police, the victim Brijesh Jaiswal resided with his wife Puja and their two children in Pragati Nagar, Nallasopara (East). Jaiswal was reportedly drunk as he was celebrating his daughter’s wedding on Wednesday night. In a drunken stupor, he went to the house of his neighbour Ashok Yadav and started banging on the door. After gaining entry, he allegedly got into a fight with Yadav and smashed his left hand against the glass windowpane, slitting his wrist.“Jaiswal ran out of the building, and he died on the road due to intensive bleeding,” said an eyewitness.However, Puja has alleged that Yadav had stabbed her husband to death over some petty altercation.“As of now, we have registered a case of accidental death and are awaiting the post mortem report. We are questioning Yadav as per Pooja’s allegation,” said senior inspector DS Patil of Tulinj police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nallasopara-man-cuts-wrist-on-windowpane-during-fight-with-neighbour-bleeds-to-death/story-lCtVem7uJqsLyLhmV74PXP.html
11-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Shopkeepers get approval to install rain water harvesting wells||After the shopkeepers in Guru Teg Bahadur market dug up a portion of road for installation of rainwater harvesting wells without getting consent from the municipal corporation (MC) last week, mayor Balkar Sandhu and councillor Rakesh Prashar visited the market area along with the MC officials on Thursday. The matter has now been resolved as the shopkeepers have agreed to get the road repaired after establishing the wells. One of the shopkeepers, requesting anonymity, said that there are around 90 shops in the market, which falls under the jurisdiction of the zila parishad, and not a single penny had been spent for its maintenance. Accumulated rain water enters the shops due to which the shopkeepers have decided to establish five rainwater harvesting wells in the market at the cost of Rs 5 lakh, he added.“The MC had stopped us from taking up the project on Sunday after which we approached the mayor and apprised him of the issue.The mayor has given his approval to complete the work,” said the shopkeeper. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The shopkeepers have assured that they will he the road repaired after establishment of the rainwater harvesting wells. The MC officials have been told to grant the permission to take up the work as it is for the welfare of shopkeepers at large and no financial burden is being put on the MC.” Councillor Rakesh Prashar said that they are also working on a project to install a storm water sewer near the clock tower area to avoid water accumulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-shopkeepers-get-approval-to-install-rain-water-harvesting-wells/story-dpSuk1KnCjOHY7oOlaCNAK.html
11-09-2020||City||30% of Covid-19 cases in Amritsar reported since September 1||More than one-fourth (30%) of the total Covid-19 cases in Amritsar district were recorded since September 1 as 1,756 people were tested positive for the virus while 70 died in just 10 days. The district, which is among the worst-hit in Punjab, has reported a total of 5,798 coronavirus cases and 235 deaths. As many as 4,225 patients have recovered. The health officials attributed the spike in cases to the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions enforced to contain the spread of the contagion. Also, there has been a rise in intra- and inter-state travel, reopening of offices and restaurants, besides public gatherings, leading to a surge in the cases, the officials said. The district had only one Covid case in March, 89 cases in April, 302 in May, 565 in June and 902 cases in July. In August alone, the district recorded 2,139 cases of infection, nearly 38% of the total tally, and 85 deaths. “In the biggest single-day spike till date, the district reported 347 fresh cases on Wednesday and 225 cases on Thursday. Till August, an average 70-80 case were being reported daily but now we are recording over 150-180 cases a day. Besides, the positivity rate also increased in September as of the 17,045 samples tested so far, 1,756 were tested positive. The positivity rate is 10.3%”, said Amritsar’s assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh. “People are still not serious about the situation as they are not following social-distancing norms. The district is testing over 2,200 people daily. Our main focus is to detect infection at early stage so that we can control the fatality rate here,” he added. 50% PATIENTS IN HOME ISOLATIONAt present, about 50% of the district’s Covid-19 patients (active cases) are in home isolation with the number doubling from the last month. In August, nearly 25% people were isolated in home rather than institutional centres. “On Wednesday, of 1,280 active patients in the district, 641 were in home isolation. As people are now aware of the home isolation option, more are coming forward for testing, which is a positive sign,” Dr Amarjit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-of-covid-19-cases-in-amritsar-reported-since-sept-1/story-NHJ8I2NLxyjtQxjSAiKUuM.html
11-09-2020||City||Complaints against actor Kangana Ranaut filed with Mumbai Police after ‘derogatory’ remarks against Maharashtra CM||After actor Kangana Ranaut uploaded a video on social media platforms on Wednesday attacking Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) razed illegal structure of actor’s Bandra Pali Hill office, Mumbai Police started to receive complaints from Thackeray supporters against the actor for her alleged derogatory remarks against the CM. The Vikhroli police on Wednesday night registered a non-cognizable (NC) complaint against the actor on the complaint of a Thackeray supporter Nitin Mane, a lawyer from Vikhroli (East). “We have registered an NC and have instructed the complainant to approach the court for further persual of the matter,” said Sanjay Darade, additional commissioner of police (East region). Similarly, a complaint was submitted to the Dindoshi police station by a Malad (East) resident Arun Mishra seeking action against the actor. However the police have neither registered an FIR nor an NC, confirmed Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police (North region).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/complaints-against-actor-kangana-ranaut-filed-with-mumbai-police-after-derogatory-remarks-against-maharashtra-cm/story-3FunURARwZJTvMv25qFLCI.html
11-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: SSA, RMSA teachers submit memorandum to DEO||The members of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) and Rashtriya Madhmik Siksha Abhiyan (RMSA) teachers’ union, on Thursday, submitted a memorandum to district education officer (DEO, secondary) Swaranjit Kaur demanding regularisation of services of 8,886 teachers whose probation period got over on March 31. The members have requested the higher authorities including director public instructions and education secretary to rethink their decision and regularise the services of all teachers. They stated that the higher authorities have extended the probation period of the district president Didar Singh for another six months and as per rules, the authorities must regularise his services from April 1 and provide salary according to regular pay scale. Democratic Teachers’ Front president Hardev Singh Mullanpur, said, “For the last 11 years, Didar has been teaching in government schools and producing 100% results. He was also appreciated by the secretary, education for commendable performance. Instead of regularising his services, the authorities have extended his probation period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-ssa-rmsa-teachers-submit-memorandum-to-deo/story-xHS1idEhRTGhyX0X90uMMP.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Positivity rate dips in Mumbai even as Covid-19 cases surge||There has been a drop of four percentage points in positivity rate in Mumbai even as the number of Covid-19 cases have witnessed a surge over the past few weeks. Positivity rate reflects the proportion of people who test positive among those who are tested. It is a good indicator to assess the prevalence of the novel coronavirus infection in the community.An analysis of data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Covid-19 dashboard reveals that between August 10 and August 24, 77,667 tests were conducted in the city and 14,529 people were diagnosed with Covid-19, which translates into a positivity rate of 18.70%. However, in the following two weeks, between August 25 and September 8, 20,580 Covid-19 cases were reported as 140,911 tests were conducted – a positivity rate of 14.60%. “Till August 24, we were running daily average tests of around 5,500 in the city. But now, we have increased it by almost 50%. It has gone up to almost 9,500. On September 8, we tested around 13,000 people, which is a record,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, adding that if the number of infected people had increased, the positivity rate, too, should have risen. “But it has declined and that proves Mumbai’s Covid-19 case graph hasn’t shot up.” The city’s overall positivity rate stands at 18.76% as on Wednesday, with 160,744 people having tested positive for Covid-19 from the 856,454 who were tested. Health experts said despite increasing daily testing, Mumbai is far behind Bengaluru and Delhi in total number of tests. Bengaluru has tested around 1.1 million people, while in Delhi close to 2 million people have been tested. “The number of tests is equally proportionate to the number of positive cases. So, the more we test, the more cases will come out. This might create panic among people, but it will help to break the chain of infection. In fact, the civic body should have increased their testing much earlier, considering Mumbai is the most populated city,” said Anant Bhan, a public health expert. Rapid antigen testing (RAT) has helped increase testing in Mumbai, as around 25% of the total tests conducted in the city are using RAT, which gives results in 30 minutes. For instance, on September 8, when 12,763 people were tested in Mumbai, 4,200 tests were conducted through RAT. “We are conducting close to 800 tests every day, that’s why we have the highest growth rate (1.61%). But we aren’t testing senior citizens above 50 years with RAT to rule out any chance of false negative reports,” said Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer in R-Central (Borivli), which has recorded the third-highest number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/positivity-rate-dips-in-mumbai-even-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-lRuNbSYRvzQFShE1TJ0O6J.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab grapples with oxygen shortage, sends SOS to Haryana, Uttarakhand||With the coronavirus cases witnessing a sharp spike in Punjab in the recent weeks, the health department is grappling with shortage in supply of medical oxygen for patients in hospitals in several districts of the state. The 16 oxygen manufacturers and suppliers, mostly small, in Punjab are struggling to meet the increased demand from government and private hospitals. The medical-grade oxygen demand, which varied from 15 to 20 metric tonnes (MTs) a day on an average before the pandemic outbreak, has now shot up five-fold to around 100 MTs daily as per industry sources. The future demand for oxygen is likely to increase further in the event of the pandemic situation aggravating in the coming days. As per the state health department, the projected requirement of oxygen for both government and private hospitals in the state will be around 165 MTs daily by September 30. RS Sachdeva, managing director of Hitech Industries, the largest supplier in the state with its manufacturing plant and refilling unit in Mohali, said the supply of liquid oxygen was really tight. “The major oxygen generation plants in neighbouring states have a huge demand from other northern states. Therefore, hospitals, particularly small hospitals are facing a huge problem. We have placed orders for a new manufacturing plant in Amritsar and expand the capacity in Mohali, but it will take time,” he said. The state’s Covid-19 case count of 37,824 on August 21 has now raced well past the 70,000-mark, going up by 91% in the past three weeks. The number of active cases stood at 18,088 on Thursday. Oxygen is critical for patients of Covid-19, a respiratory disease that reaches the respiratory tract, mainly the lungs, leading to breathing problems, from mild to critical, as well as reducing oxygen in blood to dangerously low levels. Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) managing director Tanu Kashyap said the availability of medical oxygen was a bit of a challenge. “Due to an increase in oxygen demand from all the states in the wake of coronavirus cases, there is an issue with regular supply. We are reviewing the oxygen availability on priority on a daily basis and have been managing things so far,” she said. The situation has set alarm bells ringing for the state government as Covid-19 cases are projected to race past the 1 lakh mark in the next few days. Director (industries) Sibin C said the oxygen manufacturers and suppliers in the state had limited capacity and were sourcing liquid oxygen from three major oxygen manufacturing plants, one each in Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. “They are facing shortage in supply of liquid oxygen from these units. The scarcity is likely to increase in the coming days. We have taken up the issue with the governments of the three states,” he said. Principal secretary (industries and commerce) Alok Shekhar has written to his counterparts in the three states requesting them to direct the manufacturing plants in their area to increase the supply of liquid oxygen to the hospitals as well as manufacturers and re-filling units in Punjab so as to reduce the shortage of oxygen in hospitals of the state. Also, the department has asked the oxygen makers and suppliers, who were supplying 20% of their oxygen for medical use and the rest to the industry (steel units) earlier, to give priority to hospitals. The industries director has written to the deputy commissioners of Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, Bathinda, Amritsar and Jalandhar, asking them to call a meeting of oxygen manufacturers and refilling units in their areas to monitor their production. They should be asked to utilise the production capacity mainly for medical-grade oxygen, he wrote on September 3 after the health department flagged the issue. The power department has also been told to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply to these units which complained of frequent power cuts leading to interruption in production and supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-grapples-with-oxygen-shortage-sends-sos-to-haryana-uttarakhand/story-DW3uEi9HAO04bg7fUwJN6M.html
11-09-2020||City||Mumbai civic body defends its demolition of alterations in actor Kangana Ranaut’s office||A day after the high-voltage drama over demolition of alleged structural violations in Kangana Ranaut’s office in Pali Hill in Bandra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday, in its affidavit filed before the Bombay high court (HC), said the actor’s allegations of harassment and mala fide action were false and unwarranted. The affidavit, file in response to the actor’s petition, justified the demolition on the grounds that 14 alterations and additions on the premises were not as per the sanctioned building plan. The official concerned acted as per a 2012 policy circular, which states “such construction should be removed forthwith on expiry of notice period of 24 hours”. “In light of these submissions and the fact that the actor has not claimed the demolished portions were legal, action of demolition as per section 35 (A) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act was justified,” BMC’s affidavit stated, seeking dismissal of the petition. Senior advocate Aspi Chinoy and Anil Sakhare appearing for BMC informed a division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla that Bhagyawant Late, designated officer, H-West ward, had filed the affidavit, acting on HC’s orders on Wednesday. The affidavit stated BMC officials had followed proper procedure of inspecting the site with proper permission from the person responsible in the property. The affidavit stated that during the inspection on Monday, it was found that on the ground floor, a toilet was converted into office cabin, unauthorised kitchen was constructed in store room, new toilets were constructed beside staircase inside storeroom and in parking area, and unauthorised pantry was built. It further stated that on the first floor, unauthorised room/cabin with wooden partition was made in the living room, unauthorised meeting room/cabin with wooden partition was made in the pooja room, toilets were built in open chowk area with brick masonry walls and slab at the front was extended horizontally by 2’6”. The violations on the second floor were staircase orientation change, balcony enclosed in habitable area by removing partition walls and an unauthorised horizontal extension of slab at the front admeasuring 3’, it said.The affidavit also stated that on observing the alterations and additions, the official served a notice to Ranaut on the same day. Thereafter, a stop-work notice was posted on the gate on September 8. However, as the notice was not heeded and unauthorised construction continued, as per the March 2012 BMC policy circular, demolition was carried out. As the court pointed out that the petition was filed in haste, Ranaut’s advocate Rizwan Siddiqui sought permission to amend it. Siddiqui submitted that he also wanted to put on record various facts and communications which his client had undertaken with the BMC ward office concerned over two years . The court then directed Siddiqui to make the amendments and file a rejoinder to the BMC affidavit by Monday and directed BMC to file its affidavit on the amended petition by September 18. The hearing is scheduled for September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-body-defends-its-demolition-of-alterations-in-actor-kangana-ranaut-s-office/story-zrQk7b6mr8BcmciEq8QBOI.html
11-09-2020||City||Online exams: PU-affiliated colleges in Ludhiana make students familiar with procedure||The city colleges affiliated to Panjab University, are conducting practice tests online and sending voice messages to students to make them familiar with the online examination procedure. The initiative was taken by the college authorities after the varsity announced to conduct final semester exams of both postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate (UG) courses online from September 17 to 30. The college authorities have asked students to create email ids as after attempting the two-hour exam they will have to send the scanned copy of their respective answer sheets to the college email id. For the convenience of the students, the date sheet has been uploaded on the university website. Savita Uppal, principal of Arya College, said, “We are training the final year students so that they can easily attempt the online paper. The students will be given proper instructions on how to attempt the paper, its duration, the modes to be opted for to send the answer sheet.” “This is the first-time that students will be appearing for the final exam online so many of them are upset. Teachers have been asked to guide them,” she added. The authorities of DD Jain Memorial College for Women are imparting instructions regarding the online examination through voice messages. Principal Sarita Behl said, “Our teachers will remain in touch with the students so that they can appear for the online examination easily. The nodal officer appointed in the college to handle the online examination will coordinate with the university. Students have been asked to email the scanned copies of their papers in PDF format.” To make the students understand the online procedure, the authorities of Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, held a drill session. Principal Mukti Gill said, “We have informed the students regarding the directions from PU and the concerned subject teachers are guiding them. In case any of them fail to upload the scanned copy of the answer sheet, they have the option of submitting the hard copy in the college within two hours from the start of the examination.” PROCEDURE:The UG exams will be held from 9am to 11am and the PG exams from 10am-12am. The question papers will be sent by the university on the admin portal of the college or emailed to the college email id or in case of an emergency sent over Whatsapp to the principal, the director, or the head of the department. The same will further be sent to the students via different electronic modes. After the two -hour exam, the students will send the scanned copy of the answer book to the college. If by any chance, they are unable to submit it online, they can submit the same in a sealed envelope physically to the nearest nodal centre or by registered/speed post. The list of all nodal centres will be uploaded on the university website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-exams-pu-affiliated-colleges-in-ludhiana-make-students-familiar-with-procedure/story-nQL6I9z3GrmOMU7wRoAQ7M.html
11-09-2020||City||World Suicide Prevention Day: Economic distress, erratic lifestyle pushing people on edge: Experts||On World Suicide Prevention Day (WSPD), mental health experts talk about the alarming rise in cases of suicide across the city amid the pandemic. According to the experts, uncertainty about the future, erratic lifestyle increased consumption of alcohol, and financial crisis amid the pandemic are certain factors that are triggering suicidal tendencies among people.Dr Ranjive Mahajan, professor and head of psychiatry, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), says, “The pandemic has turned our lives upside down. There are three major factors people are currently battling with: Uncertainty about the future, financial distress, and Covid’s impact on our lifestyle.”“All this has contributed to increased consumption of alcohol and even drug abuse among few and driven many into depression which further triggers suicidal tendencies,” observed Dr Ranjive. Dr Mamta Singla, professor and head of the psychiatry department, Christian Medical College and Hospital, observed that people are getting frustrated over pandemic-related issues such as social distancing, isolation, financial crisis, as well as its undesirable consequences. “Most of the patients are facing a financial crisis and are talking about death or suicide, hopelessness and disturbed sleep patterns. Many patients have increased their consumption of the substance,” observed Dr Mittal.Study on the impact of Covid-19 Dr Mitthat Miglani, assistant professor, psychiatry, and Palak Upadhyay, assistant professor, clinical psychology, of DMC&H are conducting a study on the impact of Covid-19 on the mental health of patients. “Many patients have been expressing concern for their families’ well-being, many are anxious about their physical condition and worried about when they would be sent home. Some are feeling guilty abouthaving spread it to their parents or children; some had trouble sleeping in a new place,” they said.“We realised that most of their fears and worries were rational and justified; normal response to a stressful situation,” they added. “What we found to be most interesting was the majority did not express feelings of loneliness or hopelessness. Their phones have become their saviors; friends and family video call them and play games with them online. We realised that our society’s strong family system is helping them maintain their sanity and face the crisis,” observed both the doctors.SYMPTOMSDr Tarlochan Singh, PhD, clinical psychology, said suicidal symptoms include talking about death or suicide, hopelessness, considering one’s self a burden, withdrawing completely from friends and family, losing interest in all kinds of activities, and extreme mood swings. WAYS TO BEAT COVID BLUES Dr Ranjiv and Dr Mittal suggested, “We have to bounce back to our previous routines. Early to bed and early to rise, exercise, meditation, yoga, healthy eating habits, and spending time with family and socialisation through the digital medium are some of the best ways to beat the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-suicide-prevention-day-economic-distress-erratic-lifestyle-pushing-people-on-edge-experts/story-z46j1FLvxwJ0G8cDJ0lIHP.html
11-09-2020||City||ASI, son and wife booked for dowry death||Twenty days before his retirement, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Tarlochan Singh of Kochar Market police post, along with his son Atinderpal Singh and wife Jinder Kaur, have been booked for dowry death after his daughter-in-law Davinder Kaur died on Thursday.Davinder Kaur, 29, had married Atinderpal Singh in February 2019. She was a teacher at Government Senior Secondary School in Koomkalan. According to Shinder Kaur, mother of the victim, the accused used to harass her for dowry. The Division number 7 police have lodged an FIR against the accused.Shinder Kaur, in her complaint, stated that the accused had informed her on Thursday that Davinder Kaur had consumed some poisonous substance and they had admitted her to Christian Medical College and Hospital.Kaur added that when they reached the hospital, Davinder Kaur was alive. She told that her that her father-in-law, husband and mother-in-law forcefully administrated celphos to her. She died while undergoing treatment at hospital.Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh, SHO at Division Number 7 police station, said that a case under Sections 304-B (dowry death) and 34 (furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. He added that the police will arrest the accused soon.On the other hand, the victim’s kin staged a protest at civil hospital alleging police of inaction. They demanded arrest of the accused.Harjinder Singh, father of the victim, alleged that the police were favouring Tarlochan Singh and gave them time to escape to avoid arrest. The protests continued for at least two hours. Later, the police officials pacified them and promised that the accused will be behind the bars very soon after which they lifted the protest.The family also announced that they will not cremate the body till the arrest of the accused.ASI Tarlochan Singh is to retire on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-son-and-wife-booked-for-dowry-death/story-ZEp3hqVbirQYn1XQ8X5KUI.html
11-09-2020||City||18 children rescued from railway station in Ludhiana||Over 18 children were rescued by the members of NGO Bachpan Bachao Aandolan, childline railways and government railway police (GRP) from the Ludhiana railway station on Thursday. They were brought to the city in Samastipur to Amritsar express train at 2.55 pm.  “During the operation, the children were found in the D12, D 13 and D 14 compartment of the train,” said, childline coordinator Kulwinder Singh. Bachpan Bachao Aandolan state coordinator Yadwinder Singh had on Wednesday informed the childline coordinator about six children being transported to different districts of Punjab in the train, following which they were rescued.The children, aged between 12 to 17, hailed from Bihar and were transported here for trafficking. They will be sent for medical examination and Covid-19 test on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-children-rescued-from-railway-station-in-ludhiana/story-XiIy6qLB2yTIb1W2AtR6sM.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay to groom startups and innovators in a post-Covid world||On Tuesday, the Central government’s Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) launched a scheme to promote innovations in the fields of healthcare, education, medical technology and work from home, to prepare for a world after the Covid-19 pandemic. The Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE) at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) along with three other agencies have been chosen to implement the scheme.The Central government has called for applications from innovators and startups under the Scheme for Accelerating Startups around Post Covid Technology Opportunities (SASACT) to develop or re-purpose technologies, tools, systems, solutions to respond to the post-Covid-19 scenario.“Following the Covid-19 pandemic, a new normal has been created in the country. Many technology opportunities are arising out of this new normal. In line with the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, we are looking for companies that have established their product but want to go back to the drawing board and rejig their solution to meet these new requirements,” said Ajay Garg, senior director at MeitY.A fund worth ₹9.6 crore has been set aside under SASACT.“The scheme is looking to groom startups based on Information and communications technology, hardware or software in the specific context of a post-Covid-19 world, for example, solutions on home-based healthcare, online tools, education technology, among others,” said Poyni Bhatt, chief executive officer, SINE.An eligible startup can avail maximum support up to ₹40 lakh for the proposed technology product or solutions. A total of 40-50 proposals will be supported under the scheme, said a statement by the MeitY.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-to-groom-startups-and-innovators-in-a-post-covid-world/story-lCLIMsxJ0QIrBVB5vcdKCM.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Union minister virtually inaugurates blood donation camps across tricity||A total of 778 units of blood was collected during blood donation camps held at 10 different locations of the tricity. The camp was organised by Competent Foundation to mark the 57th birthday of BJP leader Sanjay Tandon. Earlier, camps were inaugurated by Union minister Piyush Goyal via webinar in the presence of Gopal Krishna Agarwal, BJP’s national spokesperson for economic affairs, Sanjay Tandon, and his wife Priya Tandon. This session featured a talk on Atma-Nirbhar Bharat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/union-minister-virtually-inaugurates-blood-donation-camps-across-tricity/story-lMOD4vRbWaPsw1l55WmQnI.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Ensure enough beds, doctors available for Covid-19 patients: Bombay HC||Observing that the people in Nagpur were losing lives to Covid-19 for want of medical aid, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state and civic authorities to ensure enough beds, doctors and para-medical staff are available to treat needy patients.The division bench of justice Ravi Deshpande and justice Pushpa Ganediwala also took note of news reports highlighting that patients in serious condition were required to travel from one hospital to another in search of intensive care units, oxygenated beds and ventilators, and directed the authorities to ensure that patients are not required to suffer like this. “We do not want a situation to occur where patients are required to travel from one hospital to another to secure the position in ICU, ventilated beds or oxygenated beds or due to non-availability of the services of medical and para-medical staff,” the bench said.HC has directed the government and civic hospitals in Nagpur not to turn down any patient and instead enquire with other government and civic hospitals and help the patient reach the hospital where beds are available.The bench called upon private doctors and para-medical staff “to rise on the occasion” and make their services available. “Judges and the lawyers have made themselves available 24x7 to serve the causes in pandemic situation, and there would be nothing wrong to expect the medical and para-medical staff to be available 24x7 in this pandemic,” said the bench.DrArchana Kothari, president of Indian Medical Association, and Dr Anup Marar, convenor of Vidarbha Hospitals Association, responded to the call and assured the bench that they will provide a list of private doctors who can provide their services either by personally attending to patients or through various communication systems like video conferencing, video calls etc. The list which will be submitted to the Nagpur municipal commissioner by Friday will also contain addresses and contact details of the private doctors.The court then directed the municipal commissioner to assign duties and responsibilities to private doctors included in the list at various hospitals and Covid care centres.The bench was hearing two petitions complaining of acute shortage of beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients and a suo motu public interest litigation based on some newspaper reports highlighting shortage of infrastructural facilities for dealing with the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ensure-enough-beds-doctors-available-for-covid-19-patients-bombay-hc/story-BKS5YHaNspBJp2IGQEaOpO.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan civic body collects Rs 5 lakh in fines for lockdown violations||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has collected fines worth Rs 5 lakh from those who have violated lockdown norms by not wearing a mask and avoiding social distancing in public places since May this year.   As per the state Covid figures, the KDMC has recorded 36,511 cases, 785 of which were recorded on Wednesday alone, the highest in a span of 24 hours.With relaxations on lockdown, on an average 400-500 cases are being reported in KDMC every day since August.Earlier in May, the civic body had warned of collecting fine from those spitting in public places, not wearing a mask and not following social distancing.“Even after several warnings, people are found without mask in public places, roaming in groups and not maintaining any distance. Our team is taking action against such individuals on the spot, “said an officer of KDMC, who did not wish to be named.The civic body levies a fine of Rs 2,000 for spitting in public places and Rs 500 for not wearing a mask or covering the face using a cloth.“After Ganapathi festival, when the city was gradually easing the lockdown, the cases have gone up on a daily basis. We have also increased the testing to 1,500 on a daily basis for tracking more cases.Also, the civic body has planned to be more stringent on the housing societies that have 80 per cent of the cases,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.The KDMC has recorded 689 deaths due to Covid-19 till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-civic-body-collects-rs-5-lakh-in-fines-for-lockdown-violations/story-Jn1qZirui2Pkg8mTyTUI7L.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks state to consider granting emergency parole to prisoners from other states||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday directed Maharashtra government to consider extending the benefit of emergency parole to prisoners from other states in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar directed the government to take a decision in this regard in 15 days.The directive came as a number of prisoners from outside Maharashtra who are lodged in state prisons challenged their exclusion from the benefit of emergency parole.Their lawyers said the high-power committee (HPC), appointed by the state government after the March 2020 Supreme Court order to decongest prisons to prevent spread of Covid-19 in jails, extended the benefit of emergency parole to certain categories of prisoners. They further said that prisoners whose residences are outside Maharashtra were not included primarily in view of the fact that due to travel restrictions prevailing at that time, they could not have reached their hometowns even if released on emergency parole.They added that since the Union ministry of home affairs has on August 22 written to chief secretaries of all states saying there are no restrictions on inter-state or intra-state movement of people or goods, the state government need to reconsider the HPC decision with regards to granting emergency parole to prisoners from other states.The HC said that in the changed circumstances, it was desirable that state government consider the same, and directed it to take a decision in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-state-to-consider-granting-emergency-parole-to-prisoners-from-other-states/story-1AWgyVoX4eHrdmAoxyd7lK.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Report on education facilities for specially-abled in rural areas: Bombay HC to Maharashtra government||While pulling up the state government for not taking sufficient measures to address the issue of education for differently-abled students during the unlock phases, the Bombay high court (HC) has directed district social welfare officers to visit and inspect learning centres and ensure that such students have access to online education. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the NGO Anaprem, was informed by advocate Uday Warunjikar that though the government had facilitated education for normal students during the various unlock phases, education of the differently-abled had been neglected. As a result, he submitted, more than 1 lakh differently-abled students in the state had been denied their right to education.Explaining the situation, Warunjikar said that while the state had made arrangements for online classes for normal students, the same could not be applied for hearing- and speech-impaired students as they needed specialised teaching aids. These, he said, were not provided by the government. Hence, he asked that directions be issued to the state to formulate a policy for such students and ensure that they get their right to education fulfilled.Warunjikar further submitted that circulars concerning education of the specially-abled were issued in May by the state, and agencies had been appointed in June to implement the circulars. However, after that, there was no progress. He also countered the state’s contention made by advocate Reena Salunkhe, that online classes had been arranged for specially-abled students, but that in most places in rural areas where centres of learning for the specially-abled were present, there was no internet connection. Hence, said Salunkhe, any initiative by the state was futile. On its part, the Central government informed the bench that the process was on to make digital platforms friendly to specially-abled students and impleadment of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) was necessary to answer any other queries of the court in that regard, which the court allowed. After hearing the submissions, the bench asked Warunjikar about his expectations from the state and said that he should also give suggestions to resolve the issue of education for specially-abled students.“Having regard to the seriousness of the concerns raised by the petitioner, we direct all district social welfare officers to pay surprise visits to all learning centres in the course of the next 10 days, to ascertain the nature of services being rendered by such centres to challenged students. If any deficiency is noticed, the officer shall suitably advise the learning centre on how to [resolve] the same,” observed the bench. The bench further said that if a decision at the learning centre not possible, the district social welfare officer shall submit a status report before the joint secretary, social justice and special assistance department, who shall, in turn, file an affidavit before the HC. The bench then posted the petition for hearing after three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/report-on-education-facilities-for-specially-abled-in-rural-areas-bombay-hc-to-state/story-VqTUcZoeYcRnaYaC5JraBI.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Panvel civic body deputy mayor protests against demolition of historical caves, booked||Panvel police have booked deputy mayor of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) along with other leaders for protesting against the demolition of historical caves on Wednesday.The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) - Maharashtra planning authority, on Monday, demolished historical caves to make way for the Navi Mumbai International Airport. Following this, protests were staged by the Republican Party of India- Athawale (RPI-A) along with the deputy mayor from the same party and several others.PCMC deputy mayor Jagdish Gaikwad carried out protests with 150-200 RPI-A party workers against CIDCO. The site was purportedly a site of 2,500-year-old Buddhist rock-cut caves that were converted into a temple of local deity by villagers of Waghavli Wada, Panvel.On Monday, CIDCO officials, along with contractors for the construction of the airport, demolished the cave site. The demolition was carried out by a controlled blast.Meanwhile, the RPI-A leaders, learning of the demolition, were enraged as there were continuous talks with the CIDCO officials to protect the caves against demolition.Mahesh Khare, state secretary, RPI-A said, “We even requested them to move the site of the temple to respect the villagers’ sentiments. However, they sneakily demolished the site at night and stole temple artefacts.”CIDCO officials rubbished claims that the demolition was carried out in an irregular manner. “The demolition was carried out as per rules and regulations, and with the confirmation of local villagers. The villagers shifted the idols of the deity with permission from the authorities,” said Priya Ratambe, public relations officer at CIDCO.Gaikwad and Khare, with other RPI-A leaders and workers, protested in Panvel against CIDCO officials on Wednesday and demanded a case be registered against them for demolishing the caves.“We have proof from the archaeology department that these structures were caves built 2,500 years ago similar to the rock-cut Buddhist caves in Aurangabad. CIDCO officials and the contractors carried out demolition during night time during the lockdown. We have demanded that a case be registered against them,” said Gaikwad.In the 2013 order by the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums, Maharashtra, the authorities noted the hillocks were levelled for the airport construction around the caves site. They also instructed that the caves are historical and should be protected from any damage.Following the protests, the Panvel police booked Gaikwad, Khare and four others for violating lockdown orders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-civic-body-deputy-mayor-protests-against-demolition-of-historical-caves-booked/story-FVrtpjC2F8Mauc47yCjqIK.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||3 held for killing 20-yr-old for gold chain, dumping body in Vasai creek||The Kasarvadavli police have arrested three persons for killing a 20-year-old man for his gold chain and dumping his body in Vasai Creek.The police cracked the case while investigating into the missing complaint of the deceased.  All three accused – Dhanraj Tarude, 33, Krushna Ghodke, 23, Chandan Paswan, 20 – were friends with the deceased, Akshay Daki, 20.On September 4, the police received a missing complaint of Daki from his family. The police tried to locate him at his friends’ place. However, when he was not found anywhere, the police formed teams to find the man.A police official requesting anonymity said, “We got information that Daki would visit Pankhanda village on Ghodbunder Road with his friend Tarude. We tried to reach out to Tarude. However, his phone went unanswered. So, we went to Pankhanda village. We found Daki’s bike parked in this village and suspected the involvement of Tarude in Daki gone missing.“During investigation, we got information of an auto-rickshaw driver whom Tarude had called on September 4 and asked to pick him up the following morning.”Tarude met the auto driver around 5 am on September 5 with two huge empty drums and asked him to take him to Vasai Creek side. He allegedly stopped near some bushes near Pankhanda and brought a heavy gunny bag and put it inside the drum.Police officials said, “He stopped the rickshaw on Ahmedabad highway and threw the gunny bag in the creek. Later, he asked the auto driver to drop him home.”Senior police inspector Kishor Khairnar said, “Our team was sure that something was wrong with Tarude’s activities. We started looking for him and on September 7, arrested him from his house. During interrogation, he confessed to the crime. He allegedly murdered Daki for his 400 gram gold chain. He planned this murder well in advance with his brother Ghodke and friend Paswan.“Accordingly, he called Daki near Pankhanda for a party. They strangulated him and later in the morning, Tarude threw his body in the creek. All the accused work as daily wage labourers and were struggling to find work for the last few days.”The three were arrested for murder and remanded to police custody till September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-held-for-killing-20-yr-old-for-gold-chain-dumping-body-in-vasai-creek/story-XCDchoJmCN0J1XmgwMa54O.html
11-09-2020||City||Six booked for holding drinking party in Covid ambulance in Bhayandar||Five contractual workers of Mira Bhayandar civic sanitation department and an ambulance driver have been booked by Bhayander police on Wednesday night for drinking in a civic ambulance allotted to transport Covid-19 patients to hospital. Social activist Anil Nautiyal received information about the incident and informed local MLA Pratap Sarnaik and the police about it. When police reached the Dedicated Covid Care Centre in Bhayandar (West), they found that the six workers were still drinking inside the ambulance.Inspector Chandrakant Jadhav said, “We booked six men, including the ambulance driver and five contractual workers, under sections 188 (disobedience), 269 (spreading of infection) of the Indian Penal Code, the Maharashtra Prohibition Act and other relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. No arrest has been made so far. We have issued notices to the accused asking them to be present before Thane court once the charge sheet is filed.”Jadhav said that according to information, the drinking party was organised inside the ambulance to celebrate the birthday of one of the accused’s daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-booked-for-holding-drinking-party-in-covid-ambulance-in-bhayandar/story-JE17THDbHHCzsteh5TMjFK.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Issue e-passes to lawyers to travel on local trains on experimental basis: Bombay HC to Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday suggested issuing e-passes to lawyers on an experimental basis to allow them to travel by local trains to attend physical hearings of cases. The HC made the suggestion after it was informed that many lawyers were unable to reach the HC for physical hearings as they did not have any other modes of transportation to reach the court except for local trains. According to government order, only personnel employed in the state government, municipal corporation, health and essential services can travel via local trains. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by advocates, was informed by advocate Shyam Dewani that since lockdown was implemented to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection, many lawyers practicing in the HC and other trial courts in the city had been unable to reach the court as local train services had been suspended. Dewani further submitted that even after a limited number of local train services were resumed in the unlock phases, lawyers were not permitted to commute on trains. As a result of this, many lawyers were unable to attend court even after physical hearing in HC commenced recently. In light of these submissions, the petitioner urged the court to direct the state to permit lawyers to use local train services to reach both the HC and lower courts. However, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni opposed the plea and stated that as there was a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, permitting lawyers to travel by local trains would only add to the rising number of cases. Kumbhakoni said that while the state was amiable to resume normal services, it could not allow train travel till the Covid situation did not improve as social distancing norms were not being followed even in the limited train services being run currently. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “For how long will you allow the situation to continue? We have to live with coronavirus.” The chief justice further said that though HC had started physical hearings, the inability of lawyers to reach the court premises was negating the purpose of the initiative. He then suggested that issuing of e-passes could be started for advocates having to appear before the HC bench on an experimental basis. “We can direct the HC registry to issue the e-passes or the state can issue them. We would like the AG to come up with a plan and mode of implementing the experimental initiative by Tuesday, September 15. Issuing e-passes to lawyers to attend lower courts can be considered after seeing the outcome of the experiment,” the bench said.The petitions will be heard on September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/issue-e-passes-to-lawyers-to-travel-on-local-trains-on-experimental-basis-bombay-hc-to-state/story-tSNqEpGntJG1SY9YhsXssL.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Set up e-office system for Mantralaya: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed state officials to set up an e-office system for various departments in Mantralaya. Thackeray, who was given a presentation on the e-governance plan, said that cloud technology should be used so that employees, officials, secretaries and ministers can work from any location. In the first phase, letters, attendance of Mantralaya employees are to be set up online.“Use the latest in information technology such as cloud technology. A system will have to be created so that all the members in the decision-making process, including employees, officers, secretaries and ministers, should be able to make decisions from wherever they are. Because of the coronavirus outbreak, we have to think about the attendance in office and the nature of the work,” the CM was quoted in the press note from the chief minister’s office (CMO).Thackeray has directed officials to prepare an action plan for effective implementation of the e-office system. “While using the latest technology, the best security system would also be needed,” he added.Environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who was present in the meeting, said that while increasing the pace of administrative work, the system should also integrate grievance redressal along with social media ticketing system for local issues. He added that chat-bots can also be included in the system to help people resolve their issues.According to a statement from the CMO, e-file, e-leave and management information system along with posts and letters coming to Mantralaya would be started in the first phase of e-office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/set-up-e-office-system-for-mantralaya-cm-thackeray/story-FIwzzgj17vi5E8JccbKbMN.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Auto driver arrested for killing biker over parking row in Badlapur||A 24-year-old auto-rickshaw driver allegedly murdered a bike rider and injured another in Badlapur after a scuffle over parking the two-wheeler. The auto driver, Omkar Pawar, 24, was arrested by Badlapur police on Wednesday. According to Badlapur police officials, on Monday night, Pravin Vairal, 36, was going home with his nephew Aniket Shinde, 23, in Aptewadi, Badlapur on a bike. On the way, Vairal parked his bike on one side near an auto-rickshaw to answer a phone call near Aptewadi.Police officials said, “The accused was sitting inside the auto with his friend. While Vairal was talking on the phone, the accused approached him and started abusing him for parking his bike near the accused friend’s rickshaw. Vairal finished the phone call and asked the reason for the abuse and got in a fight with the accused.“Getting angry, the accused took out a knife and stabbed Vairal and Shinde one by one and fled from the spot. Vairal suffered a deep wound and died on Tuesday during treatment while Shinde is still undergoing treatment. “Assistant police inspector, M Burade, of Badlapur Police station said, “Our detection team has arrested the accused from Badlapur immediately within a day. He is a resident of Badlapur west and has several complaints of threatening people for any small issue. He has been arrested for murder under Section 302, 307 and 504 of Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-driver-arrested-for-killing-biker-over-parking-row-in-badlapur/story-D6mdHP5b5B9zRvJbp0gzkL.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||IMD predicts monsoon revival, issues heavy rain alert for Friday and Saturday in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar||The weather bureau has issued yellow alert for Friday and Saturday predicting the possibility of thundershowers and heavy rain across isolated areas.After minimal rain activity over the first 10 days in September, monsoon revival is expected from Saturday onwards, said independent meteorologists.According to rainfall forecast for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar, cloudy conditions with the possibility of moderate rain or thundershowers can be expected in the city and suburbs on Friday, and heavy rain across isolated areas on Saturday.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), an off-shore trough at the mean sea level runs from Maharashtra coast to Kerala coast. “Combined with this, an east-west shear zone over peninsular India and land heating leading to tall cloud formation will account for increase in moisture, lower level westerly winds and increase in rain intensity for the west coast and north Konkan including Mumbai in the coming days,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Over the past 24 hours, only light showers were recorded in the city. Between 8.30am Wednesday and 8.30am Thursday, the suburbs recorded 5.6mm rain while south Mumbai recorded 4mm rain.During the first 10 days of September, Mumbai witnessed only 5.5% of the rainfall recorded during the corresponding period last year. The suburbs recorded 43.3mm rain while south Mumbai witnessed 56.4mm rain this month so far. Last year, the suburbs had recorded 801.4mm rain and south Mumbai 464.6mm over the same period. During the corresponding period in 2018, only 33.6mm and 12.4mm rain was recorded in the suburbs and south Mumbai, respectively. “Intra-seasonal variability is there, but a specific trend from year-on-year rain for a specific period cannot be established as every monsoon is different. No rain bearing weather systems had formed over Bay of Bengal or Arabian Sea through the first 10 days of this month,” said Mohapatra.Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom, said that under the influence of a few monsoon low-pressure systems, the offshore trough will strengthen, thereby leading to moisture incursion in coming days. “Most of this activity will be of light to moderate intensity (especially during this weekend), so there is no severe weather threat involved. The monsoon is expected to remain active in the region over the next 10 days,” he said.The city can expect overcast skies again from Saturday with the possibility of heavy rain for Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Pune and ghat areas between Sunday and Tuesday, said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. “Rainfall is expected to be between moderate to heavy at around 70-80mm over 24 hours during this period,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-predicts-monsoon-revival-issues-heavy-rain-alert-for-friday-and-saturday-in-mumbai-thane-palghar/story-HtWNTc4aUlqVMag9ocnJ2I.html
11-09-2020||City||Navi Mumbai fake loan case: Four more file complaints against trio||Days after three men were arrested for duping Navi Mumbai residents under the pretext of offering loans, four more persons have stepped forward with their complaint against the trio. Two of the accused were working in a non-banking financial institution and had duped scores of people using fake names using their knowledge of the loan process. They had committed a similar fraud in Thane in June.The Sanpada police, on Wednesday, took custody of the trio – Omkar Mhatre, 35, Rohit Nagwekar, 30, and Bhalchandra Palav, 27 from the APMC police station, where they were arrested on September 2.As Mhatre and Nagwekar were well versed with the documentation of the loans, they allegedly hatched the plan to dupe people under the pretext of loans.“Previously, Nagwekar and Mhatre had duped people in a similar con in Naupada, Thane. The Naupada police had arrested them in June after which their accounts were frozen. We are collecting their financial records for the money trail,” said Keshav Dinde, assistant inspector at Sanpada police station.As per their modus operandi, the accused would first print out documents to resemble a cooperative bank. These documents would look like printed loan applications with a randomised registration number to assuage any suspicions. So far, police have found that the men duped Navi Mumbai residents under the guise of two fake cooperative banks – one in Vasai and another in Dahanu.Sanpada resident Savita Sakpal, 42, was trying for a loan last year to help her children’s new business but was not able to procure financial assistance. In December 2019, she came across a pamphlet in a regional newspaper promising quick and easy loans. The accused would print hundreds of pamphlets and then distribute it among newspaper vendors to be sent across.Palav and Mhatre met Sakpal and introduced themselves to be working at the Vasai bank. Two of Sakpal’s friends, Sheetal Jedhe and Shobha Ghodke, also needed loans. Under the pretext of collecting processing fee, insurance fee and other documentation process for the loan approval, the accused had made the complainant women pay a total Rs 5.34 lakh between December 2019 and April 2020.Police said they have also learnt of a new complaint against them in Nerul, where a few more persons were duped of a few lakh of rupees. Officials said they were in the process of registering the case and after the Sanpada police finished their investigation, the accused would be handed over to Nerul police for further interrogation.At least two police stations in Thane district have inquired with the Navi Mumbai police about the accused after it was discovered that the men duped residents in their jurisdiction as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-fake-loan-case-four-more-file-complaints-against-trio/story-F99Wq1U8iKFzhxVKKmLzmM.html
11-09-2020||City||Ludhiana fatality rate is almost double of Punjab’s||While Punjab’s Covid death rate is the highest in the country at 2.95%, Ludhiana’s tale is even more sordid with its case fatality rate (proportion of people who die among all individuals who have been diagnosed) touching 4.25%, which is almost double the state’s figure.What’s more, the state has seen a five-fold increase in the deaths in just five weeks, with the toll going from 103 on August 2 to over 500 in the first week of September. On August 1, Ludhiana’s case fatality rate was 2.82% against the state’s 2.39% and has risen steadily over the subsequent 40 days. On August 25, Ludhiana’s CFR was 3.6% against the state’s 2.5%. With 546 residents succumbing to the virus till September 10, Ludhiana has the highest number of deaths in the state. Officials attribute this same to a high number of patients with co-morbidities and also to excessive testing. From 1,158 samples on August 1, the district went on to collect 4, 711 samples on September 9. So far, a total of 1.79 lakh samples have been tested in Ludhiana. On September 5, Ludhiana was among the two Punjab districts in the list of 15 districts in the country with high Covid caseload and fatality over the past month. Civil surgeons of Ludhiana and Patiala at the videoconference with the Union health secretary had then swung into action to take stock of the situation by increasing sampling and also deciding to organise medical camps all over the district over the next three weeks.The silver lining for Ludhiana is that its recovery rate is the highest in the state at 81.88% with 10,443 persons recovering so far. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “People with co-morbid conditions are more in Ludhiana. The case fatality rate is peaking but the number of recoveries is also high. We are hopeful of bringing the fatalities down. It is my sincere appeal to people to get themselves tested at the slightest of symptoms and to not to fall prey to rumours.”Ludhiana’s per day toll is at par with that of the neighbouring state of Haryana, which has been recording about 25 deaths a day over the past few weeks. The industrial city and financial capital of Punjab thus has almost the same number of deaths as Haryana, which is a full-fledged state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-fatality-rate-is-almost-double-of-punjab-s/story-BimDFaF5NfujU0lqFf24NN.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||BJP seeks emergency meeting to move no-confidence motion against Mumbai mayor||In the wake of allegations against mayor Kishori Pednekar of misusing her position to award contracts to her son’s firm, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BP) appealed for an urgent general body meeting of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday to move a no-confidence motion against her.Pednekar had earlier rubbished the allegations.BJP’s move comes even as Pednekar tested positive for Covid-19 and was advised to be in home quarantine. Vinod Mishra, BJP leader in BMC, said, “We have requested for an emergency meeting under section 36 (H) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, to move no-confidence motion against mayor.” It remains to be seen whether the Shiv Sena can gain support from disgruntled councillors of the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) as cracks appear among the three ruling parties in the state.To get the no-confidence motion passed, BJP will have to achieve a simple majority among the councillors present during the voting. Currently, Sena has a strength of 97 councillors, BJP has 83, Congress has 29, NCP has eight, Samajwadi Party has six, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen has two and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena has one corporator in BMC.Pednekar, who underwent rapid antigen testing on Thursday, is asymptomatic. She tweeted, “I am isolating myself at home as advised by doctors. My family members have been tested for Covid-19. With your best wishes, I will soon resume work to serve Mumbaikars.” She also appealed to people, who have come in contact with her, to get tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-seeks-emergency-meeting-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-mumbai-mayor/story-ft8n5u8gCNBWvmczCeFHvN.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Last rites for Covid-19 victims for free: Panvel civic body passes proposal||Families of persons who die of Covid-19 in Panvel will be able to conduct last rites of their loved ones for free, according to a proposal passed by the standing committee of Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Wednesday.The committee has also passed a proposal for the construction of new headquarters for the corporation building.The standing committee was conducted through video conferencing under the chairmanship of Pravin Patil. The committee approved free final rites for those who die of Covid.Patil said, “PCMC will, henceforth, bear the cost of the final rites of those who die of Covid-19. At present, residents have to pay Rs 2,500 for gas crematorium and Rs 5,000 for using wooden logs. This cost will, henceforth, be borne by the PCMC.”The committee also approved more than Rs 4 lakh for the purchase of triple layer masks for various hospitals, urban health posts, teachers deployed for survey work, etc. Fifty thousand masks will be purchased at a cost of Rs 4.20 lakh. New civic building The committee has also approved the long-awaited proposal for the construction of a new civic building. The architect and consultant for the project have also been appointed.The standing committee has approved the plans for the new building at a cost of Rs 3.47cr.The new PCMC headquarters, named Swaraj, has been planned at plot No. 4 in Sector 16 of New Panvel. The plot was earlier acquired from CIDCO at a cost of Rs 28cr, which the civic body has paid.PCMC presently operates from the old building where the municipal council functioned from and another building next to it. It is located next to Dewale pond.Patil added, “With the appointment of the architect and consultant for the headquarters project, the path has been cleared for serious work to begin on the building. The standing committee also approved Rs 4.51cr for the preparation of city development plan (CDP) by CRISIL that will ensure the all-round development of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/last-rites-for-covid-19-victims-for-free-panvel-civic-body-passes-proposal/story-xzjDRMasKy7x9gGW5MXaNO.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to make citizens aware about disasters through free seminars||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning to organise seminars and workshops for citizens in areas that are prone to disasters such as building collapses and flooding to raise awareness about how to identify disasters and ways to survive them. As part of its outreach programme to bridge the gap between BMC and citizens, these seminars will be free of cost.Senior civic officials said that community leaders and elected representatives will be roped in to get more people to sign up for this programme in order to increase the turnout. Pamphlets and booklets related to the seminars will be distributed among citizens to further extend the reach of the awareness programme.Mumbai has nearly 20,000 dilapidated buildings, a majority of which is located in south Mumbai. BMC has also identified around 273 flood-prone spots in the city which include Hindmata, Gandhi Market, Pydhonie and settlements around Mithi river. In addition, similar workshops and seminars on fire related disasters will be conducted on ward level. The programme is being brainstormed and an outline will be prepared following discussions with various departments, civic officials said.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “In situations involving natural disasters or fire, the time taken by agencies to reach the spot is crucial. Alertness of people trapped in such cases could save a lot of mishaps. For instance, crawling under a smoke-logged room during a fire towards the exit avoids feeling suffocated.”With this initiative, the civic body aims to connect ward machineries with citizens. Ward officials will give inputs on areas that will be selected for these workshops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-make-citizens-aware-about-disasters-through-free-seminars/story-t4wGo4hNVtlOvA9YnW0JlN.html
11-09-2020||City||At least 40 migrants test positive in Thane daily||More than 40 migrants visiting the city through long-distance trains test positive for Covid-19 daily, according to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) records.The corporation has started conducting Rapid Antigen Tests for these migrants at the Thane railway station. More than 800 migrants are being tested daily since last week. Out of these, six to seven per cent migrants test positive and are immediately quarantined at the TMC centres. A long queue of outstation commuters is being witnessed at the Thane station for testing at any given time. The testing at the railway station has been set up to ensure that the migrants entering the city from other states do not spread the virus in Thane. The corporation claims that increased testing is the only solution to control the mortality and decrease the daily cases.Civic commissioner Dr. Vipin Sharma said: “Among those tested at railway stations, on an average around 40 to 50 people test positive on a daily basis. Most of them are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. These are immigrant labourers working as construction workers or in industries and factories. Since almost a week, we have begun regular testing at Thane railway station. We have set up four counters for antigen testing. Details of all these migrants have been taken down. Even if asymptomatic, we isolate them and monitor their health for a week or two before letting them go.”He added: “It is difficult to keep a tab on each and every one visiting the city as there is a large number of migrant population who travel by road into the city. However, there are various state checkpoints as well where people are screened for symptoms. Our focus is to be able to control the spread of the virus. Through regular screening and testing, we are casting a safety net for residents of Thane. We will not stop soon. These initiatives will continue.”At the Thane railway station, each person takes around four minutes to take swab samples, hence there are long queues near the testing counters as soon as a train arrives.“With so many people waiting at any given point, we have to ensure that the names and swab samples on the vials are properly noted. Moreover, we have to take down details of the individual and based on the result, provide them with proper guidelines. Some get impatient with the long queue and make attempts to jump the queue. In such instances, we have to ensure that social distancing is maintained and crowd is managed properly as well,” said a technician working at the railway station. As most immigrants returning to the cities are in desperate need of an income, there could be instances of people flouting quarantine. Hence, the Thane civic body prefers to isolate most of those who have travelled from other states into the city.“If you compare with the number of people who had migrated back to the villages during the lockdown; hardly 30% have returned to Thane city. This is a very small number and most of the rest will return after the Navratri festival. That would be the period when the city needs to be cautious as there will be a major influx of migrant labourers,” said Dhananjay Singh, Founder, Rudra Pratishthan, an organization that works for the welfare of the north Indian community in Thane.“Many factories and construction sites are offering facilities for isolation, stay and food; everyone needs labourers to get back to business. There is dearth of manpower at present in the city. So many are going out of the way to make the labourers feel comfortable,” added Singh.Those who are returning currently are those who are in a very bad state financially. “We have faced issues wherein labourers are unable to share their address details as they have returned to the city without a job in hand. This is the reason we prefer to isolate them even if asymptomatic, so that their health can be monitored,” said Ashok Burpulle, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.“Setting up testing counters in containment zones, malls and railway station is a way for us to reach out to the people. Not everyone finds it convenient or a necessity to visit a testing centre and get themselves tested. Hence, we are taking the testing kits through the medium of these special counters to the people,” added Burpulle. Activists demand more counters for testing City-based activists claimed that the counters were insufficient to accommodate all the passengers coming from outstation trains. “Every outstation train will have a minimum of 800 passengers, even after maintaining all social distancing norms. Having only four counters for testing so many passengers is not feasible. The travellers wait for two to three hours after such a long travel to get tested. They should set up a minimum of eight counters for ease in checking and for the convenience of travellers as well,” said Shashikumar Nair, chairman of Yatra Samiti, Thane.Another activist, Sanjeev Dutta, claimed that testing should be done at the point of origin. Dutta said: “Before allowing people into Thane city, a medical check-up or a test report from their place of origin should be asked for. It does not make sense to travel such a distance if one is Covid positive and spread it to other travellers and the residents while visiting a different city. This will help the civic body to increase testing within Thane city.”Migrants SpeakSriram Kumar, 33, resident of Jharkhand worked with a construction company in Thane until the lockdown. He returned to the city on Monday with the hope that he would get a job in the city. he said: “Isolating is not feasible for me. Due to the lockdown, I had a huge debt, hence had to leave the city and go to my hometown. But repeated efforts to earn a living did not bear fruits as much as it would in cities. That is the reason I returned but the quarantine period will leave my family hungry. The construction company where I worked initially is also not keen to take me as of now. Any means of livelihood and survival seems difficult at present.”Another migrant, Ranjan Prasad, 45, resident of Bihar used to work as a mason in a construction site on Ghodbunder Road and is now ready to take up any job. “All that we had earned and saved all these years had to be spent for daily meals over the last few months. With nothing else in hand, we have to go to the city. Everyone in my village in Bihar kept saying that there was no work around. We are hopeful that we shall find something here that will help us earn a few pennies for our family back home.”In Numbers Total number of positive cases: 29,265 Active cases: 2,729Deaths: 999 Daily number of positive cases: September 9: 495September 8: 281 September 7: 306September 6: 420 September 5: 335 September 4: 294 September 3: 348 September 2: 301 September 1: 242||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-least-40-migrants-test-positive-in-thane-daily/story-qlRSabLDdSsesOVJucgwOJ.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three men injured in separate attacks||Three men were injured in separate clashes owing to old rivalry.Hemraj of Dadumajra complained to the police that a man named Babrik attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon while he was at the local market to get some household items. Hemraj was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and Babrik was booked under Sections 324, 341 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Maloya police station on Wednesday. In another incident, Sanjeet, alias Chotu, of Burail village, Sector 45, alleged that one Sanju and his accomplices assaulted him and his brother-in-law, Babu Ram, with iron rods near South End Chowk, Sector 34. The injured were rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. A case was registered under Sections 341, 147, 148, 149, 323, 324 and 506 of the IPC at the Sector-34 police station on Wednesday. Another case was registered on the complaint of Aipa of Verandah Market, Sector 38-D. He alleged that one Naresh assaulted him with a stick in the local market’s parking lot. Aipa was admitted to GMSH-16. A case under Sections 341, 323 and 506 of the IPC was registered at the Sector-39 police station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-three-men-injured-in-separate-attacks/story-lxKx4FAYdirbOxBwgzTOGI.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Robbery convict arrested for vehicle lifting||A man convicted for robbery has been arrested for vehicle theft, police said on Thursday. The accused, Deepak, of Dhanas’ EWS Colony, had tried to steal the Bajaj Platina motorcycle of one Amrit Lal of the same locality on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The complainant told the police that on Wednesday, the accused barged into his house and threatened him. The Sarangpur police had registered a case under Sections 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Deepak was arrested and produced in a court on Thursday, from where he was sent to judicial custody. As per the police, Deepak already had three FIRs registered against him at different police stations in the city. Last December, Deepak was convicted in a robbery case filed against him in January 2019 at the Sector-34 police station. Another case of robbery was registered against him at the Sector-11 police station, while he was booked for assaulting and rioting by the Sarangpur police as well. These two cases are still pending in the district court. Three thefts reported Three cases of vehicle theft were registered at different police stations in Chandigarh on Thursday. Sarman Sharma of Mauli village complained that his Hero Splendor motorcycle parked near his house was stolen when he was away from July 20 to August 28. Another theft of a Royal Enfield Bullet was reported by Ankush Choudhary of Attawa village, who said the crime took place on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The third complaint was lodged by Jagjit Singh of Dadumajra village, whose Maruti Zen car was stolen from the parking of the local Ramlila ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/robbery-convict-arrested-for-vehicle-lifting/story-zmtbQ0XY60Q5wmODfJaS0L.html
11-09-2020||City||Ex-partner, accomplice kidnap dairy owner for filing police complaint||Minutes after stepping out of the office of additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 4) Kuldeep Sharma, a man kidnapped his former partner, with whom he was tied in a monetary dispute, and threw him out of a moving car after thrashing him.The victim, Arun Kapoor, 34, a dairy owner in Urban Estate, said that the accused, Mohit Rawat, who was his business partner earlier, had borrowed ₹11.7 lakh from him. Though Rawat had returned ₹2 lakh, he refused to pay back the rest of the money. Following this, Kapoor had filed a police complaint.ADCP Kuldeep Sharma, had on Wednesday, called them to his office for investigation. Right after they stepped out of the ADCP’s office, the accused intercepted him and vandalised his car before forcefully dragging him into his vehicle. Kapoor said that he was thrashed by Rawat and his three unidentified accomplices before being thrown out of a moving car near Vardhman Chowk. A case has been registered under Sections 365 (kidnapping), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-partner-accomplice-kidnap-dairy-owner-for-filing-police-complaint/story-BYPEyUwQxSyuMmTBNnreqM.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Declared proclaimed offender in 2010, Ambala man lands in police net||The Chandigarh Police’s operation cell has arrested an Ambala resident, who was 10 years ago declared a proclaimed offender (PO) in two cases of snatching. Gurpreet Singh alias Sunny, 37, was arrested from his current residence in Zirakpur on September 9 following a tip-off. He was produced in a court on Thursday, which sent him to judicial custody. The police said as per the records, an FIR was registered against him on April 6, 2006, under sections 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person), 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Chandigarh’s Sector-3 police station on the complaint of one Karamjit Kaur of Sector 7. She had alleged that two scooter-borne youths snatched her purse carrying six ATM cards, ₹770 and other important documents when she was on her way to Sector-8 market. Gurpreet was subsequently arrested and later released on bail. However, he remained at large ever since and was declared a PO on August 21, 2010. Another FIR was registered against Gurpreet on February 16, 2006, under same sections of the IPC at Sector-17 police station on the complaint of Saroj Uppal, a resident of Sector 22. She told the police that she was attacked while on her way to Sector 35 on a rickshaw. She had lost her purse containing ₹8,000, house keys and some documents. In this case too, Gurpreet was arrested and later granted bail. A court had declared him a PO in this case on February 26, 2011, after he stopped appearing before it. Besides these two cases, Gurpreet has also been named in an FIR registered in Ambala in April 2007 under IPC Section 387 on the complaint of a property dealer, Sunil Sethi. He had alleged that Gurpreet and his accomplice sought ₹50,000 as ransom from him and threatened to harm his family if he failed to oblige. Gurpreet was arrested and convicted in this case on November 11, 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/declared-proclaimed-offender-in-2010-ambala-man-lands-in-police-net/story-ZPHVykjD0qh0o8goAb7fvJ.html
11-09-2020||City||Two Panchkula men lose money in online frauds, FIRs lodged||The cyber crime wing of the local police are on the lookout for fraudsters, who duped two residents of Sector 12 of Rs 1.47 lakh and Rs 95,000.In the first case, Ramesh Kumar Thakur had complained on March 6 that he received a phone call on January 4. The caller, posing as a bank employee, offered to raise his credit card limit. After securing his credit card information “for verification”, she asked him for the OTP sent to his mobile phone “to confirm his phone number.” Soon after, Rs 1.47 lakh were deducted from his bank account, and he could not contact the woman back.Following investigation, police registered a case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Wednesday.Similarly, Sham Sunder Singla on May 30, 2019, complained to the Panchkula deputy commissioner of being duped of Rs 95,000.In his complaint, Singla said that he received wrong products against an online order for an umbrella on May 25, 2019.When he contacted the seller with a complaint, he was asked to download a mobile app to receive the refund. “As soon as I logged in to the app, I got text messages of five different transactions regarding withdrawal of Rs 95,000 from my bank account,” he alleged.Therefore, police registered another case under Section 420 of the IPC on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-panchkula-men-lose-money-in-online-frauds-firs-lodged/story-jSXVVCdcrpFVJ8MWl6uwmO.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Plans afoot to revamp Chandigarh’s over 5-decade-old sewerage system||Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) is all set to upgrade and replace the city’s more than 50-year-old sewerage system. As a first step, the civic body will be appointing a consultant to analyse the existing structure and suggest options to improve it.Frequent breakdowns of the sewer lines are often reported across the city as it struggles to handle flows much higher than its design capacity. Similarly, the old stormwater drainage system gets flooded every monsoon because of its low capacity.Confirming the development, municipal commissioner KK Yadav, said, “City’s sewerage system is quite old and requires a major overhaul. At several places, relaying of new sewers is very much needed.” “We are planning to engage a consultant who will examine the requirements for replacements and upgrades. After taking into costing issues under consideration, different options for improving city’s sewerage system will be reviewed,” he added.The consultancy work will be given to either a government agency or a private firm. With a government agency such as Punjab Engineering College (PEC) or National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR), MC will sign a memorandum of understanding, and if it is a private firm tenders will be floated for invitation. To choose between the two options, an agenda will be submitted before the MC general house for its approval.“There are certain parameters against which the consultant will measure the efficiency of the sewerage system. On the basis of this analysis, they will prepare a detailed project report and submit it to us with their recommendations. On the basis of this report, the costing will be finalised and final project plans will be prepared,” Yadav said.AT THE END OF LIFE CYCLEChandigarh has both brick and pipe sewers laid in four phases as city expanded. One of the particular concerns is the brick and mortar sewer which became operational shortly after the foundation of the city. “As per our study, there are several places where these have majorly thinned out due to continuous erosion. Chemical reactions because of toxic gases in the sewers have led to the damage. There are fears that these might even collapse,” said an MC official who didn’t want to be named.Even the carrying capacity of the sewers is low as the population increases in the city.“The existing stormwater drainage system is inadequate to manage the discharge during heavy rainfall. The system was designed in phases, for 15mm rainfall per hour in phase 1 (northern sectors), 20mm in phase 2 (central sectors), and 25mm in phase 3 (southern sectors),” said another MC official.Significantly, the civic body has already initiated the process to upgrade the five sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the city. However, low and poor capacity of the main trunk sewers will handicap any improvement in the STP.“The options to improve the system will either require total replacement of the sewers or modifications. Technologies are now available that can improve the existing old sewer channels. The consultant’s report will indicate what options can be employed at which places in the city,” said Shailender Singh, MC’s chief engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plans-afoot-to-revamp-city-s-over-5-decade-old-sewerage-system/story-fIannhAlRyHlaEgZNawQdI.html
11-09-2020||City||Railways nabs 79 passengers travelling on invalid tickets from Ferozepur Division||During a special drive to deter misuse of senior citizens’ quota in passenger trains, the Ferozepur Division nabbed 79 passengers travelling on invalid tickets and collected a fine of Rs 58,545 from them.As per instructions received from the head office of Northern Railways, an intensive special ticket checking drive was conducted for 15 days from August 25 to September 8 in divisions including - Ferozepur, Ambala, Delhi, Moradabad and Lucknow.Senior divisional commercial manager Chetan Taneja informed that during the drive, the railway staff nabbed young passengers travelling under the senior citizens’ quota with a copy of forged e-tickets. Some of the passengers were found traveling with a copy of Tatkal ticket, issued from the reservation ticket centre.He added that during the drive, 594 ticket-checking staff were pressed into service, along with commercial inspectors. Taneja appealed to the passengers to travel on valid tickets and carry a valid identity card with them. As per the Railways, males aged 60 or above and females aged 58 or above will be eligible for the senior citizens’ quota. He also added that a photocopy of tickets booked from the reservation counter is not valid for travelling in trains. The passenger should carry an original copy of the ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railways-nabs-79-passengers-travelling-on-invalid-tickets-from-ferozepur-division/story-LJl8C6dttHDMXzShLUQ05O.html
11-09-2020||City||Infant dies at Panchkula hospital, family allege medical negligence||High drama was witnessed at Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula after a family from Rajiv Colony alleged medical negligence by auxiliary nurse midwife (ANMs) leading to the death of their toddler. According to the mother, “On Wednesday, ANMs from the civil dispensary visited the hospital and the toddler was given medicines after which he developed a fever. The next morning, his condition deteriorated following which he was taken to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.” The family is demanding an inquiry into the matter and gave a written complaint to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infant-dies-at-panchkula-hospital-family-allege-medical-negligence/story-NOpf1djqS8p5y0W8Qtxq4N.html
11-09-2020||City||Plasma donation gaining ground in Mohali district, says DC Girish Dayalan||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that plasma donation is gradually gaining ground in the district. He said plasma donation commenced on August 20 when PCS officer Jagdeep Sehgal posted as Mohali SDM volunteered to donate plasma to save the life of a fellow police officer. Since then people are slowly and steadily showing interest in plasma donation, he added. The DC said that in over two weeks, as many as 80 people have volunteered for plasma donation and of them, 10 donations have already been made. Efforts are afoot to motivate eligible Covid-19 survivors to come up for the same.Sharing further details on the plasma donation scenario in the district, the first donor of the district and now chief motivator Jagdeep Sehgal said, “All who have recovered from Covid-19 can help in saving precious lives by donating plasma. Plasma donation is a safe and simple procedure. I have experienced the trauma of the infection and the bliss of the donation. So, I have taken it upon myself the mission of motivating others to come forward for plasma donation. With the support of my staff, I have been able to identify 500 eligible donors.”“Renowned Punjabi singer, Kulwinder Billa is among others who have made plasma donation at my behest,” said Sehgal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plasma-donation-gaining-ground-in-mohali-district-says-dc-girish-dayalan/story-Bi67kcE74g9IP8qojgMwyK.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NDPS court to decide on bail pleas of Rhea, Showik and others today||court to pass order on rhea bail plea todayManish K Pathak and Charul Shah manish.pathak@hindustantimes.com MumbaiA special court constituted under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act will pronounce its order on the bail plea filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, among others, on Friday. Rhea, Showik, actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, house help Dipesh Sawant, Bandra residents Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar, were arrested by NCB for their alleged involvement in a drugs case linked to Rajput’s death.On Thursday, Atul Sarpande, the special public prosecutor appearing for NCB, opposed the bail plea of all accused on the grounds that the probe was at a crucial stage and releasing the accused on bail may hamper the probe. “We have opposed bail pleas because in this case the quantity of the drug is not important, instead, the gravity of the offence is more important. All the accused are connected to each other, are involved in the conspiracy, and cannot be separated from the case,” said Sarpande.Rajendra Rathod, lawyer for Sawant, said, “We have argued for bail as the sections are bailable, and on the same sections Kaizan Ebrahim [another accused] was given bail. But NCB opposed the bail, saying that investigations are at a premature stage and evidence can be hampered.”Meanwhile, Miranda, in his bail plea filed through advocate Subodh Desai, claimed that NCB in its search had recovered nothing incriminating from him, and argued that the case is based on the statement of the co-accused and the prosecution has nothing to corroborate the statement.Rhea, in her plea, had stated that she was innocent and falsely implicated. Rhea and her brother Showik have been booked under section 27A of the NDPS Act, which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.The defence raised issue of applicability of charges of section 27A of the NDPS Act against the two. In Rhea’s plea, the defence stated, “The allegations against the present accused would at the most make out a case of purchasing small quantity of drug, which is in essence a bailable offence. There is not a shred of evidence to connect the applicant with financing any illicit traffic or harbouring any offender and hence the ingredients of section 27A of the NDPS Act are not made out in present facts and circumstances.”Further, the defence had also alleged that even though the role attributed to Rhea and her brother Showik is identical to that of another accused, Kaizan Ebrahim, NCB selectively invoked charges of Section 27A only against Rhea and Showik. Ebrahim was released on provisional cash bail on the very first day of his remand by the magistrate court, the defence had pointed out.The pleas were opposed by the prosecution, claiming all accused are connected and case of each accused cannot be looked in isolation. Sarpande, however, countered the argument and said that the agency will move court to cancel Ebrahim’s bail on Friday. Sarpande added that the agency had recovered 0.5 grams of hashish from him.Objecting the allegation that the charges of section 27A of NDPS is not applicable, Sarpande contended, “As far as Rhea and Showik are concerned, they financed and arranged drugs. That is why they have been made accused in the case. This is a non-bailable offence, hence they should not be granted bail.”On the allegation that no woman officer was present during Rhea’s interrogation, Sarpande said, “One woman officer of the NCB and one from Mumbai Police were present on the request of Rhea for protection. Rhea’s statement was recorded in front of them and they are witnesses in the statement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ndps-court-to-decide-on-bail-pleas-of-rhea-showik-and-others-today/story-vSN6emK3FsMPYbTY4GzOgM.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||PU online exam: Roll numbers to be issued without ‘no dues certificate’||The final-semester students enrolled in the undergraduate and postgraduate courses of Panjab University will be exempted from furnishing ‘no dues certificates’ to get their roll numbers this time before taking the online exams. The varsity on Thursday requested its departments and regional centres to issue roll numbers without ‘no dues certificates’ after students raised concerns over obtaining the NOC from departments amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Online examinations for the final-semester students are scheduled to start from September 17. Earlier, as per the date sheets released by PU, the students were asked to get NOCs from their respective departments before downloading admit cards from the website.“The detail instruction for the candidate will be printed on admit/roll number card which can be downloaded from the University website after getting NOC from head of Institutions in case of regular students, private candidates can download from Panjab University Official Website,” the date sheets read. This time, students flagged their concerns over the demand of NOCs by the varsity for getting the admit cards, prompting PU’s office of Dean University Instruction (DUI) to issue an urgent circular to the heads of departments and regional centres on Thursday, requesting them to issue roll numbers without ‘no dues certificates’ to enable students to take the exams.However, the final result may be declared only after submission of NOCs and clearance of all dues.Pardeep Saharan, a student from Haryana who studies in the department of laws, said, “It is difficult to get an NOC at this time. In that case, many students would be needed to visit the university campus. The exams are already delayed and getting an NOC within a span of a few days is impossible.”Usually, students need to furnish the ‘no dues certificates’ as a proof that they do not have any outstanding bills, such as mess bills, canteen bills, library charges and others.“We had left the hostels in a hurry when the lockdown was imposed in March. If I have to get the NOC, then I would need to visit the campus,” said a UIET student, Bhawani Singh, who hails from Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-online-exam-roll-numbers-to-be-issued-without-no-dues-certificate/story-3qfUpiOgkCDU8giMUQFpfM.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid case tally inches towards 1 million, Mumbai sees sharpest rise||Maharashtra on Thursday inched towards one million Covid-19 cases with 23,446 new infections, including Mumbai’s sharpest single-day spike of 2,371, taking the tally to 9,90,795. The state on Thursday also reported its highest number of deaths in a day, 495, taking the toll to 28,282. The latest fatalities included 47 from reconciliation of older cases and another 133 were from over a week. Barring Sunday, the state has reported more than 20,000 cases daily over the past six days. In the first 10 days of September, the state has reported 198,254 cases — 20% of the total cases reported in six months of the virus outbreak. Mumbai reported its highest single-day jump in cases for a second consecutive day, which pushed its count to 1,63,115, while the toll crossed the 8,000 mark with 38 more deaths. There are 26,629 active cases in Mumbai, while the city’s fatality rate is 4.9%. One hot spot that has shown drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded 11 new cases on Thursday, bringing the area’s case count to 2,850, of which 2,478 have been discharged.Of the latest deaths, 72 were from Satara district, 50 each were reported from from Nagpur and Pune districts, 39 were from Kolhapuri. Pune district topped the list for daily caseload at 5,939 new cases, including 2,969 in Pune city,1,802 in its rural parts and 1,168 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Nagpur saw 1,726 new cases, while Satara, Sangli and Jalgon reported 1,017, 1,031 and 1,089 cases respectively. The state recovery rate has dropped, while the positivity rate has increased. The recovery rate dropped to 70.72%, which had crossed 72.32% on August 31. State’s case fatality rate (CFR), too, stood at 2.85%, against the national rate of 1.69%. A few districts such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Nagpur, Satara have been key contributors in the sudden spike in cases and they have seen a rise of more than 50% in the last two weeks, from August 26 to September 9. Sangli’s growth during this period was 107% (10,108 to 20,924), cases in Satara grew by 88% (from 10995 to 20657), Nagpur by 92% (22,378 to 42,974) and Kolhapur by 57.63% (19076 to 30069). State’s caseload rise in two weeks is 34.59% (from 7.19 lakh to 9.67 lakh). The state authorities are now concentrating on these districts. “Our directives to the district and civic administrations are to ramp up health facilities on one hand and to track-trace high-low risk contacts. This would help in containing the spread and later treat the patients identified. We expect our ‘chase-the-virus’ drive beginning from September 15 plays a major role in identifying more infections, which will help contain the rapid spread, especially witnessed in the rural parts of the state,” said an official from the health department. Dr Sanjay Salunkhe, civil surgeon of Sangli district, said that the unlocking over the past two weeks, movement of people from other districts or states and lack of awareness among people about social distancing has led to the rise in the cases. “We have been continuously ramping up our health infrastructure and had started laying oxygen pipelines for rural and sub-district hospitals too. Our oxygenated bed capacity has increased to more than 1,460 beds in the district and we have 201 ventilators. We trace around 12-15 high and low risk contact to contain the spread. We expect the rate of the new infections to reduce by the end of this month as the district is currently witnessing its peak of the infection,” he said. The doubling period in most of the districts has, however, improved and is more than 10 days, except Chandrapur, which has reported a doubling rate at 9.56 days. Nagpur and Nanded have reported the period at 15.1 and 18.11 days, while in urban parts of Sangli, it’s 17.43 days. In all nine municipal corporations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), it’s over 30 days. The growth or reproduction rate in cities and districts in the state ranges between 1.03(Bhiwandi-Nizampur) and 1.59% (Chandrapur), according to the daily report released by a group from Mumbai University, headed by economist Neeraj Hatekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-case-tally-inches-towards-1-million-mumbai-see-sharpest-rise/story-rmbVWKHBZ4dprrtPZ9YsPN.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Bhima-Koregaon violence: NCP chief Sharad Pawar pushes for SIT probe||Keen to form a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018, National Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar called a meeting on Thursday to discuss the issue. The meeting was attended by senior ministers from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and officials from the home department. The meeting was held at YB Chavan Centre on Thursday. “Many ministers pushed for an SIT probe in the Bhima-Koregaon case. The NCP chief was also of the same view. He asked the officials their opinion on whether a SIT can be constituted,” said a senior minister, who was present at the meeting and requested anonymity. “We all were of the view that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is probing the Elgar Parishad and its activities whereas we want an investigation into the violence that happened at Bhima-Koregaon,” he said. After the meeting, Pawar spoke to reporters. “We reviewed the case today. Though NIA is investigating it, the state government too has some powers and we are taking view of experts for the same. We believe the NIA probe is not going in the right direction,” he said. A further extension for the two-member Bhima-Koregaon Commission was also discussed as the its term ended on April 7. A senior official from the home department said that since the Bhima-Koregaon case is sensitive and already being investigated by NIA, there are legal aspects to setting up a SIT that need to be considered. “We need to see how many FIRs were filed by the police in the case before it was handed over to the NIA; whether all the cases were covered by it or some are left. We will also have to study the legal aspects and powers of the state in probing a matter where a Central agency is already involved,” he said. In January, the MVA government had been planning to form an SIT when the Centre directed the NIA to take over the investigation into Elgar Parishad’s activities. Pawar has said that both the Centre’s decision to take over the case and the state government giving its approval for the same were inappropriate. The violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018 saw one death and many injured, including 30 policemen. Numerous activists and intellectuals have since been charged with inciting the violence. Among the arrested accused in the case are lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, poet Varavara Rao and academic Anand Teltumbde. In the past, Pawar has described the arrests of activists in the Bhima-Koregaon case an abuse of power by the state government in 2018, which was led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-violence-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-pushes-for-sit-probe/story-1PBvMZ2erlxt7RUhvYqb3M.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||AAP hits out at slums eviction notice as Kejriwal looks for options||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday met officials to discuss the possible rehabilitation of slum-dwellers living along Delhi’s railway tracks, even as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha dramatically tore eviction notices sent to them, and said no one will be displaced “till Kejriwal is alive”.The Supreme Court, on August 31, ordered the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings situated along Delhi’s railway tracks within three months. To ensure compliance of its order, the top court stopped any other court from passing a stay order on their removal. HT was the first to report this story on September 3.Kejriwal called a meeting on Thursday to discuss the court’s order and explore possible ways to rehabilitate the displaced people, a senior official in the chief minister’s office said. “He had a discussion with the public works department (PWD) and the Delhi urban shelter improvement board (DUSIB). While DUSIB suggested its vacant flats for economically weaker sections could be used, the PWD expressed concern over the scale of the potential project as it involves more than 48,000 families,” the official said. At the same time, the ruling AAP is also exploring legal options to stall the eviction of the slum-dwellers.Chadha, the party’s national spokesperson and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson, said the government was committed to protecting the people who live in these dwellings. “The chief minister is making a policy to ensure security to every slum dweller. I want to tell the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) that they should immediately stop such illegal acts,” he said, brandishing eviction notices sent to several people living in these houses by Indian Railways.The issue has turned into a political slugfest with AAP blaming the BJP-led Central government for serving eviction notices. “The BJP is issuing notices across the national Capital, threatening the slum dwellers that their houses will be demolished within this month. These notices are against the basic principles of the Constitution, which allows every citizen to have a life with dignity. I urge the BJP not to harass these slum dwellers,” he said. He tore a few of the notices and said that “no slum dweller in Delhi will be displaced, till Kejriwal is alive”. The BJP responded saying AAP should “cut the drama” and start allotting its vacant flats to these slum dwellers.Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, senior BJP member and leader of opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said the Kejriwal government failed to provide houses to any slum dweller despite being in power for six years and announcing the ‘Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana’ amid much fanfare.“Even after taking Rs 11.25 crore from the railways for rehabilitation of slums, the Delhi government did not work and now their ministers are doing drama of tearing notice and accusing the BJP. The people of Delhi know that the slum dwellers are being given houses under the Modi government’s ‘Jahan Jhuggi Wahan Makan’ (in-situ rehabilitation) scheme. But the AAP government did not allow the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana to be implemented in Delhi and instead announced the Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana on the same lines and cheated the slum dwellers,” Bidhuri said. Chadha said he would respond to the BJP’s allegations with proof on Friday in another press conference. The Supreme Court, which was hearing an application filed in the MC Mehta case relating to Delhi pollution matters, gave it verdict after the Indian Railways informed the court that despite a Special Task Force constituted to remove encroachments, political interference was coming in the way of getting the jhuggis removed. An order for removal of all encroachments passed by the NGT on October 1, 2018 had led to the formation of the task force.The top court’s extraordinary order was passed in exercise of its power under Article 142, which says, “the Supreme Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it.” There are no official estimate as to how many people live in such slums. NGOs say that the land owning agency, the Railways in this case, will have to do a survey to ascertain the number of dwellers.Officials from the Railways ministry and Northern Railways refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-hits-out-at-slums-eviction-notice-as-kejriwal-looks-for-options/story-N3nF1jzGZWRxupqHDuYXYK.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Four from Delhi cadre posted as motor licensing officers||In a first, the Delhi government has posted four officials of the Delhi Administration Subordinate Service cadre as motor licensing officers in its regional transport offices (RTOs).The move comes after chief secretary Vijay Dev on September 2 suspended three MLOs from the RTOs of Suraj Mal Vihar, New Delhi and Vasant Vihar, after raids conducted by the transport department found irregularities in issuance of driving licenses.“The four newly appointed MLOs earlier served as section officers of DASS cadre. This is the first time that the government has posted DASS cadre officers as MLOs, in a move to bring more transparency in public services. The four officers were transferred from different departments to the transport department by an order of the services department on September 7,” said a senior government officer .In the suspension case, apart from collusion with touts, it was found that over 1,000 DLs were issued from the three RTOs over the past two months without conducting the mandatory video recording of the driving test given by the motorists. These three RTO are among the five RTOs in Delhi which do not have an automated driving test track for testing motorists seeking a permanent DL. RTOs in Sarai Kale Khan, Burari, Mayur Vihar, Wazirpur and Vishwas Nagar have automated test tracks which make the entire process of issuing DLs more comprehensive and stringent as it reduces manual intervention. Dahiya said the remaining five RTOs will have automated test tracks by the end of this year and no manual driving tests shall be allowed thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-from-delhi-cadre-posted-as-motor-licensing-officers/story-pl3Fl73eoY94IIDt6MHAsM.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Clean, bright, sanitised... and eerily silent metro amid Covid-19||New Delhi: As the Delhi Metro reopened, more than five months after the coronavirus changed the world, its scenery is weirdly reminiscent of 2001: A Space Odyssey, the classic Stanley Kubrick sci-fi film. Only a few people are milling about, in masks. Since this is Yellow Line’s Chawri Bazar underground Metro station, one of the deepest in the city, it has two sets of escalators burrowing down to the basement tracks.This is the third day of the limited reopening of the Metro services. A small queue has formed outside the station’s entrance, moments before it opens for its day’s second shift — at 4pm this Wednesday, five hours after its midday break. Those familiar memories of spitting, sneezing, coughing crowds swarming into the station seem as unreal as New Amar, the single-screen cinema that originally stood on the station’s site. The commuters are entering as reverently as one might enter an international airport — at one’s best behaviour, eager not to needle the security staff. A hushed atmosphere reigns inside. Around the security personnel, all sheathed in masks and face shields, the commuters are to follow a precise choreography. First, approach the sanitiser stand in the corner, and rub your hands under a sanitiser spray. Next, walk to the man checking the body temperature, before approaching the security gate, while keeping a safe distance from fellow humans. What happens next is surreal.As soon as they cross to the other side of the security, the commuters disappear straight into the station’s vacant hugeness. Nobody is to be seen inside except for sudden glimpses of Metro staff or a security guard popping up in some far corner.Finally, a masked commuter is fleetingly spotted, quietly going down the escalators. It’s a strange and unreal silence.The platform has perhaps less than a dozen people — though 27,000 people will be travelling on this line today. The train from Samaypur Badli to Huda City Center in Gurugram arrives. The announcer’s casual voice appears to be the only discernible leftover of the old normal.Each alternate seat inside the train is plastered with a physical distancing yellow poster warning “Do not sit here.” The ladies coach has only two women. The one next to it has six people, one of whom is clicking a selfie. Among them, plumber Babu Ram is going to Gurugram to collect payment from a building contractor. “Itna sannata hai (so hauntingly quiet here),” he remarks, before putting his finger on his mask, in the hush sign. Indeed, the new etiquette in the Metro doesn’t want you to talk, and risk spreading aerosol particles in the train. For that matter, every surface that can be touched — the handrail, the glass pane on the door — might seem, to an anxious eye, swarming with you-know-what. Though one does feel, at least if one has boarded the train at Chawri Bazar, that it is probably far safer inside the train than in the super-crowded market outside. The train arrives at New Delhi Railway Station. A man steps into the coach. A few minutes pass and the train halts at Rajiv Chowk Metro station. In the pre-corona era, the sprawling terminus would be pulsating with humanity, its air saturated with various harmless viruses. The staircase, which would be flooded by new waves of commuters with every fresh arrival of Metro trains from other connecting lines, is empty. Further ahead, a masked housekeeper mopping the vast walkway is looking like a tiny cog in the giant wheel.Now, a walk through a long empty passage, up the escalators, and outside into Connaught Place, and daylight. Palika Bazar is a few steps away. A poster on the glass doors to the market says: “Body temperature check is required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-metro-clean-bright-sanitised-and-eerily-silent/story-BnFtB5CxEd7TQRQmhhRJMM.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Just a quarter of the aspirants for second phase of DU’s open-book exam opt for offline mode||Of the 12,000 students, who have registered to appear in the second phase of Delhi University’s open-book exams (OBE), only 3,000 will take the exams physically, officials said.The exams are scheduled to begin from September 14According to the DU’s officiating dean (examination) DS Rawat, of around 12,000 registered students,10,000 are from the School of Open Learning (SoL) and around 2,000 are those enrolled in colleges and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB). “Only around 3,000 of these students have opted for physical exams, the rest of them will write the exam online,” he said.DU will conduct the second phase of the open-book exams for those final year undergraduate and postgraduate students who could not appear in the first phase, which was held online between August 10 and 31. This time, the students have been given the option to either write the exam online or visit the university’s examination centres to take the tests.According to the University’s examination branch, as many as 2,53,677 final year undergraduate and postgraduate students were to appear in the OBE exams this year. Of them, around 2,12,256 had appeared in the first phase of OBE, as per the data submitted by the university in the Delhi High Court on August 26.DU dean of colleges and director of SoL Balaram Pani said that the majority of the students who did not apply for the second phase are from SoL. “It happens every year. Thousands of SoL students do not appear in exams. Majority of them are working. It’s just that it’s the first time that data is being analysed,” he said.While colleges and students cite the prevailing pandemic as the reason behind maximum students opting for the online mode, university officials say it’s because of the “success” of the first phase of online OBE”.In majority of DU colleges, only a handful of students have opted to appear physically. In Miranda House, only 16 students have applied for the second phase of OBE. “Only three out of them have decided to appear in exams physically. Even out of five visually impaired students we have, only two will appear in offline exams,” said college principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda.In Ramjas College, only three of the 34 students who have registered for the exams will appear physically. Similarly, in Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College (ARSD) college only eight students will appear physically.Among the colleges where no student has chosen the physical mode are Shri Ram College of Commerce (SCRCC) and Aryabhatta College. SRCC principal Simrit Kaur said only six students, including one postgraduate student, are appearing in the second phase and none of them has applied for offline mode. “All other students of our college had successfully appeared in the first phase of exams held online,” she said. Aryabhatta principal Manoj Sinha said, “Despite colleges being ready with all precautions, there is an overall atmosphere of fear due to the pandemic. The cases are rising in Delhi and other neighbouring states. Therefore, students are opting for the online mode in the second phase as well.”Deepak Gupta, a visually challenged final year MA (English) student, has travelled from Bihar’s Rohtas district to appear in exams. But he has still chosen the online mode. “It’s not that we like online mode for appearing in exams. We have opted for it because of the prevailing situation. I did not have scribes, proper internet facility and assistive devices in my village and that’s why I have travelled to Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/just-a-quarter-of-the-aspirants-for-second-phase-of-du-s-open-book-exam-opt-for-offline-mode/story-hdj8pDWCi4wNjtqTKHOSPN.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Record infection spike again as daily tests cross 58k mark in Delhi||The number of tests for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi touched another high, with 58,340 samples tested in 24 hours, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday — 4,000 more than were conducted the day before. However, there was also a sharp dip in the number of reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered the most accurate diagnosis for the disease. Only 9,004 samples, or 15.4% of the total tests, were collected using the RT-PCR method on Thursday. This is less in both absolute and percentage-wise terms than on Wednesday. On that day, 11,101 RT-PCR tests were conducted, which worked out to 20.3% of the 54,517 samples collected.The rapid antigen test, although cheaper and quicker, is known to throw false negatives. As the number of cases and positivity rate — the fraction of people who test positive among those tested —started going up towards the end of August, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said testing would be scaled up to 40,000 tests a day. To facilitate this, the government has started outreach activities, setting up testing counters in public places like weekly markets, and began testing all those coming to Delhi government hospitals. Also read: Private labs welcome Delhi’s on-demand testing approachAs tests have increased though, so have the number of new cases detected every day. On Thursday, Delhi reported 4,308 new cases of Covid-19, the highest one-day spike so far in the city. During the initial surge, the most cases recorded in a single day was 3,947 on June 23. That number has been breached twice now, the first of which came on Wednesday when the city added more than 4,000 new cases for the first time. However, the positivity rate is much lower than it was during the late-June, early-July peak. On June 23, for instance, the test positivity rate was 23%.The number of hospitalisations and deaths, however, are fewer as compared to June. There were 5,775 patients with Covid-19 admitted to hospitals across the city, according to Thursday’s report. In contrast, 6,264 were hospitalised as on June 23, as per government data. The city reported 28 deaths due to the infection on Thursday, as compared to 68 reported on June 23.“The Delhi government is doing everything to ensure that people do not die of the infection. We have standardised treatment protocols across hospitals. Plasma therapy is also being given,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, adding that the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) study on plasma therapy says it does not have benefits in the late stages of the disease, when patients are on ventilators. “The ICMR study says that very serious patients do not benefit from plasma therapy, which is what doctors have said. People do benefit from the therapy in the initial stages. This is not a new therapy, and has been used for other diseases, and is now being used to treat Covid-19 in the absence of a definitive treatment,” Jain said during a media interaction on Thursday. He said that during a review meeting on Wednesday, chief minister Kejriwal had directed the medical superintendents to increase the number of ICU beds in the city. “There are already enough beds in several Delhi government hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Now, we have been asked to prepare to work at full capacity and utilise the existing infrastructure. This means, we need to maintain proper stocks of antiviral medicines, convalescent plasma, PPE kits, and also rope in more health care workers. We are already in the process of hiring some doctors,” one of the medical superintendents present in Wednesday’s meeting said. Another official not present in the review meeting by the CM held on Wednesday, said, “I do not know what was said in the meeting, but internally, there have been discussions about the ICUs now filling up and whether the normal ward beds could be converted to ICU beds. This would of course require not just ventilators — which there are enough of — but high-flow oxygen supply, monitors for the vitals, and nurses, doctors and technicians.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/record-infection-spike-again-as-daily-tests-cross-58k-mark-in-delhi/story-B5nROQ3U9F5x81x5PgJy6H.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Red, Green, Violet — Metro nears normal service with three more lines opened||Ridership in the Delhi Metro continued to rise on Thursday, after three more lines — Violet, Red and Green — were opened four days after the public transit system reopened its doors to passengers since being shut for over five months due to the coronavirus pandemic.On Thursday, the Metro saw 84,841 passengers use the service throughout its two shifts. Service continued in two shifts, in the morning from 7am to 11am and in the evening from 4pm to 8pm. Passenger traffic on the service has seen a steady rise, as more corridors have reopened over the past few days. The Red, Green and Violet lines saw thin but steady attendance on Thursday. Ridership data released by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) shows that the Red Line received 8,037 passengers, the Green Line received 3,564 passengers and the Violet Line saw a ridership of 6,373 passengers. The three corridors that had been opened over the past three days — Yellow, Blue and Pink — also saw a gradual improvement in ridership on Thursday. The Yellow Line (Huda City Centre-Samaypur Badli), the first corridor to be opened, saw 29,656 passengers. In contrast, only the line saw a ridership of around 15,500 when it was opened on Monday.  Over 31,000 people used the Blue Line, which is the most popular corridor on the service. Thursday’s passenger traffic on the Blue Line was the highest across all lines since the service restarted. Meanwhile, 5,977 people used the Pink Line on Thursday. “Overall passenger boarding (total trips passengers made) on Wednesday’s operational lines was 103, 412,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Puneet Dhir Singh, who was travelling from Jhilmil to Kashmere Gate on the Red Line, said that before Covid-19 hit the national capital, the Kashmere Gate interchange station would be packed, with little space for passengers to even stand inside trains. “I was pleasantly surprised at the arrangements made at each level. Commuters were also very careful. A person had taken off his mask in the train to talk on the phone, but a fellow passenger promptly asked him to put it back on,” Singh said. On Friday, the Metro corporation will begin services on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden) and Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh). With this, all the major corridors of the Delhi Metro network will become serviceable. Operational hours will on Friday also be increased to 7am to 1pm in the morning and 4pm to 10pm in the evening. In the final leg, on Saturday, the Metro will go back to operating from 6am to 11pm, while also opening up the Airport Express Line (New Delhi-Dwarka Sector-21) for passengers. “Owing to the new norms of social distancing in place, which has significantly reduced the number of persons to be carried in a train, DMRC has decided to run the peak hour frequency of trains from 8am to 8pm, doing away with the concept of off-peak hours from 11am to 4pm, where services were available with less trains/trips earlier,” the DMRC said in a statement on Thursday. The Metro said, once normal service is resumed on Saturday, trains will be available every 3 to 15 minutes from 6am to 8am. From 8am to 8pm, on all main corridors, frequency will be in the range 2.45 minutes and 6 minutes, and after 8pm, train frequency will return to the 3-15 minute range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/red-green-violet-metro-nears-normal-service-with-three-more-lines-opened/story-78ifzAW98EXutunYdzpAnL.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Pub owners pin their hopes on weekend for business to pick up||Hit by the lockdown and a fall in customer numbers on reopening, restaurants, bars and pubs in Delhi are pinning their hopes on the coming weekend -- the first weekend since they got the government nod to serve liquor from September 9 -- for business to pick up. Restaurateurs said business has been slow over the past two days, but they are expecting more patrons this weekend; the silver lining being that many regulars have already booked tables for Friday night. Several resto-bar owners said liquor is being served only at the tables at present and they hope to run at full capacity (only 50% of total capacity allowed under the unlock guidelines) over the weekend, which has not been the case so far. Restaurants and restro-bars have remained shut in Delhi since March when the lockdown was announced to control the spread of Covid-19. Although restaurants were allowed to open on July 29, serving liquor was not permitted in Delhi. On September 3, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) approved the sale of alcoholic beverages to dine-in customers from September 9. HT made a round of restaurants in Connaught Place on Thursday evening to assess the situation and found a few tables -- about seven to 10 -- occupied at most places. But most guests were seen following the Covid-19 protocols. Also read | Covid Metro: Clean, bright, sanitised... and eerily silentEntry was allowed only after thermal temperature scanning and all patrons wore masks; tables were sanitised before and after guests occupied them.The manager of one of the restro-bars, who didn’t wish to be named, said people came in early and left early these days. Vishal Sharma, a government hospital doctor, who had come with a party of four, said people must follow precautions, irrespective of where they went. “I have been going out for a while now and restauarants are following all norms, so I think it’s safe to go out once in a while. Even when we are at work, we are at risk,” Sharma said. Restaurateur Priyank Sukhija, who owns a host of outlets including Lord of the Drinks, Tamasha, Plum, Diablo, Warehouse Cafe and Open House Cafe, among others, said since September 9, business has risen to 20% from the earlier 5% to 10%. “We are expecting more business over the weekend. We are sanitising all outlets and preparing to cater to a full house (50% of total capacity). We hope to touch at least 50%-60% of pre-Covid sales during weekends; otherwise, we won’t be able to survive,” Sukhija said. The permission to serve alcohol has been given on a trial basis till September 30. Only four to persons are allowed at a table while live performances have been discontinued. Navneet Kalra, who owns Townhall, and Mr Choy in Khan Market, said he has already got bookings for the weekend. “People are coming out gradually -- everyone is tired of staying home. Many of the regular guests have made advance bookings,” Kalra said. Restaurateur Dinesh Arora, who owns the Unplugged Courtyard in Connaught Place, said he opened his outlet only this Wednesday and the response has been good so far. “Over the past two days, at least 13 tables were occupied, each by at least three to four people, which meant we got around 40-50 guests in total every evening. Over the weekend, I’m expecting 30% to 40% of the pre-Covid business to be back, as I have already got around 20 reservations,” he said. The excise department has deployed teams to ensure that government guidelines are being adhered to. “The compliance by hotels and restaurants so far is appreciable. Our drive will intensify in the coming weeks when more people will start dining out,” a senior excise official said.The department said strict action will be taken if any facility is found violating the rules laid down by the DDMA and the Union government. Action would include prosecution of owner/manager of errant establishment, sealing of the premises forthwith and cancellation of the excise licence.Sisodia meets RestaurateursDeputy chief minister Manish Sisodia Thursday met representatives of hotels and restaurants in Delhi to understand the problems being faced them.He suggested that the industry come up with innovative ideas to ensure safety of guests and staff and boost revenue.“With more people stepping out, it will not only bring energy back to their lives but also to the economy. Until now, people were afraid of stepping out and their fears need to be handled carefully. Staying at home is not the solution and we need to restart our normal life, but with precautions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pub-owners-pin-their-hopes-on-weekend-for-business-to-pick-up/story-n2Lb2JBouroZ8iarChAI3M.html
11-09-2020||Noida||Septuagenarian duped of nearly ₹1 lakh on the pretext of e-wallet registration||A 71-year-old man was allegedly duped of nearly ₹1 lakh by a gang on the pretext of setting up his e-wallet. A case was registered at the sector 20 police station ion Tuesday in this regard and investigations taken up. The victim, Sanjay Kumar Jain, is a resident of Noida’s sector 31. According to him, the incident started earlier this month after he received a message from the customer care of a leading e-wallet company “I contacted the number provided in the message to open my e-wallet account, after which I was told that first I would need to give them access to my phone through a software access sharing app, take a photo of my debit card and do a transaction of Rs 5 for verification purposes,” said the victim in his police complaint. He said that he later received an OTP, which he shared with the suspects. “However, soon after I again received a second OTP, that I refused to share with them. The men, however, convinced me that 80% of the work had already been done, but the transaction was not going through. So, they suggested that I use a different ATM card, after which I received three separate OTPs, which i shared with them. Afterwards, I received multiple messages of money having been withdrawn from my account. Based on the advice of my family, I immediately blocked the cards,” said the complainant. He said that the next day also, the suspects contacted him and asked for the OTP, which Jain refused to share, after which they started abusing and threatening him. The victim later registered a complaint online and a case was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the IT Act. “They have filed a complaint online. We will start working on the case as soon as it is assigned to us and will take necessary help from the cyber cell,” said RK Singh, station house officer, sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/septuagenarian-duped-of-nearly-1-lakh-on-the-pretext-of-e-wallet-registration/story-zWWsXrkZYXJ5FdzgXvIvBO.html
11-09-2020||Noida||Four from Nepal among 11 teenagers found working as labourers in Noida; rescued||At least 11 minors, between the ages of 15 and 17 years, were found working at various establishments in the automobile and hospitality industry in the city on Wednesday, officials said, following which their employers were issued show cause notices. In a joint effort of the Noida police department, the anti human trafficking unit, the labour department and the Childline India Foundation, raids were conducted at several establishments in the city area including sectors 5, 9, 31, 140, among others.On August 26, the state government had instructed all districts to conduct a ‘No child labour’ campaign in the month of September in which market areas, railway stations, bus stands, hotels as well as road side eateries and factories, among others, would need to be covered. The instructions also said to take action against offending employers under the Child Labour Act, relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Human Trafficking Prevention Act.“We already had received a tip about a restaurant. A total of 11 minors, aged 15, 16 and 17 years, were found working at separate establishments. Of these, four were from Nepal, one from Haryana and the rest were locals. Proper procedure needs to be followed after such raids. The minors have to be removed from the place of exploitation and sent to a place of safety. They also need to be presented in front of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in case of exploitation. These days it is also important to verify whether they were employed before the pandemic broke out or afterwards, and then they have to be handed over to their families,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXB India Suraksha, an NGO that manages the Noida chapter of the Childline.He said cases of child labour are expected to rise as the unlock progresses, with many wanting to earn a quick buck and employers looking for cheap labour to save costs. The fact that some minors are from outside the district also suggests the presence of an agent of human trafficking which needs to be looked at, said Prakash. Police officers said that as the industries, where these minors were found working are non-hazardous, show cause notices have been sent to the employers according to procedure. “They will have about a week to reply and provide explanations. If they are found liable and negligent, court cases will be registered against them,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women and minors safety, who also heads the anti-trafficking unit of the district. She said they will continue with these raids. Officials also said that they will work on verifying how the minors from Nepal came to work here and necessary action will be taken. Shukla also said that due to the informal nature of the work, it will be difficult to ascertain whether the minors started working post unlock. The minors have been sent back to the care of their guardians, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-from-nepal-among-11-teenagers-found-working-as-labourers-in-noida-rescued/story-vAebWHXmjMYvNCGktoGDrI.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Byelection in Haryana’s Baroda constituency likely in November||The Baroda assembly by election in Haryana are likely to be held along with the Bihar assembly elections in November. The assembly seat had fallen vacant due to the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda on April 12. As per the Representation of People Act, an assembly by election has to be conducted within a period of six months from the date of occurrence of vacancy. The due date for conducting Baroda by poll, thus, will be in October. However, Section 151-A of the Act provides that the Election Commission (EC) in consultation with the Centre can defer the bypoll if it is difficult to hold it within the said period. The EC, which last week held a meeting regarding holding of 65 by elections across the country, reviewed reports and inputs from chief secretaries and chief electoral officers seeking deferment of bypolls due to Covid-19 pandemic and heavy rains in some places. The commission, subsequently, decided that since general assembly elections in Bihar were also due and required to be completed before November 29, all the 65 bypolls across the states will be conducted around the same time, a statement by the EC said. A major factor in clubbing the polls together is the relative ease of movement of Central Armed Police Forces and related logistics, the EC said. “Announcement of schedule of Bihar assembly elections as well as these bypolls will be done by the commission at an appropriate time,’’ the EC said. ‘Baroda falls in Covid-19 hotspot’ Haryana’s chief electoral officer had sent a status report regarding the prevalence of coronavirus infection in Sonepat district to the commission. Baroda assembly seat falls in Sonepat, a district regarded as a hotspot in terms of Covid-19 cases. The district ranks at number three behind Faridabad and Gurugram in terms of total number of positive cases, which were 5,498 as on Thursday. The EC had also asked the chief electoral officer to assess the prevalent infrastructure facilities to ensure that number of polling stations can be increased amid the pandemic. As per the EC’s broad guidelines for conduct of general and by elections during Covid-19, there shall be a maximum of 1,000 electors instead of 1,500 in a polling station. The EC officials said as a precautionary measure on account of the pandemic, the limit of number of electors assigned to a polling station has been restricted to 1,000 in Bihar and constituencies of other states where by elections are due in near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baroda-assembly-bypolls-likely-to-be-held-in-november/story-NlMGWB581JdYTPbJD717vM.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Focus on skill development is prime agenda for me: Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said he would work on enhancing the status of skill education in the national capital in his second term as the education minister. Sisodia visited two Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in Harinagar and Tilak Nagar on Tuesday to take stock of the educational activities and their functioning. “Delhi has laid a strong foundation for school education. Now, concrete steps are being taken to lift the capital, as well as the nation, from the economic downturn by encouraging skill development and entrepreneurship,” he said.The education minister said every student in Delhi will be fully equipped with an adequate understanding of modern technology and practical training as per the industry’s requirement. “The Delhi government has taken significant steps in the skill development and soon we will see results. The Delhi Skills and Entrepreneurship University will set an example not only for our country but for the whole world. It is our endeavour that every child should get vocational education as per their interest and ability so that they can achieve great success in their careers,” he said.Sisodia said he will visit ITIs , polytechnic and skill development centres in the city for the next few days to understand the needs and requirements to bring them to standards of excellence. “Due to the economic crisis caused by the Corona pandemic, Delhi is fully committed to providing adequate skills and entrepreneurship needed for the economic uplift of the country. Under this, along with skills training, apprenticeship opportunities will be given. The main goal will be to provide better placement and attractive salaries to all trainees while winning the trust of the industrial institutions. Financial assistance and scholarships will be available for the students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/focus-on-skill-development-is-prime-agenda-for-me-sisodia/story-hpROIL2Gt9cKlf6m5qHjQN.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Karol Bagh market traders want pedestrian-only plan deferred||Traders of central Delhi’s Karol Bagh market, which was pedestrianised last year, have asked the North Delhi Municipal Corporation not to reintroduce the scheme till March next year, saying extremely low footfall has affected business and so the authorities should allow vehicular movement on Ajmal Khan Road for six more months.Karol Bagh was the first shopping hub in Delhi to be pedestrianised, as part of which its main market road (Ajmal Khan Road) was restricted for vehicles in May last year. Additional arrangements were made to resolve the problem of haphazard parking in the area. But after the Covid-19 lockdown, the stretch was opened for vehicular movement from July 8 this year on traders’ demand. Parking on the stretch is still not allowed.Municipal officials had then said the arrangement was temporary and the pedestrianisation plan would be implemented again after the opening of public transport such as the Delhi Metro.Murli Mani, president of the Ajmal Khan Road Traders Association, said traders do not want the stretch to be pedestrianised for a few more months as there is low footfall and business has been adversely hit due to the coronavirus pandemic. A footfall of 7,000 to 10,000 people per day was reported at the market in normal times, which has now gone down by 90%, traders said.“People do not want to take public transport or walk and prefer private vehicles. Our business is down by over 70% due to Covid-19. We want vehicular movement on Ajmal Khan Road to be extended further. We have written to the mayor and the commissioner of the north corporation, seeking relaxations till March next year,” Mani said.Ajay Bajaj, advisor of the Karol Bagh Market Federation, said pedestrianisation at this juncture would further affect business in the market.“Whatever businesses is happening is because of those who come in private vehicles. Restricting vehicular movement again will only hamper our trade and deteriorate our financial condition,” Bajaj said. He said on-street parking on the stretch should not be allowed but at the same time, vehicular movement should not be restricted .The Karol Bagh market had emerged as a model for other areas as in May last year, the north corporation, along with the traffic police and the public works department (PWD), had restricted vehicular movement on Ajmal Khan Road and made it a completely walkable stretch. A special parking management area plan was made for the market to regularise haphazard parking in the area. On-street parking from Ajmal Khan Road, Padam Singh Marg and Tank Toad was removed. Benches, flower pots and decorative street lights were installed to beautify the market.A senior official of the north corporation said they were yet to get any latest communication from the traders’ body on the issue. “The pedestrianisation plan will be implemented agaun for sure but the date and timing are yet to be decided. It will be done in consultation with all stakeholders, including traders. Any decision regarding when to reintroduce the plan will be taken by higher authorities of the corporation,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karol-bagh-market-traders-want-pedestrian-only-plan-deferred/story-vE7GKgwONE7AZIGZGCZ6XJ.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||Gang of vehicle thieves busted in Delhi, four arrested||Delhi Police on Thursday claimed to have busted a gang that stole vehicles from Delhi and other National Capital Region cities and sold them on demand in Bihar’s Buxar, and arrested four people in this connection. The head of the gang, police said, is a resident of Buxar, who is involved in at least 15 cases of vehicle thefts in Bihar. Police recovered five sports utility vehicles from their possession along with advanced tools used to unlock automatic vehicles.Police identified the leader as Mohammed Sajid, 35, and his associates as Sonu, 37, who was previously involved in two cases of auto thefts, 26-year-old auto driver Akash Singh, who has cases of robbery and theft registered against him, and Munna Ali, 55, a receiver of stolen vehicles. From Etah in UP, Ali has previous criminal records in Bihar and UP. All four were arrested on Wednesday.According to the police, the gang was discovered after a resident of Chhattarpur enclave in south Delhi reported on September 3 the theft of his white Scorpio. Deputy commissioner of police, south, Atul Thakur said when police scanned CCTV cameras, they saw three men arriving in an autorickshaw, opening the Scorpio and driving away with it.“With the help of CCTV footage, we managed to identify the autorickshaw. The driver, Akash Singh, was arrested from Chhattarpur,” the DCP said.Thakur said the auto driver revealed the identities of his associates Sonu and their leader Sajid, who were both arrested following raids. “On Sajid’s information, we recovered five stolen SUVs -- one Hyundai Brezza and four Mahindra Scorpio,” he said.The officer said the arrested men said they stole cars in Delhi-NCR and UP and sold them to clients in Buxar.“They said they used to sell the vehicles with the help of Munna Ali. Ali was also arrested. A number of digital lock-breaking tools, master keys, digital tab and car locks were recovered from the gang. Eight mobile phones, over 50 duplicate car keys of different brands and advanced tools used to unlock automatic vehicles were recovered from them. A sedan car and two two-wheelers stolen by them were also seized, Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-in-delhi-four-arrested/story-Lq2MekkQEVFo53w3y9v1bK.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||ASI with medical condition has meltdown at Chandigarh ISBT||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) had a meltdown at the Sector 17 Inter-State Bus Terminus on Thursday, forcing vehicles to stop, breaking a windshield wiper and confiscating mobile phones of occupants, until he was forcibly removed from the spot by police on Thursday afternoon.The ASI has been seeking mental health treatment since 2015 at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, it has been learnt.On Thursday, he stopped vehicles by standing in front of them, confiscated the occupants’ phones and held on to wipers, breaking one.Witnesses say there was no provocation. The police control room (PCR) staff that reached the spot also had a tough time controlling him before whisking him away.After a video of the incident was posted on social media, a tweet from the official handle of SSP/security & traffic, UT Chandigarh, said: “The police personnel suffered from a medical condition. He was tested for alcohol and was found not drunk or intoxicated. He has been admitted in hospital. Let’s not directly jump to conclusions in such matters.” Considering his medical condition, he was given “light duties,” and not issued a weapon.Posted at the women’s cell earlier, he had been stationed since Thursday at the sabzi mandi (vegetable market) set up temporarily due to Covid-19 restrictions at the ISBT, sources said.“He has medical history and admitted in hospital. We are awaiting his medical reports. After examining medical history and condition action, if any, will be taken,” said Vineet Kumar, senior superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asi-has-meltdown-at-isbt-17-is-being-treated-for-mental-health-problems-since-2015/story-VscihH7b6AsTVPZHgpVdUK.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||Online admissions to Chandigarh’s engineering colleges start from Sept 15||The Joint Admission Committee (JAC), Chandigarh, will start online registrations for admission to engineering courses in various UT institutes on September 15. The registration will close on October 1.Constituted by the UT administration, JAC will conduct the admissions in BE, BArch, Integrated BE (chemical) and MBA courses for the 2020-21 academic session.Like Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand and many other states, Chandigarh also accepts JEE Main scores for engineering courses at five institutes - Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET), Chandigarh College of Architecture (CCA), University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), University Institute of Chemical Engineering (UICET) and UIET at PU’s Hoshiarpur regional centre. There will be three rounds of online counselling, followed by the spot round. The candidates need to register online at chdenggadmissions.nic.in and pay the registration fee, which is refundable. They are required to upload requisite documents with the application.JAC chairperson and principal of Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology Manpreet Singh Gujral said, “We have taken all necessary measures for the smooth conduct of the admissions. In all categories, we have extended our online mode of admission this year.”“The entire process, which includes document verification, submission of fee and allotment of seats, has been made online. There is no need for a candidate to appear in person till final counselling,” said Gujral.For the document verification and addressing the queries of the candidates, teams have been set up by JAC. The entire process is expected to run for over a month and helplines have also been set up for candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jac-chandigarh-starts-online-admission-process-for-engineering-courses/story-jVtKzAX4ZgwrJiabVN8JPI.html
11-09-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway starts transportation of goods from Bhiwandi Road Station near Mumbai||The power looms and warehouses in Bhiwandi, Asia’s largest loom town, can now use the rail mode for transportation of goods and parcel as the Central Railway has begun operations of Bhiwandi Road Station on Wednesday.The Central Railway, Mumbai Division found it to be an essential service for the city, which will also increase employment opportunities generated for locals as well.Shalabh Goel, Divisional Railway Manager, Mumbai, said, “This service will benefit the textile industry as Bhiwandi is known for many power looms. Moreover, the railway station is well connected and approachable by road, we have prepared adequate stacking areas for consignments and space for parking trucks and tempos.There are labourers deployed for loading and unloading of goods, each parcel service car can provide employment to 150 people, which is also a boon for the locals.”The first parcel train with five parcel vans fully loaded with various commodities like refrigerators, furniture, medicines and cosmetic goods have been loaded from Bhiwandi Road Station, Maharashtra to be sent to Danapur in Bihar on Wednesday.As Bhiwandi Road Station falls in the north-south rail route and is also connected to JNPT, it has proximity to Mumbai and Thane cities. Hence, it is considered an apt location for goods and parcel traffic.“It was a request put forth by the people that we took forward and implemented. It is an accessible location and beneficial for many as well. In future, we are planning to develop a similar industrial corridor from Vasai to JNPT. We have also planned to improve the goods shed at Mulund and Kalamboli. Also a proposal to start a Ro-Ro service from Kalamboli towards Kerala has been put forth,” added Goel. The average loading per day of goods has increased from 1,028 in 2019 to 1,116 in 2020 in the month of September within Mumbai division. This highlights the need for goods and parcel traffic within accessible limits of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-starts-transportation-of-goods-from-bhiwandi-road-station-near-mumbai/story-ziwoERcCX7Z7kCcGKZZbnL.html
11-09-2020||Pune||Baner Covid facility faces medical manpower shortage||Medical manpower shortage has become a pricking thorn in the running of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Covid care facilities across the city. The Baner Covid hospital inaugurated on August 28 has not been able to operate to its full capacity because of the lack of manpower,said Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol.The 314-bed capacity hospital, currently has only 55 patients undergoing treatment. The PMC has also stopped new admissions to the facility, till the medical manpower shortage has been fixed.Mohol said, “The hospital was inaugurated on August 28, but is currently running under capacity. Earlier, the agency which had been appointed to provide a medical team, submitted a letter expressing their inability to provide the manpower. Now, PMC has appointed a new agency which is running the jumbo hospital. The agency’s name is Dr Bhise, which has an earlier experience of being recruited at the COEP jumbo facility to manage an ICU unit. Their experience is good.”Mohol said, “We are trying to increase infrastructure required to handle the Covid-19 situation in the city. It is comparatively easy to increase infrastructure, but now we are facing medical and trained manpower shortage.” “After the jumbo hospital experience which was riddled with problems, PMC has decided to go slow and start hospital operations step by step even though it has a capacity of 314 beds,” added the mayor.Dr Ramesh Ranka, director of Ranka Hospital, said, “Due to the scale of the pandemic, there is a shortage of medical manpower. Many employees working in the health sector left their jobs due to fear of contracting the virus. Poaching is also going on at some places to attract medical staff.” Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “In the last six months, PMC medical staff has tried to control the pandemic.Now, the situation has worsened and the state government must provide additional manpower and if needed, seek help of the armed forces medical college which is in Pune. They even have a nursing college.”Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said that the previous agency had expressed its unwillingness to run the hospital and a new agency was appointed. The Baner hospital had been inaugurated by deputy chief minister AJit Pawar and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. As both the leaders shared the dias together after the oath-taking ceremony, the inauguration created ripples in the political circles.“Bharatiya Janata Party is ruling in the Pune Municipal Corporation, hence, they invited Fadnavis and as a the district guardian minister is Ajit Pawar, he was also there for the inauguration,” added Mohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/baner-covid-facility-faces-medical-manpower-shortage/story-npuWdHsJZtv1xDjR2dvvkJ.html
11-09-2020||Delhi||DDA sets up service centres to help residents with ownership rights||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has set up four common service centres (CSC) in different parts of the city to assist residents of unauthorised colonies to apply and complete the process of ownership rights under the PM-UDAY scheme. Since December last year, when the scheme was launched, 26,705 property owners have applied of which 1,348 have been conferred ownership rights. To help people complete the process, a senior DDA official said, “Four processing centres have been made operational at Pitampura, Dwarka, Hauz Khas and Laxmi Nagar, apart from Rohini. Three more centres will be made operational within 15 days. In 11,188 cases (out of 26,705 applications), GIS survey work has been done while deficiencies have been pointed out to 4,131 applicants, to which they can file replies online. A total of 1,342 applications have been rejected for not confirming to PM-UDAY regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-sets-up-service-centres-to-help-residents-with-ownership-rights/story-1j3xapmnhqRoXJvibg520O.html
11-09-2020||Chandigarh||FIR lodged against makers of audio clip on Mohali Civil Hospital: Dayalan||An FIR has been registered on against unidentified persons who made a malicious audio clip two weeks back “to lower the confidence of the public in the medical facilities at Mohali Civil Hospital,” deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has said.Strict action will be initiated against those who spread rumours on Covid-19, he added. Unverified, misleading, malicious information on social media will invite action under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. “Do not forward Covid related messages without verification . We are monitoring such posts on social media. Legal action will be taken against those who spread false news,” said Dayalan, .WhatsApp admins sharing unverified, misleading Covid-19 information were asked to be careful. “Rumours spread fast on social media, leading to unwanted panic among the people. So, our cyber cell sleuths are on guard. We have stepped up online surveillance to identify senders of such fake news, frivolous, unfounded Covid-19 related messages and other content,” Dayalan said. “Whereas the administration is making all out efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district, certain antisocial elements are spreading all sorts of rumours on social media, including WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and others. This does not just create panic, but also is extremely discouraging for the frontline corona warriors, he added.The entire government machinery was working round the clock and making all out efforts to keep people safe from the virus, “but a few bad elements are hampering the process by posting and sharing unfounded messages. No one would be allowed to sabotage our pandemic control efforts; we will take sternest action in the book against the miscreants,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fir-lodged-against-makers-of-audio-clip-on-mohali-civil-hospital-dayalan/story-HjjMieKC7Uy0sZ9ZCHpCHN.html
