12-09-2020||Mumbai||26-year-old arrested for chain snatching in Mumbai||The Oshiwara police on Friday arrested a 26-year-old man for snatching a gold chain of a 59-year-old fishmonger. According to Oshiwara police, the incident occurred on September 8 at around 7am when Hansa Bhagat was on her way to Crawford market to buy fish. Bhagat told police that she used to visit Crawford Market every day in the morning to buy fish for the shop she ran at Marol in Andheri (East). On September 8, her son dropped her to the bus stop at Jogeshwari (West), and while she was walking in the queue to board the bus, two men on a motorcycle came from behind and snatched her gold chain. Dayanand Bangar senior inspector from Oshiwara police station said, “Bhagat came to the police station on September 10 and lodged a complaint under section 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.” Assistant police inspector Kiran Pawar and his team arrested the accused within 24 hours. An officer said, “We scanned more than 30 CCTV cameras to identify the accused. We found the bike but the accused had tried to erase two digits from the number plate to escape detection. But while analysing the footage of MTNL junction, Goregaon, we found the missing numbers.” Oshiwara police with the help of traffic department police found the bike owner’s address and a team reached Orlem, Malad (west) where the police found a 55-year-old man who told the team that his son uses his bike and stays with his girlfriend at Ambawadi, Malad (west). Police then arrested 26-year-old Vaibhav Gawli from Ambawadi, and is looking out for his accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-year-old-arrested-for-chain-snatching-in-mumbai/story-5G2jwv21gMr3yh0ku6wymN.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Pocso Act applies only when a child is harassed with sexual intent: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday granted anticipatory bail to a Pune resident booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act for tearing off the clothes of a minor girl during a scuffle. The court said the provisions of the law are applicable only when a child is harassed with sexual intent.“In order to attract the provisions of the Pocso Act, 2012, it is necessary to commit an act of harassment with sexual intent,” said justice Bharati Dangre while granting pre-arrest bail to Ravindra Khude.Khude was booked on the basis of a 17-year-old girl’s complaint on August 1.The judge noted the reading of the first information reports (FIRs) by the parties in the case against each other suggested petty rivalry between two families. Dangre said on account of some petty reasons, there was verbal altercation over some trivial issues. It aggravated and resulted into a scuffle, added Dangre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pocso-act-applies-only-when-a-child-is-harassed-with-sexual-intent-bombay-hc/story-JK6ig6GAMtio53pgo2IhAI.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||2.28 lakh students from Maharashtra to appear for NEET today||After months of delay due to national lockdown, followed by an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, undergraduate medical and dental aspirants will finally appear for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday, September 13. As per the final registration figures revealed by the National Testing Agency (NTA) in January 2020, over 15.93 lakh students have registered for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) as compared to 15.19 lakh in 2019. While total registrations rose by 74,000 (4.7%), the good news is that the total intake capacity at MBBS colleges has also increased by 9,900 (13.7%) this year. Keeping the current situation in mind, NTA has announced that safety precautions will be undertaken at every exam centre to ensure maximum safety of all stakeholders - staff and students alike. To implement appropriate distancing during exams, the total number of exam centres have increased from 2,546 last year to 3,843 this year. “Like JEE, we are sure NTA will ensure that best safety precautions are implemented across exam centres. However, there is a good chance that not all those who have registered will show up for the exam this year, especially in cities registering a high number of Covid-19 cases,” said Anuradha Singh, parent of a NEET aspirant. Once again, this year, maximum registrations for NEET-UG are from Maharashtra where 2.28 lakh students will appear for the entrance exam, followed by Uttar Pradesh (1.54 lakh) and Rajasthan (1.38 lakh). While 1.19 lakh students registered for NEET from Karnataka, 1.16 lakh students are from Kerala, among other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-28-lakh-students-from-maharashtra-to-appear-for-neet-today/story-fjTltEyCzqxY1KKUoDR3yO.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Tube wells come to rescue GK-II residents from seepage||After more than a month of perpetual seepage in their basements, residents of Greater Kailash-II are hoping to finally get a solution to their problem. To fix the issue, starting Friday three tubewell pumps installed in nearby municipal parks have been put into operation round-the-clock on a daily basis in GK-II till the water level recedes. Basements of at least 15 houses and several shops in M, S and E blocks have been facing this issue and residents fear that the intense seepage may weaken the foundation of their houses. In many houses the elevators have been damaged because of the constant flow of water. At least a foot deep water remains in the basements at all times even when there’s no rain. The GK-II Welfare Association had last week approached officials of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to find a way to pump out the water. A report by the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) had suggested suggested deep pumping out of water with the help of pumps. According to Sanjay Rana, president of GK-II Welfare Association, after their request, the municipal corporation has put the pumps into operation in three nearby parks. “While one pump was started on Thursday, two others began working from Friday morning. The pumps are located in Tikona Park, Sehgal Park and Rock Garden. The water being pumped out is being released into the storm water drains,” said Rana. Also, he said a CGWB team has again started a survey of the groundwater levels starting Friday. “On our request, the CGWB will study the levels on a daily basis to assess if the water is receding at all,” said Rana. The draining of water through pumps is being carried out by the SDMC’s horticulture department along with electrical wing. Last month, the CGWB had studied the area and in its report had stated several factors such as disturbance in the natural groundwater movement and coming up of man-made structures that have obstructed the natural flow of groundwater causing it to flood the low-lying areas in the vicinity. The CGWB had suggested deep pumping out of water with the help of pumps and use it for water tanker supply. Subhash Bhadana, local councillor, and also deputy mayor, SDMC said that after the RWA’s request, a joint survey was taken up by corporation officials and the DJB engineers last week. “As suggested by the CGWB, it was decided that the tubewell pumps in the parks will be used 24 hours a day to pump out the water. The pumps are closed just for half an hour a day in order to give rest to the machine. It will take several days before the water level goes down, as the water table has risen,” said Bhadana. A senior DJB official, who did not wish to be named, said, “So far the issue is being dealt by the municipal corporation, as the pumps have been installed by them. The water quality has to be tested before it could be used for water tankers. Besides, not many tankers are in use at present, as the peak demand is only during summers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tube-wells-come-to-rescue-gk-ii-residents-from-seepage/story-9HkC0NMYg2kCK8lwE0opwO.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Despite unfavourable trial outcome, PGIMER to continue with plasma therapy||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will continue to administer plasma therapy to Covid-19 patients even though the clinical trials by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) did not show promising results. A trial conducted across 39 hospitals in India has revealed that plasma therapy neither reduces the death risk nor does it slow down the progression of the disease from mild to severe stage. The paper, however, is yet to be peer reviewed.Pankaj Malhotra, professor at PGI’s internal medicine department, who was the principal investigator of the trial, said though the results are not encouraging, they will continue the therapy on a set of patients fitting into the criteria and wherever a physician feels that it can yield better results. “We have to understand that randomised trials did not have an impact on mortality, but we have to keep in mind that certain symptoms such as fatigue and fever were treated faster. Rather than doing nothing, we can actually do something and try this therapy,” he added. The institute currently has 10 plasma units ready, which can be given to any Covid patient, whenever needed. PGIMER had announced creation of a plasma bank facility to cater to the needs of patients admitted there as well as other government and private hospitals of the city on a first come, first served basis.Head of transfusion medicine department Professor Ratti Ram Sharma said, “For now, there is no set treatment for Covid-19 and everything is in the trial mode. The therapy should be given on the discretion of the physician and to those who fall in the category of treatment. It should not be used as an over-the-counter drug which this study has shown.”PGIMER was one of the centres of the ICMR’s national trial for convalescent plasma therapy. The institute had successfully enrolled nine patients, five of whom received plasma treatment and the remaining ones were on control arm. It was observed in some cases that the patients was taken off the oxygen therapy in just three days and gradually, their condition improved with the help of supportive care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-unfavourable-trial-outcome-pgimer-to-continue-with-plasma-therapy/story-TwJZOD4RUzgRR1EaEarUyK.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Man bites off employee’s finger after verbal spat in Mayur Vihar, doctors reattach it||A 40-year-old man bit off the finger of his employee in east Delhi’s Mayur on Saturday after an alleged heated spat over work timings and the issue of returning home on time.Investigators said the man bit off and then spat out the little finger of the victim, identified as Mohit Kumar, 34, on the floor. Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east), said that Kumar then proceeded to pick up his finger and rushed to a private hospital, where doctors reattached it. The DCP said the suspect, identified as Hemant Sidharth, who is absconding. If convicted, he could be jailed for up to 10 years. According to the police, Kumar lives with his family in Ghaziabad and works for an insurance firm in the national capital. The incident, according to the victim’s statement, took place on September 4 when he met his boss Sidharth in Akshardham, from where the duo drove to Karol Bagh for some office-related work.“When they returned to Akshardham in the evening, Kumar cited some personal work and wanted to leave for home. He wanted to drive in his own vehicle that was parked in Akshardham. But Sidharth insisted that they go to Mayur Vihar first for some work,” said the DCP. Kumar reluctantly agreed to go with his boss, but on the condition that he would be dropped back to Akshardham quickly. Once in Mayur Vihar, the two men allegedly had a spat, which later escalated with Sidharth allegedly verbally abusing his junior, the officer said. “When I told him not to abuse me, Sidharth slapped me. When I tried to protect my face with my hands, he pulled at my hands and bit off the little finger of my left hand,” alleged Kumar, in his complaint. Sidharth then allegedly spat the severed finger on the floor even as the injured man dialled the police. He was later rushed to a private hospital by a police team, where doctors managed tor reattach his finger. On Thursday, Kumar approached the police to register a first information report against his boss, after which a hunt was launched for Sidharth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-bites-off-employee-s-finger-after-verbal-spat-docs-reattach-it/story-JMRFw44nTTaWqMw7fbEyVM.html
12-09-2020||City||Five from Delhi score a perfect 100 in JEE (Mains)||New Delhi: Five students from Delhi were among those who scored 100 percentile in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main, which was conducted earlier this month after being postponed twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The results were declared late on Friday night. The top-scorers from Delhi are Chirag Falor, Gurkirat Singh, Laksh Gupta, Nishant Agarwal and Tushar Sethi, who are among the 24 candidates who scored 100 percentile in the country’s most competitive test for admission into engineering courses. This year, around 635,000 students appeared in the exams conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) between September 1 and September 6. JEE (Mains) is conducted twice a year. Among the 100% scorers in Delhi was Chirag Falor, who did his schooling from Pragati Public School in Dwarka. He said he was expecting a perfect score. “After going through the answer key released by the NTA, I was sure that I will get a 100 percentile,” he said. The 18-year-old had scored 99.98 percentile in the exam held in January. Chirag wants to pursue a PhD and explore a career in research and academics. “I want to do research in mathematics. I am also interested in astronomy and astro-physics for research,” Falor said. Nishant Agarwal, 17, who has completed his class 12th from New Sainik Public School in Dwarka this year, had scored a perfect 100 in the JEE (Main) held in January and again in September. He will appear in JEE (advanced) scheduled on September 27. JEE exam is conducted in two stages. The NTA first conducts JEE (Main) through which students can take admission in NITs, IIITs and other centrally funded technical institutes. The students who clear the JEE (Main) can later appear in JEE (advanced) for admission to 23 IITs. Based on the JEE (Main) results, around 2,45,000 candidates are eligible to appear in the JEE (advanced) this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-from-delhi-score-a-perfect-100-in-jee-mains/story-jlDRrmiNC34ANFvozqx5ZK.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Doctors, health care workers to take part in week 2 of anti-dengue campaign in city||The second week of the Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign will see doctors and health care workers getting involved in the drive, the chief minister’s office said on Saturday. The initiative, known as the ‘10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute’ (10-week, 10 o clock) anti-dengue campaign, was launched on September 6 with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inspecting his residence for stagnant water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. All MLAs followed him in the past one week.“In the second week, the doctors, who continue to remain the backbone in this fight against dengue, have come out in support of the campaign. They are assuring the citizens that Delhi will cope with dengue together. The doctors and other healthcare workers will spread awareness that the Delhi government provides free treatment and testing for dengue in all its hospitals and has also launched a telephonic and WhatsApp helpline to assist the public,” a senior official in the CM’s office said. Kejriwal on Saturday took to Twitter, urging people to actively participate in the drive on Sunday. “It is the second Sunday of Delhi’s mega campaign to fight dengue. We all have to check our homes for 10 minutes in the morning at 10. If there’s clean stagnant water anyway, then drain and change it. Together we have to defeat dengue,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. Dr. Ashish Goel, medical superintendent of Delhi government’s newly opened Burari Hospital, said he is one among several other healthcare workers who have pledged to promote the campaign this year. “All departments, doctors, and officials are caught up in preventing and treating Covid. It ultimately becomes the duty of every citizen to check their homes for water stagnation and maintain cleanliness. If they make it a habit to spend just a few minutes once a week to do that, we will be able to control dengue to a huge extent. We should cover our children to protect them, and ourselves, especially when we are going out to prevent mosquito bites. Just like wearing masks has become a habit, taking preventive measures like wearing clothes with full sleeves and inspecting our houses for 10 minutes every week to prevent dengue should be adopted as a habit. Adding kerosene oil or petrol to stagnant water is another effective way to prevent mosquito-breeding,” Dr. Goel said. A special helpline has been launched by the Delhi government for the public if they require assistance with dengue. People can call on 011-22300012 and WhatsApp on 8595920530.The campaign seeks to build greater awareness on the prevention of dengue in Delhi. The campaign was launched for the first time last September. Only 2,036 cases and two deaths due to dengue were reported last year, as compared to 2015 when 15,867 cases and 60 deaths were recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/doctors-health-care-workers-to-take-part-in-week-2-of-anti-dengue-campaign-in-city/story-9w2ReCDM9Nr2DdRfcXt7BM.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man loses ₹14 lakh to fraudster||A Sector-21 resident was allegedly duped of ₹14.62 lakh in name of helping poor, Chandigarh Police said on Saturday. Victim Sadho Singh said a woman claiming to be from the UK had contacted him on Facebook.“She said her husband had died and she wanted to help poor and needy people. She told me that she was sending money through courier to be distributed among poor and asked me to collect money from Unique Express courier service,” he added. After that, he said, he started getting calls from different numbers claiming to courier company employees, who sought money from him to deliver the parcels. The victim ended up depositing ₹14.62 lakh in different accounts in the name of courier service. An FIR has been under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Sector-19 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-loses-14-lakh-to-fraudster/story-FZBTTTjA6ZpQO6m3PVvQOP.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||School reopening: Parents to send consent by Sept 15||The Chandigarh education department has directed schools to get feedback from parents by September 15 regarding sending their children to schools once they reopen on September 21. Officials said that students of Class 9 and above will be allowed to come to school to only take guidance from teachers, but classes will not resume. Before September 21, schools will have to prepare a class-wise schedule for students and slots will be prepared for the students to meet their teachers. The education department has asked that feedback be received by September 15 so the schedule can be made in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-reopening-parents-to-send-consent-by-sept-15/story-95L730voywtgPpqZci7nyJ.html
12-09-2020||City||Smart ration cards distributed in Mohali||Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday distributed smart ration cards to families enrolled under the National Food Security Act here. He said over four lakh people from 1.1 lakh families in Mohali will benefit from the scheme. “The biometric authentication ensures food grain distribution to the actual beneficiary. End-to-end computerisation and digitisation of the entire process minimises the food grain pilferage and diversion. The intrastate portability feature of the card empowers the beneficiary to collect ration from the fair price shop of his choice. It marks the end of age-old monopoly of depot holders,” the minister added. While Balbir Singh Sidhu launched the scheme at the district level, simultaneous launch was also held at block levels. Smart ration cards can be used to withdraw food grains from fair price shops through e-PoS machines without carrying any additional document. A smart ration card will be swiped on the e-PoS machine to fetch the details of the family, after which the biometric authentication of the family member will be done. The details of the beneficiaries are integrated in a locked chip that can be read from authenticated e-PoS machines only. The cards have security features such as ‘micro text technology’. The QR code printed on the back side of the card is a combination of more than one field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/smart-ration-cards-distributed-in-mohali/story-xzHZtZkbEBtXi051LlbcpK.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports record spike of 2,783 Covid-19 cases, 24 deaths||Haryana on Saturday reported the biggest single-day spike of 2,783 Covid-19 cases and 24 fatalities, which took the total infections in the state past the 90,000-mark and death toll to 956. With the record spike, the total cases rose to 91,115. Earlier this week, the state had reported the biggest single-day spike of 2,591 cases. Among the 24 fatalities on Saturday, five were from Karnal district, three each from Faridabad and Ambala, two each from Gurugram, Sirsa and Yamunanagar while one death each was reported from Kaithal, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Hisar and Rohtak, according to state health department’s daily bulletin. Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases include Gurugram (326), Faridabad (278), Karnal (272), Hisar (213), Ambala (197), Panipat and Panchkula (178 each), Kurukshetra (173), Sonipat (165) and Sirsa (131). Active cases in the state currently are 19,446 while 70,713 have been discharged after recovery. As of Saturday, the state has a recovery rate of 77.61 percent, fatality rate was 1.05 percent while the rate at which infections are doubling is 29 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-reports-record-spike-of-2-783-covid-19-cases-24-deaths/story-5b0wPWvTLFGWdoZvOT0F5H.html
12-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad to tighten screening of patients requiring home isolation||In order to deal with the rising cases of Covid-19 in the district, which are being reported at a faster pace over the past two weeks than before, Ghaziabad officials have decided to carefully screen patients requiring home isolation as they account for about 46% of the total active cases in the district as of Saturday. Officials said as a result of the rise in the number of patients in home isolation, the government’s L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals, meant exclusively for treating Covid patients, currently have an occupancy of about just 30-40%. According to official figures, the Ghaziabad district has so far allowed 2,200 persons to remain in home isolation of whom 1,434 were discharged while 766 were still under treatment, as of September 11. The officials said 146 of these patients were also referred to L1, L2 or L3 hospitals and this referral rate is also high over the past two weeks. While the L1 hospitals treat asymptomatic patients, the L2 hospitals deal with patients having moderate complications and the L3 are meant for those with severe symptoms.Overall, Ghaziabad district has 146 patients who were referred from home isolation to Covid facilities. In contrast, the Gautam Budh Nagar district officials said so far, of the 966 persons allowed home isolation, only 15 have been referred to Covid facilities. “In order to monitor the patients in home isolation in a better manner, we have decided to rope in more teams who can be in regular touch with patients. Presently, we have three teams working in three shifts of eight hours each. Now, we have decided to double the teams since the number of patients is also on the rise,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Further, we have also asked our teams to properly monitor those aged over 55 years and other having co-morbid conditions. In case the teams have the slightest of doubt about a patient’s health condition, they should get that patient shifted to a Covid facility immediately. These steps have been planned to better manage people going into home isolation. It is our intent that there should be no health complication to any patient in home isolation and fatalities should be kept to a minimum,” he said. The UP government allowed home isolation for asymptomatic patients on July 20. According to state health department officials, there were about 36,334 patients in home isolation across the state till September 11. They added that about 149,396 patients availed of home isolation and 113,062 of them have recovered from the illness. Ghaziabad officials are also worried about the referral rate when compared to Gautam Budh Nagar. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar district, said, “The rate of referral of patients in home isolation is low here because we have a strict screening procedure. Anyone who opts for home isolation is first brought to a Covid facility where (s)he is kept for two days and her health status screened. Only when doctors do they allow the person to go into home isolation. The process is tedious and time consuming but it has considerably reduced our referral rate.” In Ghaziabad, there is no such check.“We have plenty of vacant beds in our Covid hospitals while the number of doctors and health care staff deployed there is same as that for full occupancy. We will now be strictly monitoring people aged over 55 years and also those with co-morbid conditions,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-to-tighten-screening-of-patients-requiring-home-isolation/story-zHGcbkBQMOKnJYLrI01N6J.html
12-09-2020||City||Carjacking: 3 held with 2 vehicles, toy gun in Ludhiana||The Khanna police have arrested three persons for carjacking and recovered two cars and a toy pistol from their possession.The accused have been identified as Arvinder Singh alias Goni of Ajnod in Doraha, Harmanpreet Singh alias Ghoda and Hem Singh of Rajgarh.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said the accused used to rob people of their four-wheelers and used them in executing more carjackings after installing fake number plates on the stolen vehicles.Police said the arrests were made near the railway bridge in Doraha. The accused had recently snatched a Mahindra Scorpio SUV from Mullanpur Dakha area, and robbed a Maruti Suzuki Alto car from Rupnagar, which were both recovered from the carjackers.The SSP revealed that the accused are already facing trial in various cases, including robbery, drug peddling and assault. They had met in jail where they formed a gang. “More information is expected from the accused during interrogation,” the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/carjacking-3-held-with-2-vehicles-toy-gun-in-ludhiana/story-ptrxNcuZfzrUyZlArUrJ8N.html
12-09-2020||City||Bulandshahr admin hands over ₹1.5 lakh to kin of US student killed in road accident||The Bulandshahr administration on Saturday gave a cheque of ₹1.5 lakh to the kin of Sudeeksha Bhati, a scholarship holder studying in the US, who had died in a road accident in the district on August 10.The victim’s kin are demanding the setting up of a library in her name. Sudeeksha, a resident of Deri Skaner village in Greater Noida, was an undergraduate student at Babson College in the United States on a scholarship.Ravindra Kumar, additional district magistrate, Bulandshahr, said the administration on Saturday called her father and presented the cheque. “Sudeeksha was a good student, studying on a scholarship at a US college. We have given monetary help to her father Jitendra Bhati. We are extending support to the victim’s kin,” he said.Jitendra said he, along with some members of his family, went to Bulandshahr, and accepted the compensation. “I have got the cheque. My family and some locals want a library to be set up in the name of Sudeeksha. We want the Bulandshahr administration to set up one such library so that more students can get inspiration and grow,” he said. The ADM said that he has asked the victim’s family to submit an application for the library.According to Jitendra, Sudeeksha and her uncle were going to Bulandshahr on a motorcycle when they collided with another motorcycle. She died on August 10. Bulandshahr police registered an FIR against two unknown persons for rash driving and death due to negligence. Her family, however, alleged she was being followed by two people on a motorcycle at the time of the accident, though the police did not include harassment charges in their report.The issue had caught national attention.“When Sudeeksha reached Chirora village, Syana Road in Bulandshahr, two persons riding a black Royal Enfield motorcycle overtook Sudeeksha’s motorcycle twice, and suddenly and deliberately applied brakes. My brother Satyendra lost balance and his vehicle hit another motorcycle. Sudeeksha fell on the road and was critically injured in the head. She was sent to a hospital where doctors declared her dead,” Jitendra had alleged in the FIR. The police had claimed that this was a road accident and denied charges of sexual harassment. On August 16, Bulandshahr police had arrested two suspects – Deepak Solanki and Raju – and recovered the Royal Enfield motorcycle used in the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bulandshahr-admin-hands-over-1-5-lakh-to-kin-of-us-student-killed-in-road-accident/story-bTWEi4cZ8EApyUfDBFbBZI.html
12-09-2020||City||Delhiites can now avail doorstep delivery of 100 public services||New Delhi Delhiites can now avail the doorstep delivery of services such as those related to income certificates, driving licence and new water connections, as the AAP government has restarted its ambitious scheme, which was in suspension for nearly five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to the government, people wanting to avail of the listed services at their doorstep can call 1076 or book online, besides visiting one of the 46 centres for spot-booking.“We have started the doorstep delivery scheme. It will take some time to stabilise since it was suspended for a considerable time during the lockdown. Currently, all the 100 services are available, but people do not have proper information about it. We will launch a publicity campaign next week,” Delhi revenue minister Kailash Gahlot told PTI.The 100 services to be provided at the doorstep of Delhiites include issuance of caste certificates, domicile certificates and marriage certificates, sewer connections, duplicate ration cards, learner’s licence, duplicate vehicle registration certificates and renewal of driving licence.The government has already hired a private company through which its services will be provided at the doorstep of the citizens and the company has hired “mobile sahayaks” (facilitators).A “mobile sahayak” will be equipped with all necessary equipment such as biometric devices and a camera. If a person wants to apply for a driving licence, he will have to call 1076 and give the details. Thereafter, the agency will assign a “mobile sahayak”, who will visit the applicant’s residence and get the required details and documents.The applicant has to pay Rs 50 more to avail the doorstep delivery of public services. The government has also set up a feedback system for the citizens availing the doorstep delivery of public services. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhiites-can-now-avail-doorstep-delivery-of-100-public-services/story-9c2QPWEybRvU2Y5TrH1HxM.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||At 326, Gurugram reports highest single-day spike; Covid-19 tally nears 15,000||With 326 new Covid-19 cases, the district on Saturday reported its highest single-day spike which took the tally of cases to 14,910. The district’s active cases not stand at 2,168, out of which 1,945 are under home isolation, 25 in Covid care centre, and 198 in hospitals.In the past one week, more than 250 cases have been reported everyday, with a daily growth rate between 1-2%. On Thursday, the district had reported as many as 309 cases (the highest such addition to the tally till then).The Covid-19 death toll in the city now stands at 145, including two deaths on SaturdayAs many as 3,752 Covid-19 tests—the highest figure so far— were administered in government and private facilities on Saturday in the district. At least 2,654 tests were conducted in government laboratories, while 1,098 tests were conducted in private labs. The total number of Covid-19 tests in Gurugram is about to cross two lakhs by Sunday. Till Saturday, 199,833 tests were conducted.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Number of cases are rising rapidly as testing has increased. Cases are growing at a daily positivity rate of 11-12%. The target is to increase the daily testing to 5,000 by holding rapid antigen testing camps in containment zones.” The district has 108 containment zones now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-326-gurugram-reports-highest-single-day-spike-covid-19-tally-nears-15-000/story-DBNhqaRPjan5et9qfecFZP.html
12-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad civic body plans five ‘garbage factories’ for recycling solid waste||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation officials have planned a “garbage factory” at each of the five zones of the city in a fresh strategy to deal with the disposal of solid waste generated daily. “Under the concept of garbage factory, we will be developing the facilities in each of the five zones under the corporation’s jurisdiction area. These will be developed on corporation land of about 5,000 to 10,000 square metres. Each factory will be able to process 250-500 metric tonnes of daily solid waste. Their capacity will be expandable to cater to 1000 metric tonnes in future and should suffice for the next 10 years. Presently, we have generation of about 1100 metric tonnes of solid waste generated per day,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The five factories will have boundary walls, sheds and green spaces where segregators will work on conveyor belts to sort out the daily solid waste. “The factories will have all facilities with two gates with one to be used for entry/exit of vehicles. Inside, there will be segregation of dry and wet waste. From the wet waste we will be producing manure while from the dry waste we will be hiring artistes, contractors who will be producing items from waste material. The five projects will be run on public-private partnership model with corporation providing land. A part of revenue will also be paid to the segregators,” he said.The corporation has started registering ragpickers who will be employed to segregate waste there by bringing them under the organised sector. According to officials, about 923 have registered so far since Monday. The city has about 10000-12000 unorganised ragpickers.  Tanwar said that the corporation has come up with the layout of a factory which is being fine tuned and request for proposal will be issued in another 10-15 days. The factories are likely to come up in the next six months. Once operational, door-to-door collection vehicles will not dump the collected waste outside localities at open dumping stations (from where it is further shifted to temporary landfill sites) but take it to the five zones for processing.. “This will also help in getting clean surroundings. Otherwise, the open waste attracts cattle and also ragpickers. We are hopeful that the things will work out as planned and we will be able to provide better cleanliness conditions in coming months,” Tanwar said. In the recently announced rankings under the Swachh Survekshan – 2020, the Ghaziabad city slipped to nineteenth spot from its thirteenth spot which it secured in 2019. One of the major areas where the city lost vital points was due to unscientific disposal of daily solid waste as its only landfill site at Pratap Vihar was closed down on directions of the UP solid waste monitoring committee last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-civic-body-plans-five-garbage-factories-for-recycling-solid-waste/story-rpLxvz9IqPjxtuxjaJHp6L.html
12-09-2020||City||Three held for credit card fraud in Delhi||New Delhi: Helped by three website designers who would procure details of credit card holders, and two other associates who would give bank accounts, a 23-year-old man duped credit card holders by promising them cash prizes and gifts on the points accrued on their credit spendings, police said on Saturday after nabbing three suspects. Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said the prime accused, Manish Gupta, may have cheated 250 people over three yearseven as a probe is on to identify more victims. The crime came to the police’s notice when a CISF constable currently on deputation with CBI was duped of Rs 8,970 in January. The constable had received calls from a tele-caller offering him Rs15,000 cash rewards, some gifts and an opportunity to feature in a lucky draw for the points accrued on his credit card spendings. In his statement to Lodhi Colony police, the constable said he deposited nearly Rs9,000 in a bank account but did not receive the promised money. When he found the tele-caller’s phone number unreachable, he approached the cyber cell on September 6. When the cyber cell’s probe didn’t yield results, he again filed a complaint, but this time at the Lodhi Colony police station. When a new set of investigators began probing the crime, they realised the money was transferred to a PayTM account. “We soon got to know that the PayTM account was linked to a bank account,” the DCP said. The police soon tracked down the bank account holder, Ashish, who works at a garments store. “It emerged that Ashish and a civil defence volunteer, Abhishek, would lend their bank accounts to Gupta for receiving the cheated money. The duo would receive 20% commission on each amount that was deposited in their accounts,” the officer said. Soon, Abhishek and Gupta too were arrested. The police said Gupta had worked with a call centre until 2017 when he decided to quit that job and make quick money by cheating credit card holders. “He would receive details of credit card holders from three website designers who would receive a share of Gupta’s profits,” said the officer. Gupta too had allegedly opened nine bank accounts in his own name to receive the duped money. The police have so far frozen eight such bank accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-credit-card-fraud-in-delhi/story-F2JMxLSV7lnt6uOKfiBXhM.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s air quality remains‘moderate’, may dip further||With the air quality index (AQI) at 158 on Saturday, the air quality in Gurugram remained ‘moderate’ for the fourth consecutive day. After oscillating between ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ categories for weeks, the city’s air quality had dropped to the ‘moderate’ category on Wednesday.According to experts, air quality is expected to deteriorate further in the coming week.Saturday’s reading, as recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board’s AQI bulletin, had deteriorated from Friday’s AQI at 143 (also in the ‘moderate’ category). The dip in air quality has been attributed to moisture in the air due to which pollutants are not getting dispersed. “There is a lot of moisture in the air, especially in the morning hours, due to which the pollutants are getting trapped. This time, we were lucky to have extended rains in August due to which a lower PM2.5 count had been prevailing until now. Lockdown restrictions in the earlier months, especially on construction activity and industries, also played a part in preventing an overall accumulation of pollutants initially. Later, the rains helped in washing them away,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist.Panwar added that pollution levels were expected to rise gradually, and the air quality might fall into the ‘poor’ category. “By next week or so, air quality might enter into the poor category,” he said.The average daily concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5, the city’s most prominent pollutant, on Saturday, was at 119.3 µg/m³, according to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘moderate’ category on Sunday.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature on Saturday was recorded at 37.1 degree Celsius, a marginal drop from Friday. The minimum temperature stood at 24.1 degree Celsius on Saturday. Gurugram’s maximum temperature is expected to hover around 36 degrees Celsius on Sunday, as per the India Meteorological Department’s weekly forecast. The minimum temperature is expected to hover around 25 degrees on Sunday, as per the forecast. As per the weekly forecast, cloudy skies prevail until the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-air-quality-remains-moderate-may-dip-further/story-JYpC81SXj66Lw8DmboMFhJ.html
12-09-2020||City||Mohali: Covid patient declared dead, alive and then dead again||A miscommunication from a private hospital sent a Mohali family on an emotional rollercoaster ride on Saturday. It was around 7:30am that Sukhleen Singh Dhillon, a property consultant, received a phone call from Grecian Hospital in Sector 69 to inform him about his father’s death.His father, Ranbir Singh Dhillon, 70, a former president of the Phase 5 market association and also the truck union in Mohali, had been hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19. After informing their near and dear ones about the demise and making arrangements for the cremation, which was scheduled at 2pm, when the family reached the hospital to claim the elderly man’s body, something unusual happened. “At the time of clearing the dues, to our surprise, we were told that my father is alive and on ventilator,” said Sukhleen.However, when Sukhleen demanded to talk to the hospital management about this error, he was allegedly stopped by bouncers deployed there. This also led to a high drama near the hospital entrance in the afternoon. However, relieved that his father was still alive, he sent another message to all the near and dear ones, informing them about the development and asking them to pray for his speedy recovery. This relief was short-lived, as around 6pm, the family reportedly again received a message about Dhillon’s demise. The death has not yet been added to the district’s official Covid tally and there has been no independent confirmation from the hospital.However, earlier, talking about the error committed in the morning, its owner Dr Shivpreet Samra said: “It was a miscommunication on the staff’s part. We have issued a warning to the erring employee and directed all to be more careful. The staff is under tremendous stress these days.”The family, meanwhile, is making arrangements for the cremation to be held on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-covid-patient-declared-dead-alive-and-then-dead-again/story-nMyTJgZ2jEMY9d7y3yip2I.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Detailed project report for Khedla-Damdama Biodiversity Park to be ready in six months||Work on creating a detailed project report (DPR) for an upcoming biodiversity park near Damdama lake began on Saturday, with staffers from the district administration’s Gurujal department undertaking the first field survey of an eco-restoration site in Khedla village, in Sohna block, about 25 kilometres from the district headquarters. The proposal, being implemented under the Centre’s Jal Shakti Abhiyan, involves creating a native Aravalli forest on approximately 400 acres of hilly land over the next five years, officials said. Gurujal staffers on Saturday said that preparing the DPR would take at least six months, and that a final report would be submitted to the state government for approval by March next year. In the interim, environmental engineers, civil engineers, biodiversity specialists and community managers working under the Gurujal initiative will conduct extensive surveys to assess the current status of the area’s biodiversity and hydrology.In addition, a socio-economic assessment of Damdama and Khedla villages, whose 1,500-odd residents (as per the Census 2011) continue to depend on the forests for grazing animals and collecting fuelwood, will be conducted. Narender Raghav, sarpanch of the Khedla gram panchayat, said, “In other parts of the district, common lands are being privatised and encroached upon. That’s not what we want for our village. We agreed to give our common lands for the project because we hope to create employment for the village youngsters and also to give them a sense of pride.” Sachin Kumar, technical manager, Gurujal, said, “The total area of Damdama and Khedla villages is about 500 acres, of which 400 acres of common village land, which comes under the ownership of the two gram panchayats, will be restored. The area has the potential to a be rich forest with native vegetation. As part of our fieldwork over the next six months, we will be creating plantation management plan to identify which native species are to be planted, and how to control the growth of invasive weeds and trees. By March we are also hoping to set up a nursery on the site.” Sunil Harsana, an independent ecologist from Faridabad’s Mangar village, who led Saturday’s survey of Khedla site, said, “This particular area has a richer presence of native rootstock than other Aravalli patches in Gurugram, such as Bandhwari, which have been denuded due to mining and real estate.” While invasive species, such as mesquite trees, are also prevalent in the Damdama-Khedla patch, the vegetation is not as denuded, he explained, adding that the biotic pressures on this forest are mainly from grazing and collecting of wood, which is far more manageable than rampant encroachment. “It is the right place for eco-restoration.”Over the next six months, field staff will divide the area into 50 acre plots, which will be surveyed independently. The local biodviersity management committee (BMC), which has already been set up under the aegis of the gram panchayats, will aid the staff in creating a local biodiversity register, cataloging species of plants, wild mammals, reptiles and birds. This is the first step in a seven-stage process, known as biodiversity resolution.Following this, the Gurujal department will seek administrative approval for preparation of the DPR, after which the forest and land revenue departments will demarcate the area for ecorestoration. This will be followed by construction of a boundary wall along the site, setting up of a nursery, and ‘earth preparation’ work, and will be ultimately succeeded by a mass plantation drive aimed for the next monsoon season. “The plantation work, when it begins will progress plot-wise, and the park will be generated 50 to 100 acres at a time, over the next five years,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, programme manager, Gurujal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-detailed-project-report-for-khedla-damdama-biodiversity-park-to-be-ready-in-six-months/story-xcnle0zmliSchKCrpGMLzK.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Relief for 146 plot owners in Sector 52 after HC vacates stay on construction||The Punjab and Haryana High Court vacated the stay on construction against 146 people who had bought plots from the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in sector 52.The court had stayed construction in 2001 after petitioners whose land HSVP had acquired claimed they were paid less than the market value of land at the time.Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator (Gurugram), said that the stay was vacated on September 8 and that the allottees could now get approvals for building plans and construction of houses. “We are making sure that all legal issues are resolved in all such matters. Pending issues concerning both allottees and land owners are being finalised”, said Yadav, adding that claims of those whose land was acquired by HSVP are also being assessed on priority. Plot buyers can also get occupation certificates, transfer property and also complete other formalities as required under the regulations. Santokh Singh, one of the landowners, who is also one of the petitioner in the case said they had filed the petition in the HC to get their land released. “This land was acquired forcefully by the then government due to political reasons. We will appeal against this decision in the Supreme Court, and are confident that justice will be done,” he said.In July over 100 plot owners in sector 57 had got relief from Punjab and Haryana High Court, which had vacated the stay on maintaining status quo and had granted permission for development of these properties. In the matter of sector 57, the land owner had petitioned for status quo and opposed the acquisition of his land as being in violation of rules. The acquisition of land in sector 52 and 57 was started in 2000 and majority of the land falls in Wazirabad village. The ownership of plots was offered from 2004 onwards. The plots in question are of different sizes and are in between four marlas (121 square yards) and one kanal (605 square yards).Land owners in Wazirabad had maintained that acquisition was in violation of rules and the compensation paid to them was quite less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-relief-for-146-plot-owners-in-sector-52-after-hc-vacates-stay-on-construction/story-1STqQ4ulhLEc2qpaLgjrLI.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||Man posing as IPS officer, his friend held for stealing over 200 cars from Delhi-NCR||The Faridabad police have arrested two men — including a 24-year-old postgraduate posing as an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer — for their alleged involvement in over 200 vehicle theft cases from Delhi-NCR. According to the police, the suspects were identified as Abang Mehtab, the mastermind who posed as the assistant commissioner of police(ACP) of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and Kabir Khan — both hailing from Manipur. They were arrested from the Delhi-Faridabad border on Thursday while allegedly trying to cross the border in a stolen car, the police said.The police allegedly recovered one country-made pistol and six different kinds of identity cards from their possession. They were produced before the court on Friday and taken on an eight-day police remand, said the police.OP Singh, Faridabad commissioner of police, said that the suspects are good friends. They used to fly from Imphal to the national Capital and drove back with stolen cars. “Mehtab took advantage of his physical appearance and used his fake identity cards to skip paying tolls and avail free stays in hotels while travelling. When anyone asked him to show his identity card, he presented a fake IPS card. Even during lockdown, he travelled in different vehicles using a fake pass. Since he wore wear a uniform, he never got caught,” he said. The police said they would steal at least 10-15 cars every month from Delhi but, during the lockdown, they managed to steal only eight cars. They sold them to a dealer in Thoubal, Manipur. Mehtab has completed his MPhil in sociology from Manipur, said the police. Singh said the duo is involved in more than 200 car thefts of all high-end segment luxury cars. Mehtab used to allegedly drive while returning to Manipur with the stolen car. They used to reach their home town within three days covering a distance of nearly 2,500 kilometres. “They used to drive to Manipur and asked for an exemption at toll booths using the fake identity cards through Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The suspects, along with their close aide who deals in second-hand cars, would tamper with the chassis number of the vehicles and forged documents to get them registered with transport authorities in Manipur. We are probing the involvement of car dealers and transport authorities in the racket,” he said. A case under sections 170 (impersonating a public servant), 419 (punishment for cheating by impersonation), 420 (fraud), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of Arms Act has been filed at Sarai Khwaja police station. The crime unit of Faridabad’s Sector 30 team led by inspector Vimal Kumar arrested the duo. Singh said the mastermind had a collection of pictures stored on his mobile phone wearing a police uniform holding AK-47 and other weapons to influence people on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-posing-as-ips-officer-his-friend-held-for-stealing-over-200-cars-from-delhi-ncr/story-fHXalf19HA9h9mNSh9d6FJ.html
12-09-2020||City||JEE Main results out: Ludhiana’s Anurag Gupta attains 441 AIR||For 17-year-old Anurag Gupta of Dugri, Ludhiana, making it to top 500 in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE, Main) all-India ranking was not easy.The JEE Main results were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Friday night. Gupta, who scored a 441 AIR, said consistency was key.The JEE Main is the qualifying exam for JEE Advanced, which is the entrance exam for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).A total of 6.35 lakh students had appeared for the exam that was conducted in two shifts from September 1 to 6. Gupta secured a 99.96 percentile, which is the highest in the city.Gupta, who wants to become an IAS officer, said it was important to remain focussed. “I took coaching from two private institutes. To attain a good rank, it is necessary to take guidance from experts to clear doubts. Regular tests, too, help improve scores.”The 17-year-old had attempted the paper once in January and scored 99.97 percentile and again in September “to improve my score”. He plans to pursue BTech in computer science from IIT Delhi.“If the government could allow the NTA to conduct the exam (amid the pandemic), they should have allowed students to visit coaching institutes to clear their doubts. I lost my momentum during preparation and used to miss interactions with my teachers and friends in class,” said Gupta.His father, Rajan Gupta, works in the insurance department at a private firm, and mother, Seema Mittal, is a mathematics teacher at NM Jain Senior Secondary School. He credited his success to his teachers and parents, who “supported and encouraged me”. A student of Kundan Vidya Mandir School, he even scored 96.8% in Class 12.The JEE Advanced exam scheduled to be held on September 27 will be held in two shifts—Paper 1 (9am to 12pm) and Paper 2 (2.30pm to 5.30pm). JEE Advanced will be a computer-based test. After the JEE Advanced results are announced, the admission process will be conducted by Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-main-results-out-ludhiana-s-anurag-gupta-attains-441-air/story-ZF9qvXyobv4YkCJQguu0QK.html
12-09-2020||City||Ludhiana tent dealers raise pitch against 30-person limit on gatherings||Demanding that the state government lift the 30-person ceiling on gatherings, the Punjab Tent Dealers Welfare Association has announced a two-day strike across the state on September 15 and 16. At a meeting organised at a banquet hall in Dugri area on Saturday, the dealers said the central government had allowed 100 persons at gatherings from September 21, yet the state government had not lifted the restriction.They said associated businesses, including decorators and caterers, had extended support to their protest and will also keep their shops closed on the two days.The tent dealers complained that over 10 lakh people were directly or indirectly involved in the business and were struggling to make ends, as no events were taking place due to restriction on gatherings since the lockdown began in March.“We have been demanding that the government extend the limit to 200 or 300 persons, as we can make arrangements to maintain social distancing. But, the government is not even allowing 100 persons despite the union government permitting it,” said Shiv Shankar Rai, general secretary of Punjab Tent Dealers Welfare Association.“No events are taking place due to the restrictions and dealers have suffered heavy losses. Most employees have lost their jobs, but the government is still not paying heed to our problems,” said Rai. The dealers said due to depleting funds, many of them had been forced to change vocation. While some were selling vegetables, a few were forced to work as drivers to make ends meet.“We are ready to follow the norms and help the government fight with the pandemic. But, the government should also be sensitive to our problems. Apart from keeping shops closed, protest marches will be organised at the district level and memorandums will be handed over to the administration and Congress MLAs,” said Raj Aggarwal, president, Ludhiana Tent Dealers Welfare Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-tent-dealers-raise-pitch-against-30-person-limit-on-gatherings/story-FPhLVhgvaKUdX1OQJSO2wN.html
12-09-2020||City||Burglars target 6 shops in Ludhiana, decamp with cash, valuables||Burglars targeted six shops, including one electronic store and five power tools shops, situated in Guru Nanak Market, Gill road, in the wee hours of Saturday and decamped with cash and valuables. Only one of the shops was equipped with CCTVs, but the miscreants had allegedly disconnected them.Ravi Aggarwal, one of the shop owners, said that they had all closed their shops at around 8.30pm on Friday. “On Saturday morning, when I opened the shop, everything seemed fine as neither the shutters were damaged nor was it ransacked. On checking the cash box, I realised that cash was missing,” he said.He added that the thieves must have entered the shops through the terrace after breaking open the gate installed there and alleged that they stole Rs 7,000 from his cash box.Further, Aggarwal added that there is a factory behind his shop which has a steel shed and alleged that the thieves got to the roof through the shed.Another shop owner, Shubham, alleged that the accused had stolen Rs 35,000 from his shop. Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, station house officer (SHO), division number 6 police station, said that a police team was sent to record statements of shopkeepers. The police have initiated an investigation and will lodge a first information report (FIR), he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglars-target-6-shops-in-ludhiana-decamp-with-cash-valuables/story-VCJlcWcEvywuRe5QuPdwtI.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||71 per cent less rains in Delhi in September so far||The national capital has recorded 71 per cent less rainfall in September so far, according to India Meteorological Department data.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall so far against the normal of 72.6 mm this month.The Lodhi road weather station has gauged only 18.5 mm precipitation against the normal of 72.6 mm -- a deficiency of 75 per cent. The Palam weather station has recorded 30.3 mm rains against the 50-year average of 73.6 mm, according to IMD data.In August, Delhi recorded 237 mm rainfall, the highest for the month in seven years.Overall, the city has recorded 576.5 mm rainfall against the usual of 594.6 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts. The IMD also said that monsoon is likely to stay longer in Delhi and start withdrawing only in the “initial days of October”.The wind system had reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than normal.  “According to the extended range forecast, monsoon rains will continue until September end. The withdrawal is likely to happen in the initial days of October,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre.Earlier this year, the MeT department revised the date for the withdrawal of monsoon from Delhi from September 21 to September 25.“The IMD revised the withdrawal date considering the trend in the last 20-25 years,” Srivastava said, adding that light to moderate rains are possible in Delhi-NCR from September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/71-per-cent-less-rains-in-delhi-in-september-so-far/story-DGoLxAPPviau0rTmlTlRKN.html
12-09-2020||City||Stalker stabs woman with paper cutter at Ludhiana’s Sangowal village||A 30-year-old woman suffered grievous injuries after a stalker attacked her with a paper cutter in Sangowal village on Friday.The woman has been admitted to a private hospital with injuries to her throat, ears, neck, arm and chest. A manhunt has been launched to arrest the accused, identified as Gurpreet Singh Gopi of Ishar Nagar.The victim, also a resident of Ishar Nagar, told the Dehlon police that she worked at a scrap godown in Sangowal village for the past four years. Gopi, who is a drug addict, was her co-worker, but quit the job four months ago.He still stayed in touch with her, and despite being married, proposed to marry her. Whenever she turned down his advances, he would fight with her. On Friday, while she was working in the godown, Gopi reached there on his motorcycle and asked her to come with him. When she refused, he attacked her with a paper cutter.Hearing her screams, other workers gathered there, prompting Gopi to flee, she said, following which her colleagues rushed her to the hospital. ASI Harnek Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said they had booked Gopi under Sections 452 (trespassing after preparation of hurt, assault or wrongful restrain), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and were working to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stalker-stabs-woman-with-paper-cutter-at-ludhiana-s-sangowal-village/story-tnHPC363yZHhXcyUvAeiIN.html
12-09-2020||Noida||Biogas plant in Sector 34 becomes operational, waste from over 4,000 homes to be recycled||The bio-methanation plant in Sector 34, set up by the Noida authority and federation of residents’ welfare association of the sector, became operational on Saturday. The bio-methanation plant will recycle biodegradable waste from around 4,000 flats and 300 bungalows. The authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari opened the facility for operations officially along with the authority’s health department officials. “Our objective is to make waste management better in the city, and eventually make Noida the cleanest city. If residents will come forward to help, then the city will handle the waste in a better manner,” said Maheshwari.The authority has spent ₹60 lakh on the development of the plant that will recycle the household waste right in the residential area and also generate cooking gas and electricity from it. The federation of RWAs has also provided ₹12 lakh for this project. A private agency has been appointed by the residents’ body to run the facility.“As per the arrangement, the agency will provide us with 25% of the compost generated at the plant which will be used in our parks and green areas. They will sell 75% of the compost to generate revenue. Apart from this, the agency will supply electricity and biogas to a nearby hospital and school to get more revenue,” said Dharmendra Sharma, general secretary, federation of sector RWAs (sector 34). Sector 34 has 14 apartment complexes, each with its own apartment owners’ association (AOA) and 300 plotted houses. “We formed the federation and started the biogas plant so that the household waste except plastic or glass does not go out for the treatment. All associations and residents are supporting this project that will make our area better,” said KK Jain, president, federation of RWAs (sector 34 ).Each apartment association has also been provided one battery-operated e-rickshaw for the transportation of the biodegradable waste to the plant. Each rickshaw cost ₹2.30 lakh and a total of 14 e-rickshaws are engaged in transporting the waste from the households to the plant. “We have requested all citizens to segregate the waste at their homes, and hand put the biodegradable waste to the e-rickshaw, so that it reaches the plant for the treatment,” said Sharma. The federation of RWAs has decided to fund the daily operations of the plant. “Each association will work out an arrangement with residents and raise funds to support this project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/biogas-plant-in-sector-34-becomes-operational-waste-from-over-4-000-homes-to-be-recycled/story-H2YXQ0ztZSrybBr7XsJhTM.html
12-09-2020||City||NEET centre changed for 480 students in Greater Noida to maintain social distancing||Noida: The National Testing Agency (NTA) has changed an examination centre in Greater Noida for 480 students appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). These students will now have to reach DPS Greater Noida in Sector Gamma II, instead of the earlier allotted exam centre at Ascent International School in Sector Delta II. Jyoti Gupta, principal of DPS Sahibabad and city co-ordinator for Noida-Greater Noida chapter of NEET, said that 960 students (from roll numbers 4410004001 to 4410004960) were earlier allotted examination centre at Ascent International School in Sector Delta 2. “Due to Covid protocols and social distancing norms, only 480 students (from roll number 4410004001 to 4410004480) have been allotted the same examination centre. The rest 480 students have been given another centre – DPS Greater Noida in Gamma II,” she said. “We will also use some buses to facilitate the students reach the revised examination centre, in case they reach the previous centre by mistake,” Gupta said. A total of around 10,000 students will appear for NEET at 17 centres in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad on September 13 (Sunday). The National Testing Agency (NTA) has appointed eight centres in Ghaziabad, two in Noida and seven in Greater Noida.Since each examination centre has unique series for roll numbers, those students whose centre is changed have been issued new admit cards. NTA also issued a statement regarding the change in examination centre. “NTA hereby informs that the examination centres of NEET (UG) - 2020 examination scheduled on 13 September 2020 from 2pm to 5pm for some of the candidates have been changed due to implementation of COVID-19 measures.” The testing has also informed the candidates through SMS and email about the change in examination centre. Such candidates are advised to download their latest admit card available on NEET website (https://ntaneet.nic.in).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/neet-centre-changed-for-480-students-in-greater-noida-to-maintain-social-distancing/story-vaIlN01liG1LGwVEKs02RJ.html
12-09-2020||City||Ludhiana woman shot at for confronting three men creating ruckus||Three men shot at a 35-year-old woman after she objected to them creating ruckus in her street in Hans Kalan village on Friday night.The bullet hit the victim, Karamjit Kaur, of Hans Kalan Village, in the stomach. She was admitted to the Jagraon civil hospital, where her condition is stated to be stable.The Jagraon Sadar police have registered a case of attempt to murder against the three men, identified as Ramandeep Singh, alias Lavi, and Paramjit Singh, alias Gora, of Hans Kalan village, and Surjit Singh, alias Fauji, of Chhajawal village.The victim said the trio often took rounds of her street on their motorcycles and created ruckus. When she objected to this on Friday night, they opened fire at her, hitting her in the stomach. The accused fled the spot after firing the shot, and her husband rushed her to the hospital.Sub-inspector Ramanpreet Singh said they had booked the three men under Sections 307, 336, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. Efforts are on to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-shot-at-for-confronting-three-men-creating-ruckus/story-n8tGDtPcNFm2iAuHazdItN.html
12-09-2020||City||Punjab govt’s mobile Covid testing van reaches rural areas for free walk-in test||The ambulance providing free walk-in Covid-19 testing has reached Tharike village here on Saturday. The facility has been provided by the Punjab government for the people in rural areas.The ambulance called Corona Testing Mobile Clinic and Ambulance reached the village to conduct Covid-19 tests free of cost.“I have come with the corona ambulance here in Tharike. We have earlier made a camp in a different village. In Ludhiana, there are four vans like this. The benefit is that we can reach people in rural areas where there are no testing facilities,” Dr Deep Arora told ANI.“The report also comes in quick time so we can advise people to stay in isolation based on their reports. We can educate local communities. It is free of cost,” Dr. Arora said. “The aim of the government is to conduct maximum testing, we have plans to go to other villages,” he added. A villager Shivam Rastogi said, “Earlier people have to travel long distances for tests but now this camp has reached our locality. The benefit is that we don’t have to face the risk of getting the infection while traveling. This facility is free, a very good step by the government.”Another villager said, “Earlier we have to ask people regarding where to go to get our tests done, but now the ambulance has reached our locality, and it is easy for us to go through the tests.”An official release on September 3 had said, “Punjab has decided to allow free walk-in testing in government hospitals and mobile vans, and similar testing at a nominal manpower cost not exceeding Rs 250 by private doctors and hospitals, to encourage increased Covid testing to check the surge in cases in the state. People who want their result immediately can opt for rapid antigen testing while RT-PCR testing will also be similarly available.” The state will also explore similar arrangements for rapid antigen testing by pharmacists/chemists on the lines of private hospitals and doctors, the official release had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-s-mobile-covid-testing-van-reaches-rural-areas-for-free-walk-in-test/story-xYDw4YU1u9BF3XeHpYETsM.html
12-09-2020||City||Akshardham to Baghpat stretch of Delhi-Dehradun highway gets financial approval||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said on Saturday that they received the financial approval of about ₹3,200 crore for the two packages under the National Highway-709B stretch which will connect Akshardham in Delhi to Dehradun in Uttarakhand. Officials said that with this development, bids for the civil construction work, which are pending, are being accepted, the last date for which is September 30.The project is proposed as a new highway which will serve as an alternate between Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and is likely to shorten the travelling distance by about 70km. As of now, commuters travelling to Dehradun from Delhi take an old route which is about 250km, navigating through Ghaziabad (Delhi Meerut Road) as well as congested stretches of Meerut, Muzffarnagar, Roorkee and Haridwar.According to NHAI, the new route will span about 180km and its first phase, which will be about 32km. The first phase will start from Akshardham in Delhi to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) interchange at Baghpat in western Uttar Pradesh. They added that in-principle approvals were given for the project in March.“We have now received financial approval for the first stretch – from Akshardham to EPE interchange at Baghpat. This comprises two packages – package 1 from Akshardham to Khekra (14.75km) in Baghpat and package 2 from Khekra to EPE interchange (16.45km) in Baghpat. The approval for package 1 is for ₹1,300 crore while that for package 2 is ₹1,900 crore,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.Under the project, the stretch in Delhi will have a six kilometre elevated section while about 12.5km of another elevated section will be under the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh, officials said.They added that the financial approval came through last week by the NHAI board, which comprises officials of NHAI as well as that from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, as members. “With the financial approval now given, bids for civil construction work which were pending can now be submitted by September 30. Once work starts, we will be able to complete the project (phase 1) by the end of 2022. The other part from Baghpat to Dehradun is under stage of preparation of the detailed project report and tenders are likely to be called in next six months,” Garg added.Officials added that once the entire highway from Delhi to Dehradun gets complete, commuters will be able to cover the distance within a mere two-and-a-half hours, which otherwise takes about five and half hours.According to official estimates, the Baghpat to Dehradun stretch is pegged at a cost of ₹4,830 crore and is estimated to get completed in a span of three to five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akshardham-to-baghpat-stretch-of-delhi-dehradun-highway-gets-financial-approval/story-PA8w9wj8RenIsn6Wdt5BxK.html
12-09-2020||City||Woman killed, two injured as speeding car overturns in Morni||A woman was killed while two others sustained injuries as the car they were travelling in overturned in Morni village on Saturday morning.The Chandimandir police have booked the car driver, identified as Kamal Garg of Manimajra, for negligent driving.The complainant, Mandeep Saini (29) of Sector 63, Chandigarh, told the police that around 12.15am on September 12, his friend Kamal, who is a taxi driver, called him saying he was on his way to pick him up from his house.He said Kamal, along with a woman, identified as Neha of Kangra, reached his place at 1.15am, following which the trio left for a drive in Kamal’s car. He said by early morning they left for Morni, but Kamal was driving rashly and in a negligent manner.“We told him to slow down, but he did not listen and lost control of the wheel near Mandhna village while negotiating a swift turn on the curve. The car hit a pillar and turned turtle,” he said.Mandeep said when he gained consciousness, he found that he was brought to the Panchkula civil hospital, and the woman had died. He said the accident took place because of Kamal’s negligence, and that action should be taken against him.Based on his complaint, the police have registered an FIR under sections 279, 304-A and 337 of the IPC and the woman’s parents have been informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-killed-two-injured-as-speeding-car-overturns-in-morni/story-hhfzWJNqKDbhMeJ94XTbbK.html
12-09-2020||Noida||Agency to be hired by September 20 to build second golf course in Noida||The Noida authority on Saturday said that it is likely to finalise an agency to develop a golf course in Sector 151A by September 20.“We floated a tender for the development of golf course a month ago. We may finalise an agency by September 20 as per the fixed schedule. We have also planned to start inviting membership applications by September 20,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority. In February this year, the authority, at its 198th board meeting, had approved a budget of ₹90 crore to develop a golf course at Sector 151A located along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway. The detailed project report of the golf course has already been finalised, the authority officials said, adding that the authority has decided to start a membership drive so that it can raise funds to develop the golf course.In September last year, the Noida authority had approved a proposal to build a 90-acre golf course, 20-acre adventure sports facility and a heliport spread on 10 acres area in Sector 151A. The area surrounding Sector 151A includes sectors 150 and 151, which is the hub of luxurious apartment condominiums, and this facility will fuel development in this region, said the officials.At present, the city has a 18-hole golf course in Sector 38A. The membership applications will be invited for the proposed golf course after the agency is finalised, said CEO. The guidelines to make members will be the same as the authority’s Sector 38A’s facility. The fee will be around ₹12-13 lakh and 50% of the amount will have to be paid upfront. The remaining amount will have to be paid when the golf course becomes operational in the next one-and-a-half years, said the officials. The authority is likely to launch a website for the membership process. “There will be a quota of 25% for all government employees, retired or serving, for the membership. Anyone can apply for the membership and the committee of the authority officials will decide on each membership,” said Maheshwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/agency-to-be-hired-by-september-20-to-build-second-golf-course-in-noida/story-HU3Npl3BT8FuRIeDauQ7qK.html
12-09-2020||City||Honey-trap racket busted, head constable among two held in Ludhiana||A head constable from Moga and his aide have been arrested for running a honey-trap racket to extort money from men.A woman, her daughter and three other accused, who operated along with the two men, are at large.The duo arrested has been identified as head constable Kulwant Singh of Bhodiwala village of Dharamkot and Pawan Kumar of Kokri Kalan village. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Dakha) Gurbans Singh Bains said the woman would target random men and invite them to meet them at isolated locations. There, the other gang members would film the men with the women and blackmail them for money using these videos. On September 9, they snatched Rs 13,000 and a mobile phone from one Bhagwant Singh, 31, of Narangwal using the same modus operandi. Similarly, they also tried to extort money from an elderly man on Friday. As the police were informed, they managed to arrest two of the accused, while three escaped.The DSP said the duo had confessed to extorting money from six men. A hunt is on for their accomplices. Their female accomplice is facing a case of drug peddling as well. Police are looking further into the criminal record of all accused.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 384 (extortion), 365 (kidnapping), 342 (wrongful confinement), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/honey-trap-racket-busted-head-constable-among-two-held-in-ludhiana/story-1P5l7w39hSeVTYwMVOtlDM.html
12-09-2020||Noida||Four of gang try to steal money from ATM in Noida, one nabbed||A man in his late twenties was arrested by Noida police on Saturday morning for allegedly attempting to cut open an ATM in Sector 126 following an “encounter”. Three of his accomplices are still on the run, the police said.The suspect was identified as one Tahir Husain, who if from Haryana. According to police officers, he and his three accomplices were in the middle of cutting open an ATM at a kiosk in Raipur village in Sector 126 when they were intercepted by a PCR team. The Expressway police station team had received a tip about the suspects trying to steal an ATM.“As soon as they saw the police movement, the suspects tied to flee in their Santro car. When the PCR started following them, they abandoned their vehicle and started running on foot. A team from Sector 49 police station, that was out working on a different lead, came across the suspects. In a joint effort of police from both stations, the suspects were chased, and after feeling cornered, they started firing at the police team. Husain was injured in the retaliatory firing, while the others managed to escape,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh. The police suspect that the remaining suspects may have gone to Haryana via Delhi. Husain was taken to the district hospital for treatment. ADCP Singh said the four suspects are a part of an inter-state ATM theft gang. “They have been involved in many ATM thefts across various states, and we suspect that they were also behind the attempt to steal an ATM from Harola village on September 1. The modus operandi in the two cases is very similar as gas cutters were being used in the same fashion in the two cases,” said the ADCP. On the night of September 1, an another ATM was taken from Ghaziabad’s Vasundhra, but the gang’s involvement in that incident is yet to be established, the police said. A country-made pistol, Santro car, gas cutters and other tools were recovered by the police. On September 5, two men from a different gang were arrested by the Noida police in connection with an ATM theft from Gijhore village on August 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-of-gang-try-to-steal-money-from-atm-in-noida-one-nabbed/story-lIEvmMavbwmKxqnvkrMDEK.html
12-09-2020||City||Five arrested with marijuana worth ₹27 lakh; used to sell contraband online||Noida: The Noida police on Saturday arrested five alleged drug peddlers and seized 4.25 kg marijuana worth ₹27 lakh from them. The men are linked to a bigger drugs supplying group in the national capital region, the police said, adding that all the suspects come from affluent families and are students of different institutes in Delhi and Noida. The suspects, who are in their early twenties, have been identified as Himanshu Pawar, a resident of Noida Sector 19 who is the kingpin of the operation, Rohit Singh of Sector 71, Aman Srivastava of Sector 20, Vishal Tiwari of Sector 27 and Prince Nayak, a Delhi resident. “Prince was supplying the narcotics to them from Delhi. We are working on tracing the Delhi suppliers,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station. The police officials said that the suspects had a social media group through which they interacted with potential customers in posh areas across Delhi-NCR for sale of the drugs. Supply was also made to educational institutions, said the police. However, the police are not taking any action against the customers for now, the SHO said, adding that the drugs were being supplied to some particular people. The officials are now working on tracing other suppliers and distributors associated with the operation. “There are other people who are connected to this. We have some call records and manual inputs, and are working on these leads while the suspects are also being questioned. More arrests will be made soon,” said SinghThe police officials also said that the quality of marijuana was much more sophisticated than street marijuana as the quantity that would have been sold for ₹100 in the open market was instead being sold for ₹7,000. The arrests were made from Sector 27 on Saturday morning following a tip-off about the operation. The suspects have been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985, the police said. The police have also seized a Swift car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-arrested-with-marijuana-worth-27-lakh-used-to-sell-contraband-online/story-xS6zPYXib0nOZpIo59DQ7L.html
12-09-2020||Noida||Covid-19 cases cross the 10,000-mark in GB Nagar, 1,000 reported in just 4 days||In the worst ever wave of Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar district so far, the overall cases took just four days to rise from 9,000 and breach the 10,000-mark on Saturday. According to official figures, with 198 new positive cases on Saturday, GB Nagar’s overall tally is now 10,006. On September 8, the district had just crossed the 9,000-mark. District magistrate Suhas LY said despite the sudden surge in cases, his administration is ready to tackle the situation. “Our hospitals (L1, L2 and L3) have enough beds and ventilators to take care of patients. The ditrict’s case fatality rate (CFR) is only 0.47%, which is much better than the national CFR of 1.69% and the state CFR of 1.42%. The lowest CFR among the districts in Uttar Pradesh having over 4,000 cases, clearly indicates that GB Nagar’s sampling rate and recovery rate are going upward. Since all economic activities are open now, our role is to implement strict containment rules and reduce the CFR,” he said. The DM further said the administration has ramped up testing and started effective monitoring of patients under home isolation. “We are also ensuring early hospitalisation of critical patients and efficient infection control by comprehensive contact tracing and surveillance,” Suhas said. The state government, on the other hand, has asked all districts to hold ‘Complete Solution Day’ on every first and third Tuesdays of the month. “We will create awareness among the people about the use of masks and sanitizers, besides asking them to follow social distancing norms at all times,” he said. The district administration has come out with a fresh list of 405 containment zones, including 384 in Category-1 (where there is only one case) and other 21 in Category-2 (more than one case). Under Category-1, a containment zone in an urban area will cover all houses within a 250-metre radius of the patient or the entire mohalla (floor, in case the patient resides in a society). In Category-2, there will be an added 250-metre buffer zone (tower and common facilities, in case of a society). GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said as per the instructions given by the state health department, several measures are being taken to increase surveillance and minimise the fatality rate. “While reviewing the Covid-19 scenario in the district on Friday, state health minister also asked us to conduct at least 5,000 tests a day. Our team of doctors and paramedics are already on the job. It is obvious that when testing increases, so will the cases,” he said. It may be noted that in March and April, 38 and 100 cases were reported in the district, respectively. In May, 315 cases were recorded and 1,759 in June. It surged to 2,794 in July and 2,864 in August. But the 12 days of September have already seen 2,261 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-cases-cross-the-10-000-mark-in-gb-nagar-1-000-reported-in-just-4-days/story-p47LWxqBz6IWZT6AhMNbOJ.html
12-09-2020||City||At 303, Ghaziabad sees highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday||With 303 new Covid-19 infections, Ghaziabad district on Saturday saw its highest single-day case spike since March, a rise which took the number of active cases in the district to a record 1,829, as per the state control room report. The district has now recorded a total of 10,522 cases, of whom 8,620 patients have recovered, and 73 have died. Officials attributed the rise to the larger number of activities now allowed, but also said they were taking measures to control the spread of the infection. In the 12 days of September, the district has added 2,209 new Covid-19 cases, up significantly from the same period in August, when 1,524 new infections were added to the district’s tally. “The rise is on account of opening of activities after lockdown. We have asked officials to strictly monitor containment zones, and police officers will strictly enforce social distancing norms, and ensuring that people who do not wear masks get penalised. Even if cases rise, our prime focus will be on curbing fatalities. At present, we have the necessary medicines and equipment to deal with fresh cases and more resources will be roped in soon,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “We have also roped in mobile teams that will reach out to people in localities and check their health status. Further, awareness programs will also be organised,” he added. The district crossed 10,000 cases on September 10. “People are moving about freely, sometimes avoid wearing masks and fail to maintain social distancing. On our part, we are focussed on testing more people and sending them to isolation facilities if they test positive. Our surveillance activities are also going on a daily basis. The rise in number of cases is also seen in nearby districts,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-303-ghaziabad-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-on-saturday/story-vFaeXYhE5zveSGKthKaA3K.html
12-09-2020||City||30-year-old succumbs to injuries in Zirakpur hit-and-run||A 30-year-old man has succumbed to his injuries sustained in a hit-and-run accident in Zirakpur, police said.On September 10, Kulwinder Singh was hit by a speeding car while he was crossing the road with his father to catch a bus on Patiala road, Zirakpur.In his complaint, Bhagwan Singh of Bathinda stated that his son Kulwinder was working at Aerocity in Mohali. On Thursday, he had come to meet his son and as they were crossing the road to catch a bus around 5pm, a speeding car hit him near the toll plaza on Patiala road and drove away.Kulwinder was rushed to the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to his injures.Police have registered a case under sections 304 and 279 of the IPC against the unidentified car driver at the Zirakpur police station. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-succumbs-to-injuries-in-zirakpur-hit-and-run/story-Rvgo3zxt0pynBa2H5p5J6M.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bizman attacked near Sector 9 club, 3 booked for murder bid||The police here have booked three unidentified youths in an attempt to murder case for attacking a Sector 22 resident during a brawl outside a club in Sector 9.As per information, the scuffle took place after the complaint, Rohit Singla, accidentally stepped on one of the accused’s foot while dancing at the club.Rohit, a wholesale businessman, told the police that on September 9, he and his friends had gone to the club. After having a few drinks, they were dancing when he stepped on a person’s foot, he said.However, this led to an argument and seeing the commotion, the bouncers intervened and showed the arguing parties out of the club. When Rohit came out, the three accused came in a car bearing a Haryana registration number and hit him with a wooden plank repeatedly outside the club.An injured Rohit was then admitted to a private hospital in Zirakpur from where he was referred to GMSH, Sector 16.Based on his complaint, the police have registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC at Sector 3 police station. Police are trying to trace the accused through the registration number of the car provided by the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bizman-attacked-near-sector-9-club-3-booked-for-murder-bid/story-5B5PCuzNGG18kdu2zobQcK.html
12-09-2020||City||Ludhiana logs over 400 cases in a day for the second time in three weeks||The Covid-19 cases in a single day breached the 400 mark for the second time in the past three weeks, with 435 people testing positive for the virus on Saturday.This is the second-highest, 24-hour spike in infections after the 462 cases recorded on August 21.The district also confirmed 13 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death count to 571.Of the 13,445 cases in the district now, 10,832 (80.56%) patients have recovered, leaving 2,039 active cases. The positive cases reported on Saturday include 136 patients with symptoms of influenza like illness, 113 were referred by the out-patient departments and 56 are contacts of positive patients. Nine healthcare workers, four police personnel, a pregnant woman and a government employee are among the latest cases.The 13 Ludhiana residents, who succumbed to the disease on Saturday, include a 92-year-old woman from Aman Park area in Threeke, an 85-year-old woman from BRS Nagar, a 68-year-old man from Aggar Nagar, a 63-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal, a 62-year-old man from Kanganwal village, a 60-year-old woman from Bajra village, a 59-year-old woman from New Vishnupuri, two 55-year-old women from Basti Jodhewal and Ansal Enclave, a 53-year-old man from Dhaipai village, a 50-year-old man from Salem Tabri, a 35-year-old man from Basti Jodhewal and a 29-year-old man from Sarabha Nagar.Three patients from Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur and Barnala districts also died in Ludhiana on Saturday.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The total number of positive cases has climbed to 13,445 and 571 residents have died. But, as many as 10,832 patients have also recovered. We appeal to residents to follow all precautions and guidelines issued by the government to help control the spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-logs-over-400-cases-for-the-second-time-in-three-weeks/story-LW5AaXy8HhguyI53PDhBAP.html
12-09-2020||City||Panchkula citizens body to field member in upcoming mayoral polls||The members of Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA) here have decided to ask one of its members to contest the upcoming civic body elections for the post of mayor.The decision has come after a collective resolution by the members of 37 Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) affiliated to the CWA in Panchkula.“Political interference into MC’s day-to-day working and has caused major frauds at the cost of public money. Even after pointing out the matter to the high-ups and the state government, nothing has been done to rectify the same,” said CWA president SK Nayar, a Sector 15 resident.To work together for the betterment and development of Panchkula, the CWA has also formed a central working committee for which roles have been assigned to its various members. Nayar is the committee’s president (ex-officio member), while Sunil Jain of Sector 11 is the general secretary. Rakesh Sondhi of Sector 21 is the joint secretary and Bhagwan Das Mittal of Sector 25 and MR Syal of Sector 18 are members.“Despite raising residents’ issues time and again, the councillors have failed to resolve them. So, we have decided to support those who want to fight the MC elections,” the CWA president said.A meeting of the CWA members and RWAs will be conducted soon to discuss the matter in detail for the betterment of residents and development works required in Panchkula, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-citizens-body-to-field-member-in-upcoming-mayoral-polls/story-P8uSnpkMKqpt1lV3oC4B0I.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav named in Delhi riots supplementary charge sheet||The Delhi Police has named CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand in a supplementary charge sheet in the February riots cases, accusing them of “provoking and mobilising” anti-CAA protesters.Some of those named have also been charged with -- based on the statements of three students already arrested in the case -- asking the protesters to go to ¨any extreme¨, spreading “discontent” in the community by calling CAA/NRC anti-Muslim, and organising demonstrations to “malign the image of the Government of India”.Their names appeared in the supplementary charge sheet, a copy of which is with the PTI, filed by the police on the riots in North East District between February 23 and 26, which claimed 53 lives and left 581 injured, 97 of them having gunshot wounds. After repeated attempts for his comments, Yogendra Yadav said, ¨I notice that the passing reference to me does not even contain one sentence from my speech. I find it surprising that the Delhi Police has made no effort to see the recording of my speeches all of which are in the public domain.” These eminent personalities have been named based on the statements of the three students -- women’s collective Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, and Gulfisha Fathima of Jamia Milia Islamia -- in the Jafrabad violence, from where the riots spread to other parts of north-east Delhi.All three are facing charges under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.Also read: Delhi riots: Former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain moves Delhi high court against 3-day ED custodyIn the charge sheet, which was made public just two days before the commencement of the Monsoon Session of Parliament, the Delhi Police has claimed that Kalita and Narwal admitted to not just their complicity in the riots but also named Ghosh, Apoorvanand and documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy as their mentors, who allegedly asked them to carry out the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and go to ¨any extreme¨.Their similarly-worded disclosure statements – mentioned in the charge sheet – claimed that the two JNU students said they organised the Daryaganj protest in December and the Jafrafad chakka jam (road block) against the CAA on February 22, 2020 at the behest of Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy.Reacting to the charge sheet, Yechury hit out at the government through a series of tweets. ¨The Delhi Police is under the Centre and the Home Ministry. Its illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties & are misusing state power to target the Opposition,” he said. In another tweet, Yechury questioned as to why the “hate speeches” made during the riots were not investigated.¨There is a video of poisonous speeches, why are they not being processed? Because the government has ordered that the opposition be wrapped up, either way. This is the real face, character, tricks and thinking of Modi and BJP. There will be opposition,¨ he said. Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said, “The names are part of the disclosure statement of one of the accused in connection with organizing and addressing the Anti-CAA protests. The disclosure statement has been truthfully recorded as narrated by the accused person. A person is not arraigned as an accused only on the basis of disclosure statement.” “However, it is only on the existence of sufficient corroborative evidence does further legal action is taken. The matter is currently subjudice,” he said.Kalita and Narwal also told the police that Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy coordinated with the Islamist group Popular Front of India (PFI) and the Jamia Coordination Committee to mentor the Pinjra Tod members to carry forward their campaign against the CAA, according to the charge sheet.Also read: Police framing anti-CAA protestors in Delhi riots cases, allege activistsThe police have used Jamia student Fathima’s statement to corroborate the ensuing events. The charge sheet claims that apart from Yechury and Yogendra Yadav, Fathima’s statement mentions Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Ravan, United Against Hate activist Umar Khalid and some leaders from the Muslim community including ex-MLA Mateen Ahmed, and MLA Amannatullah Khan. The document, quoting statements of those arrested, indicated that these people aided the conspirators.In her statement, Fathima said that she was told to organise the protest to “malign the image of the Government of India”, the police claimed. In her statement, included in the charge sheet, she says that ¨big leaders and lawyers started coming in to provoke and mobilize this crowd, including Omar Khalid, Chandrashekhar Ravan, Yogendar Yadav, Sitaram Yechury, and lawyer Mahmood Pracha, etc”.“Pracha said that the sit-in demonstration is your democratic right and the rest of the leaders filled the feeling of discontent in the community by calling CAA/NRC anti-Muslim” she said, as per the charge sheet. According to the charge sheet, Kalita added, “Umar Khalid had also given some tips for doing protest against CAA/NRC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-cops-name-yechury-three-others-in-supplementary-charge-sheet/story-PpetKduMkqzPXil3tjwYAJ.html
12-09-2020||City||Misuse of regularisation policy: Applications/stamp papers submitted by Ludhiana’s colony owners to be scrutinised for backdate entries||Acting on a complaint against the misuse of the regularisation policy by colonisers, the municipal town planner (MTP) has ordered scrutiny of documents and stamp papers for backdate entries.The assistant town planners (ATP) have also been directed to check the authenticity of the stamp papers with the treasury branch. As per officials, the municipal corporation (MC) had received around 130 applications for regularisation of colonies under the policies floated by the state government on different occasions including the one floated in 2018.On September 1, RTI activist Kuldeep Sigh Khaira had filed a complaint with chief secretary Vini Mahajan stating that applications for newly-developed colonies had been accepted with backdate entries.Khaira had stated that only the colonies developed before March 19, 2018, could be regularised under the policy floated by the state government and the department had to dispose of the applications in two months after submission. He had alleged that the applications were pending for over a year now, adding that he would be forced to move the Punjab and Haryana high court if no action was taken on his complaint in 10 days.Apart from seeking FIRs against the colonisers under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA), 1995, Khaira had aso demanded FIRs against officials who accepted the applications. “On checking the date of issuance of stamp papers, authorities can find out whether the applications have been submitted with backdate entries or not,” said Khaira.MTP Surinder Singh Bindra said, “The department has till November end to dispose of the applications and the ATPs have been directed to verify the documents and stamp papers. Mayor Balkar Sandhu is also keeping a check. FIRs will be lodged against the colonisers if anomalies are found in their applications.”GLADA razes four illegal coloniesTaking action against construction of illegal colonies, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) razed four colonies that were being developed illegally in Uchi Mangli, Kotla Afgan and Jandiali amid resistance by the colonisers.Sub-divisional engineer Ashish said, “The team demolished offices of colonisers and a few other buildings in the colonies. Some residents resisted, but police force pacified them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/misuse-of-regularisation-policy-applications-stamp-papers-submitted-by-ludhiana-s-colony-owners-to-be-scrutinised-for-backdate-entries/story-DWNFiwEcVssr9NJppXfU8H.html
12-09-2020||City||Minister Ashu takes stock of Covid preparedness in Ludhiana civil hospital, DMCH||Food, civil supply and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Saturday visited the Ludhiana civil hospital and Dayanand Medical College (DMC) and Hospital to take stock of the facilities in place at both the hospitals for Covid-19 patients.The minister was accompanied by political secretary to chief minister Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.Addressing the officials, Ashu said the state government was concerned for the safety of the citizens and was making all efforts to prevent the spread of infection by creating awareness and providing early-stage treatment.Additional deputy commissioner (ADC, development) Sandeep Kumar, who is also the Covid-19 nodal officer, said there were 150 level-2 beds available to patients. He said that presently, 68 patients were undergoing treatment at civil hospital, of which 31 were on the ventilator though stable.Ashu directed the civil hospital authorities to ensure cleanliness and to provide hygienic food to the patients. At DMC hospital, Dr Bishav Mohan, Dr Sandeep Puri and Dr Rajesh Mahajan informed Ashu that 241 patients were undergoing treatment. They said DMC was the only institution charging patients according to the government-prescribed rates. They said DMC had separate wards for Covid and non-Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minister-ashu-takes-stock-of-covid-preparedness-in-ludhiana-civil-hospital-dmch/story-rsmJ0VpBjfainHJh0rLW8H.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: My Big Loud Indian Boom on Zoom||Cross firing. Cross boundaries. Cross Limits. It sure is a season that is seeing all sorts of crossing – from crossing of borders to Corona crossing the million or trillion mark to Trump, Tractors (tinsel town ones razing star offices) or Tirades (in Sushant sleuthing opera) crossing limits.Interestingly, as a subtext of the Lockdown and Unlock narratives, there has been another ‘cross’ action that has gone unsung. And it is being staged by none other than New Normal’s Digital Living Room – Zoom.It’s called the Great Indian Cross Talk Boom on Zoom.There is recession left, right and centre – in the economy at the macro level, in its malls, multiplexes or migrants’ livelihoods at the micro level; recession has not even spared the New National Lower Dress of India Unlocking, for under the visible elitism or formalism of white-collared shirts for #WFH webinars, there lurk the lower wear’s invisible receding hemlines – micro minis or micro shorts.Ah, but there’s one place that is showing signs of zero recession – The Big Loud Indian Boom on Zoom.Coming to the cross talk, it could be happening on any stage – the bedroom-turned-into-WFH office, balconies-turned-into-Lockdown’s Living Rooms, or crammed Condo life’s common corridors doubling as the new Pandemic’s Parks for Perambulations.The Great Indian Cross Talk Boom on Zoom is to the ‘Virtual is the New Real’ narrative what cross caterwauling among primetime panellists is to an Arnab Goswami studio.If you’ve been a Couch Potato-esque spectator to an Arnab show – Arnab and panellists all jibber-jabbering at cross purposes like amplified All India Radio shows stranded on or straddling jumbled airwaves – you’ll get a drift of the overlapping sub-narratives on Zoom, Google Meet & Co.Who better to bear testimony to it than our Lollitas, Lamba jis & Lally jis!Of pay cuts & peanutsPicture scenario One. Lollita is lolling in the living room, smartphone in hand, wish-list in the head and frown on the forehead, tapping the touchscreen fast and furious. Fast, because, on the one hand, she’s chattering into a Zoom call with her literati gang and with the other hand she’s frantically keying into the iPad her Long List of groceries, confectioneries or toiletries, to be appended to Lamba ji’s Long Short List for Big Basket. Furious, because of the insanely irritating responses she is begetting from Lamba ji, who is babbling on his Zoom with the office guy gang.Lamba ji’s one ear encased in the earphone, the other earphone is levitating between a northern and southern latitude, thanks to his lackadaisical attitude. Lollita divines in it a sign from a cooperating Cosmos that he’s lending her an ear.The conversation could be trundling on these lines:Lollita lulls her lungs to a whisper between her Zoom call, “Are these on the Short List … Dried Red Chilli?”“Oye Oye, Sheikh Chilli!” Lamba ji guffaws gregariously at some babbling bloke in his Zoom grid, thinking Lollita to be rambling to her literary gang, but treating her prattling as a prompting (with key words), to steer his Zoom chat.“Do I keep this on my Long List … Masala peanuts?”“Peanuts … that’s what my poor, pandemic pay slip looks like!” Lamba ji lapses into a lament about recession on his Zoom, not forgetting its fallout on the density of his cranial crop.“Dranex … Will ‘one’ instead of ‘two’ drain cleaners do?” Lollita whispers aside again.“Damn Downsizing! How our lifestyles are going down the drain!” Lamba ji babbles his boom into Zoom.The curious case of “Honey, I shrunk the Long Short List.”Of Pandemic’s Parks & Crammed CorridorsPicture Scenario Two. Lollita steps out on the seventh floor of their sky-rise into the common corridors, the Pandemic’s new parks.She’s hoping to kill two birds with a stone – catch up with cousins on Zoom and bestir bloating limbs into downsized Zumba.Behold, at the same time, the neighbouring Khullar jis, Khanna jis & Co sprint out on a similar mission, except they’re not only killing two birds with a stone, but doing bit of “bird” watching, too.“How I needed to stretch my feet!” Lollita chirrups into Zoom.“Five feet … chalegi chalegi,” Khullar ji jibber-jabbers into his Zoom call.“Sweetie, that deal, did you manage to close it?” Lollita asks her corporate cousin.“Close … Come close … give me a better view,” Khullar ji coos, ostensibly into Zoom.Lollita goggles at him with a glare as glacial as the Gangotri glacier.“These creeps, my foot!” Lollita thunders, half into her Zoom grid.“How many foot?” Khullar ji persists in prodding his property dealer for ‘specs’, as Lollita slips from the scene.The curious case of “Honey, I shrunk (away) from the Grids!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-my-big-loud-indian-boom-on-zoom/story-l2R8LoTRKeg62zP9V0oGgO.html
12-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC floats tenders for e-auction of parking lots; BRS Nagar shopkeepers cry foul||The fund-starved municipal corporation (MC) on Saturday floated tenders for the e-auction of six parking lots in the city scheduled to be held on October 7. The total reserve price for the lots is nearly ₹2.39 crore.The lots up for auction include multi-storey parking near MC Zone A office (reserve price ₹80.5 lakh); tuition market in Model Town Extension (reserve price ₹28.3 lakh); BRS Nagar, near Orient Cinema (reserve price ₹18.5 lakh); Bahadur House (reserve price ₹27.5 lakh); Sarabha Nagar Block-I market (reserve price ₹4 lakh); and Feroze Gandhi Market parking lot (reserve price ₹80.1 lakh).The MC officials said the reserve price had been set as per the highest bids received last year. As the contracts of Feroze Gandhi Market and Sarabha Nagar Block-I market could not be allotted last year, the reserve price for both the lots was the same as last year.The previous contracts will end in the last week of September after a one-month extension was given to the contractors as compensation for the losses incurred during the lockdown.One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said the parking lot at Model Town Extension had been discontinued by the previous contractor due to low footfall amid pandemic. The MC was not expecting to get favourable responses this time either, the official added. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said the tender documents will be uploaded on the website: www.tenderwizard.com/DLGP so that interested parties could go through the terms and conditions. E-ticketing will be made mandatory at the lots. The technical bids can be submitted till October 5 (11am).BRS Nagar shopkeepers oppose paid parkingThe shopkeepers at BRS Nagar Block-F market on Friday submitted a memorandum with the MC, in opposition to paid parking.The shopkeepers said they were already reeling under losses due to low footfall in markets and paid parking would further push away customers.President of the market association, Dilbagh Singh, said, “The contract of parking lots is ending in the last week of September and we have asked the authorities to discontinue the same. The shopkeepers are already struggling to make ends meet and paid parking will further reduce footfall. We submitted a memorandum with zonal commissioner Kulpreet Singh on Friday and the authorities have asked us to visit MC office on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-floats-tenders-for-e-auction-of-parking-lots-brs-nagar-shopkeepers-cry-foul/story-DEiwUgPhPNuQhhV5l3ejGP.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, GMCH-32 online OPD open for patients from Chandigarh’s neighbouring states too||Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has extended its online OPD services to patients from neighbouring states as well.The e-Sanjeevani OPD is a part of Union health ministry’s National Teleconsultation Service. The service enables safe and structured video-based clinical consultations with doctors for patients in the confines of their homes.How to consult a doctor For consulting the medical experts at GMCH-32, a person needs to log on to www.esanjeevaniopd.in or download the mobile application and click on patient login and enter his/her mobile number.Thereafter, an OTP would be sent to the registered number. Upon entering the OTP, the patient has to enter his/her details. Then, after choosing the specialty — dermatology, ophthalmology, ENT, oprthopaedics, psychiatry and dental — further details have to be submitted.Following this, a token number sent to the registered has to be entered in the portal and the patient concerned would then receive a call for required medical consultation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-gmch-32-online-opd-open-for-patients-from-chandigarh-s-neighbouring-states-too/story-PI3TYSwuRzm13EXiumqIYN.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Pied cuckoo Megh goes off satellite’s radar||The monsoons are ebbing and a historic project on bird migration is poised to take off this month. Two Pied cuckoos, tagged with satellite transmitters of 2g each and named Megh and Chatak, are expected to commence migration to Africa. Scientists are expecting to get their first definitive information on the paths they take. Associated deeply with Indian cultures and classical Sanskrit poetry as the harbinger of monsoons, the cuckoo flies into north India ahead of the monsoons to lay eggs in the nests of other birds, especially babblers. But a setback has got scientists worried as one of the tagged cuckoos, Megh, is not sending data. That means either a technical malfunction or the tag dropping off.The cuckoo research project is part of the Indian Bioresource Network (IBIN) project of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) in collaboration with the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun. The IBIN project is funded by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). This research comes in the wake of conclusive findings by international and Indian scientists of the migration paths of the Amur falcon and Common cuckoo to Africa, after travelling through India, by tracking these species through satellite tags.Commenting on the Megh setback, Dr R Suresh Kumar of the WII told this writer: “That is something to worry about. It cannot be fixed unless I retrieve (the tag) and send it back to the company. The cuckoos don’t respond to call playback so have not been able to locate them. I have one person looking for them but he is observing three others and one is Chatak. Megh comes from a different area and he is unable to see it there. A Covid outbreak in the WII campus has constrained my movements in the field to trace Megh.”Dr Kumar is hoping the project will provide a clear perspective to speculation that cuckoos could be going in for an elliptical migration, ie, choosing different paths to come to north India from Africa and while returning to Africa. Or, could it be that a section of cuckoos do not return to Africa and stay put in south India after flying down there from north India in September-October? Finding Megh soon will be crucial to determining the truth about a wondrous bird that has engaged the Indian imagination since centuries like few avians have.SERPENTS OF PARADISE LOSTA startling manifestation of climate change is evident in the erstwhile paradise of India. Ever since epic floods swept Srinagar in 2014, snakes have surfaced in urban areas and these include the highly-venomous Levantine vipers, known in Kashmir as the ‘Gunas’. To meet the challenge of frantic calls from Srinagar residents, a courageous lady wildlife conservationist, Aaliya Mir, has rescued 110 snakes of six different species since 2014. As project head, Jammu & Kashmir, of the NGO, Wildlife SOS, Mir’s work has also shed light on the serpents of this blighted vale, which had escaped the detailed scrutiny of herpetologists due to their obscure habits and remote locations. The serpent-human face-offs got highlighted because they surfaced in the most posh avenue and venue of Sringar. Four vipers were spotted and rescued at former chief minister Omar Abdullah’s residence on the fabled Gupkar Road, one last year and three this year. Abdullah, who has declared he will vacate his residence as he finds himself in unauthorised occupation due to entitlement changes brought about by the state’s reorganisation last year, was quite tense about the intruders. “Omar Abdullah was tense and wanted us to find a solution so that vipers never come into his residence again. But I told him that since your residence is located in the Dachigam foothills, which is the viper’s main habitat, the snakes will venture down and it cannot be avoided. His residence’s large, landscaped garden has plenty of hedges and shrubs, in which vipers can hide easily,” Mir told this writer.At the end of Gupkar road stands an iconic hotel, the Lalit Grand Palace, that truly symbolises the grandeur of Kashmir’s tourist, golf and Bollywood legacy. Before the gun turned Kashmir into a living hell, the hotel was known as the Oberoi Palace and the favoured haunt of legendary actors. An exclusive mini-golf course for hotel guests landscaped with apple and Chinar trees adjoined the main premises.Zeenat Aman in her heydays would breeze through the hotel’s lobby leaving onlookers gasping while the villain actor, Ranjit, in black dress and black cowboy hat, would be found sipping chilled beer at the outdoor bar in the shadows of stately Chinar trees amid open-hand-sized Kashmir roses. Not to forget dashing Dharm paaji accompanied by his customary retinue, the suave Feroz Khan and his gorgeous sister, Dilshad, married into a Kashmir family and sporting waterfall tresses of almond hair.Their presence made the hotel a favourite buzz point for tourists wanting to gawk and giggle at filmstars in real life. Well, those memories haunt the hotel like leaves lost in Autumn’s fires and which summer shall not return, but snakes have taken up some of the vacated space. Mir has rescued a sun bingeing viper and two Himalayan Trinket snakes from the hotel’s postcard-perfect grand lawns that overlook the Dal lake’s grieving silence and empty shikaras. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-pied-cuckoo-megh-goes-off-satellite-s-radar/story-X5yG907QsfpsyNDS4f9obJ.html
12-09-2020||Noida||Noida’s Covid-19 tally crosses 10,000-mark; death toll at 48||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday recorded 198 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the district’s infection tally to 10,006, according to official data.The number of active cases jumped to 1,990 from 1,909 on Friday and 1,820 on Thursday, showing a steady rise over the week, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.There were 1,696 active cases on Wednesday, 1,599 on Tuesday, 1,520 on Monday and 1,429 on Sunday, data from corresponding days showed.On the brighter side, 117 more patients got discharged during the 24-hour period, as the total number of recoveries in the district reached 7,968, the data showed.The district has so far recorded 48 deaths linked to the pandemic, with one of the lowest mortality rates -- 0.47 per cent -- in the state, it showed.Meanwhile, the recovery rate dropped slightly to 79.63 per cent from 80.04 per cent on Friday, 80.55 per cent on Thursday and 81.35 per on Wednesday, as per the statistics.Gautam Buddh Nagar now ranks sixth among the 75 districts in the state in terms of active cases, seventh in recoveries and 25th in death toll, according to the official figures.There were 67,955 active cases across UP on Saturday. So far, 2,33,527 patients have recovered across the state, while the death toll linked to Covid-19 climbed to 4,349, showed the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-10-000-mark-death-toll-at-48/story-zbcynevfqweKt4I2D70wLK.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: We have to compel the media to change||“Those were the days my friend. We thought they’d never end!” Thus go the lines of the immortal Mary Hopkin song. And they convey a truism which is applicable to many aspects of our lives: Changing times usually lead old timers to bemoan the passing of their halcyon days.But in this write up I will focus on the turbulent times that the media has manufactured, much of it the result of its shenanigans and lopsided priorities. Gone are those golden days when upright and diligent media persons would earnestly go about their business of reporting fairly and objectively. Gone also are the days when the very dull but usually correct Doordarshan news bulletins would inform us without ever even pretending to entertain us.There are many media professionals even today who proudly hold aloft the torch of propriety, professionalism and probity. But it is a well-known fact that a large section of the mass media, particularly the electronic media, has gone berserk in seeking narrow gains, thereby forsaking larger objectives that should otherwise be its focus.Enough has been written and said about the abominable levels of debate which a few television channels dish out ad nauseam. They seem truly hell-bent upon adding venom to our minds and lives, come what may. Never is the tone of their so-called discussions even passable, as the French would put it. They are always loud, boorish, detestable and pathetic.But why should the nation watch them for so many collective hours? Why are their TRPs so high? Do we as a people take pleasure in the voyeuristic process of tearing down people’s reputations? Is there no responsibility that the viewer has? How will such channels sell their shoddy wares if the people at large shun them for being intolerable?Those media houses, particularly of the print media domain, which have avoided the temptation to profit by churning out utter trash, need to be recognised for their sense of rectitude. By calling a spade a spade and by focussing on the real issues of the day, of which there is no dearth, these valiant lighthouses are helping us stay afloat.It is no secret that large business houses directly control media channels these days. And they clearly have their own agendas. By not reining them in, the establishment is causing grave harm to the society at large. If controls are not implemented or strengthened, the levels of mass discourse in this country will plummet to unfathomable lows. And they are already well-nigh on the way towards those hellish destinations.A society which habitually focusses upon the real problems of the day, along with music, sports, the arts and creativity, would naturally be superior to one which zooms in on people’s dirty linen and criminal acts. The names of some fallen stars are being bandied about these days as if they have been a part of our folklore forever. Each sentence that people utter seems to contain their names, to the extent that one wants to avoid even mentioning them in this piece.We the people are ultimately responsible for the leaders we throw up, for the type of mass media we consume and for the atmosphere that we continue to create for ourselves. Our focus as responsible citizens has to be on constructive dialogue instead of derisive bombardment of other people.“Dearest TV media and vans outside my home. Please do not stress and work so hard!”, advised Amitabh Bachchan recently. All of us should actually make it clear to TV channels that they are overdoing their act by far. If they would suddenly do the unthinkable and practise calmness, the mood of the nation would improve drastically.As for me. I stopped watching the TV news long ago, much to the amusement of some friends. Why should I spend my evenings with channels whose despicable existence depends on how many people are watching them? I think my vote against them counts!“Whoever controls the media controls the mind,” Jim Robinson, American songwriter, said ominously. Let us make efforts to control our own minds, ladies and gentlemen, no matter who controls the media.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-we-have-to-compel-the-media-to-change/story-5IBuVMIeKHp3AkDWOqdtwJ.html
12-09-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal reports 59 more Covid-19 fatalities, 3,161 new cases||West Bengal’s Covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,887 on Saturday after 59 more patients succumbed to the virus, even as 3,161 fresh cases pushed the tally to 1,99,493, the health department said in a bulletin.Since Friday, 3,042 people recovered from the disease, improving the discharge rate, which stood at 86.26 per cent.The state now has 23,521 active cases, it said.In the past 24 hours, the highest single-day 47,131 samples have been tested in West Bengal, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-reports-59-more-covid-19-fatalities-3-161-new-cases/story-9GP4MTKLggdJMWYq0jNMiP.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: The endearing story of the lost girl named Love||The first time I set my eyes on the picture of the lovely Preet Nagar girl was way back in 1978 when, smitten by the love and legend of Punjabi poet, the late Shiv Batalvi, a friend and I decided to write a book on his life and times. We were visiting his wife Arun and she was showing us the album that held memories of her husband. She stopped at a page with a black and white portrait of a comely girl. Before we could ask, Arun said with half a smile: “She is Anu, Shiv’s friend”. We didn’t ask for more because the legend was well known, as were the beautiful songs the poet wrote pining for her: Ik kurhi jida naam mohabbat gum hai (A girl named Love is lost), or Main ik shikra yaar banaya(I made a bird of prey my friend) and many others.This month when Anusuya, the youngest daughter of the famed literary doyen Gurbaksh Singh Preetlari, passed away at the ripe age of 84, a pandora’s box of the whys and hows of the rumoured romance opened. Speculation then started about a likely Kaidon (villain in the folk saga of Heer-Ranjha) who could have extinguished the flame. It started with a small, well-intended edit in Kitab Trinjan, a literary and cultural site for the two Punjabs of the subcontinent. The title of the short tribute read: Anusuya, the ‘first love’ of Shiv Kumar passes away. A leading Punjab paper picked it up along with the reactions of the family members to the Facebook post. Anusuya’s nephew dismissed it as “more of a myth created by Shiv”. Poonam Singh, editor of Preetlari came forward with a more convincing opinion based on woman-to-woman conversations with the aunt, stating Anusuya did admit to a passion for the poet, adding, “No, Shiv did not create a myth, but should have been more sporting perhaps, definitely he was hurt and felt sad.”“If a writer falls in love with you, you can never die,” is a quotable quote by American author Mik Everett. Thus this lost girl named Love lived in the collective consciousness of the Punjabi literati all these years and her passing away brought alive the romance which many of Shiv’s fans angrily said was nipped in the bud. However, family sources confirm that seeing the budding passion the father asked her if she wanted to marry Shiv and Anu, as she was called, declined despite the passion. As she reflected later: “I could not see myself as his wife”. The father then advised her to concentrate on her studies. Poonam says with reverence to Gurbaksh Singh: “This was not a Jatt family nor had the Jatt attitude for their daughters and daughters-in-law. He stood by all his girls.”But there is more to Anusuya than just this story of young romance. She was a student from the first batch of the Patrice Lumumba Peoples’ Friendship University of Russia (PFU) in 1960. The PFU was established in 1960 to provide higher education to Third World students. In university, she fell in love with Raul Jesus Estevez Laprea, who was studying physics. In 1965, they moved to Venezuela. Both of them taught in Merida University. She was a well-regarded professor of English and is survived by their two sons and a daughter. Her story would be incomplete without the obit note her eldest son Steve Esteves wrote for her. Commenting on skills and talent, he writes: “She wrote perfectly in four alphabets (Sanskrit, Arabic, Cyrillic and Latin), spoke perfect four languages (Punjabi, Russian, English and Spanish) and understood others. With love, he writes: “Very rarely have I met someone more cultured than her. At 15 years I had already had to read Anais Nin’s diaries, I knew the story of Henry Miller or Isadora Duncan’s scarf. When at 17 I went to see the great museums in Europe I already knew the paintings by heart because she told me about them.” The life of Anusuya, the rebel of the 1950s-60s, was indeed well lived and she visited Shiv’s family after his passing away and also in her last trip to the country. She also told Poonam that she had named a star after Shiv and gazed at it.And now, coming to Shiv, our beloved poet, what comes to the mind is yet another quote by the British expatriate novelist Lawrence Durrel in the Alexandria Quartet: “There are only three things to be done with a woman. You can love her, suffer for her, or turn her into literature”. Well, Shiv did all the three things, going on in life and marrying the amazingly supportive Arun, who lived the role of his wife with love, siring two lovely children till death intervened. That is how life moves on and Anusuya’s passing away should be remembered fondly as also Shiv’s for it was his choice. We have all seen the joys and sorrows of a lost love and this is certainly no time for quibbles. nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-the-endearing-story-of-the-lost-girl-named-love/story-he4xvtqmcl8T5jbbA9uRPP.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||4-year-old falls off stairs and dies at GMCH, Jammu; kin allege doctors’ negligence||The death of a four-year-old child who fell off the stairs at his house and later succumbed to his injuries at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here on Friday, triggered vociferous protests by his kin on Saturday.The victim’s mother said, “We rushed our son the to government hospital, Sarwal, where doctors asked us to take him to GMCH. At the GMCH doctors didn’t attend him properly and then deliberately declared him Covid positive. They shifted him to isolation ward where he passed away.” “He was not provided proper medical treatment. Though he was critical , he was not provided ventilator and later shifted to isolation ward on ‘flimsy grounds’. Later, he was taken to the graveyard in secrecy,” alleged the victims’ mother, adding that the Covid test came out negative. Additional district commissioner Ghanshyam Singh said he had gone to the hospital to pacify the family. Repeated calls to hospital authorities went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-year-old-falls-off-stairs-and-dies-at-gmch-jammu-kin-allege-doctors-negligence/story-LjyOTci7r65iSDkxYzVuGN.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: The making of a business-friendly city||Chandigarh, the much-pampered Capital of two states and India’s first planned city is, surprisingly, not a great place for business. It shared rank 29, same as last year (2017-18), in the fourth edition of Business Reform Action Plan rankings for 2019, released by the Union finance minister in New Delhi last week.Chandigarh tied with the eastern states of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim and Tripura at the 29th position.Andhra Pradesh topped the rankings, with Uttar Pradesh at second and Telangana at third positions in the rankings, launched in 2015 to introduce healthy business competition among states and UTs and attract investments for increased ease of doing business.Of the 187 reforms in The Business Reform Action Plan 2018-19, availability of land, environmental registration enablers, labour regulation enablers, and single-window system, Chandigarh implemented nine. These included points under access to information, getting electricity connection and environment.Local industry players who are disappointed with the rankings say all stakeholders have to be consulted to chalk out business-friendly measures.They have also called for implementation of the Chandigarh Industrial Policy 2015. Major issues faced by the industry are non-conversion of leasehold industrial plots to freehold and no increase in floor area ratio.The Covid-19 scenario has also hit businesses hard with manufacturing on hold during the lockdown and the migrant exodus. Calling for major impetus from the government in the short and long term, businesses have sought relief from tax and duties and moratorium on loans. The Centre needs to take Chandigarh’s unique position in the scheme of things. With its manufacturing activities restricted to small zones such as Industrial Area and huge land costs as well as expensive rentals make doing business here a difficult proposition. Carving out more space for new businesses, creating a one-window system for approvals and permits, discounts on use of electricity and water, and an additional stimulus package is the need of the hour, with industries guaranteeing adherence to labour- and environmental friendly norms. Desperate measures are needed in desperate times. UT authorities need to work on the problem minutely to see how the city gets back on track business-wise again. QUESTION OF THE WEEK: RIGHT STEPSWhat should be done for ease of doing business in Chandigarh? What steps should be taken to make Chandigarh a business-friendly city? Send your responses with a photograph to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by September 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-the-making-of-a-business-friendly-city/story-DVN0iWyi7EpMS0o9wKZqLP.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD appeals to Centre not to enact laws on farm ordinances till redressal of farmers’ fears||The SAD on Saturday appealed to the BJP-led Centre not to present the three farm ordinances for approval in Parliament until “all reservations” expressed by farmers are “duly addressed.” A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the SAD core committee which was presided over by Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal here.The core committee felt that it was its responsibility to get the reservations of the ‘annadaata’ (farmers) addressed and asserted that it was committed to taking up all issues raised by farmers with the Union government, said a party release here.The statement came, amid a widespread criticism by many farmers’ organisations of the three farm ordinances promulgated by the Centre. The appeal from the SAD for not enacting laws on ordinances came despite the party earlier maintaining that the Centre has assured that these ordinances will have no bearing on the existing crop procurement policy.Last month, Sukhbir Badal had even said that Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had written to him that there was no change in the present policy of the purchase of agriculture produce through Minimum Support Price through state agencies.Badal had even accused Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of trying to “mislead” people on this issue.Farmers have expressed apprehension that these ordinances would pave the way for dismantling of the MSP system and they would be at the “mercy” of big corporates. They have been demanding rollback of these ordinances.The ordinances are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.The SAD’s core committee noted that the SAD leadership met farmer organisations representatives and those of ‘khet mazdoor’ (farm labour) during the last few days. “It also held discussions with farm experts to take their views, besides taking the view of grassroots party workers as well as the senior party leadership,” the party said in a release.A considered view has emerged that the Union government should not rush for enacting laws on the ordinances till the apprehensions conveyed to the SAD were addressed, said the release. Badal conveyed to the core committee that he had also been approached by farmers as well as farm organisations from adjoining states and that all of them had expressed apprehensions about the central ordinances and urged the SAD to take up their issues and grievances with the central leadership. “Taking this into account, the SAD is also of the view that the concerns should be taken up for consideration by the Centre,” said the party.The core committee felt that it is appropriate that the SAD president lead a delegation to discuss the concerns of the farmers with the central government. The Congress-led state government, which is spearheading a campaign against the ordinances, had described these ordinances as a “blatant attack” on the federal structure.On August 28, the Punjab Assembly had passed a resolution, rejecting these farm ordinances.The CM had then said these are not only against the interest of farmers and landless workers and time-tested agriculture marketing system established in the state but are also against the Constitution of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-appeals-to-centre-not-to-enact-laws-on-farm-ordinances-till-redressal-of-farmers-fears/story-n5chlF4jC8PjtNquyaCNzI.html
12-09-2020||Jaipur||Moderate rainfall reported at few places in Rajasthan||Light to moderate rainfall occurred at few places in Rajasthan with Kushalgarh (Banswara) and Sirohi each receiving a maximum of 6 cm rains till Saturday morning, the meteorological department here said. Kotda (Udaipur) and Bali (Pali) recorded 5 cm and 4 cm rains while Mount Abu (Sirohi), Dungbola (Dungarpur), Kesarpura (Banswara) and Raibadi (Nagaur), each received 3 cm rains during this period, according to the department. The weather remained mainly dry on Saturday. Light rains are likely to occur at a few places in the state during the next 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/moderate-rainfall-reported-at-few-places-in-rajasthan/story-tYOpqsGYUcTycZEWdpBtCJ.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Six more people succumb to coronavirus in Chandigarh||For the fourth time in five days, the tricity recorded more than 700 new Covid-19 cases, as 725 people tested positive on Saturday. Meanwhile, nine people succumbed to the virus, including six in Chandigarh alone.Death toll in the Union Territory has reached 89, while the total number of cases stands at 7,542 after 250 more surfaced on Saturday. However, with 264 patients being discharged, the number of those cured went up to 4,846 and active cases dipped to 2,586.Those dead include a 17-year-old girl from Dhanas, who tested positive posthumously. She also suffered from typhoid and anaemia and died on September 2, stated the health department bulletin.The others include a 66-year-old man from Sector 56, 59-year-old man from Maloya, 54-year-old man from Sector 39 and 48-year-old woman from Behlana, all of whom had comorbidities. A Maloya man, aged 43, also succumbed.The neighbouring Mohali district reported 297 fresh cases while two patients died and 257 were discharged. The deceased include a 67-year-old man from Zirakpur and a 53-year-old woman from Dera Bassi.Among the fresh cases, 114 surfaced in Mohali city, following by 57 in Gharuan, 53 in Dhakoli and 5 in Kharar. The infection tally has risen to 6,357, of which 2,105 cases are active. While 4,124 people have recovered, 128 have died so far.In Panchkula district, 178 people tested positive and a 74-year-old man from Pinjore succumbed to the virus on Saturday. Of 3,990 infections reported so far, 2,665 people have been cured while 41 have died, leaving 1,284 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-more-people-succumb-to-coronavirus-in-chandigarh/story-lt9cJtqNKp69Q38OlE8FeN.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held with fake currency in Chandigarh||A 20-year-old youth has been arrested for possessing and using fake currency, Chandigarh Police said on Saturday.Identified as Parshant Gautam, alias Kaka, 20, of Dadumajra Colony, he was apprehended following a tip-off at a naka in Maloya on Friday night. He was carrying six fake currency notes in ₹100 denomination. Later, 16 more such notes were recovered.Police said Parshant studied till Class 12 and is unemployed. He had allegedly procured 180 such notes (₹18,000) from a man in Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh for ₹9,000, and had been using them for shopping for the past three months. He was produced in court on Saturday and sent to three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/youth-held-with-fake-currency-in-chandigarh/story-XmzJed4otnQve0tSoGdAiL.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Online exams: PU to appoint nodal officer for Ladakh students||Panjab University has decided to appoint a special nodal officer for the students of Ladakh. The development came after the higher education department of Ladakh wrote to the varsity.The decision was taken on Saturday by a committee during an online meeting. The nodal officer will facilitate the smooth conduct of online exams. Online exams for final semester students of Panjab University’s (PU’s) undergraduate and postgraduate courses are scheduled to start from September 17.Ladakh Students’ Association (LSA) Chandigarh had also expressed the apprehensions that candidates might face technical problems during the online exams and demanded from PU to set up a nodal centre for the students of Ladakh.A committee member who attended the meeting said, “We have decided to appoint a nodal officer for the students of Ladakh who will facilitate them during exams if they face any problem.”However, the member said that varsity will not be able to set up a nodal centre there.The higher education department of the UT of Ladakh had earlier in a letter to PU said that LSA has approached them and the students stated that due to the lack of proper internet services and online examination facilities in Ladakh, they were concerned about technical difficulties they might face while taking the online exams and uploading their answer sheets.A student of PU’s defence studies department, Deskyong Namgyal, who hails from Ladakh, said, “Internet issues in Ladakh are common and it is obvious that many students may face this problem during exams as well. We have requested the PU to set up a nodal centre for us which can facilitate the smooth conduct of online exams.”According to the guidelines issued by the varsity, students have to upload the answer sheets which will not exceed 12 pages each within two hours after the time of exam is over. They may also send it by post to the varsity. About 40 nodal centres will be set up for the conduct of online examination by PU, four of which will be in Chandigarh.PU’s controller of examinations Parvinder Singh said that new email addresses — ugexam@gmail.com and pgexam@gmail.com — have been activated for around 20,000 private/USOL candidates to submit their answer sheets in the university secrecy branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/online-exams-pu-to-appoint-nodal-officer-for-ladakh-students/story-ZpU7PzyFDe04Q9r6GEeseL.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||MULTANI DISAPPEARANCE CASEMohali court issues arrest warrant against former DGP Sumedh Saini||MohaliA Mohali court on Saturday issued arrest warrants (non-bailable warrants) against former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with the Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case of 1991. Mohali judicial magistrate Ravtesh Inderjit Singh directed the police to arrest Saini and produce him in court by September 25. The orders were issued after the special investigation team (SIT) failed to arrest Saini despite conducting raids at various places, including neighbouring states, and moved court “to get assistance” from police of other states and districts to arrest Saini. Special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula said: “The arrest warrants were sought from the court because police from other states was not cooperating with the SIT in search and arrest procedures taken up by police teams.” In its application, the SIT stated that daily diary reports (DDR) have been registered at police station Hauz Khas, South Delhi, police station, Sadar Shimla, police post Pangana in Mandi, police station, north Chandigarh, police station, Sector 19, Chandigarh, and police station, Tanda near Hoshiarpur. “Perusal of the DDRs revealed that due to lack of arrest warrants, there is an obstacle in getting assistance from the police at various police stations by raiding party from Mohali. Thus application is allowed for facilitating arrest of Saini, who is evading arrest,” observed the court in its order of issuing non-bailable warrants. Recently, the former DGP moved the Supreme Court after Punjab and Haryana high court dismissed his anticipatory bail plea. Saini was booked in May this year in connection with the disappearance of Multani, a junior engineer at Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco) in 1991. Last month, the police had added the murder charge in the FIR after two former Chandigarh Police personnel, who were co-accused in the case, turned approver. Multani, a resident of Mohali, was picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini when he was the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh in 1991. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from custody at Qadian in Gurdaspur district. Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Singh Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani, a resident of Jalandhar. The case was registered against them under Sections 302 (murder), 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali.Meanwhile, the SIT and Punjab Police are continuously conducting raids in neighbouring states, including Haryana, Himachal, Chandigarh and Rajasthan to apprehend Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-court-issues-arrest-warrants-against-former-punjab-police-chief-sumedh-singh-saini/story-B1jQWwZClE7fupLSWHkScO.html
12-09-2020||City||J&K witnesses biggest single-day spike with 1,698 fresh cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 10 deaths and the biggest single-day spike with 1,698 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported, taking the UTs’ positive case tally to 52,410.The region is recording over 1,500 fresh cases on daily basis for the past four days. On Friday, the case tally crossed 50,000 mark since the first case being reported on March 9.As many as 838 people tested positive in Jammu division, including 102 travellers. And 860 cases were reported from Kashmir, of which 33 were travellers.Besides this, 596 people have recovered and were discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 35,285, which accounts for a recovery rate of 67.3%.This is a significant decrease in the recovery rate from a highest so far of 77.3% on September 2.Active cases have steadily increased from 7,980 on August 31 to 16,261 on Saturday. Over 12.03 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far.A government spokesperson said that 219 people were discharged in Jammu division and 377 in Kashmir. Of all recoveries, 27,492 were cured in Kashmir and 7,793 in Jammu division.10 DEATHS REPORTED ON SATURDAYThe spokesperson added that 10 more people succumbed to the disease — six in Jammu division and four in Kashmir, on Saturday. With this, the death toll has risen to 864 — 721 in Kashmir and 143 in Jammu.The highest jump of fresh cases was witnessed in Jammu district with 250 cases, while 103 people tested positive in Udhampur district. In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was recorded in Srinagar where 255 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 123.Srinagar is the worst affected district as the number of total cases here have reached 11,498 with 248 deaths. Jammu district has recorded 7,947 cases and 85 deaths. Jammu district has highest active cases at 5,258 as against 1,921 in Srinagar.Till date, 5.15 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 42,414 in home quarantine, 16,261 in isolation, and 53,090 under home surveillance. Besides these, 4.03 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-witnesses-biggest-single-day-spike-with-1-698-fresh-cases/story-D9LzFd2kn7xRFALhQlsE5M.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana starts free platelet transfusion for dengue patients||Haryana health department has started single donor platelets (SDP) facility for dengue patients in the state free of cost. So far, 33 confirmed dengue cases have been reported in the state, mainly from the two districts of Gurugram and Bhiwani.Additional chief secretary(ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the provision of single donor platelets has been made for dengue patients admitted in government hospitals to prevent mortality. Some patients with severe thrombocytopenia (abnormally low levels of platelets) required it for immediate recovery.“In the previous years, Rs 8,500 per unit SDP was being charged in government hospitals. However, now, Haryana has become the first state in northern region to provide SDP facility free it cost for dengue patients,” said Arora, adding, “At present, the SDP facility (Platelets Apheresis Machine) is available in Gurugram, Panchkula, Karnal, Rohtak and Sonepat.” He said dengue testing is also being done free of cost in government laboratories.The ACS said that 27 dengue testing labs are presently functional in the state. In addition, dengue sampling has also been started at flu corners for suspected dengue cases in Bhiwani and Rohtak, as mostly cases are reported from these districts, he said.He added that 1,158 tests were conducted in the first week of September. The ACS said that on one hand, the department is on its toes to ensure containment of Covid-19 infections, on the other hand, it has also been monitoring the prevalence of other diseases such as dengue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-starts-free-platelet-transfusion-for-dengue-patients/story-R1buY9PUdiSljbw4O3K83I.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||JEE Main: Kunwar Preet is Chandigarh topper||Kunwar Preet Singh, who completed Class 12 from Sri Guru Gobind Singh Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, is the Chandigarh state topper in the Joint Entrance Examination Main, the results of which were released by National Testing Agency late on Friday night. Kunwar Preet had scored 99.9972 percentile in the exam held in January. The best of scores in the January and April/September exam is considered for the final percentile.“He has always been good in studies and is focused on clearing the JEE Advanced exam now,” said his father Jaspal Singh, who works at the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Mohali. Kunwar, too, wants to pursue engineering in computer science. JEE Main is conducted for admission to 31 National Institutes of Technology (NITs), 25 Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) and 28 centrally funded technical institutes. The top 1.5 lakh students on the JEE Main merit list will be able to appear for the JEE Advanced, which will be held on September 27 for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jee-main-kunwar-preet-is-chandigarh-topper/story-X40D7EGyiuWAjdVyOu04JL.html
12-09-2020||Election:||Former Union minister Tariq Anwar’s elevation in AICC hints at party’s focus on Bihar||The elevation of former Union minister Tariq Anwar in the All India congress committee (AICC) as general secretary and his inclusion in the top policy-making set up seem to have put Bihar on the party’s priority list ahead of the assembly polls.Anwar is the only face from Bihar to be elevated as the AICC general secretary after a gap of almost five years when Shakeel Ahmad was dropped from the position in 2014. Besides, he has also been included in the topmost policy-making body of the party - Congress working committee (CWC) - comprising of 23 leaders including Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi.Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, DK Diwar, said Anwar’s elevation in the Congress’s national body would help the party consolidate its position among the minorities. “Owing to his secular image, Anwar may also be instrumental in reviving the old party’s base among the upper castes and Dalits,” said Diwar adding that it was a strategic move of the Congress to project him as a strong minority face to the Grand Alliance (GA), which is lacking it right now.Also read: Bihar polls - Nitish, Nadda hold initial talks on seat-sharing, agree on earliest solutionThe Congress indents to contest the assembly elections in Bihar, due in October-November, under the Grand Alliance with RJD, left parties, RLSP and VIP as its constituents.Many senior state Congress leaders believed that aspirations of the state Congress leaders might get attention of the party’s leadership because of Anwar’s position in the AICC. Anwar, too, thanked the AICC leaders for bestowing faith in him and said that he would strive relentlessly for reviving the party’s old glory in Bihar as well as strengthening the organisation in Kerala and Lakshadweep.In keeping with his experience with the organisation, the party had wished to put Anwar in the forefront in Bihar politics by deciding to nominate him to the state legislative council election. However, owing to some issues, the party made Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) working president Samir Kumar Singh as MLC.Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said that Anwar was a towering face in Bihar politics and the party would benefit from his elevation. “Anwar has also been a Youth Congress leader and knows the organisation. His role in the run-up to the election would help the organisation salvage its lost glory,” said Mishra. Anwar, who had served as the AICC general secretary till 1997-98 before opting out and floating the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) with Sharad Pawar, is known for the organisation. He won Katihar Lok Sabha constituency on the NPC ticket with support from the RJD and the Congress in 2015. He kept visiting Bihar and stayed in touch with Congress leaders even though he was in the NCP.Former BPCC president Anil Sharma, however, expressed reservations about Anwar’s ability to catapult the party’s fate in Bihar. “Upper castes hold key to success in the impending assembly elections. Besides Anwar, two minority leaders, Shakeel Ahmad Khan and Jawed, are already in the AICC. Meira Kumar and Ranjeet Ranjan, belonging to scheduled caste and other backward classes, are in the AICC from the state. However, upper-caste leaders have not been accommodated in the AICC from Bihar since long,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/former-union-minister-tariq-anwar-s-elevation-in-aicc-hints-at-party-s-focus-on-bihar/story-t7Z7izF5ySNRWTIkcrTEtI.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar’s Ujjwal and Avval shine bright as JEE Main top scorers in Punjab||True to their names, Ujjwal Mehta and Avval Amil, both students from Jalandhar, have emerged as the top scorers in Punjab in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main, conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) recently. Ujjwal scored 99.99 percentile in both exams conducted by the NTA in January and in September. Ujjwal’s father Naveen Kumar Mehta is a financial manager in a private company, while his mother, Seema, is a homemaker. He had been taking coaching from a private institute in Patiala since he was in Class 9. “A total of 24 candidates scored 100 percentile in JEE Main so Ujjwal’s all India rank is 27. He is focused on clearing the JEE Advanced on September 27,” said Vipan Madaan, the student welfare head of his coaching institute. “I want to study computer science at the IIT, Mumbai. I study eight hours a day though I like watching movies. I’m not internet-savvy and I stay away from social media,” Ujjwal had said in January. Avval Amil, a student of Apeejay Mahavir Marg, Jalandhar, got the second position in the state with 99.998 percentile. He secured AIR 43. “Amil is a bright student and aims to study in a top engineering college in the country,” said Pratik Singh, the general manager, public relations, Apeejay Education Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-s-ujjwal-and-avval-shine-bright-as-jee-main-top-scorers-in-punjab/story-1lqcz9e7HufWTN81fGxvfI.html
12-09-2020||City||Two drug addicts held for seven snatching cases in Ludhiana||The CIA-1 staff of Ludhiana police claim to have solved seven cases of snatching and vehicle lifting with the arrest of two drug addicts. The accused have been identified as Raj Kumar, 28, of Jairath Dharamshala, Civil City; and Rahul Sharma, 31, of Chandar Nagar. “Both accused are facing trial in several criminal cases. While Raj was bailed out in September 2018, Rahul was released on bail in September 2019. They are drug addicts and returned to crime to meet their daily dose of drugs,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP, detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa.Police have recovered a stolen motorcycle (PB10-FL-6543) and seven stolen mobile phones from their possession.The DCP said a man’s Apple iPhone was snatched behind the Income Tax office in Kitchlu Nagar on September 5. Following an investigation, a police team nabbed the two accused near Rajpura Chowk on Saturday. During questioning, the duo confessed to the crime.“The accused had stolen a motorcycle from Vishnupuri area of Daresi and installed a fake number plate on the vehicle to use it to execute snatchings,” the police official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-drug-addicts-held-for-seven-snatching-cases-in-ludhiana/story-F7njzMQuvnVi32Y2gl3UhL.html
12-09-2020||City||Two Ludhiana cops caught on camera stealing tomatoes, suspended||Two constables have been suspended after a video showing them stealing tomatoes from the New Vegetable Market went viral on social media. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has also marked an inquiry to assistant commissioner of police (ACP, headquarters) Jang Bahadur against the accused constables Bakhtawar Singh and Mulkh Raj.According to the commission agents at the market, they had noticed tomatoes going missing from shops for the past five days. To rein in the theft, they recently installed CCTV cameras in the markets. On scanning the CCTV footage on Friday morning, they were shocked to find that the thieves were two cops from the PCR motorcycle squad that was deputed at the market to maintain law and order.Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, SHO at Basti Jodhewal police station, said they had not received any written complaint to lodge an FIR.Previously, commission agents had also complained to the police chief regarding extortion by police volunteers at the markets and urged him to remove them from the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-caught-on-camera-stealing-tomatoes-police-chief-marks-inquiry/story-DM2WbeorYx759wxTxB0SdJ.html
12-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal CID may file additional chargesheet in TMC MLA’s murder case||The West Bengal CID is likely to file a supplementary chargesheet next week in connection with the murder of TMC MLA from Krishnaganj, Satyajit Biswas.According to a senior officer in the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID), the supplementary chargesheet might name the party’s Ranaghat MP, Jagannath Sarkar, who was, in the past, questioned in connection with the case.Apart from Sarkar, BJP leader Mukul Roy was also questioned by the agency.Sources in the department said phone call records have revealed that Sarkar had spoken to one of the accused in the case several times before Biswas was murdered.Biswas, the state’s ruling party MLA from Krishnaganj constituency, was shot dead during a Saraswati Puja programme in Nadia district in February 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-cid-may-file-additional-chargesheet-in-tmc-mla-s-murder-case/story-JQ7tGiQa0Dx0UDrmCZtQ3K.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-jailer’s house searched over alleged misappropriation of antique coins in Jammu||The Crime Branch on Saturday searched the house of a former jail superintendent in connection with the alleged misappropriation of antique coins recovered from Kot Bhalwal jail eight years ago. The residential house of the then superintendent, Kot Bhalwal jail, Rajni Sehgal, in Jammu city was searched by a team of the crime branch after a search warrant was obtained from a local court. In June 2015, the crime branch had registered a case against four jail officials including Sehgal for allegedly trying to pocket nearly 400 gold and copper coins belonging to 12th and 13th century AD that were found by inmates lodged in the Central Jail premises while digging a patch for kitchen gardening in 2012.“It has been established that the antique coins recovered were handed over to Sehgal on the same day in by an official of the jail,” an agency spokesperson said. Though the coins were recovered in September, Sehgal did not inform her senior officers about the recovery till December 2012 in order to ‘misappropriate’ the ancient coins.“When the news regarding recovery leaked, she hurriedly handed over some coins to the officer of Archeological Survey of India (ASI), which as per records were less than what had been recovered,” the spokesperson said. As per the reports, Sehgal only showed the recovery of 107 coins in November 2012. The coins belonged to the era of Ghiyas-ud-Din Balban, the ninth sultan of Mamluk dynasty of Delhi, Ala-ud-din Khilji, the second ruler of Khilji dynasty, and Muhammad Ghori, the founder of the Turkish Empire in IndiaAn FIR has been registered under Sections of the Treasury Trove Act.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-jailer-s-house-searched-over-alleged-misappropriation-of-antique-coins-in-jammu/story-7hlMk3NpRPraEFc29LHTMK.html
12-09-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Nitish, Nadda hold initial talks on seat-sharing, agree on earliest solution||The much-awaited talks on seat-sharing for the forthcoming Bihar assembly elections between JD(U) and the BJP began on Saturday with both alliance partners deciding to reach an agreement on the issue “at the earliest.” The BJP delegation led by party’s national president JP Nadda interacted with chief minister and JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar for close to 45 minutes. The BJP delegation comprised Bihar election in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, party’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi. Chief minister Nitish Kumar was assisted by Lok Sabha MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh.NDA sources said that Kumar voiced his annoyance over LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s utterance and emphasised the need of formalisation of seat-sharing at the earliest so that the message goes loud and clear to the people. Also read: Judges are now soft targets with advent of social media - Justice RamanaA BJP source said that it was the “initial round of talks.” A final call on seat-sharing formula would be worked out only after September 14 meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and LJP president Chirag Paswan.“We want a respectable accommodation,” said an LJP leader, wishing not to be quoted. The LJP president already had three rounds of talks with Nadda in Delhi. According to highly placed BJP sources, Nadda has advised LJP president to tone down his attacks on Bihar government and “be realistic in assessing his strengths before taking on a political veteran.” Later in the day, BJP president Nadda, during the launching of Aatmnirbhar Bihar programme, clarified that the NDA alliance of BJP-JD (U)-LJP will contest elections under the leadership of Nitish Kumar and win with two-third majority. “People of Bihar have already made up their mind. Now, we have to decide how are we going to change Bihar. When Biharis can change place outside the state, why can’t they do so here,” he said. “The alliance of BJP-JD (U)-LJP and HAM-S is very strong,” said Sushil Modi, Bihar’s deputy CM.Sources in the NDA said two to three formulas were under consideration. BJP leaders believe that after distributing seats among allies, the BJP and the JD(U) should get theirs on the 50-50 basis as was the case during the 2019 national polls. “Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), HAM-S, which is likely to align with the JD (U), is likely to get seven seats. It will leave 115 seats for the JD(U). The BJP has been asked to adjust LJP from its quota and it is demanding no less than 42 seats,” said a person on condition of anonymity. In 2015, the JD(U) and RJD had contested the elections together on 101 seats each as part of the Grand Alliance. The partner, Congress, contested on 41 seats. In 2015, the BJP had contested 157 seats, LJP 42 seats, RLSP 23 seats and HAM got 21 seats. The BJP won from 53 seats, the LJP and RLSP won two seats each while the HAM could win only one. The BJP garnered 93,08,015 votes, highest among all political parties out of the 3,76,96,978 votes polled against the total 6,62,43,193 registered voters in Bihar. HAM president Jitan Ram Manjhi had contested from two seats – Gaya and Imamganj – but lost from Gaya. In the 2010 assembly elections, the JD(U) and BJP had contested 141 and 102 seats and won 115 and 91 seats respectively. The LJP was not part of the NDA then. In the November 2005 elections, the JD(U) and BJP had contested from 139 and 102 seats and won from 88 and 55 seats respectively. The BJP is considering these 102 seats as its own and planning selection of candidates accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-nitish-nadda-hold-initial-talks-on-seat-sharing-agree-on-earliest-solution/story-DYQaAoN80qs5EWKzxe3f7M.html
12-09-2020||Pune||Pune district collector forms committee to streamline oxygen supply to Covid-19 hospitals||Pune district administration formed a district-level committee on Saturday to streamline the supply of oxygen at Covid-19 hospitals.Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister had instructed civic officials to form a committee after a series of complaints regarding the shortage of oxygen at Covid hospitals. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh formed the committee under the Disaster Management Act and Pandemic Act. District industry director, resident deputy collector, an officer from the food and drug administration and district health officer are part of this committee and they will monitor oxygen supply daily.Deshmukh said, “We are receiving complaints from family members of patients about not getting oxygen supply at Covid-19 hospitals. Many critical patients require medical oxygen. The demand for medical oxygen is increasing daily in Pune city and rural parts.”“The production of oxygen at manufacturing units is enough but the problem is the distribution network. Hence, there is a need to improve the supply network,” he said.District medical officer has written letters to the government hospitals, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations and private hospitals. They will have to give the details of the daily need for oxygen and available stock with them. The district committee would monitor the oxygen supply for them and ensure that every hospital gets enough supply on time.Regional transport office has been given the responsibility to monitor the movement of tankers carrying oxygen.Guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday had taken a review meeting with the divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and other senior officers and instructed them to address the oxygen complaints. He had instructed the civic administration in the city to provide tankers transporting oxygen from factories to various hospitals with a beacon, like those carried by ambulances or police vehicles.Members’ responsibility in the district-level committeeResident collector- Coordination with collector officeAdditional commissioner FDA- Coordination with manufacturing and packaging plant unitsDistrict industry centre manager- Increase of oxygen productionRTO- Tanker coordination and smooth trafficDistrict health officer- To coordinate with government, private and municipal corporations’ hospitals and review their daily demand||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-collector-forms-committee-to-streamline-oxygen-supply-to-covid-19-hospitals/story-ByoozbxaOmXs7lfrvWC7IN.html
12-09-2020||City||Police hunting for gang of 4 that snatched ₹1.96 lakh from Jamalpur man||Police are on the lookout for four men, who snatched Rs 1.96 lakh from a Jamalpur resident after offering him better exchange rate for Canadian Dollars.The accused have been identified as Kandoos Sherawat Sheikh of Kolkata; Samiya Shekh of Darbangha, Bihar; and Kamlesh and Sayeed Mohammad of Daresi. They were living in Kailash Nagar in a rented accommodation, but have fled to Kolkata after committing the crime on September 4, police said.In his complaint to the police, the victim, Rakesh Kumar, 50, a resident of Punjab Housing Board Colony, Jamalpur, said he worked in a factory and needed Canadian Dollars as his elder son, Bhavesh Kumar, was to travel abroad. On September 4, he visited a currency exchange shop near Samrala Chowk. There, a man approached him outside and offered him a better exchange rate.He took him to Daulat Colony and called his three aides, who showed him some Canadian Dollars in a bag and asked him to show them the Indian currency that he was carrying. As soon as he opened his bag, the accused pushed him and fled with his bag containing Rs 1.96 lakh. Kumar said he initially tried to find the men himself, so did not inform the police. After he traced the accused to Kailash Nagar, he contacted the cops on Friday.ASI Sawinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused had fled to Kolkata after executing the crime. They had been booked under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 379-B (snatching using force) of the Indian Penal Code. They will arrest the accused soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-hunting-for-gang-of-4-that-snatched-1-96-lakh-from-jamalpur-man/story-LCZXF6FYrTPaX8899CjFkI.html
12-09-2020||Kolkata||IIM Calcutta faculty concerned over institute allowing students to stay on campus||A section of the faculty members of IIM Calcutta has expressed concern over the institute allowing 62 students of its MBA executive programme to stay on the campus amid the Covid-19 outbreak.Despite staying on the campus, the students will, however, continue attending classes online.The institute authorities have taken a decision in this regard as the students, whose course had begun in April, were facing problems at their rented rooms outside the campus.A section of the teachers has recently shot off a letter to the IIM Calcutta board, warning that allowing the students inside the campus may lead to a situation similar to that in IIT Kharagpur, which had to impose lockdown on its campus after several students and faculty members contracted the disease.“IIT Kharagpur had to vacate its hostels due to the continuing spread of Covid-19. There are news reports that a student of PGPC programme at IIM Ahmedabad who was allowed inside the campus tested positive for the infection.“Such news reports have caused considerable anxiety to different stakeholders -- campus residents and other faculty members and staffers who regularly visit the campus for official work,” the letter read.Around 80 faculty members reside on the IIM Calcutta campus in the southern fringes of the city.The institute, in a statement issued on September 8, had said that the students will arrive at the campus in small groups this month. They will be placed under quarantine in the hostels and will attend classes online.“It is an internal matter...we hope the authorities will soon find a solution acceptable to all,” a senior faculty member told PTI.Institute Director, Professor Anju Seth, in a statement on September 8, had said that the students will mandatorily be screened and quarantined “for their safety and that of other campus residents”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/iim-calcutta-faculty-concerned-over-institute-allowing-students-to-stay-on-campus/story-lSlXz4QY6RxaAquLsWriTJ.html
12-09-2020||City||APT headquarters to be shifted from Shimla to Palampur: CM Jai Ram||The Armed Police and Training (APT) headquarters will be shifted from Shimla to Palampur, chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur announced on Saturday while presiding over the passing-out parade of deputy superintendent of police probationers (12th Batch) and sub-inspector probationers (8th Batch) at Himachal Pradesh Police Training College, Daroh, Kangra.The CM also said that the director general of police (DIG, intelligence) will operate from Dharamshala for better and effective functioning of the police department. Speaking on the occasion, Thakur also commended the institute for ensuring uninterrupted training of officers despite the pandemic. He said that working in the police force can be challenging but also extremely rewarding as the officers get to make a lot of difference within the community. ‘1,000 posts of constables approved’The CM also said the state government has given its approval for filling up of 1,000 posts of police constables but the process has been delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. He announced that the training institute will receive ₹10 crore a year for the next five years for infrastructure development. Thakur also inaugurated a residential building at the college, constructed at a cost of ₹1.75 crore, and announced another ₹1.37 crore from Disaster Management Fund for other activities.On the occasion, Pranav Chauhan, who led the contingent during the parade, was adjudged the best DSP probationer while Navneet Saini was given the award among the sub-inspector probationers.Director general of police Sanjay Kundu said that in the last 25 years of its existence, Daroh police training college has produced some of the finest police officers in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/apt-headquarters-to-be-shifted-from-shimla-to-palampur-cm-jai-ram/story-fcB9YUCcx1C8IhWtLimhkO.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||JEE-Main Results: Sarthak Diwan tops in Himachal, says gave up social media to focus||Securing a 99.97 percentile in the JEE-Main examination, the results of which were declared on Friday night, Shimla’s Sarthak Diwan emerged as the state topper while Vanshita of Solan stood second with a 99.83 percentile. In order to focus Sarthak gave up all social media platforms for two years and studied for around six to seven hours a day. “I only used the internet to get study material and the phone talk to family and friends,” he said.Both his parents - Dr Yogesh Diwan and Dr Deepa Diwan - are doctors at the Indira Gandhi Medical College. They said they were proud of Sarthak’s achievements.Sarthak wants to be a computer engineer and wants to study at an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT).  Vanshita says she was sure she would get a good rank as she had worked hard. “I am thankful to my parents and teachers as it is because of their guidance that I was able to accomplish this feat,” she said.Vanshita a student of Navjyoti Century School, Baadi, had prepared for the competitive exam in Chandigarh.Her father Rakesh Thakur works at the Solan State Electricity Board while her mother is a teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jee-main-results-sarthak-diwan-tops-in-himachal-says-gave-up-social-media-to-focus/story-rnOzXl4t5E6gcv2SfePksN.html
12-09-2020||City||July 18 Shopian encounter: Kin of 3 Rajouri men killed write to Lt Guv; families fear cover-up, tweets Omar||Srinagar Former J&K chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah on Saturday said there should be progress in investigation into the killing of three Rajouri men in an alleged fake encounter on July 18 this year, after the families wrote a letter to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday. He added DNA samples of family members had also been collected to substantiate their claims, but reports had been delayed. “DNA samples were collected almost a month ago on August 13. The families have every reason to fear a cover-up, given the inordinate delay in receiving the DNA test reports. I hope their letter to the LG will result in progress now,” Omar tweeted on SaturdayThree young men, Ibrar Ahmad, Imtiyaz Ahmad and Ibrar Ahmad, who were also related to each other, had been gunned down in an encounter on July 18. DNA samples from families had been sent to Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) Srinagar, and the FSL at Chandigarh. Sources said the government had received the FSL report from Srinagar lab, but its content had not been made public.“Our children had left for Shopian on July 16, in search of work where one of our relatives Imtiyaz Ahmad works in the house of the ‘Lambardar’. After a couple of days, we lost contact with the children. So, we decided to lodge a missing complaint,” the letter says, adding that on August 10, they came to know, via social media, that all three had been killed in an encounter on July 18 .“We identified them from viral pictures of bodies. On August 13, a Shopian police team collected DNA samples from us. We were assured that the DNA report would be out within ten days. To date, we have not been informed about the reports,” the plea to the Lt Governor continues. “Our children had no connection with militancy. For this, we are even demanding an inquiry. They were killed in cold blood, and were merely students and labourers. We are demanding an impartial and fair inquiry into the killings as well as the DNA reports, so that things can be made public,” reads the letter, while seeking personal intervention of Sinha. The families mention sacrifices they made for the country, with many of their members still serving in the army, and a few even fighting in the Kargil War.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/july-18-shopian-encounter-kin-of-3-rajouri-men-killed-write-to-lt-guv-families-fear-cover-up-tweets-omar/story-dFZlmVBNpM426ucmi5H8SJ.html
12-09-2020||Pune||State hikes ready reckoner rates by an average of 1.74 %, reduces stamp duty by 3%||The Maharashtra government has increased the ready reckoner rates (RRR) by an average of 1.74 per cent across the state and reduced stamp duty by 3 per cent. Inspector General of Revenue and Controller of Stamps (IGR), Maharashtra, Omprakash Deshmukh on Friday said that the RR hike and stamp duty cut with come into effect from September 12. Terming the RRR hike as negligible, Deshmukh said that it has been revised after two and a half years. Ready reckoner rates are assessments of property value by the state government on the basis of which stamp duty and registration charges are paid to the government which usually revises these rates every year. “We have decided to keep the hike negligible taking into account the stagnant economy and the present Covid situation. The new rates are a part of the rationalisation process initiated by the department and in accordance with the directions of the state government,” he said. The new RRR envisages an increase of average 2.81% for rural areas, 1.21% for municipal councils, 1.29% for nagar panchayat areas and 1.2% for municipal corporation areas. The maximum increase will be felt in Pune district where there has been an average increase of 3.91% followed by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) with 3.2% and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will see an increase of 1.2%. In Mumbai, the RRR increase in effect will be minus 6%, Thane (0.44%), Nashik (0.74%), Nagpur (0.1 %), Navi Mumbai (0.99%) and Raigad (3%). According to the IGR office, Covid-19 had a devastating impact with revenues dropping by 60% and registrations declined by 20%. The IGR office said that the rates were finalised after a meeting with district collectors and taking into consideration the feedback, objections and suggestions of elected legislators. Suhas Merchant, Pune chapter president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), said, “We will be able to comment on the actual increase after studying the IGR office report. Even a minimum increase will be a burden for the real estate sector. The authorities should have lowered the RRR across the state as the realty market has been sluggish for the past four years. Total number of Districts 36 Total Talukas 359 Rural villages 42167 Growth of rural villages 2.81 % Effective area of villages 2151 Percentage wise increase of villages 1.89 % Municipal Councils 368 Valuation Departments 18711 Increase in number of municipal councils 1.29 % Municipal Corporations 27||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/state-hikes-ready-reckoner-rates-by-an-average-of-1-74-reduces-stamp-duty-by-3/story-HaBbJCTpHiVx5MEw468vyN.html
12-09-2020||Election:||Atmanirbhar Bihar should be your mantra, BJP chief addresses Muzaffarpur farmers||Laying out a plan of making Atmanirbhar Bihar ahead of Bihar assembly election 2020, BJP chief JP Nadda on Saturday urged Bihar litchi growers to set up organizations and work towards making Bihar self-reliant on the wings of GI-tagged products the state has, including Muzaffarpur’s litchi.  भाजपा राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री @JPNadda सरैया, बिहार में लीची कृषक और महिला किसानों को संबोधित करते हुए। #AatmaNirbharBihar https://t.co/JapMyQ2tzv“After PM Modi came to power, the political culture of the country has changed. It was a politics of ‘will-be-done’. But after Modi came to power, we showed that we can do and things have been done,” Nadda said.Before addressing the farmers in Muzaffarpur, Nadda held a crucial seat-sharing meeting with Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. At the meeting which lasted for more than half an hour, the leaders of the two parties have reportedly discussed the seat-sharing among alliance partners in the NDA, which also includes Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Of late, several differences have cropped up between JD(U) and LJP, which the BJP leadership is trying to iron out ahead of the elections. The schedule for assembly elections in the state is likely to be announced shortly. The Election Commission has indicated that it would like to conclude the exercise before end of term of the present house on November 29.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/atmanirbhar-bihar-should-be-your-mantra-bjp-chief-addresses-muzaffarpur-farmers/story-raa0zF5wflZyrEbu8EKnTO.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||19,510 candidates to take NEET in Punjab on Sunday; staggered entry and exit amid Covid-19 guidelines||As medical aspirants gear up for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) to be held on September 13, the authorities at the 34 examination centres in Punjab have left no stone unturned to ensure the safety of the candidates amid the Covid-19 pandemic. An estimated 19,510 candidates from the state will appear in NEET and the National Testing Agency (NTA) has deputed five coordinators in different districts for the smooth conduct of the exam that was postponed twice this year due to the coronavirus outbreak. To ensure social distancing, the number of NEET exam centres in Punjab has been increased from 22 to 34. The NTA has set up 10 centres in Bathinda, six each in Mohali and Amritsar, five in Jalandhar, four in Patiala and three in Ludhiana. Paramjit Kaur, the principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, who is the coordinator appointed by the NTA for Ludhiana, said, “All arrangements have been made according to the standard operating procedure. I have briefed centre superintendents and invigilators through webinars. Social distancing norms will be followed and other safety measures will be taken at the centres.” There will be only 12 students seated in a classroom. The entry and exit will be staggered to avoid crowding. Besides, entry gates will be opened at all centres at 11am and after 1.30pm no student will be allowed to enter the premises. The three-hour exam is from 2pm to 5pm. According to NTA instructions, all staff members and candidates will be checked with thermo guns at the entry point and those having above normal body temperature or with Covid-19 symptoms will be isolated in a separate room. If a candidate’s temperature becomes normal in 15 minutes, he/she will be allowed to take the exam from the earmarked seats, else they will have to attempt the test from the isolation room. A candidate will be allowed entry with mask, gloves, transparent water bottle, small hand sanitiser and exam-related documents such as the admit card/identity card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-510-candidates-to-take-neet-in-punjab-on-sunday-staggered-entry-and-exit-to-exam-hall-amid-covid-19-guidelines/story-L4ARjMpbmOnynSoMCulTvL.html
12-09-2020||City||Social, political and religious events led to spike in Covid-19 cases in Agartala: Government study||A study conducted by the Tripura government has blamed social functions like marriages, pujas, and political rallies for a surge in Covid-19 cases in Agartala.“The lockdown was lifted on August 5 and our analysis found a mild increase of the Covid-19 cases from August 17 and the explosive growth was noticed from August 26. According to our analysis, many social functions, including about 3,000 weddings, and some pujas and political rallies took place in the West district from August 9 till 26. People became relaxed and met many without maintaining social distance and that is the only reason behind the increase in the cases in the district and mainly in Agartala,” district magistrate Sailesh Kumar Yadav said.Also Read: Tripura HC cites poor treatment facility for Covid-19 patients, seek report from govtHe added they have started the mapping of the Covid-19 cases to deal with the situation and identified 10 wards under the Agartala Municipal Corporation with 70% of the cases. Accordingly, they have set up testing centres at all these wards. “We are conducting 400-700 tests every day in these places. Of these testing, we get 20-30% positive results. We have detected three hotspot areas in Agartala...”Currently, 2,400 patients are under home isolation in the district of whom 1,674 are in Agartala. They are being provided either free ration or Rs 1500 in their accounts. The administration is keeping a track of these patients and providing medical kits to them. In the case of home isolated patients having comorbidities, doctors are talking to them over the phone.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 case tally crosses 4.6 millionYadav said delays in visiting hospitals are among the reasons for increased deaths. “It is not that the administration is not working wholeheartedly. But we have seen that within 24 hours of admission in hospitals, 20-25% Covid-19 patients have died. Delay of the patients in visiting hospitals is the reason behind this.”Lok Sabha member Pratima Bhowmik said 364 health workers have been found infected. “Our state has a 0.96% death rate that is less compared to other states. To provide better health care services for the patients, we have inducted 18 floor managers, who will be working in four shifts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-political-and-religious-events-led-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-agartala-government-study/story-9zE7kkYxk7x4Odcco9Q7aP.html
12-09-2020||Lucknow||UP logs 6,846 new Covid cases in last 24 hours; active cases nearing 68,000||Uttar Pradesh reported 6,846 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases in the state to 67955.Uttar Pradesh principal health secretary Amit Mohan Prasad in a press conference here said, 6,846 new cases of Covid-19 reported in Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours and 6,085 people discharged.The active cases in the state are 67,955. A total of 2,33,527 people discharged. The total death toll is 4,349 in the state. The recovery rate is 76.35 per cent and case fatality rate is 1.42 per cent which is less than the national average, he said.In Uttar Pradesh, 1,40,562 samples were tested yesterday. A total of 73,58,471 samples have been tested so far in the state, Prasad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-logs-6-846-new-covid-cases-in-last-24-hours-active-cases-nearing-68-000/story-vVikwDdECu3nBcFE2FLsvJ.html
12-09-2020||Lucknow||NSA to be imposed against men suspected of murdering Dalit man||The assailants, who killed 30-year-old Dalit farmer Ram Vilas Rawat in Uttar Pradesh’s Malihabad, will be booked under the stringent National Security Act (NSA), Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said on Saturday.Prakash, who visited Malihabad, also transferred Rs 5 lakh ex gratia into the bank account of Rawat’s widow, Suman Devi, after meeting the farmer’s family. He assured the family of the strict action against the people involved in the attack on the farmer.Prakash promised the family a house under Gramin Awas Yojana and pension for Rawat’s widow and father.A district administration official said Prakash visited the family on Saturday sensing tension brewing in Dilawar Nagar under Malihabad tehsil since the killing of Rawat.He said the five accused—Gulam Ali, Mustaqeem, Mufeed, Shanu, and Guddu— drove their bikes over a hosepipe on Thursday night. He said Ali and his accomplices attacked Rawat when he objected. Rawat was seriously injured in the attack and succumbed on his way to the Malihabad community health centre.A police officer said after the farmer’s death, a large number of villagers blocked Hardoi Road and it led to a clash with the police.Inspector general of police (Lucknow range) Laxmi Singh said they have registered a case under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code for culpable homicide. The accused have been also booked under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Singh said three accused, Gulam Ali, Mustaqeem and Mufeed, have been arrested while efforts were on to arrest the remaining accused.The stringent National Security Act allows detention without trial for up to a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nsa-to-be-imposed-against-men-suspected-of-murdering-dalit-man/story-3weqJGZMotHGHv3ujbPVxL.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||POCSO Act applies only when a child is harassed with sexual intent: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to a Pune resident booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for tearing off clothes of a minor girl during a scuffle. It said provisions of the law are applicable only when a child is harassed with sexual intent. “In order to attract the provisions of the POCSO Act, 2012, it is necessary to commit an act of harassment with sexual intent,” said justice Bharati Dangre while granting pre-arrest bail to the accused.The accused was booked on the basis of a 17-year-old girl’s complaint on August 1.The judge noted the reading of the First Information Reports by the parties in the case against each other suggested petty rivalry between two families. Dangre said on account of some petty reasons, there was verbal altercation over some trivial issues. It aggravated and resulted into a scuffle, added Dangre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pocso-act-applies-only-when-a-child-is-harassed-with-sexual-intent-bombay-hc/story-XIGMJcx2dFDCinRHCphHEI.html
12-09-2020||Bhopal||Panna Tiger Reserve: Autopsy report indicates tiger was killed by poachers||The autopsy report of a beheaded tiger found in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve in August has indicated poaching and said the big cat’s claws and sex organs were removed even as authorities then maintained it was killed in a territorial fight. Principal chief forest conservator (wildlife) Alok Kumar said he has ordered a probe into the latest tiger killing in the reserve, where at least five big cats have been found dead over the last eight months. “...further action [will be] based on the findings of the inquiry. There were certain local issues at the park level. I have issued a warning to them to sort out the issues or face disciplinary action,” said Kumar.The reserve has been repopulated with big cats a decade after it lost all its tigers in 2009.Also Read: Those above 65, kids below 10 years not allowed to visit Corbett Tiger ReserveThe carcass of the beheaded 8-year-old tiger code-named P-123 was found floating in the Ken river in the reserve’s Hinauta range on August 9. K S Bhadauria, the reserve’s director, had then said P-123 was killed a couple of days earlier in a fight with another tiger during mating. The reserve management maintained a forest guard was a witness to the fight from a watchtower and that the corpse of the tiger was washed away and recovered about two kilometres away two days later. The autopsy report has belied the explanation. It said P-123 suffered head, neck, skin, muscle injuries and that its testes and penis were sharply removed from base of tail to abdomen after its death. HT seen a copy of the report.Wildlife experts say ordinary people cannot remove the sex organs of a tiger or they cannot be damaged in a territorial fight. They added the report indicates the presence of poachers in and around the reserve.Panna’s erstwhile royal family head, Jeeteshwari Devi, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the deaths of five tigers even as forest officials, including Bhadauria, have maintained they were killed in territorial or fights during mating.“There are attempts to cover up the killing of tigers in Panna Tiger Reserve. Why this is being done is a matter of inquiry. There are loopholes in the information given by the park management after the killing of tigers. There were attempts to suppress information regarding the beheading of the tiger as well. A CBI inquiry should be ordered and stringent action taken against the park management,” she said.Former forest conservator Jagdish Chandra said the argument regarding frequent territorial fights in a short span of eight months or so does not sound convincing. “Further, the latest incident in which the beheaded corpse of a tiger was found gives a strong indication about the presence of poachers. There should be an inquiry.”A forest department official, who did not want to be named, cited the Covid-19 pandemic and added it could have led to laxity on part of patrolling teams and allowed the poachers to get active again. “It is a matter of inquiry...”Bhadauria said the number of adult tigers has doubled over the past two years from 23 to 42. “There are around 15 cubs too... the core area of the reserve is about 578 square kilometres. In 100 square kilometres, there should be about six tigers. Hence, the growing number of tigers is the reason behind territorial fights. Of the five deaths, a couple of deaths took place in fights during or prior to mating. Hence, these deaths are not unusual.”Bhaduaria said checking man-animal conflict in the buffer zone is a challenge for them with a number of tigers growing in the same space. “Certain incidents took place in the past. Now, we are trying to educate the villagers around on how to avoid conflict with the tigers.” (With input from Anupam Pateriya in Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/panna-tiger-reserve-autopsy-report-indicates-tiger-was-killed-by-poachers/story-RlG49REMNnVem3hcXdGwNN.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB arrests one more person from Bandra||In its ongoing probe into the drug angle to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested one more person from Bandra, Karanjeet alias KJ.According to NCB officials, Karanjeet was allegedly part of the drug syndicate which it had busted as part of the investigation. Sameer Wankhede, joint director of NCB, confirmed the arrest.NCB officials did not comment on whether they found any drugs on Karanjeet or who he was in touch with. Karanjeet was brought to the NCB office in South Mumbai on Saturday morning and his questioning is going on, said NCB officials. Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty has revealed names of 15 Bollywood celebrities involved in drug useNCB has been conducting raids in the western suburbs including Bandra, Khar, Lokhandwala and Powai area.As of now, the NCB has arrested 11 accused in the case including actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother, Showik Chakraborty, Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager, Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant, and alleged drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar, Kaizan Ebrahim, Karna Arora, Abbas Lakhani, and Anuj Keshwani.Rhea, Showik, Miranda, Sawant, Vilatra and Parihar are in judicial custody after their bail applications were rejected by a court on Friday. Arora, Lakhani and Ibrahim got bail soon after they were sent in judicial custody a week ago. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty, brother’s bail pleas rejected by special NDPS court in MumbaiKeshwani is in NCB custody till September 14.NCB had allegedly seized contrabands from Keshwani’s residence in Khar on September 6. Keshwani’s was arrested based on the statement of Ebrahim who revealed that he used to allegedly buy drugs from Keshwani.Rajput was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week quiet, a political controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.The jurisdictional turf war spilled into the legal arena as the Supreme Court was approached to decide if CBI could investigate the matter. The issue became deeply acrimonious and divisive at multiple levels — between the Rajput and Chakraborty families, between the actors’ respective sets of fans, between the governments of the two states in question, and between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its former ally Shiv Sena — and left the entertainment industry split vertically.The case opened up a raging debate in and about the industry, devolving into a war of words and allegations between two camps largely made up of “insiders” (with generational links to Bollywood) and “outsiders” (first-generation actors and filmmakers). Chakraborty and her supporters alleged that the Bihar government was trying to hijack the emotive issue for political capital ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-arrests-one-more-person-from-bandra/story-FXSyK1DsI6USpjn67VaKMO.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi slum eviction: 11 slum dwellers file plea to join proceedings in Supreme Court case||A group of 11 slum dwellers living near railway tracks in various parts of the Capital moved an application to join the proceedings pending before the Supreme Court in the MC Mehta case. The court, on August 31, had directed the Railways to remove nearly 48,000 slums situated close to the safety zone of the Railways within three months. All courts were restrained from ordering a stay on their eviction.The slum dwellers, in their application, stated, “The impleaders (slum dwellers) work in the markets and industrial areas near their residence. It will be very difficult for them to earn their livelihood if they are removed from the said area in these difficult and unprecedented times of the pandemic.” The applicants are residents of Jhuggi Jhopdi (JJ) clusters of Sarai Rohilla, two camps of Kirti Nagar, and another cluster near Defence Colony.This application follows a separate plea filed by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken in the Supreme Court demanding alternate housing for the slum dwellers, nearly 2.4 lakh persons, under the Delhi Slum & Jhuggi Jhopdi (JJ) Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015, before they are removed. He sought urgent intervention by the top court as the Railways has proposed to start the demolition drive between September 11 and 14.HT was the first to report on the Supreme Court order on September 3.Advocate Lubna Naaz, who filed the application on behalf of the slum dwellers, said, “At present, 11 slum dwellers have applied, but any order by the Court will affect residents of 48,000 slums. In the current circumstances, these people need compassion and a little help from the Court for their suitable rehabilitation.”The slum dwellers, in their application, have annexed two documents that could be relevant to deciding the future course of action. The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) began a survey of the JJ clusters situated close to the railway tracks on land belonging to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the Central government. This survey was meant to identify slum dwellers for in situ rehabilitation and redevelopment. Of 196 JJ clusters, the survey covered 158 clusters. The survey was stopped midway after DDA instructed DUSIB on October 23, 2019, to stop the survey in view of the Delhi Assembly elections that were held in February 2020. Another document annexed to the application is a communication by the Director, Railway Board, on January 7, 2016, which records a decision regarding the removal of jhuggis on Railways land. The document records a decision that no demolition is to be carried out without joint notice by representatives of DUSIB and Railways and without a rehabilitation plan for eligible slum dwellers.During the Supreme Court proceedings, which resulted in the eviction order, at no stage did the Court call upon the slum dwellers to be heard. In a February 28, 2020 order, the Court observed, “By the sides of the railway lines in outer Delhi region, heaps of plastic bags and garbage are lying on both sides and people living in the slums. The situation is pathetic.”Accordingly, it recommended that an expert body on environmental issues, EPCA (Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority), Delhi government and various municipal corporations should chalk out a concrete plan for the removal of the plastic bags, garbage and other waste along the tracks. EPCA, in its July 9, 2020 order, asked the Court to direct the Indian Railways to prepare a time-bound plan under the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 for all the waste generated.Prior to the August 31 order, Railways submitted an affidavit in Court stating that in dealing with garbage, solid waste and plastic waste, a major hindrance was the “predominant presence of jhuggis along 140 kilometre route length of track in the region of National Capital Territory of Delhi.” Such encroachments, the Railways said, “are not only adding to the present menace of accumulation of garbage, municipal solid waste, human waste along the Railway line but are a safety threat to the day-to-day operation of the Railways.” This became one of the factors for the Court to order the immediate eviction of close to 48,000 slums situated adjacent to Delhi’s railway tracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-slum-eviction-11-slum-dwellers-file-plea-to-join-proceedings-in-supreme-court-case/story-JnDX4UtYeS8GkDp0KTAkfO.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mandi reports maximum 162 rapes in Himachal over past three years||Himachal Pradesh has reported 1,134 rape cases, including 43 gangrapes, in the past three-and-a-half years with Mandi district recording the maximum 162 rape cases in the state during the duration. According to a reply filed by the home department during the ongoing monsoon session of the assembly, 249 rape cases were registered in the state in 2017, while 344 cases were registered in 2018 and 358 cases in 2019. This year, over 183 cases of rape have been reported till July 31. Mandi district, the home turf of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and second largest district in terms of population, recorded 162 rape cases in three years. Shimla was at the second spot with 159 rape cases, followed by Sirmaur with 149 cases. Kangra, the largest district in terms of population, witnessed 148 rape cases, while and Solan recorded 138 cases, including 51 in Baddi police district. Tribal Lahaul-Spiti district reported only two rape cases in three years. Chargesheets were filed in the court in 925 of the total cases and only 30 accused were convicted. The conviction rate remains a mere 3.25%. More crimes being reported: Mandi SPWhen contacted, Mandi superintendent of police (SP) Shalini Agnihotri said the high number of rape cases recorded in the district is an indication that more people are coming forward to report crimes against women in the district. Asha Thakur of the Himachal Defence Women Welfare Association, a non-government organisation, said decline in cultural values, drug abuse and unemployment may be some of the reasons behind the rise in such crimes. “However, this is not the trend confined to Mandi alone but also in the rest of the state and the country,” she said. She said that setting up of fast track courts and prompt punishment may act as a deterrent and bring down the heinous crime against women. Police reworks strategyMeanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh police department has introduced a new strategy to curb the crime against women in the state. From August 1, Himachal Pradesh Police started maintaining a register on offenders of crime against women and children. “Data of all criminals involved in crimes against women is being prepared and shared with all police stations to track them,” said director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mandi-reports-maximum-162-rapes-in-himachal-over-past-three-years/story-z55VpKwAnGcyZY38b20Z3L.html
12-09-2020||Pune||Green corridor and beacon lights for tankers delivering med oxygen to Covid care facilities in Pune: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, also Pune’s guardian minister, instructed the civic administration in the city to provide tankers transporting oxygen from factories to various hospitals with a beacon, like those carried by ambulances or police vehicles. Against the background of oxygen shortage complaints in Pune city and some parts of Maharashtra, Pawar on Friday, instructed Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao to “ensure that not a single patient dies from a lack of oxygen facility alone”. “The administration must ensure smooth supply of medical oxygen. The administration must provide beacon lights, like used by ambulances, to tankers carrying medical oxygen. I do not want any complaint from Pune division, including Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur districts,” Pawar said.Pawar also instructed the police to ensure a “green corridor” for oxygen tankers, to ensure smooth passage on roads.Pawar said, “There are complaints about hospital bed shortage. Administration must ensure that citizens get proper information about the bed situation in hospitals. Citizens from western Maharashtra and Marathwada region are coming to Pune for Covid treatment. They should get information about bed availability.”Mohol demands centralisation of bed informationPune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has demanded centralised hospital bed management system. Mohol said, “Citizens in Pune are facing bed shortage in private as well as government hospitals for patients. The government must ensure that bed availability information should be updated and a centralised allocation system should be introduced. Patients should be able to access bed availability information from one source.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ensure-green-corridor-and-beacon-lights-on-tankers-delivering-med-oxygen-to-covid-care-facilities-in-pune-ajit-pawar/story-lDRswU3DcyxqPRcL7P07nL.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Stand-up comic Zakir Khan performs at Chitkara University’s ‘Funky Friday’ event||In a bid to shore up students’ spirits amid the pandemic, Chitkara University on Friday hosted standup comic Zakir Khan as part of its ‘Funky Friday’ initiative. Khan is famous for his Amazon Prime appearance in ‘Chacha Vidhayak Hain Hamarey’ and ‘Haq se Single’. He has carved a niche for himself with his grounded and everyday humour. Khan left students and staff in splits with his much-loved ‘sakht launda’ jokes.Around 3,000 students watched Khan’s performance where he cracked jokes on engineering life, Punjabi songs, relationships, weddings, talking to one’s girlfriend, childhood love, and career. He also spoke about his struggles and adviced students to believe in themselves. The ‘Funky Friday’ initiative involves performances and interaction with youth icons every week in an e-format. Before Khan, Apaarshakti Khurana of Stree-fame also performed for the students. Chitkara University pro vice-chancellor Madhu Chitkara said, “The lockdown has constrained students’ movement and has also led to mounting stress on the student community nationwide. Thus, Chitkara University decided to stand by its students and provide them with opportunities to interact with youth icons from the entertainment industry and get inspired.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stand-up-comic-zakir-khan-performs-at-chitkara-university-s-funky-friday-event/story-h2OYcze4tFu1ox5Zhz4R2K.html
12-09-2020||Dehradun||5,000 Himalayan streams to be rejuvenated under MGNREGA in Uttarakhand||Around 5,000 Himalayan streams in Uttarakhand will be rejuvenated this year through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) projects, carried out with local level committees monitoring their progress, informed officials. Mohammad Aslam, state coordinator for MGNREGA said, “As migrant workers started returning to the state, we tried to expand avenues to give them jobs. We found work for them by converging areas of different departments. Following the same method, this project will be undertaken using the help of forest, labour and drinking water departments.” Aslam added that Uttarakhand Jal Sansthan has identified around 5,000 streams and recharge points in the hilly regions of the state that need to be rejuvenated. “A detailed report regarding the project has already been submitted to the state government and an order is soon to be released. Every stream or water recharge point will need a different kind of treatment depending on its location, and we would be engaging field experts who would help us understand what approach will yield the best results. Works like making trenches, ponds, plantation, rejuvenating catchment area will be carried out as part of the project,” said Aslam. On Tuesday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced that the government has started work to revive one Himalayan river in every district. “The goal is to revive one river in every district. A successful effort is being made to recharge more than 400 water bodies in the catchment area of Garuda Ganga river in Bageshwar district. Many works in the area such as plantation of broad leaf, digging of trenches, construction of check dams are being done,” tweeted CM Rawat. Also Read: Amid border tensions with China, IAF’s Central Air Command chief holds crucial meeting with Uttarakhand CMHe added, “Our mountains, glaciers, rivers, water bodies, forests are all our priceless heritage. Their protection is the responsibility of all of us. During the last nearly three and a half years, the work of conservation and revival of the rivers, lakes, ponds and waters of the state has been done on a large scale.” A report by the Irrigation Research Institute, Roorkee, says that around 12,000 natural springs in the state are believed to have completely dried up. Also Read: Rare species of orchid found for first time in western HimalayasThe report states, “The Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) has inventoried many springs in different parts of the state, but it has to be mentioned that a staggering number of 12,000 natural springs in Uttarakhand are speculated to be completely parched.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/5-000-himalayan-streams-to-be-rejuvenated-under-mgnrega-in-uttarakhand/story-HDPQlqe19mso58UdubJo0H.html
12-09-2020||Pune||PMPML has crossed one-lakh daily commuter count: Rajendra Jagtap||Little speaks to unlocking life in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad quite like the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited’s (PMPML) buses running on the roads again. The lifeblood of the city’s public transport system resumed services on September 3. Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director (CMD), of PMPML speaks to HT about running PMPML under the Covid-19 cloud. What has been the response to PMPML resuming services? Each passing day the response is increasing. When we started on September 3, passenger count was 65,000 and now it is above one lakh. Revenue which was around Rs 12 lakh on September 3, has crossed Rs18 lakh now. The number of breakdowns which were 36 on the first day, has gone down; it was 14 on Friday. Things are moving into a positive direction. People have started accepting PMPML buses as modes of travel again and we could see that when we crossed the one-lakh daily commuter count. There is a considerable population now moving via public transport. What safety measures is PMPML taking for commuters, as well as for driver and conductors? Under lockdown, our service was only limited to emergency service staff and then also all these precautionary measures were taken. Each and every bus is sanitised before going on route, sanitiser bottles are kept inside the bus for passengers and passengers without face masks are not allowed inside the bus. The same continues as the safety of commuters is of utmost importance to us. The driver’s cabin has been separated from the passengers and transparent curtains have been installed. Each of our drivers and conductors have been provided with face masks or face shields and gloves. At several major bus stands, thermal checks are conducted on passengers before they enter the bus. And most importantly, we have made seating arrangement in each bus, so that only 22 passengers are allowed in. What is your message to Punekars about using PMPML buses in this time of Covid? With response to Covid in particular, we have to live it now and take necessary safety precautions. We have to accept public transportation as a way to commute and be mobile within the city. This will save ourselves from traffic problems, as well as environmental problems in the city. We, on our part, must try to improvise our services in a better way each passing day, where we give assurances about safety, security, reliability and a cheap mode of transport – all this is assured from us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-has-crossed-one-lakh-daily-commuter-count-rajendra-jagtap/story-Jzer6FYy9Ww3Lm2EdiXNOI.html
12-09-2020||Pune||PCMC increases hospital beds, oxygen supply as Covid count nears 60K mark||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) on Friday reported 1,286 fresh Covid-19 cases and eight deaths, taking the tally of the positive cases to 59,559 and 892 deaths, according to the state health department.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will be utilising its two jumbo Covid facilities at full strength from next week, according to civic officials.The twin cities of Pimpri and Chinchwad have a mortality rate of 1.7 per cent which is lowest in the state.“Currently, Annasaheb Magar stadium has 400 beds out of which 382 are occupied while in Auto Cluster, Chinchwad 96 beds are currently operational. Another 400 beds at the Annasaheb Magar Stadium will be operational by next week and 110 beds will be also added to Auto Cluster by next week,” said Shravan Hardikar, municipal commissioner, PCMC.“In next 10 days, 22 ICU beds will be added to the Bhosari Government Hospital and Jija Mata Hospital, Bhosari,” he said.“More private hospitals will get empanelled and some additional beds will also be made available at some private hospitals like DY Patil,” said Hardikar.With a shortage of oxygen supply identified in Pune, PCMC is taking advance steps to provide continues oxygen supply.“The oxygen supply has been critical at some of the private hospitals which are operating on jumbo cylinders. We held a meeting with the oxygen suppliers and we have asked them to increase their supply efficiency and make sure that the supply remains uninterrupted,” said Hardikar.“In two-three cases, we had provided our buffer stock which was used for temporary measure and we are also tied up with private oxygen supplies to provide oxygen supply to private hospitals on time,” explained Hardikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-increases-hospital-beds-oxygen-supply-as-covid-count-nears-60k-mark/story-1tqc28bweFaM5SJiCieVfJ.html
12-09-2020||Pune||Video recording of wedding to be given to police: Pune dist admin||The district administration has reiterated its restrictions while conducting a marriage ceremony within Pune district. According to the guidelines, it is mandatory to maintain a social distance at marriages. Also, a video recording of the marriage must be submitted to the local police, which must include the list of attendees, within five days of the ceremony being completed.Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh issued the fresh circular this week, against the background of rising Covid-19 cases. Deshmukh said, “As per the government’s guidelines, only 50 people can attend the marriage. These 50 people include relatives, band, priest and caterers. No air- conditioning systems are allowed at marriage halls.” The district administration has instructed the local police, talathis and government officers at the village level to visit the halls to inspect that all the norms are followed. The circular gives clear instructions that people cannot sit near each other and at must keep a distance of at least six feet at all times during the marriage reception. It further states that all people must wear a mask and spitting is strictly prohibited. Only 50 people are allowed at a marriage ceremony, which includes the priest, videographer, catering people and other helpers at marriage halls. The marriage hall owner needs to keep a register and take signatures of the people attending the marriage. The district administration also instructed the marriage hall operators to keep sanitisers, soap near washrooms and clean it repeatedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/video-recording-of-wedding-to-be-given-to-police-dist-admin/story-VHKAK0KJ9WxWxS7hqCsHaP.html
12-09-2020||City||Goa: Union AYUSH minister recovers from Covid-19, discharged||Union minister of state for AYUSH Shripad Naik was on Saturday discharged from a private hospital where he was admitted after testing positive for Covid-19. Naik, who tested positive on August 12 and initially said he would be isolating himself at home, soon required hospitalisation as he developed severe symptoms. “I am feeling well now. After a few days of rest I will be able to start my work,” Shripad Naik told reporters after his discharge from the hospital near Panaji. He spent 30 days in hospital and his expected to continue his recuperation at home. “He virtually went to the doors of death and came back,” Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane had said while informing the media that Naik was administered convalescent plasma therapy in late August. “We gave plasma to Shripad Naik and his life changed. Today he is thankful we have brought plasma therapy and it has improved his condition and I’m very happy that he has come out of the situation. We were afraid,” Rane had said. Naik’s oxygen levels had dropped briefly, but ultimately stabilised through medical intervention. A team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences too visited the state and checked on him. Naik holds independent charge of the AYUSH portfolio as well as the Defence portfolio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-union-ayush-minister-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged/story-P4ivaM778AedWZ9skLw3hL.html
12-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 5,208 positive cases, 59 deaths on Friday||Pune district reported 5,208 fresh positive Covid-19 cases, and 59 Covid-related deaths on Friday, as per figures released by the state health department. The progressive positive count for the district is now at 2,23,710. Out of these total cases, 1,46,182 have recovered, 4,693 have been declared deceased and 72,835 are active cases. According to figures released by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) on Friday, the city reported 2,367 fresh positives, taking the total Covid-19 cases, as per PMC data, to 1,24,627. In the last 24 hours, till Friday evening, as per the PMC, 29 Covid-related deaths were reported in the city, which puts the death toll at 2,899. Pune rural reported 1,555 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 case count to 39,524, with 22 deaths in last 24 hours till Friday evening. This puts the death toll in Pune rural at 902.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-5-208-positive-cases-59-deaths-on-friday/story-vSAnRrIHt06rnTUGi4AFcM.html
12-09-2020||Pune||People in rural Pune demand curfew amid surge in Covid cases||Residents and elected members in rural parts of Pune district are demanding curfew amid the rise in Covid-19 active cases in the district.Pune district reported 5,939 fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) positive cases and 50 deaths on Thursday according to the state health department data. The progressive positive count in Pune district as of Thursday is 2,18,502.Of these total Covid-19 cases, 1,44,412 have recovered and have been declared free of the infection. At least 4,634 have been declared dead and 69,456 are active cases.Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector, said, “Residents and elected members are appealing to introduce lockdown in the respective areas. the decision for the same is taken at the local level. I have received calls from Baramati, Wagoli and Indapur for imposing a curfew.”Deshmukh said, “Cases are on a rise in rural areas as we have increased testing. But maximum people are asymptomatic.”Minister of state for forest and MLA from Indapur Dattatray Bharne announced ‘Janta Curfew’ for the entire Indapur taluka. Bharne said, “There was a demand from residents, elected members and traders fro the curfew as the Covid-19 cases are on a rise. There will be a curfew in Indapur from September 12-20.”“The decision was taken in a meeting which was held at Indapur on Thursday evening. Only medical, milk and petrol facilities will be functional. Action will be taken against those who flout norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/people-in-rural-pune-demand-curfew-amid-surge-in-covid-cases/story-zEMpj2AiMDFLakP58U4TRN.html
12-09-2020||Pune||Unlock Pune: Swargate chowk’s bus hubs back to bustling schedule with social distancing at mercy of rush hour||Pune, as a city, does not, not sleep. In fact, the traditional Punekar legacy of an afternoon siesta is very much alive, to labour the oxymoron. And the city closes for the night, for the most part. There is one area in Pune that does not sleep: the Swargate chowk. Primarily, because it is the city’s hub for public bus services, both PMPML and the MSRTC. From the Swargate junction, daily, hundreds of PMPML buses run the various routes that snake around the city. And that is just the PMPL buses. The state buses also run out of here. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) Swargate ST stand is just opposite the PMPML bus stand in the chowk. MSRTC bus services began on August 21. Currently, at least 150 ST buses leave or arrive from here, daily. Now, the Pune Metro work is ongoing on one side of the Swargate chowk, and there are several PMPML stands on both sides of the Swargate chowk. Speaking of the bus hub, now in unlock mode post close to three months of Covid-19 lockdown, Momin Nadeem, the Swargate PMPML stand controller, says, “Earlier, our bus services were only limited for emergency services and staff, but from September 3, it opened for the public. Since then, the number of commuters is increasing day by day; but there is still a fear among people to come out and travel freely. Every bus is sanitised after it completes one journey. We have sanitisers inside each bus and seating is limited to only 22 per bus. During office hours there is a bit of a crowd.” Trupti Konde, a student and regular commuter from Swargate to Kharadi, said, “The arrangements made inside the bus are good and it makes us comfortable and gives us a sense of safety while travelling. They have installed hand sanitiser bottles inside the bus and alternate seating arrangements.”For Ramakant Sampat, a regular public bus commuter, it was a relief when the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), resumed services on September 3. “I work in a private office and need to travel from Swargate to Katraj twice a week. I used to travel by autorickshaw, but now as the PMPML bus service has started, we can travel easily and that too, with affordable fares. They have made proper arrangements inside the buses to maintain social distancing, but in the morning and evening rush hour it gets crowded inside the bus,” said Sampat. Rohan Nalawade, a commuter, said, “I travelled back to my hometown, Kolhapur, for a few days, as I work in Pune and had not gone since the lockdown started. Travelling by ST bus is safe. Social distancis maintained and safety measures are taken at the stand.” At the ST stand, hand sanitiser bottles are kept on every platform and passengers without face masks are not allowed to enter any bus. Also, seats, benches, and counters are regularly sanitised by cleaning staff. Part of the Swargate experience used to be a plethora of snack and tea stalls, round the clock. Malhari Jadhav, a fruit stall owner at the main bus stand, said, “I am at this stand for the last 15 years and due to Covid-19 pandemic we have suffered. After the lockdown, people are still not serious about their safety as social distancing is not maintained properly.” Currently, PMPML has a fleet of 1,600 buses, apart from 1,000 on rent, which include the e-bus fleet. A total of 500 buses are on the roads daily. What HT saw Despite all these arrangements, at one of the bus stands at Swargate chowk there was zero social distancing. People were waiting for a bus, cheek to jowl, despite PMPML staffers continuously urging them to maintain some distance. The majority of commuters at the bus stands wore face masks, though there were passengers without the necessary protection. PMPML bus drivers are also clashing with autorickshaws parked just next to the bus stands. Auto drivers were seen entering the bus lanes to attract pick up customers. Verbal arguments between PMPML workers and auto drivers were the ongoing order of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unlock-pune-swargate-chowk-s-bus-hubs-back-to-bustling-schedule-with-social-distancing-at-mercy-of-rush-hour/story-bajkTSxRae1b9jPILzkxoL.html
12-09-2020||Pune||Pune registers 31mm rainfall on Friday, Khadakwasla discharge begins||Spells of heavy rain lashed the city on Friday evening, catching commuters and pedestrians unaware, and leaving them drenched as several roads flooded as well. According to the India Meteorological Department, till 5:30 pm, Pune received 18mm rain, with Lohegaon recording 17mm rain. By 9.30 pm, Pune had received 31 mm rain. No updates figures for Lohegaon were available. Pashan had received 13mm of rain till 8:30 am on Friday. “Although it is heavy rain, till 8:30pm, no complaints of water logging and trees falling came in,” claimed Nilesh Mahajan, fire brigade officer. For Saturday, IMD has forecast moderate rain with isolated heavy rain very likely, along with thunder and lightning. “From Saturday, due to formation of a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal, again the monsoon will be stronger in our state,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head, IMD Pune. From September 13-14 – the city will receive moderate showers, while isolated heavy rain is expected in the ghat areas. “From September 16, rainfall activity will reduce in the city,” added Kashyapi. The catchment areas also received good rain throughout the day. “Khadakwasla spillway discharge will be started with 856 cusecs into the Mutha river at 10 pm (Friday) as dam water levels are increasing due to rain in the catchment,” an official of the District Information Office, Pune, said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-registers-31mm-rainfall-on-friday-khadakwasla-discharge-begins/story-rQRYUqKitaXuN2Hui2cJBP.html
12-09-2020||Pune||Chase the virus: Pune dist admin to start 100 per cent testing at 164 hotspots in next ten days||Amid the rise in Covid-19 cases in rural areas in Pune, the district administration has started aggressive testing under a new ‘chase the virus’ initiative.They have identified 164 hot spots, which include gram panchayats and nagar parishads, where most positive cases are reported and the entire population in these areas will be tested in the next ten days.“We had surveyed Pune rural area and identified 164 hot spots. Earlier in last week, we did 100 per cent testing of the population in Narayangaon and Manchar, and so the number positive cases were more on certain days. On similar grounds we will be carrying out this initiative called ‘chase the virus’, under which every person living in a hotspot will be tested,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector.Giving the details of this initiative he said, “Compared to earlier months, the number of tests has increased now in September. For example, in the week of August 13 to 19, the number of tests conducted was 8,291. Now, in this week, September 3 to 9, it has gone up to 24,963 tests.”“So, it’s almost doubling every week and through our survey, we have noted that 85 per cent of the positive cases are from 65 gram panchayats,” he said.“To stop the spread of the virus in these specific areas we will be doing 100 per cent screening of the population out here. We have planned to test at of such hot spots in the Pune district which includes both, gram panchayats and nagar parishad areas,” he said.“We will be also focusing on effective contract tracing, tracking the co-morbid senior citizens and most importantly isolating the positive patients from other people,” he said.“It will be done in a phase-wise manner, in next eight to 10 days we will complete the testing of these areas and control the spread of the virus,” he added.In the last few weeks, the number of positive cases is increasing daily in Pune rural parts and Pune district in at the top list for Covid positive cases in the country. The current positivity rate in Pune district is 22 per cent, while the recovery rate has gone beyond to 78 per cent now.The progressive positive count for the district as of Friday is 2,23,710. Of these total cases, 1,46,182 have recovered, 4,693 have been declared deceased and 72,835 are active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/chase-the-virus-pune-dist-admin-to-start-100-per-cent-testing-at-164-hotspots-in-next-ten-days/story-pz8iesNbbM0I67JSuoaLUI.html
12-09-2020||Patna||PM Modi to inaugurate three petroleum projects in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate an LPG pipeline project and bottling plants in Bihar on Sunday as the government pushes its development agenda in the poll-bound state. The projects include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur pipeline project and two LPG bottling plants, an official statement said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will also be present on the occasion. The 193-km long Durgapur-Banka pipeline section, built by state-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), is a part of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur Pipeline Augmentation Project, for which the foundation stone was laid by the Prime Minister on February 17, 2019. Durgapur-Banka section is the extension of the existing 679-km long Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur LPG pipeline to the new LPG bottling plant at Banka in Bihar. The pipeline of 14-inch diameter passes through West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar. While LPG is presently injected into the pipeline at IOC’s Paradip and Haldia refineries, the completion of the whole project would enable the facility to be also available from the Paradip import terminal and Barauni refinery. IOC’s LPG bottling Plant at Banka will help meet cooking gas demand of Bihar. The bottling plant has been built at an investment of around Rs 131.75 crore to serve the districts of Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar in Bihar, along with the districts of Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj, and Pakur in Jharkhand, the statement said. With the LPG storage capacity of 1,800 tonnes and bottling capacity of 40,000 cylinders per day, this plant would generate direct and indirect employment opportunities in Bihar. Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd’s (HPCL) 1,20,000 tonnes per annum LPG bottling plant at Harsidhi in East Champaran district has been built at a cost of Rs 136.4 crore. This plant has been constructed on 29 acres of land and its foundation stone was laid by the Prime Minister on April 10, 2018. The bottling plant will cater to the LPG requirement of East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj and Sitamarhi districts in Bihar, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-three-petroleum-projects-in-bihar/story-5WCXVfDfe4Dhr2qfVPOcjO.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM rolls out state-wide smart ration card scheme to cover 1.41 crore beneficiaries||Even as he launched the smart ration card scheme to cover 1.41 crore beneficiaries across the state, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a separate state-funded scheme to provide subsidised ration to nine lakh beneficiaries not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). With this, the total number of beneficiaries in the state will go up to 1.5 crore, the chief minister announced, while rolling out the smart card scheme under which 37.5 lakh cards will be distributed to the beneficiaries this month. Captain Amarinder Singh said the Centre had capped the maximum number of beneficiaries to 1.41 crore and, despite repeated requests, had not agreed to provide subsidised ration to nine lakh people not covered under NFSA. His government had, therefore, decided to cover all such left out eligible persons under a state-funded scheme, details of which will be announced shortly, he said. Launching the smart ration card scheme virtually, with connection to 100 places across the state, the chief minister said the scheme would help curb corruption and give freedom to the beneficiaries to buy ration from any depot. Describing it as a major step towards empowering the beneficiary, he said it will end the exploitation by unscrupulous ration depot holders. The smart ration card empowers the beneficiary to get his entitled quota of foodgrains from any ration depot in Punjab.FARM ORDINANCES WILL HIT FARMERS: CAPT The chief minister lashed out at the BJP-led central government for attempting to destroy the spirit of Punjab’s farmers, who have toiled for the country and fed the nation, through the farm ordinances. These ordinances are aimed at ending the MSP regime and will hit the farmers hard, he said. Referring to the Sutlej Yamuna Link Canal issue, Captain Amarinder said that was another problem that Punjab was facing and while he had recently had one meeting with the Union water resources minister and his Haryana counterpart, the problem continues to haunt the state. Pointing to the melting glaciers and the receding groundwater level in the state, he said the situation was critical and Punjab could not afford to give any water to other states. In a symbolic gesture, the chief minister handed over the smart ration cards to four beneficiaries at the Secretariat in Chandigarh, after which ministers and MLAs distributed cards in their respective districts and constituencies.TRANSPARENT SYSTEM TO CHECK PILFERAGE: ASHU Earlier, Punjab minister of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that the state government, in line with its promise to make the system transparent, had introduced the e-POS system to check pilferage. State finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal termed the launch of the cards as the fulfilment of another promise despite the financial crunch. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said the journey to implement a transparent system of public food distribution had been an arduous one, as the previous government had put in place a corrupt and monopolistic system. Due to the step-motherly treatment of the Centre towards Punjab, the Rs 31000 crore CCL debt burden imposed by the SAD-BJP on the state was yet to be resolved, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-rolls-out-state-wide-smart-ration-card-scheme-to-cover-1-41-crore-beneficiaries/story-buxKdu3GqHIeACMpToAelI.html
12-09-2020||Jaipur||Two Army officers killed in accident on Bikaner-Jaipur highway||An Army vehicle met with an accident on the Bikaner-Jaipur highway (NH-11) around 6am Saturday. Two officers travelling in the vehicle died and two others were evacuated to a hospital with injuries, Defence PRO, Rajasthan, Colonel Sombit Ghosh said. The incident took place about 40km away from Bikaner, near Jodhasar village under the jurisdiction ofthe Seruna police station. The vehicle in which the men were travelling toppled after a tyre burst, Seruna station house officer Ajay Kumar told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/two-army-officers-killed-in-accident-on-bikaner-jaipur-highway/story-pJmUCn4DJShO3Dr0DPHs7O.html
12-09-2020||Lucknow||UP don Mukhtar Ansari’s wife, her two brothers booked under gangsters act||A case has been registered against gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afsan Ansari and her two brothers Sarjil Raza and Anwar Shahzad under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act for their alleged involvement in criminal activities, trespassing and earning money illegally, the Ghazipur police said. The case was registered at the Kotwali police station of Ghazipur district.Superintendent of police, Ghazipur, Dr Omprakash Singh said, “Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afsan Ansari and her two brothers have been involved in different criminal activities and earning money illegally. They have also been involved in trespassing. To keep an effective check on their criminal and illegal activities, a case under the gangsters act has been registered against Afsan and her two brothers.”Also Read: The rise and fall of two UP strongmenThe SP said a case was also registered against Sarjil Raza and Anwar Shahzad in Ghazipur last year on the charges of land grabbing and submitting fake documents for getting a government contract. After a thorough investigation, a charge sheet was filed in that case. Also Read: UP gangster turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s ‘illegal’ properties demolished in Lucknow||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-don-mukhtar-ansari-s-wife-her-two-brothers-booked-under-gangsters-act/story-bTu8Cx8KtrPl01EHEDbcuN.html
12-09-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: JP Nadda, Nitish Kumar hold seat-sharing talks||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday held a crucial meeting with BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda on seat-sharing among the NDA alliance partners for the assembly elections in the state. Nadda, who was accompanied by party colleagues like Deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, national general secretary and state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav and state president Sanjay Jaiswal, called on Kumar at his official residence 1, Anney Marg. The JD(U) national president, who was accompanied by key party aide Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan, accorded a warm welcome to Nadda, who hails from Himachal Pradesh but was born and brought up in Patna.At the meeting which lasted for more than half an hour, the leaders of the two parties are understood to have discussed the key issue of seat-sharing among alliance partners in the NDA, which also includes Ram Vilas Paswans Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The BJP leadership is also understood to have assured Kumar that it will intervene and iron out the differences that have of late cropped up between the JD(U) and the LJP on account of the belligerent stance adopted by the latter’s young president Chirag Paswan.The schedule for assembly elections in the state is likely to be announced shortly. The Election Commission has indicated that it would like to conclude the exercise before end of term of the present house on November 29.On the previous evening at a press conference here, the BJPs election in-charge for Bihar assembly Devendra Fadnavis had sought to make light of the acrimony between JD(U) and LJP and remarked “nobody is going to leave the NDA, though many may join us”.The former Maharashtra chief minister had also attributed the sharp differences that have emerged between the two parties to “diverse ideologies a reason why we all are separate political parties, though united in purpose”.Nadda, who arrived here on the previous evening on a two-day tour of Bihar, began his day by offering prayers at the famous Patan Devi temple in the old city, after which the Bihar capital is named.After the meeting with the chief minister, his itineraryincludes launch of “Atmanirbhar Bihar Abhiyan” at the partys state headquarters followed by a visit to Muzaffarpur district where he will interact with women farmers and litchi cultivators at the village named after the legendary “Kisan Chachi”, whose efforts at promoting entrepreneurship among rural women have earned her a Padma award.Nadda is thereafter scheduled to visit Darbhanga, and interact with farmers involved in fisheries and production of makhana (fox nuts), both of which are found in abundance in the Mithila region of north Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-jp-nadda-nitish-kumar-hold-seat-sharing-talks/story-tgg4wXlD2S01Cg8Ts5btwK.html
12-09-2020||City||Minor gangraped in Kapurthala, 1 held, 3 booked||Kapurthala Police have arrested a 20-year-old man, and booked three others, including a sarpanch, for raping a 15-year-old girl, a Class-6 student, on September 7 evening. “She had a fight with her boyfriend over some issue. On the pretext of resolving the matter, the boy’s friend Jassa took her to Bhandal Bet Palace and raped her. Later, he dropped her in Randhawa village in the evening. Here, two locals and the sarpanch of the village raped her, before dropping her home,” the girl’s mother has said in her complaint.Jaspal, alias Jassa, of Boot village, has been arrested while Gagan, Manpreet and sarpanch Billu of Randhawa village have been booked under Sections 376D (gangrape) of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) by the Subhanpur police. Superintendent of police (investigation) Sarabjit Singh said the main accused had been arrested. “We got the girl’s statement recorded before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), and she has not accused the others of raping her. She has accused Jassa of raping her on the pretext of patching things with her boyfriend,” he said, adding that the police will record the statement of her mother before the CWC. The CWC has directed authorities to ensure the rape survivor’s care and safety. It has also directed the District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) to make arrangements for financial assistance to the victim, as per the procedure, under POCSO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minor-gangraped-in-kapurthala-1-held-3-booked/story-jgv6AMlp2P10PaL0Vw3UAK.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra move to hike ready reckoner rates will adversely affect realty sector: Industry experts||In the wake of economic distress caused by the nationwide lockdown, the Maharshtra government’s move to hike the ready reckoner (RR) rates across the state from Saturday will adversely affect the realty sector which is already in a battered state, industry experts said.The RR rate, also known as circle rate, is the minimum price at which a property has to be registered in case of its transfer. In addition, all real estate calculations, be it premiums, tax collection or even income tax matters related to the construction sector, are determined by the RR rate.The CREDAI-MCHI (Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry), an association of builders, has warned that the move will have a detrimental effect on both the new launches as well as ongoing projects. “This move is bound to have adverse impact on the number of new launches and also put their viability in doubt,” said Deepak Garodia, president, CREDAI-MCHI.Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown cost Maharashtra state Rs 16 crore per day in stamp dutyThe National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) rued that projects costs will increase due to this move. “New projects will be impacted as the RR value governs all levies, duties and taxes payable by a developer,” said Niranjan Hiranandani, president, NAREDCO (national).Maharashtra, on Friday, announced the hike in RR rates after two years by an average of 1.74% across the state.This move is significant as on August 26, the government had slashed stamp duty to 2% until December 2020 and to 3% between January and March 2021 to boost realty sales, which reduced considerably during the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks action plan from economists, scientists to revive Maharashtra economyReal estate experts have called it a regressive and confusing step. “This increase, to a certain extent, is going to nullify the gains of the reduced stamp duty for the recently motivated customer. This increase is also going to force developers to pass on the additional burden of increased premium costs that are linked to the RR prices, onto the customers,” said Ram Naik, executive director, The Guardian Real Estate Advisory.However the state government has defended the move saying that the hike will not impact the realty sector. “It is a negligible hike which has taken place after 2.5 years. In markets like Mumbai and Thane where sales are down, the hike is within 0.5 %. We hiked the rates after studying the market conditions,” said Omprakash Deshmukh, inspector general of stamps and registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-move-to-hike-ready-reckoner-rates-will-adversely-affect-realty-sector-industry-experts/story-Z3YhgmqcuyIrUYEG9JlNaJ.html
12-09-2020||Lucknow||Mayawati requests Centre, states to waive school fees of children||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati urged the central and state governments on Saturday to cut down their “royal” expenses and waive the school fees of children in the larger public interest.In a Hindi tweet, she said, “Following the coronavirus-induced lockdown, crores of people, who are already facing unemployment and an unprecedented crisis, are now facing the challenge of depositing the school fees of their children. It has come up in the form of protests and they have to face the police cane, which is very sad.” In another tweet, Mayawati said, “At the time of an ‘Act of God’, the government’s role according to the Constitution should be that of a welfare state. The central and state governments should cut down their royal expenses, reimburse the fees of government and private schools, and in the larger public interest, waive the school fees of children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mayawati-requests-centre-states-to-waive-school-fees-of-children/story-nvvhLvC2xyNZuq6wrthILO.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||BSF recovers 3 AK-47 rifles, two M-16 rifles, ammo in arms haul near Indo-Pak border in Punjab’s Ferozepur district||The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered a cache of weapons, including three AK-47 rifles and two M-16 rifles, from a field near Joginder Chowki in Ferozepur district on Saturday. A BSF official said three AK-47 rifles with six magazines and 91 rounds, two M-16 rifles with four magazines and 57 rounds, two Chinese pistols, four magazines and 20 rounds were recovered along the Indo-Pakistan border. Birbal Singh, the station house officer of Lakho Ke Behram, said a BSF patrol spotted the weapons in a field near a border outpost in the morning. The area is adjoining the zero line. “The weapons were found packed neatly in plastic bags. The weapons were recovered from different spots in the field. No person has been named in the FIR and investigation is on,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-recovers-3-ak-47-rifles-two-m-16-rifles-ammo-in-arms-haul-near-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-s-ferozepur-district/story-Dc4FeLiGvauNsLzt9B0ZdO.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Western suburbs of Andheri, Vile Parle, Borivali record maximum active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai||While the number of active Covid-19 cases has drastically increased in the city owing to a spike in the last 10 days, most active cases in the city are from Andheri, Vile Parle and Borivali in the western suburbs, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). According to the data, Andheri and Vile Parle account for 2,824 active cases, followed by Borivali with 1,972 active cases.Areas like Kandivali, Ghatkopar, Mulund account for over 1,200 active cases in the city, followed by Dadar, Dharavi and Mahim with around 1,172 active cases, and Bhandup, Kanjurmarg and parts of Vikhroli with 1,173 active cases. In south Mumbai, D ward, which covers Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Chowpatty, accounts for around 1,185 active cases, compared to other areas of south Mumbai, which have fewer than 600 active cases. A ward, comprising Churchgate, Colaba and CST, accounts for 514 active cases, followed by B ward, comprising Dongri, Pydhonie, which accounts for the lowest number of active cases—176. Lastly, C ward, comprising Marine Lines and Kalbadevi, accounts for 263 active cases.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 77.7%. These 5 states are ahead of othersThe city recorded around 1,65,306 total cases and 27,642 active cases on Friday. The number of active cases in the city has increased over the last 10 days as the number of tests has increased. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had told HT on Sunday that, “For the next 30 days the city will report around 2,000 cases daily as the BMC is scaling up testing between 12,000 and 14,000 per day, up from around 9,000 tests per day in the last week of August.”The number of active cases is at a two-month high, as per the BMC records—26,000 active cases, as of September 10.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city based private health consultant, said, “The BMC has to analyse the trend and start stricter containment measures in the areas where active cases are increasing. We should consider sealing entire instead of only floors.”According to BMC’s data, there are around 542 containment zones in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-suburbs-of-andheri-vile-parle-borivali-record-maximum-active-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai/story-PMnIhvOf9VMemY1loKYRgK.html
12-09-2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot writes to Ashok Gehlot raising Gujjar issues in Rajasthan||Rajasthan’s former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot over Gujjar issues on September 2, according to the letter released to the media on Saturday. This is one of the very few occasions when Pilot has been seen raising issues related to Gujjars, the pastoral community to which he belongs. Political experts link the release of the letter to the reshuffle in the All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Friday. After the political turmoil spawned by an alleged rebellion by Pilot and 18 other Congress legislators blew away, it was being speculated that the party will induct him in AICC as a general secretary to compensate for taking away the position of deputy chief minister and state unit chief. However, Pilot was not given a central role in the reshuffle announced yesterday. “It has been brought to my notice that the 5% reservation to MBC (more backward class) is not being provided in government jobs. The Congress party promised this in its manifesto for 2018 Assembly elections and the Congress government in 2011 had also promised to keep 4% posts in government jobs reserved as shadow posts for MBC,” Pilot wrote. Pilot further said in the letter that development works under the Devnarayan scheme, a welfare scheme meant for Gujjars, had been put on ice. “People meet me personally to demand proper implementation and sufficient budget allotment to this scheme,” Pilot said. Also Read: At Rajasthan Congress feedback meet, slogans against minister, posters tornThe former PCC president claimed reservation to MBCs had not been applied for police constable recruitment - 2018, REET recruitment - 2019, panchayati raj LDC - 2013, technical helper - 2018, nursing - 2013 and 2018, jail guards - 2018, ASHA supervisor - 2016, commercial assistant – 2018 and second grade school teachers – 2018. The Rajasthan government provides 5% reservation to Gujjars and four other communities (Banjara/Baldia/Labana, Gadia-Lohar/Gadalia, Raika/Rebari and Gadaria) in jobs and educational institutions under the MBC category. Gujjars constitute about 5% of Rajasthan’s population, according to the 1931 caste census, and are present in 21 out of the 33 districts of the state. Traditionally, Gujjars have been BJP supporters but in 2018 assembly elections, the community rallied behind Pilot assuming that he would become the chief minister. Also Read: Key changes, boost to Team Rahul as Congress rejigs panelsEarlier governments provided reservation to Gujjars and the four communities under special backward class (SBC) category but this was struck down by Rajasthan high court. Political commentator Avadhesh Akodia said Pilot raising issues related to Gujjars was a significant political development.“So far, he has stayed away from such issues fearing getting labeled as a Gujjar leader. Maybe, now he realizes that the community that has stood behind him so far may also wean away if he is not seen to be raising their issues,” Akodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/sachin-pilot-writes-to-ashok-gehlot-raising-gujjar-issues-in-rajasthan/story-35WIFPEuOR9ORvUfh6l3pM.html
12-09-2020||Environment||Fishermen leader moves Bombay HC, complains about lack of action to stop banned purse seine nets, high-density LED lights||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Centre and the Maharashtra government to respond within three weeks to a petition against inaction in stopping the use of ecologically dangerous and banned purse seine nets and high capacity LED lights for fishing.In his petition, Akhil Maharashtra Macchimar Kruti Samittee chairman Damodar Tandel said no action has been taken to stop the banned activities reported mostly off the coast of Ratnagiri despite repeated complaints.Purse seine nets are used to capture large amounts of fish and high-capacity LED lights are used to attract them. The petition said notifications issued in November 2017 and April 2018 banned both.Also Read: Coral patch being reclaimed at Haji Ali, allege Mumbai residents“In addition to being a highly ecologically damaging method of fishing, these purse seine boats require considerable manpower-- ordinarily 30 to 40 individuals on board to handle the operations, thus making it impossible to follow the Covid-19 lockdown norms.”Tandel said despite stringent restrictions imposed in view of Covid-19 lockdown, hundreds of boats without authorised licenses were found to be manoeuvring and trawling, using purse seine nets and LED lights in Maharashtra. He added a number of fishermen, who fish for the sustenance of their families, were targeted.“These illegal fishing activities allow the lawbreakers to unjustly profit at the expense of the entire fishing community which was forced to suspend operations,” said the petition. “This lack of action, especially considering the mandates banning purse seine trawling and the usage of LED-lights for fishing, is extremely disappointing to the fishermen community at large who are collectively fighting to curb this destructive practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/fishermen-leader-moves-bombay-hc-complains-about-lack-of-action-to-stop-banned-purse-seine-nets-high-density-led-lights/story-19Un9RBHo7c40bdGXt06TP.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Recover fine from Amazon, Flipkart for excessive plastic packaging, NGT tells CPCB||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to conduct environmental audit and recover fine from Amazon and Flipkart for violation of environmental norms.The green panel observed that the statutory regulators were not taking coercive measures, including invoking of “polluter pays” principle for enforcing the statutory norms against the e-commerce firms.“A report has been filed by the CPCB, which again mentions one or other reasons for not enforcing the law but does not mention the coercive measures adopted either directly by the CPCB or in coordination with the state pollution control boards,” a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said.“The CPCB can also consider ordering environmental audit against the concerned entities and assess and recover compensation for violation of environmental norms, following due process of law,” the bench said.The tribunal sought an action taken report in the matter before October 14, the next date by e-mail.The member secretary, CPCB may remain present in person during the hearing on the next date through video conferencing, it said.The CPCB has earlier told the NGT that e-commerce giants need to fulfil their extended producer responsibility under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, and need to establish a system for collecting back the plastic waste generated due to the packaging of their products, the CPCB had earlier told the NGT.The apex pollution monitoring body had told the NGT that as per provisions 9(2) of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, “Primary responsibility for collection of used multi-layered plastic sachet or pouches or packaging is of producers, importers and brand owners who introduce the products in the market.” The submission came in response to a plea filed by a 16-year-old boy who has approached the tribunal to stop e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart from excessive plastic use in their packaging.Aditya Dubey, through his legal guardian, has pleaded the NGT to direct Amazon and Flipkart to stop excessive use of plastic in packaging the goods delivered by the firms.“The e-commerce companies are covered under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. But due to a lack of monitoring and implementation, the respondents continue to use excessive amounts of plastic in wrapping and packaging their sold items,” said the plea, filed through advocate Meenesh Dubey.Dubey’s plea had contended that the companies deliver items in cardboard boxes, which are too large as compared to the size of the items being delivered.“To ensure that the sold items do not move around in the outsized boxes, they wrap the items in multiple layers of plastic sheets and plastic bubble wraps and thereafter fill the large empty spaces in the boxes with additional sheets of single-use plastic,” it had said.Once goods are delivered, the plastic waste is thrown away in garbage and it ends up at landfill sites, leading to a burden on the earth and damaging the environment, it said.“Single-use plastic has emerged as one of the biggest environmental challenges for our planet. It is cheap, useful, ubiquitous and very deadly.  “The fact that it’s non-biodegradable and is recycled in very small percentages means that our planet with passage of time is becoming a big dumping ground for single-use plastic, which breaks down into smaller fragments known as microplastics and then contaminates soil and water,” the petition had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/recover-fine-from-amazon-flipkart-for-excessive-plastic-packaging-ngt-tells-cpcb/story-DVHv31qFqOZYN0eIt14wyK.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s IGI airport starts Covid testing facility for passengers arriving at international terminal||Delhi airport on Friday evening started a facility to test passengers arriving at international terminal for Covid-19. It is not mandatory for international passengers to take the test at the airport. If a person tests negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the airport, (s)he will be exempted from the mandatory institutional quarantine, officials said.Currently, all international passengers arriving in Delhi need to be institutionally quarantined. Those with a connecting Vande Bharat flight are allowed to quarantine themselves at their destination. Those carrying an RT-PCR negative report are allowed to journey onward and can seek exemption from institutional quarantine too. For this exemption, the RT-PCR test has to be conducted at least 96 hours before the journey.WATCH | Delhi airport first in India to get Covid test lab; how it’ll work: Explained Also Read: India’s Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 77.7%. These 5 states are ahead of othersHT had reported on August 18 about the proposed facility. The Delhi airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) has collaborated with a Delhi-based laboratory — which is associated with the Delhi government — to test Covid-19 samples.An official from the airport said passengers can also book a slot for their tests online prior to their arrival in Delhi to avoid queuing up and waiting for their turn. “The facility started operating on Friday evening. We’ve started getting requests for slots. Bookings can be made through the Delhi airport’s website on a first come first serve basis. Because test results will take around six hours, passengers who have a connecting flight are requested to maintain a gap of around 8-10 hours,” the official added.Also Read: Violations of in-flight norms will invite suspension of scheduled route for 2 weeks: DGCAThe facility has been constructed in a 3,500 square metre area at the multi-level car park of Terminal 3. It is the first such arrangement among Indian airports. Because the results of samples collected at the laboratory will be declared in around 4-6 hours, until the results are confirmed, passengers can wait in the lounge or stay in a hotel, another official from the Delhi airport said, requesting anonymity.The lab is equipped to handle up to 2,500 samples per day.“In case of a positive result, the passenger will be either sent to a hospital, institutional quarantine or home quarantine, as applicable as per the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) protocols. This will help the authorities keep infected passengers away from others. Those testing negative can continue on their journey,” the airport official said.Another airport official, who wished not to be named, said the charge for the test at the airport will be Rs 5,000, which will cover a passenger’s stay, food and beverages at the lounge till the time the results are out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-igi-airport-starts-covid-testing-facility-for-passengers-arriving-at-international-terminal/story-DAvo1gLrAkGZX3HTCXIm8J.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bharatiya Kisan Union chief, 300 unknown people booked for damaging property||The Haryana Police on Friday booked state BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and 300 unidentified people for damaging public property and violating prohibitory orders, a day after farmers clashed with cops during a protest here. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and other farm bodies had blocked a national highway in Kurukshetra’s Pipli and clashed with police while protesting against three Union government legislations, which they claimed were “anti-farmer”. Police had resorted to a lathicharge when farmers coming from the Shahbad area pushed their way to the protest site. The agitating farmers smashed windowpanes of a fire brigade vehicle and pelted police with stones. Three separate FIRs were registered at the Sadar police station in Thanesar. “These FIRs have been registered against Gurnam Singh Charuni and several unknown people for unlawful assembly, causing damage to property and preventing government employees from performing their duty,” SHO Naresh Kumar said. The FIRs also include charges for the violation of the National Highway Act and the Disaster Management Act, he said. Meanwhile, the Shahbad Markanda police lodged cases against 300 unknown people. SHO Devinder Kumar said the attempt to murder charge was also added to the FIR as many tractor-borne farmers tried to run police personnel manning the barriers erected to stop them.The Kurukshetra administration had imposed prohibitory orders after the farmer bodies gave a protest call in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. However, farmers belonging to the BKU and other organisations reached Pipli in large numbers, defying the prohibitory orders. Top state Congress leaders, including AICC spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and state party chief Kumari Selja, on Friday expressed solidarity with the farmers. Farmers in Haryana are demanding a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, promulgated by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bharatiya-kisan-union-chief-300-unknown-people-booked-for-damaging-property/story-NyViATonMMDgVJQBfzV5oJ.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||HC reduces number of benches holding physical hearings amid Covid crisis in Delhi||The Delhi High Court on Saturday said it has reduced the number of benches that would be holding physical hearings due to the “alarming” rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital and majority of lawyers preferring virtual hearings.According to a note issued by the office of Registrar General Manoj Jain, a full court of the judges of the Delhi High Court deliberated on continuing with physical hearings, which were started from September 1, and decided not to discontinue them completely. The full court decided that physical hearings would be conducted each day, from September 15 onwards, by one division bench and two single judge benches on rotation. Till now, two division benches and three single judge benches were holding physical courts on rotational basis. The decision was taken on the basis of statistics, submitted before the full court by the Registry, which indicated that around 94 per cent of the advocates had indicated their preferred mode of hearing as ‘virtual’ mode on the designated mentioning link/e-filing module of the High Court.“Most of the advocates, whose matters were listed before the benches constituted for physical hearing, expressed their inability, reluctance or unwillingness to appear physically and that requests, in large number, were received for taking up the matters through video conferencing. “The physical appearances were largely before the single benches, exercising criminal jurisdiction whereas the appearance before the other benches was relatively low,” the note said. It also said that the full court “also noted that the number of Covid-19 cases has been rising alarmingly in the NCT of Delhi”. It further said that regular medical camps were organised in the high court as well as district courts for testing and the results revealed that 45 officials of the high court (including contractual and outsourced staff) and 192 officers/officials of district courts have already contracted Covid-19. “The UCO Bank situated in the high court building had been shut down recently as its three bank officials tested positive,” it added. Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel had recently said, during a hearing, that physical hearings would not be stopped completely and would be continued slowly. “Once things have started in this high court, they are not going to be stopped. We will not start and close like the other high courts,” the chief justice had said. His comments came after some counsels in a case before his bench sought that their matter be listed on a date when virtual hearings are held. The high court, according to the note, had decided to commence physical hearings “in view of persistent requests” by the various bar associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-reduces-number-of-benches-holding-physical-hearings-amid-covid-crisis-in-delhi/story-5MPsVkHYVnHVpViNcpSnzN.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Residential portion of Nizamuddin Markaz be unlocked, handed over to Maulana Saad’s family: Delhi court||A Delhi court has directed the authorities to hand over the keys of the residential portion of the Markaz Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin area to the family of its chief Maulana Saad after five days from the receipt of this order, to enable the probe agencies to inspect the premises before the handover.The applicant, mother of Maulana Saad, and her family members were also directed to give an undertaking on an affidavit that they shall not obstruct the investigation in any manner and the residential portion of the property will only be used for residing by its residents only and that they will not enter any part other of the Markaz and its premises for any other purpose.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Gurmohina Kaur of Saket Courts complex, while granting relief to the application on Friday, said that every person, who is a citizen of India is entitled to the right to life and liberty enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution of India and the right to access to the residential property would fall within one of these sacrosanct rights.“This court is not an appropriate form to decide the ownership of any property. It also requires mentioning that in the present case, the applicant only seeks unlocking of the residential premises. It also requires mentioning that the fact that the applicant and her family are only residing in the residential portion of the property... has never been disputed by any of the opposite parties till date either during the hearing or in any of the replies filed,” the order said.The court also noted that after sanitization, the premises was locked as per the directions of the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and keys were handed over to police officials for facilitation as premises were required to be inspected by various agencies.“Even though, it is not mentioned in any of the reply filed, that the residential portion is a scene of crime or whether it has been inspected by concerned agencies for the preservation and evidence purposes, this court, will deem it appropriate to give one more opportunity to the investigating agencies to inspect the premises sought to be unlocked within five working days from the date of receipt of this order. Thereafter, keys should be handed over to the applicant against acknowledgment,” the order said.During the arguments, special public prosecutor argued that the property was not sealed under any provision of the law, but the premises sought to be unlocked was locked for the preservation of the crime scene. The prosecutor submitted that the keys are with the Delhi Police and investigation is still pending in the present case.The counsel for Khalida, mother of Maulana Saad, had argued that all the concerned officials have admitted the fact that the keys of residential premises are with Delhi Police and the applicant and her family have been denied access to her residential premises for more than six months now. The counsel argued that no person can be restricted/restrained for using residential property in any provision of law.According to the application, after the registration of an FIR on March 31, 2020, the entire Markaz premises was vacated and locked for the purpose of sanitization and disinfection by the authorities and keys of the premises were handed over to the police.“It is further averred in the application that the residential part of the premises is a four storey building and the said building is divided by wall into two section, wherein, in one section the applicant and her family resides and the entrance for both the sections of the building are separate and not interconnected,” the application said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/residential-portion-of-nizamuddin-markaz-be-unlocked-handed-over-to-maulana-saad-s-family-delhi-court/story-583cx2YLUUiCGY3LGsTZ3M.html
12-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: FIR against 12 people for embezzling Rs 11 crore from Mathura temples||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Uttar Pradesh police has registered a First Information Report (FIR) against 12 people for embezzlement of Rs 11 crore of funds of two Mathura temples, investigators said on Saturday. The accused include a person in charge of receiving donations and regulation of funds. The investigators said the embezzled amount could be higher.The accused have booked under Indian Penal Code’s sections 420 (fraud), 409 (criminal breach by government servant), 408 (criminal breach of trust), 423 ( dishonest or fraudulent execution of deed of transfer) and 120-B (entering into criminal conspiracy with common intention to commit fraud).The funds of Mukut Mukharbind and Hargokul Daswalia Brahmaadan temples were allegedly misappropriated between 2014 and 2018.The investigators said the preliminary inquiry into the case was handed over to the SIT in July 2019 and it was completed in February. The permission for the registration of the FIR was pending with the state government due to the Covid-19 pandemic. An SIT officer said the preliminary probe revealed that mainly embezzlement was done on pretext of expenditure for decoration of the temples. He said the receiver and his associates in connivance with flower decoration contractors and a gardener were allegedly involved in the fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-fir-against-12-people-for-embezzling-rs-11-crore-from-mathura-temples/story-1nXKRSS7v7vWwzGm94oJLN.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Youngsters flock to shop: Sarojini Market street is buzzing||Anyone familiar with South Delhi’s Sarojini Market knows that it’s one stop for great deals in shoe string budget. But with the local shopping scene taking a hit during the pandemic, how’s Sarojini faring? “I recently ventured out to shop at Sarojini after months and the shopping scene was lit! So many shops are offering discounts and deals that the shopper in me was forced to bring home an entire new wardrobe,” gleams Srishti Shrivastava, a banking professional who recently went to Sarojini market to shop for herself as “metro has resumed and now #girlsquad dates can start with my BFFs. But the one thing that’s most important in any girl squad date is the #OOTD. Luckily, with all the pay cuts, Sarojini is the new Zara for me.”The shopping scene at a street market like Sarojini has changed amid the pandemic. Customers and shop keepers are taking precautions alike. “Why I love Sarojini is because it’s a steal! Right from ₹50 to ₹7000, one can find beautiful bags, sandals, belts, accessories, clothes and jewellery. The only concern for me was about buying clothes from the stall without trying them. Before Covid-19, I didn’t have the fear of wearing a tee shirt on top of my clothes to check the fit. However, now, I wear gloves and trust my better sense at picking out the right size for myself. Sometimes I carry my old tee shirt and show it to the shop keeper and ask him to give me my size. Whatever clothes I buy from the stalls, I always come home and wash them first, adding sanitiser to the washing mix,” says Pooja Gupta, an IT professional. Sarojini Market has always been a bustling spot with some denizens visiting the place to specially grab a bite of their favourite street food. However, it looks like denizens might have to wait for the stalls to re-open again. “Momos, shakarkandi and bhutta are my go to snacks while shopping. I miss munching on them! Sarojini is a delight to shop and snack on budget! I recently bought some gorgeous jewellery and a pair of denim jeans for a steal! While buying clothes amid pandemic, it did cross my mind that so many people would’ve tried it on before me. But, jewellery ka aisa koi scene nahi,” says Akanksha Sharma, a blogger who has been enjoying shopping at Sarojini market in the unpredictable Delhi weather.“We are offering 10% off on all clothing. Youngsters have begun to come in increasing numbers amid unlock 4.0. From the shop keepers to the clients, everyone is taking precautions while shopping. From temperature checks to regular sanitisation, and masks being made mandatory inside the shop, we have taken all the necessary precautions. Achcha lag raha hai dekh ke ki ab market me thodi raunak hai itne mahino baad,” says Krish Kalra, owner of an apparel shop in Sarojini Nagar Market. Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/youngsters-flock-to-shop-sarojini-market-street-is-buzzing/story-PwNeRK34Mzx9x4wM5PHPcI.html
12-09-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata has only one containment zone despite 500 daily Covid-19 cases||Kolkata has just one Covid-19 containment zone even as it has been registering around 500 cases of the disease daily. Kalimpong, a popular hill station, which has the second-lowest number of Covid-19 cases, has 40 such zones while Nadia has the highest--577--in the state. Jhargram is another district that has just one zone and it has recorded 349 cases, the lowest in the state.“If multiple cases are recorded from the same neighbourhood in one week, then it is tagged a containment zone. In Kolkata, there is only one such zone. The rest of the cases are more sporadic and coming from various locations,” said a Kolkata Municipal Corporation official.Also Read: ‘Corona is gone’, says Bengal BJP chief at public rally. Then rebuts himselfIn April, the authorities would cordon off an entire area after tagging it a containment zone if any case was reported. In May, the definition was changed and only a particular house or a housing society was tagged as a containment zone if any case was reported. The definition was again changed in July.“We are following a micro-zonation plan, wherein only those areas from where multiple cases are reported in one week are tagged as containment zones. A few houses in central Kolkata’s Girish Park area have been tagged as a containment zone in Kolkata,” said a health department official.In mid-July, Kolkata had 39 containment zones, which reduced to 17 in the second last week of August.The city has reported 45,500 cases, the highest in West Bengal.Also Read: Bengal observes September’s 2nd Covid lockdown, it will probably be the lastMeena Devi Purohit, a Bharatiya Janata Party councillor, accused the authorities of trying to suppress the Covid-19 figures to present a rosy picture. “Why else would they frequently change the definition of containment zones and reduce the number? What about those areas where people are being tested positive and they do not come under the definition of containment zones?”Till September 11, West Bengal has registered 1,96,332 Covid-19 cases. As many as 1,69,043 have recovered while 3,828 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-has-only-one-containment-zone-despite-500-daily-covid-19-cases/story-tdwqUpJzoJCGWVCqg3fnXM.html
12-09-2020||Environment||Coral patch being reclaimed at Haji Ali, allege Mumbai residents||After residents complained against fresh reclamation towards one end of the Haji Ali coastline on Friday for a road, the Maharashtra forest department said it will revisit the site to check whether Schedule I marine species under the Wildlife Protection Act have been harmed.The department has also written to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the second time over the last four months directing the civic body to avoid any reclamation before wildlife clearances were obtained. It added they had learned from one of BMC’s contractors about plans to reclaim sites where corals are present.Also Read: Citizens’ collective starts Biodiversity by the Bay campaign in MumbaiOn Friday, Vivek Kumar, a resident, noticed the reclamation work for the project was getting closer to the site where the coral presence has been documented. He shared images with the state mangrove cell highlighting the alleged violation. “Since September 2, daily dumping of debris by few trucks has been undertaken towards the left side of the patch leading up to Haji Ali. As the reclamation expands, the safety of these corals is at high risk,” said Kumar.In its letter to the chief engineer of BMC’s coastal road project last week, the cell said it has received several complaints regarding the destruction of reef-building corals, and a site inspection was undertaken with marine biologists on September 3 to check their status. “It was understood from the representative of the contractor that the area where corals are present is proposed to be reclaimed for the construction of the Coastal Road, without translocating the corals,” said the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.Also Read: Oil exploration in forests to become cheaper, easierCorals are marine invertebrates that attach themselves to rocky intertidal regions. They have the same protection status as that of the tiger or elephants under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act. Permissions are required from the state chief wildlife warden before the translocation of coral species.The letter said any destruction of coral species during the road construction would be considered a violation of the Act, and action would be taken against BMC and its contractor. “We received fresh complaints in this matter on Friday, and a team including forest officials and marine biologists from the Mangrove Foundation will be sent to Haji Ali to re-verify whether any species were harmed,” said DR Patil, divisional forest officer, Mumbai Mangrove Conservation Unit, who wrote the letter.HT reported on July 14 that Goa’s National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) has found the presence of six coral species along the south Mumbai coast.Marine researcher Shaunak Modi, who has documented coral presence in Haji Ali, said despite repeated complaints, BMC contractors have continued landfilling an area with multiple colonies of reef-building corals, which are protected species. “We have already lost all the coral colonies in the Mahalaxmi Bay, and if strict action is not taken by authorities, this patch will be lost as well.”Modi said while the NIO claims to have found only a few square feet of corals, surveys over the last three years have shown a much larger area of coral colonies across the city’s western seaboard. “Since these corals are small and the colonies are scattered, it sometimes may be difficult to find all of them in just a few surveys.”Since March, BMC has reclaimed over 53 hectares of the sea in south Mumbai for the 9.9-km coastal road. The civic body recently informed the Supreme Court of its intention to increase reclamation at sea from the original 90 ha to 111 ha.BMC’s deputy municipal commissioner, RS Kuknoor, said, “Allegations that corals have been reclaimed anywhere along the project site are false. Areas with coral presence are being carefully monitored and such zones have not been touched at all.”The NIO, in its September 2019 report, said it had found the presence of six coral species along the South Mumbai coast, dolphins, 17 bird species, and rich benthic marine life while developing the marine biodiversity conservation and monitoring plan (MBMP) for the project.NIO suggested an Rs. 2.9 crore budgetary plan for the MBMP including translocation of corals.But BMC said the funds had not been allocated yet and it was the responsibility of project contractors.In the report, NIO said the destruction of habitat, noise, and increased turbidity due to the movement of vessels threatened the presence of dolphins within a 10 km radius of the project site as well as the foraging behaviour of 17 migratory and resident birds. NIO said the destruction of corals should be avoided with transplantation and restoration of corals inside proposed project sites at suitable places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/coral-patch-being-reclaimed-at-haji-ali-allege-mumbai-residents/story-djzeBWTsCx4Mhialj9sTXM.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro resumes on all lines with increased vigilance||From 6am Saturday, Delhi Metro resumed services in all of its corridors, after a gap of over five months. This correspondent travelled in the Metro during the morning peak hour for a spot check. Around 6am, when the gates opened, there weren’t a lot of passengers. However, the crowd started increasing within a few hours, resulting in queues outside some stations, as all passengers were let in only after temperature screening and sanitisation of their hands and luggage. Also Read: All Delhi Metro lines functional, back to normal timings starting todayShikha Sharma, a passenger who was travelling from the Mayur Vihar Phase 1 interchange station to INA on the Pink Line, said that while there was a considerable number of passengers waiting for trains in stations, the crowd inside trains continued to be thin, which left enough space for everyone to travel while seated. “I had my apprehensions about safety and the frequency of trains, but the trains are regular, so passengers can skip a train if it is nearly full and catch the next one,” said Sharma.Compared to last week, the number of Metro officials and security personnel on the station premises was higher on Saturday to manage the larger ridership. Also Read: If you’re travelling in Delhi Metro, strictly adhere to social distancing rules“Since the Airport Express Line, which was reopened on Saturday, does not usually have a large footfall, we are anticipating the ridership to be similar to Friday’s. However, since the timings have been regularised, we are wary of an increased number of violations,” said a Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) spokesperson on Saturday. The official also said that since it was Saturday, the number of people coming in could be lesser. The teams on the ground said they are prepared for the weekday crowd from Monday, which is when DMRC will face its real test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-resumes-on-all-lines-with-increased-vigilance/story-1WpA4P9N9uKG0H3CLM2RhL.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Aryan Gupta of Jammu tops J&K in JEE-Main, says mock tests helped him score well||Aryan Gupta, 18, of Jammu scored 99.77 percentile to top the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE), Main, in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday night. Aryan attributes his success to classroom coaching at a local institute coupled with consistent hard work and family support. “My father, Anil Gupta, is an engineer in the J&K high court and my mother Ruchi is a homemaker. I have an elder sister, who is pursuing MBA from Jammu University. They all played a big role in motivating me. The experienced faculty at the coaching institute where I studied for two years and the mock tests enabled me to do well,” he said. Based on the results of the JEE-Main exam, which was conducted from September 1 to 6 amid strict Covid-19 guidelines, candidates are eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam, the one-stop entrance test to get admission into the 23 premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). JEE-Advanced is scheduled to take place on September 27. “For the next 15 days, I will go for as many mock tests as possible and analyse my performance,” said Aryan, who studied up to six hours a day while preparing for the JEE Main papers. “My aim is to study computer science at IIT, Delhi,” he said. “One has to stay focused. There is no alternative to hard work. Since the JEE syllabus is vast, one should have the right guidance, study material and take as many mock tests to do well,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aryan-gupta-of-jammu-tops-j-k-in-jee-main-says-mock-tests-helped-him-score-well/story-T6ZIK5ZpNZTF9xhUnUd18M.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Citizens’ collective starts Biodiversity by the Bay campaign in Mumbai||Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic, a citizens’ collective, has announced the launch of Biodiversity by the Bay campaign to highlight the need for sustainable development to enhance protection for the city’s environment.The group, which includes environmentalists and lawyers, has appealed state environment minister Aaditya Thackery to protect flamingos and their habitats, declare the entire 3,122-acre Aarey Milk Colony as a forest, increase protection for Mumbai’s green cover, ensure supportive policy for the livelihood of fishers, and increase open spaces and parks as part of the campaign.“A collective effort is needed to amplify diverse voices to safeguard Mumbai’s rich ecosystems and unique biodiversity,” said Bhagwan Keshbhat, founder, Waatavaran, one of the groups spearheading the campaign. “Our end goal is to create a youth-led climate movement including fisherfolk, indigenous communities, law and architect students and local communities.”Also Read: Aarey Colony areas adjacent to Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park to be reserve forest: Maharashtra governmentA study in July found a 42.5% drop in Mumbai’s green cover over 30 years with the ratio of green spaces to total geographical area falling from 46.7% in 1988 to 26.67% in 2018 due to developmental activities. There is less than half a tree per person in Mumbai, according to NGO Praja Foundation’s data.Kanchi Kohli, an environmental governance expert at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said the conservation of green spaces is directly linked with public health including access to clean air and water. “Urban planning at all levels needs to incorporate strategies to save public commons, protect natural areas like wetlands, mangroves, city forests and undertake ecologically informed programmes to enhance environmental quality. All of this will only be enhanced if done with a citizen-state partnership.”Urban planners said the development regulation dilutions were facilitating builders to create more concretised structures and reduce green cover. “The city’s existing open spaces is a meagre 0.9 square metre per person. It can be increased to 2 square metre per capita if all plots are developed under the development plan 2034,” said Pankaj Joshi, executive director, Urban Research Design Institute.One of the partner organisations, Civis, would collect citizen’s inputs on open spaces and parks as part of the campaign. “We will be sharing this with the BMC [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation] so that they can assure greater accessibility and availability of such open spaces,” said Antaraa Vasudev, founder, Civis.Anushri Shetty, an architecture student, said public parks should not be seen from a purely utilitarian angle but should be a source of pride in the local communities. “Local art must be channelised to create landmark features that will help develop an interactive park culture...”The campaigners plan interactions with the environment department, artistic submissions reimagining a green Mumbai, music concerts, virtual conferences etc, for necessary policy interventions.Siddharth Singh, an energy and climate policy expert, said they need an urban renewal mission. “In the case of Mumbai, I believe that the flamingo can be a symbol of these changes, and indeed a symbol of the city itself.”The 21.9-hectare NRI Complex and 14-hectare TS Chanakya near the Thane creek flamingo sanctuary have been earmarked for the construction of residential, commercial buildings and a golf course. A record number of flamingos migrated there in April and May during the Covid-19 lockdown thanks to a lack of human activity.Shavasthi Siva, an entrepreneur, said the way to steer change is to keep asking authorities for accountability. “Other than that, we are individually responsible for our environment in our everyday choices that contribute to sustainability.”Proposed and under construction infrastructure projects threaten the remaining green lungs such as Aarey (393-acres slated for development) and the iconic south Mumbai coastline (111-hectares of the sea to be reclaimed for the coastal road project). Additionally, 28,951 illegal structures have been built inside as well as around the periphery of Sanjay Gandhi National Park, with over 25,000 structures inside the park, accounting for 11% of encroachments.Keshabat said the recent proposal to declare 600-acre of Aarey as a forest is a step in the right direction. “...our campaign hopes to encourage similar changes.”State forest minister Sanjay Rathod said they intend to declare mangrove forests in western suburbs as conservation reserves and enhance eco-tourism there. “We have expanded the buffer zone around Thane flamingo sanctuary to include more mangrove forests for protection. This is just the beginning of a host of measures planned for Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/citizens-collective-starts-biodiversity-by-the-bay-campaign-in-mumbai/story-59JmnLcpd8INln9RWBTv9L.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fire breaks out in manufacturing unit in Inderlok, no casualty reported||A fire broke out at a plastic items manufacturing unit in a building in Inderlok on Saturday morning. Firefighters said the fire was controlled within an hour and no casualties were reported. Officials from the Delhi Fire Service (DFS) got a call reporting the fire around 9.30am in a building at Shahzada Bagh, in Inderlok Phase I. A team that reached the spot found that the fire had spread to the second and third floors of the three-storey building, said a fire department official, who did not wish to be named.“Initially, two fire tenders were sent. There were othe building adjoining the one that had caught fire so in order to contain it before it spread, five more fire tenders were rushed and the fire was controlled within an hour. Cooling process took some more time,” the officer said.Locals are being questioned to check if there was anyone inside the factory at the time of incident.Atul Garg, director, DFS, said no one was injured in the incident. “The cause of fire is being looked into. We’re also looking if safety norms were violated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-fire-breaks-out-in-manufacturing-unit-in-inderlok-no-casualty-reported/story-RywQeEB347ItZPe2El74LK.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal colony right under Hoshiarpur municipal corporation’s nose and it doesn’t bat an eyelid||The Hoshiarpur municipal corporation (MC) and district revenue officials have failed to check construction work on an illegal colony for months. The matter came to light after Avtar Singh, the owner of Guru Nanak Colony, on Adamwal Road near Hoshiarpur, applied for regularisation under the existing policy and the MC had to reply.In June, Hoshiarpur MC assistant town planner (ATP) Lakhbir Singh wrote to Avtar Singh, the owner of the colony, informing him that Guru Nanak Colony would not be regularised under government policy, mentioning that no unauthorised colony which was developed on or after March 19, 2018, will be compounded. According to the letter, Avtar had applied for regularisation on October 18, 2018.Even after being declared an illegal colony, the levelling work continues on site. The revenue department has also done five land registrations in the illegal colony.The ATP’s letter cited lack of documents on the case file. “It has come to notice that there were attempts to build the foundation of the colony by levelling it, which is a violation of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995,” the letter to Avtar said, warning him against the illegal construction.Hoshiarpur MC commissioner Balbir Raj Singh says, “We have written to the sub-registrar (to stop the registration of the land) and to the police to take legal action against the owners.”Hoshiarpur tehsildar Harminder Singh admitted that five land registrations of Guru Nanak Colony had been done. “The MC informed us just two days ago that Guru Nanak Colony is illegal. We were unaware of its status. We have returned one new land registration case that came to us on Friday,” the tehsildar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-colony-right-under-hoshiarpur-municipal-corporation-s-nose-and-it-doesn-t-bat-an-eyelid/story-7o8H030FJm0Rr8RYvjU8zM.html
12-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh health department issues order for Covid-19 test on demand||The Uttar Pradesh health and family welfare department on Friday issued an order for Covid-19 tests on demand. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said a person could visit any authorised laboratory without a prescription and get a SARS CoV-2 test. The health and family welfare department has set certain conditions, such as the person who wishes to be tested should have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient or a family member or with someone in a public place. Also Read: Migrants in UP pack their bags as former employers lay out red carpet for their returnIf a person is symptomatic—high fever, dry cough, tiredness, loss of taste/smell or difficulty in breathing—or if a person is travelling and authorities at the destination require a Covid-19 test result, (s)he could get a test administered on demand, Prasad said. He said it had been brought to his notice that people being tested provided authorities with incorrect addresses and phone numbers. He directed laboratories to check phone numbers, addresses and collect copies of identity cards—Aadhaar card, driving licence or PAN card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-health-department-issues-order-for-covid-19-test-on-demand/story-HayRHMsUO9uY5CIVpkyV8O.html
12-09-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow to get seven more special trains from Saturday||Railways will run seven more special trains from Lucknow starting Saturday in addition to the existing set of 11 special trains announced in the previous unlock phases, said an official. “We have made elaborate arrangements at the stations in order to ensure the safety of passengers. We have allowed entry of only confirmed ticket holders at stations to minimise the rush. Also, we have introduced a contactless ticket checking system to ensure the safety of passengers as well as staff. No bedding would be given in AC coaches and we have made it mandatory for all passengers to wear masks,” said Mahesh Gupta, public relation officer (PRO) Lucknow Division, NER. Other than the trains originating from the city, there are more than 60 trains that will pass through railway stations in the city that includes prime Charbagh railway station and Lucknow junction. Besides, trains would also pass from other stations falling under Lucknow division of both northern railways (NR) and NE railways (NER) that broadly covers the entire city. Also Read: CM asks officials to chalk out effective strategy to check Covid spread in LucknowDelhi-bound Vande Bharat Express and AC Superfast Express would cater to Charbagh railway station managed by NR while trains like Humsafar Special, SF Special, Chauri Chaura Special, Ramnagar-Howrah Weekly Special Train and Swarn Shatabdi would cater to Lucknow Junction and other stations managed by NER. Proper arrangements have been made at Charbagh railway station to handle the rush while keeping all Covid protocols in place. Month-long testing of foundation pillars for Ram temple begins “We have deputed a team that would maintain round the clock vigil to ensure safety of passengers. Besides, we have also set up a desk that would ensure thermal scanning of passengers entering the station,” a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-to-get-seven-more-special-trains-from-saturday/story-tEeao2guZ18pDkOhMQtoeL.html
12-09-2020||Patna||Report seeks special financial help for resource-starved Bihar||A significant reduction in the Centre’s revenue collection will affect Bihar’s finances badly and it will be impossible for the state to compensate for the shortfall from alternate sources even if it tries to explore the possibility of generating more revenue from its own sources, a Patna think- tank’s report has said.The report titled ‘COVID-19: Issues and Challenges for Bihar’, was released on Friday at Patna’s Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI). It said the crisis has huge economic implication for Bihar with the limited fiscal space to provide financial support from their own resources. The report added the state has faced the dual challenges of handling the usual calamities of flood at the same time as the unprecedented pandemic. “Hence, the Bihar government cannot handle those challenges without special financial support from the Central Government, as the reduced transfer on account of lower tax revenue pool of the Centre will affect the fiscal balance of the State.”Also Read: Migrants in UP pack their bags as former employers lay out red carpet for their returnIt said there is also an additional dimension of the economic impact--the return of migrant workers and the loss of remittances that they used to send to their families in Bihar.“During the initial phase of lockdown migrants returned in huge numbers. MGNREGA [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act], a demand-based employment programme, proved to be an effective short-term relief measure for providing employment, especially for the rural and unskilled workforce. The state government took many short-term measures to handle the crisis but a lot more needs to be done to mitigate the impact in the medium to long term,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/report-seeks-special-financial-help-for-resource-starved-bihar/story-5ri7nyS9d4x6s07J5lC29K.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Duplicate ghee manufacturing racket busted in Delhi, five arrested||The Delhi Police busted a duplicate desi ghee manufacturing racket in outer Delhi’s Bawana and seized 284 cartons of spurious ghee from a factory early Saturday. Police said the men were packaging the ghee using the names of prominent ghee companies. Five men, including the owner of the factory, have been arrested. A large amount of raw product used in manufacturing the ghee and packaging material were seized from the premises, the police said.The police said they conducted the raid jointly with the government’s food and safety department after receiving information about the illegal unit in Bawana.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma said police teams raided the factory, the food and safety department tested samples of the ready-made ghee in 284 cartons and found it to be spurious.“All the cartons were seized. About 212 had already been loaded in a tempo to be dispatched for supply,” Sharma said.He said an enquiry revealed that the factory belongs to one Sandeep (known only by his first name). Four other men, Akshay, Rohit, Ratan and Ankesh, who were present on the factory premises at the time of the raid were arrested. “Sandeep is being questioned. Further action will be taken accordingly,” the DCP said.A large amount of raw material, including 212 tons of refined oil, 149 tons of vegetable oil, desi ghee essence, 600 empty tins and 2,500 empty plastic jars, gas stoves, cylinders and weighing machines were recovered from the factory, he said.Sharma said the factory was seized and all the five men have been booked under different Indian Penal Code sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/duplicate-ghee-manufacturing-racket-busted-in-delhi-five-arrested/story-727RvNi67h7V37FyK2ht5J.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Lt Governor Manoj Sinha rolls out J&K grievance redressal system||In a step towards making grievance redressal robust and efficient, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha launched the Jammu and Kashmir Integrated Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (JK-IGRAMS) in Srinagar on Friday.The revamped system will decentralise handling and redressal of public grievances by making district collectors and deputy commissioners the primary level of receiving, disposing and monitoring grievances.The existing portal has been integrated downwards to the district level by mapping nearly 1,500 public offices in 20 districts of the Union Territories. From the existing 250 to the proposed 1,500 offices, this is the widest possible coverage that has been conceived and enabled in online management of public grievances in Jammu and Kashmir.Officials said that this makes it the first online grievance management system in the country which is linked to the central government (at the top level) and districts, tehsils and blocks (at the bottom level).The administrative secretaries of different departments are also linked to the mechanism.In addition to this, the new system will be available 24x7 with applicant OTP authentication, acknowledgement to applicant at each stage, feedback by complainant, and grievance submission through call centre via phone call between 9.30am and 5.30pm on all days except Sunday.The lieutenant governor said that the government is committed towards undertaking all radical reforms to put in place a people-centric good governance structure which will have an institutionalised grievance redressal mechanism.He added that it is the most important component of a well-governed responsive administration and an indicator of efficiency and effectiveness of all administrative processes.Terming it a step towards gaining peoples’ trust, Sinha said that an effective grievance redressal mechanism is the life of any good governance system and is the priority for the J&K administration. “The new system is initially being launched on a pilot basis for three districts of Jammu, Srinagar, and Reasi. It will gradually be rolled out in the remaining districts by or before October 2. It will replace the current portal which was launched back in 2018,” an official spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lt-governor-manoj-sinha-rolls-out-j-k-grievance-redressal-system/story-BdbUNh6tBFbof2nsgEVnXN.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Statewide campaign to stop spread of Covid-19 will be launched on September 15||Maharashtra has launched a statewide campaign ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19 as more lockdown restrictions are eased. There are specific advisories under this campaign that are to be followed by housing societies and colonies, shopping malls and markets, and measures to be taken at workplaces and while travelling in public transport. The campaign, to be conducted in two phases, will be kickstarted from September 15.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal said, “The main objective of this campaign is to achieve effective health care education for the control of Covid-19. In order to effectively curtail the spread of the disease, it is imperative that all members of a family take necessary care and are vigilant to avoid inadvertent mistakes.”Also Read: An agenda for India’s New Deal to fix the Covid-infected economy | OpinionPublic representatives and NGO volunteers will be roped in for this campaign. As part of the campaign, volunteers will go door to door to check residents for fever and low oxygen levels as well as look for those with Covid-19 symptoms. People with ailments such as diabetes, heart and kidney disease as well as obesity will be referred for treatment. A team comprising a health worker and two others will survey and inspect every person and also suggest available services for the diseases. The state will make one doctor available to five teams. A swab test will be recommended to those with Covid-19 symptoms. The state will survey 2.25 crore families twice a month during the survey.Apart from the basic precautions of maintaining distance, using masks, sanitising or washing hands compulsorily, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also laid down several other rules for corporate offices, housing societies and shopping centres. For instance, shop owners have been told to ensure arrangements to check body temperature, keep sanitiser and allow a limited number of customers at a time. They have also been told to ensure minimum staff and adopt online methods of transaction.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 case tally crosses 4.6 millionHousing societies will have to ensure that temperature checking, oxygen testing and hand-washing facilities are available for helpers ,drivers, waste collectors and cleaners. They will also have to display the emergency contact numbers of municipal health centres and hospitals within their society premises.For private offices, working hours of employees will be staggered, employees are to be called to work on alternate days and must work from home as much as possible, digital methods are to be adopted to avoid human contact, video conferencing systems must be used for meetings and the health of all employees must be prioritised.Similarly, a face shield and mask is recommended for those travelling via public and private transport. The campaign also states that people should avoid travelling in crowded vehicles, should not touch doors and handles of vehicles and use private vehicles for commuting as much as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-statewide-campaign-to-stop-spread-of-covid-19-will-be-launched-on-september-15/story-tdIUHpQfznKzVNuvdg432O.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||All Delhi Metro lines functional, back to normal timings starting today||The Delhi Metro is fully functional, with all its corridors operational at regular, pre-lockdown timings, from Saturday. Flying squad teams of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Delhi Police will inspect the Metro routinely to ensure commuters do not violate social distancing norms. As part of the last leg of the graded resumption, DMRC has reopened its final line, the Airport Express Line (Dwarka Sector- 21 to New Delhi), and resumed its regular timings of 6am to 11pm. Saturday is the first day since March 22 when Delhi Metro trains are running on the pre-lockdown schedule. Also Read: If you’re travelling in Delhi Metro, strictly adhere to social distancing rulesSince the beginning of the week, when the Delhi Metro started reopening its network to commuters in a graded manner, the timings of the service have been limited to two shifts, morning and evening. This was primarily done to acclimatise commuters to the new rules of travel, meant to ensure social distancing. “The operations are being resumed fully from Saturday, but passengers requested to stagger their journeys so that there are no peak crowding hours,” said Mangu Singh, managing director, DMRC. Since the reopening of the Metro, passenger movement on all of its corridors is witnessing a steady increase, which also means that DMRC will, from Saturday, face a greater challenge in crowd management. Also Read: Metro deploys flying squads to ensure commuters keep their masks on inside trainsFor this purpose, DMRC said that additional teams have been deployed on the station premises and inside trains to check for violations. Apart from safety protocols regarding screening and sanitising all passengers, doing away with tokens for travel, restricting entry into stations and capping train capacity to 50 passengers, DMRC on Friday also launched a flying squad to keep a watch for any kind of safety violation. On Friday, the squad counselled over 150 people and fined at least 92 passengers Rs 200 each under the Operations and Management Act (2002) of the Delhi Metro for not wearing masks and following social distancing rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-delhi-metro-lines-functional-back-to-normal-timings-starting-today/story-3I3ur07gMMu7m43XdKXu6J.html
12-09-2020||Lucknow||Former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati’s jail stay got longer despite bail||Former Uttar Pradesh minister Gayatri Prajapati, who was granted interim bail by the high court in a gang rape case, is likely to remain in jail as another court has sent him to 14-days in judicial custody after a fresh FIR of fraud, forgery and criminal intimidation was registered against him. The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court had on September 4 granted Prajapati interim bail for two months on medical grounds in the gang rape case, but as of Friday, he was still in jail as his bail conditions were not fulfilled, police officials said. The officials said although Prajapati’s bail order stands, a lower court has ordered him to be in 14-day judicial custody in the fresh case lodged against him at Ghazipur police station on Thursday. Investigation officer inspector Anand Shahi confirmed that the hearing in the fresh case against the former minister was conducted through video conference on Friday, when the court allowed his 14-day judicial custody. Shahi said the officials concerned have been informed about the latest development “so that he could not be released on bail in the gang rape case.” Also Read: Rs 11 crore embezzlement at two Mathura temples, SIT files FIR against 12On Thursday, Dinesh Chandra Tripathi, former lawyer of the alleged gang rape survivor, lodged an FIR against Prajapati, the survivor and her daughter. The lawyer also alleged that he had received a threat from Prajapati earlier on phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/former-up-minister-gayatri-prajapati-s-jail-stay-got-longer-despite-bail/story-LJb7YYpmE2SGyrc1YLuX2M.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||If you’re travelling in Delhi Metro, strictly adhere to social distancing rules||Delhi Metro resumed its normal operations from Saturday and Delhi Metro Railway Corporation (DMRC) trains on all routes will run according to pre-lockdown timings of 6 am to 11 pm. DMRC has asked commuters to ensure social distancing in metros in order to avoid spreading the coronavirus. Delhi Metro was shut down for more than 5 months due to the lockdown and reopened on September 7. DMRC had earlier said that it will introduce flying squads and charge hefty fines to commuters who do not adhere to the preventive measures to stop the spread of Covid-19 suggested by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the ministry of health and family welfare.A report published by Hindustan says that 92 people were fined and challaned for not adhering to the social distancing rules and mask wearing protocols.The new travel protocols are in place to ensure your safety. Do follow the guidelines to help us serve you better. #MetroBackOnTrack pic.twitter.com/zx2eIVkQj9 The violators were challaned Rs 200 for not sticking to the rules. DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal said that the actions were taken based on the complaints lodged by other commuters.  DMRC is taking all efforts to keep your commute a safe and comfortable experience. Please follow our safety guidelines to ensure your safety. #MetroBackOnTrack pic.twitter.com/VI50DrsLkt Stay safe and avoid physical contact. If you see someone you know, greet them with a wave or folded hands. #MetroBackOnTrack pic.twitter.com/p7W6fMBwjhDMRC has been proactive in spreading awareness regarding social distancing on social media platforms while travelling in the Delhi Metro and continually requests its passengers to ensure those rules are being followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/if-you-re-travelling-in-delhi-metro-strictly-adhere-to-social-distancing-rules/story-HmrZvKxEiB4s5Mlge1clKI.html
12-09-2020||Bangalore||Three killed in Karnataka temple, robbery suspected||Three men were killed in the early hours of Friday at an ancient temple in the Mandya district of Karnataka during a robbery, according to police officials. The three men killed include an assistant priest and two security guards at the 12th century Arkeshwara Swamy temple at Guttalu.Mandya police have registered a case and are investigating the incident. Police said that the three men, identified as Ganesh (55), Prakash (60), and Anand (42), were murdered by the burglars, who broke open the hundi (donation box) and decamped with an unknown amount of money and other offerings.Also Read: South Western Railway increases platform ticket price in Bengaluru by 400 per centChief minister B S Yediyurappa expressed condolence to the families of the slain men and announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each for the next of kin. The CM tweeted saying, “It is very disturbing to learn that the priests of the Arkeshwara temple in Mandya, Ganesh, Prakash, and Anand have been murdered by burglars. A compensation of Rs 5 lakh per family of slain temple priests will be given. Immediate legal action will be initiated against the guilty.”Also Read: Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanna Galrani’s police custody extended in drug case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/three-killed-in-karnataka-temple-robbery-suspected/story-rTQXkW535uf46PdSvB4qOI.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Will ensure Maratha community gets justice: Uddhav Thackeray on quota||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said his government was firm on giving justice to the Marathas, and the option of issuing an ordinance to restore quota for students from the community has been discussed.The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed implementation of the 2018 Maratha quota law of the state and referred the petitions challenging the law to a larger constitution bench.Speaking at a meeting with representatives of Maratha organizations and a cabinet subcommittee on the issue, Thackeray said all the stakeholders should refrain from indulging in politics and provoking the members of the community.The CM also said he had spoken to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and discussed the possibility of helping Maratha students through the Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute (Saarthi), or by promulgating an ordinance.SAARTHI has been established for research, policy advocacy, and training for socio economic and educational development of Marathas.“We will do whatever it takes to give justice to the Maratha community by taking all into confidence. Opposition leaders will also be invited for talks,” he said.Legal experts, researchers on the Maratha issue were also present at the meeting through video conference.Thackeray said the Maratha quota bill was passed in the state legislature unanimously and was upheld by the Bombay High Court.The legal team representing the government in the Supreme Court had been appointed by the previous (BJP-led) government, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi would also be requested to intervene to resolve the issue, he added.The Maratha outfits which took part in the meeting extended support to the state government’s efforts and assured cooperation, a statement by the chief minister’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-ensure-maratha-community-gets-justice-uddhav-thackeray-on-quota/story-7InTWKfU13fZncacoQRQqO.html
12-09-2020||Kolkata||Busting fake news is Mamata Banerjee’s key battle strategy for 2021 polls||With the crucial 2021 assembly polls approaching, the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal has started preparing for a battle against fake news and rumours that may be circulated through social networking sites and micro-blogging sites to project the ruling Trinamool Congress in a bad light. The chief minister had recently asked the Kolkata Police and West Bengal Police to strengthen their cyber-crime cells to tackle complaints of cybercrime at highest priority. The state criminal investigation department (CID) has already come up with a cyber-forensics and digital evidence examination laboratory. “Cybercrime has increased. We have to strengthen the cybercrime cell. All police stations need to be more alert when it comes to cybercrime. There should not be any dilly-dallying. Tackling cyber-crime is our priority,” Banerjee had said while addressing a program to observe Police Day on September 8. The warning came after a social media post, saying that the state government has imposed several restrictions during Durga Puja, was circulated. A few persons were arrested after the chief minister directed the police to crack down. During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and polls in four state assemblies, the election commission of India (ECI) spotted more than 154 instances of fake news or misinformation on social media platforms. In the last five months alone more than 250 persons were arrested from across West Bengal for posting and forwarding allegedly harmful fake news and rumours. In West Bengal just before the Lok Sabha polls, an entire newspaper page of a vernacular daily was photo-shopped to spread fake news in which Mamata Banerjee was quoted saying that she would show how to make Hindus cry if she wins all 42 seats in the state. “The chief minister has asked to explore options if students from IIT and various universities could be roped in to do internships at the cyber-crime cells of the state police. All police stations have been asked to tackle all complaints of cybercrime and potentially harmful fake news on a priority basis,” said a senior police officer. The chief minister had recently launched a veiled attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s IT cell hinting that it was behind some such fake posts and rumors. Also Read: ‘Corona is gone’, says Bengal BJP chief at public rally. Then rebuts himself“We are not fighting a lollipop match. We are fighting an election and we would do whatever it takes to fight the BJP, both on the ground and in the virtual world, to counter their fake new and rumours,” said Derek O’Brien TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader and national spokesperson. On August 31, the TMC had sent a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook, complaining that hundreds of accounts of TMC supporters on the social networking site and on WhatsApp have been removed. In another letter, the party wrote that the blocking of pages and accounts points to the link between Facebook and BJP. Also Read: Asian Games gold medalist Pinki Pramanik joins BJP“Mamata Banerjee knows very well that she is losing ground and that’s why she is coming up with new ways to harass and implicate BJP workers and supporters. Our party workers are being either implicated in false cases or murdered. But none of her tactics would work as people of Bengal have come to see her true face,” said Rahul Sinha, national secretary of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/busting-fake-news-is-mamata-banerjee-s-key-battle-strategy-for-2021-polls/story-f7HLyCeax9EtFNkn31dKPL.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Back on track: Delhi Metro starts trains on regular timings||Days after resuming operations in a phased manner across the national capital, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) started running trains at regular timings (6am to 11pm) from Saturday. The metro services were shut on March 22, in view of Covid-19 outbreak. With the resumption of service on the Airport Express Line, all lines of the Delhi Metro network are now open! Remember to follow the guidelines when travelling. #MetroBackOnTrack pic.twitter.com/e9BsAS9A9BOn Friday, the Delhi Metro recorded a total ridership of 1,28,886 (till 7.30pm). The Magenta Line catered to 6,953 passengers and Grey Line to 514 passengers. The ridership on the Yellow Line (Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli) was 41,689, while it was 38,623 on the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector-21 to Vaishali/Noida Electronic Centre). Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) got 8,678 passengers and Red Line 15,485 passengers.On Sundays, (starting from September 20) the services will commence at 8am from all such sections which had this practice in vogue before the lockdown also.However, DMRC added that the metro operations will start at 6 am on Sunday--September 13, as a part of the graded opening. This Sunday, 13th September, Metro operations will start at 6:00 AM on all sections. Starting next Sunday, 20th September, regular timings as per earlier time table with services starting at 8:00 AM on Phase 3 sections (on Sundays) will continue. #MetroBackOnTrackThe DMRC resumed its services on September 7 in a phase-wise manner. The gradual opening will be completed on Saturday with the reopening of the Airport Express line. The graded resumption of metro services would be done linewise with specific timings in three stages as follows. #MetroBackOnTrack pic.twitter.com/8QgvgTCZCjThe Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12.To avoid huge crowd in the metro as well as at the stations, DMRC Managing Director Mangu Singh has appealed to the people that they should refrain from travelling during peak hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/back-on-track-delhi-metro-starts-trains-on-regular-timings/story-hb9AjCo7WJOqkAH3PLxlaM.html
12-09-2020||City||Maratha reservation: We will request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the issue, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that the Maharashtra government would speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Apex court’s interim stay on the reservation for the Maratha community in Maharashtra and request his intervention in the issue. The state government is also tapping the possibility of issuing an ordinance to safeguard the interest of students seeking college admissions under Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. The Supreme Court (SC), while transferring the plea challenging the quota to the constitutional bench on Wednesday stayed the reservation to the Maratha community. The decision has led to widespread discontent among community members as the ongoing admission process is largely affected. Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, led by Thackeray, swung into action after the decision and held a series of meetings over the past three days. Thackeray and his cabinet colleagues from the sub-committee on the reservation interacted with senior counsels and community leaders on Friday. During the meeting, Thackeray said that the central government should take a stand on the Apex court decision. “We will raise this issue in the Parliament as we are committed to safeguard the interest of the community. Not only Maharashtra, but even other states have been struggling with reservation-related issues, which the PM should look into. We have decided to request him to intervene,” CM said. Thackeray also said that the state government is also tapping the possibility of issuing an ordinance to ensure that the admission process was not hampered. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said that there was room for legal battle, though the reservation has been stayed by the Apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-reservation-we-will-request-prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-intervene-in-the-issue-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-rboVKW4WeO7FvBXDt88ncL.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Our icon in New Friends Colony||She’s 85 and so elegant, stately, regal and her white hair are so beautiful—even on the phone screen. Actor Sushma Seth is chatting on WhatsApp video from the home in New Friends Colony that she shares with her daughter and her family. “I haven’t stepped out since the start of the first lockdown,” she says in her archetypical authoritative and yet supremely soothing voice that is familiar to so many of us who grew up watching her in films and iconic TV serials. “Most people are not aware that my background is theatre,” observes the lady, as she gamely agrees to become a part of the Proust Questionnaire series in which we nudge folks from diverse backgrounds to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore the lives, thoughts, values and experiences of Delhi’s citizens.Your favourite virtue or the key aspect of your personality Emotional strength and calm acceptanceYour favourite qualities in a man Empathy, integrity, generosity, a sense of humourYour favourite qualities in a woman Strength, grace, kindnessYour chief characteristic Determination, positive attitudeWhat do you appreciate the most in your friends? Understanding. Sharing joyous moments. Sorrows have to be endured – physical and emotional.Your main fault Fastidiousness!!Your favourite occupation Acting, directing - plays. Music. PaintingYour idea of happiness Peace and harmony in the environment. Aesthetic surroundingsIf not yourself, who would you be? An improved version of Sushma Seth!Your favourite colour and flower Red. Roses. Fragrance of Indian roses and mograYour favourite bird The vibrantly coloured birds and the ones who sing sweetly, and koel Your favourite prose authors Bharat Muni, the author of Natya Shastra, a treatise on the performing arts, which also discloses the theory of Ras. A. Parthasarathy, who authored Vedanta Treatise. Devdutt Pattanaik. Anuja ChauhanYour favourite poets Pandit Satyakam Vidyalankar, Rabindranath TagoreYour favourite composers Pandit Jasraj, Hariprasad Chaurasia, Shiv Kumar Sharma, Kishori Amonkar, Sergei Rachmaninoff, Edvard Greig, AR RahmanYour favourite painters All the gifted enterprising artists/painters of group shows who are unknown – whose works do not have buyersYour heroes/heroines in real life The Medical fraternity, which has served selflessly and tirelessly during this pandemic. All those who have suffered and endured this pandemic, primarily the womenYour favourite food and drink Shahi paneer, papri chaat, Thai curry, cheesecake and all the desserts!! Water, milk, red wine! What do you hate the most? Violence, corruptionThe military event you admire the most Kargil War. And our armed forces’ preparedness to combat ambush/violation without disclosing their strategiesReform you admire the most Abolition of child marriage, sati, caste systemNatural talent you’d like to be gifted with My own singing voice of teen years!How do you wish to die? Swiftly and peacefully - after a bathWhat is your present state of mind? In learning mode of the incredible but complex mobile and computer technologyFaults for which you have the most toleranceHealth and economic suffering||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-our-icon-in-new-friends-colony/story-bS8htBWnhY6sIOjxPv3D4I.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Maize prices crashed this time, repeat feared during basmati, cotton season||The trends during the maize procurement in Punjab that ended recently were not encouraging with the farmers getting nearly 30% less prices for their produce than the last year. This also resulted in fall in revenues for the state government that gets market fee on the sale of the produce at the grain markets even as there was surge in arrivals this year. Maize was the first crop to reach the mandis after the Centre passed two agriculture sector ordinances in June. “The prices crashed from Rs 1,500 per quintal last year to Rs 1,100 this time. Market fee and rural development fund collected this year was Rs 1.44 crore against the last year’s Rs 1.84 crore,” HS Brar, a senior Punjab Mandi Board official said. Even more worrying is the fact that agriculture experts and farmer unions are apprehending a repeat of the trend during the cotton and basmati procurement for which arrivals are expected to start any time. “The prospects for cotton and basmati are not reassuring since the buyer is apprehensive to enter the market in the wake of the new ordinances,” said BS Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). “These two crops are not covered under the assured procurement system as is wheat and paddy. Therefore, the prices are governed by the market dynamics. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, and the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, have brought in uncertainty in the trading of agricultural produce,” said a mandi board official.In 2019, 2.57 lakh tonne maize was purchased from mandis in Punjab while 2.61 lakh tonne produce was procured this time, as per the figures compiled by the mandi board. Cotton arrivals are expected to begin in mandis soon as the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has fixed October 1 as beginning of the crop purchase schedule.Rs 5,710 has been fixed as minimum support price (MSP) per bale of cotton against the last year’s Rs 5,450. However, the private buyer who purchased just two-third of harvest paid the farmers an average Rs 3,800 per bale. Agriculture department officials said they succeeded in increasing the area under cultivation of maize, basmati and cotton and now the next challenge was to fetch good remunerative price for the these crops.“There is the need to effectively implement the MSP and assured procurement of all crops. The forthcoming procurement of cotton and basmati will be quite crucial,” said Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor BS Dhillon. WAIVE LEVIES ON BASMATI: EXPORTERS In a communiqué to chief principal secretary to Punjab chief minister, Suresh Kumar, the Punjab Basmati Exporters Association has demanded waiver of 2% market fee and of rural development fund on the purchase of the aromatic variety of rice. “If this does not happen, we will not be able to make purchases in the state, which comprises 40% of Rs 34,000 crore exports from India. We appeal to the state government to waive all levies and support the basmati growers,” association director Ashok Sethi said. The harvest of the 1,509 variety of aromatic grain has started and arrivals were reported in some places. Of at least 16 lakh acre under cultivation of aromatic grain, 40% is the 1,509 and the rest is the 1,121 variety. “We are paying 8.5% over and above the cost of grain, which includes 2.5% dami to arhtiyas, transport and labour charges and 4% states taxes. These taxes are not charges in other basmati-growing states,” added Sethi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/maize-prices-crashed-this-time-repeat-feared-during-basmati-cotton-season/story-j3OwueZoTN3UlIRdf5F3hO.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||After Supreme Court raps state, Maharashtra pollution control body admits rampant illegal activities are polluting Ulhas, Waldhuni rivers||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has accepted that illegal discharge of effluents by industrial units and absence of proper vigilance, which allowed violations to continue, are the main reasons behind the high pollution levels at the Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “There are two specific issues: first, industries may have permission to discharge effluents, but are carrying out illegal activities [discharging effluents without treating them or beyond permissible limits]. The second issue is units are functioning illegally without any consent,” said a senior MPCB official.The admission comes after the Supreme Court (SC) earlier this week highlighted the failure of state bodies to discharge their duties in improving the water quality of the rivers, despite repeated orders by the Apex court. “The material which has been produced on record demonstrates that the situation warrants urgent and immediate remedial steps. There has been a failure of statutory bodies to discharge their responsibilities under the law,” read the SC order published on Thursday. MPCB said it was formulating an action plan to address the issue. MPCB chairman Sudhir Srivastava said the pollution control body will increase vigilance. “Apart from sewage coming from towns such as Ulhasnagar, Badlapur, Kalyan etc, the main problem is the illegal activities being conducted by industries. This [pollution] is happening more at Waldhuni, which later meets Ulhas. Given the challenges pertaining to the illegal disposal of waste [into the rivers], we will increase vigilance, manpower and monitoring across the entire length of the two rivers. We are also following up with urban local bodies to ensure that their respective sewage treatment programmes are implemented swiftly,” he said. The SC bench of justices DY Chandrachud and KM Joseph on September 7 heard an interim application filed by environment group Vanashakti, alleging industries had dumped untreated effluents at several sections of the two rivers. While the Ulhas river turned turquoise (see image) and witnessed foam, between May and June water in Waldhuni turned deep red in some parts of MMR. Despite repeated complaints, there was no action on ground regarding their grievances, Vanashakti alleged. SC directed Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to file a report within three weeks (from September 7) after inspecting both the rivers to identify the units which are causing pollution and then formulate recommendations and steps that need to be taken by the municipal corporations concerned (which will include Ulhasnagar, Kalyan Dombivli, Kulgaon Badlapur and Ambernath), regulatory bodies and units to remedy the situation. The fact that MPCB has been kept out of the investigation was a clear indictment of its failure to do its duties honestly, said applicant Stalin D, director of Vanashakti. “MPCB has consistently failed to take credible action against polluting industries and has always offered a cover up,” he said. Ulhas and Waldhuni are among 53 of the most polluted rivers from Maharashtra – the highest for any state among the 351 most polluted rivers in India – according to the CPCB. The 122-km Ulhas River supplies drinking water to more than 30 lakh residents along the Badlapur-Thane belt. The SC is hearing the issue since 2017 and several orders were passed over the past three years directing the state to improve water quality. The SC bench on September 7 directed the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to file a compliance report for previous orders within two weeks. “The court will also review whether compliance has been made of the time-lines set out in the previous order for the completion and commissioning of projects (by the next date of hearing on October 7),” the order said. Zaman Ali, the counsel for Vanashakti, said a massive increase in industrial pollution in Ulhas river soon after the lockdown forced them to move SC. “Such high pollution levels, even when the matter is being monitored by the SC, shows that MPCB has remained incompetent to address this issue and that is why CPCB has been directed to take over the functions,” said Ali. SL Waghmare, MPCB regional officer (Kalyan), said the local common effluent treatment plant (CETP) responsible for violating water quality norms during the lockdown was fined ₹5 lakh. “We also shut down one unit which was using chemical dyes. The investigation into the other violators is under way,” he said. According to Stalin, industries under MIDC continue to operate without a CETP. “Instead of acting on violations, the MPCB tripled the consent capacities of the polluters. We are hopeful that the judiciary will ensure that the guilty officials are brought to justice,” he said. According to MIDC, there are 1,160 industries across Badlapur, Ambernath and Dombivli, of which 631 were classified as ‘polluting industries’. These discharge 25.7 million litres of effluents to five CETPs for treatment each day. In addition to it, untreated sewage is discharged from areas under municipal limits to the rivers. “The construction of a 7.7-km disposal line connecting effluent discharge from CETPs emptying into a creek away from both rivers is underway. This will reduce the pollutant load significantly and it will be completed by February 2022,” said Kalidas Bandekar, superintendent engineer (MMR), MIDC. ‘Samples from drinking water zone found unfit for consumption’ A water quality report from last year, based on samples collected from the drinking water zone of both the rivers showed that the water was highly acidic. The water was collected by members of the Ulhasnagar and Ambernath Citizens Forum and sent for testing to a private lab. “Drinking water was found not fit for consumption. Despite repeated interventions of the SC, numerous complaints to the CPCB and faulty investigations by local MPCB officials, the environmental quality of this entire region continues to deteriorate each day, with only industrial bodies profiting, even as the health of residents worsen,” said Satyajit Burman, member of the forum. Srivastava said MPCB shut down more than 500 illegal jeans washing units and also directed the closure of several textile units using chemical dyes near both rivers. “Violations have been booked but owing to fewer officials, cases have not been completely pursued and arrests haven’t taken place. With the execution of our latest plans, we will ensure that there is no illegal dumping of waste or effluents. In case of such activities, we will ensure strict action against violators to guarantee deterrence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-supreme-court-raps-state-maharashtra-pollution-control-body-admits-rampant-illegal-activities-are-polluting-ulhas-waldhuni-rivers/story-hiy5h9fyJRcWSNRvcwXG0M.html
12-09-2020||City||Don’t charge money for installing ‘saroops’ on demand: Akal Takht to SGPC||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has asked the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to not charge any money for installing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib on demand and not print the same without requirement. This comes after an inquiry panel looking into the issue of the missing saroops from the gurdwara body’s publishing house at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, Amritsar, found that employees used to give the ‘birs’ illegally to people and pocketed the money. “We made some suggestions to SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal to prevent misappropriation in future. One suggestion was that the saroops should be printed as per requirement. The SGPC should first receive application and then send a team for verification to the place where the saroop is to be installed. The saroop should be printed accordingly,” Giani Harpreet Singh said on Friday. On the demand for the saroops in the foreign countries, he said, “Either these saroops should be sent from here with proper ‘maryada’ or they be printed by the Sikh bodies in the respective countries in collaboration with the SGPC.” “I have asked the SGPC to punish the guilty on the basis of the report of the inquiry panel,” said he when asked to comment on U-turn made by the SGPC on filing criminal cases against the employees indicted in the report.In the wake of the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadar next year, the jathedar said he had asked the SGPC to re-print its all the publications which are out of print for several years. “These publications include valuable books and tracts that should be read by the Sikh youth. For example, a kind of white paper was published by it on Sikh the genocide of November 1984, but it is not available now,” he added. Presently, the SGPC charges Rs 2,100 per saroop (large and medium size), said an office-bearer of the gurdwara body. “The amount is not charged as price of the holy saroop, but as offering. Otherwise, the cost of printing of a saroop is much higher than this,” he added. MISSING SAROOPS: SIKH BODIES BARRED FROM GATHERING AT GOLDEN TEMPLEA day after the Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee, Punjab, and other Sikh bodies announced to meet at the Golden Temple on September 14 to chalk out the strategy to get justice in case of the missing Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday debarred them from holding any gathering in the shrine complex. In a press release, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said since Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on the premises of the Golden Temple is a sacred place, any kind of demonstration cannot be allowed there. “Instead of playing politics on the issue of the holy saroops, activists of the Satkar Committee should tell first about the whereabouts of the saroops taken away by them from different places on the pretext of violation of maryada. The sangat wants detail about where these saroops and the items needed for the parkash (installation of saroops) are,” he said. He appealed to Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to get clarification from the committee in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-charge-money-for-installing-saroops-on-demand-akal-takht-to-sgpc/story-tmBfq4K2V2vo3SPL69likM.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||I have not got proposal from state for 12 nominations to legislative Council yet, says Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari||While there is speculation that Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was opposing the appointment of 12 members to the legislative Council from Governor quota, Koshyari on Friday equated the situation with the proverb ‘spirit is willing but the flesh is weak’ and clarified that there were no recommendations made by the government in the first place. Speaking to reporters at Raj Bhavan, he said that he has been hearing about the recommendations for the last two months, but he received no communication all these days.Koshyari also said that there were no differences between him and chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray or other leaders. “I share very cordial relations with the CM. He is a gentleman. I do not like to interfere in anybody’s work and give my opinion only if asked for. The state government has its commitment, and they try to obey it. Even If some people express their unhappiness over my style of working, they are all our people,” he said. The Governor also clarified that he was not unhappy over the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s action against actor Kangana Ranaut’s office. He said that there was no substance in the media reports that he was unhappy over the demolition drive by the civic body at Kangana’s office. He said that he was not concerned about the Kangana episode and he never expressed his discontent over it. He was referring to the media report that claimed that he had summoned Thackeray’s principal secretary Ajoy Mehta and expressed his dismay on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-there-are-says-no-differences-between-him-and-cm-uddhav-thackeray-says-he-has-not-yet-received-proposal-for-council-nominations/story-bTEbiGfjmZCmCfSBUhJGBJ.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch begins probe against actor Kangana Ranaut on claims of drug use||The Mumbai crime branch on Friday initiated a probe against actor Kangana Ranaut in connection with the allegations made by Shekhar Suman’s son Adhyayan Suman in an interview about the usage of drugs.State home minister Anil Deshmukh had earlier said that Mumbai Police would be asked to probe into claims made by Suman three years ago, alleging that Ranaut forced him to take drugs.“Sena lawmakers Sunil Prabhu and Pratap Sarnaik had raised the issue about the revelation against Ranaut that she was on drugs. Suman was in a relationship with her, and he had said that she used to force him to do drugs as well. Mumbai Police will look into the allegations,” Deshmukh had said.Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh confirmed the development and said, “We have received a letter from the home department, and Mumbai crime branch will conduct an inquiry. We will verify and examine the allegations related to drugs.”Sources said that Mumbai Police sources had received other allegations as well against Ranaut, which will also be proved. “At the moment no FIR has been registered,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-begins-probe-against-actor-kangana-ranaut-on-claims-of-drug-use/story-tmdfbgcETPrd4gAv7SB4EP.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation enforces strict action, ₹500 fine  for violators of lockdown norms||As the number of positive cases in Thane city is increasing despite various measures to increase testing, tracing and isolation, the civic body has issued a circular on Friday stating that Rs 500 will be levied from those seen without masks.Strict action against violators of social distancing rules was also specified in the order released by Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Friday.The corporation, though, had levied the fine earlier. However, the circular has tightened the norms to ensure that the order is followed effectively.Any pedestrian or those on two-wheelers found without a mask will be fined. Officials will conduct random checks at public places in Thane. All officers of the civic body are also supposed to wear hand gloves, mask, face shield and make use of sanitizer after every interaction. They should also maintain social distancing strictly.“The Covid figures in the city are increasing with each passing day. Social distancing, mask, sanitizer are some of the important things to keep Coronavirus at bay. It is essential to implement usage of these items in daily life. We have fixed Rs 500 fine not just to increase our funds but more so that people ingrain this habit and follow it,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC.The order also states that no kind of argument will be accepted, especially if someone is found in a busy area interacting without wearing a mask. Also, residents have to remain alert and not fall prey to false officers. Any fine imposed will be with a receipt, warned TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-enforces-strict-action-500-fine-for-violators-of-lockdown-norms/story-zwCZdHYdN7rLj3BdlsVT9M.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Panvel City Municipal Corporation collects Rs 11.58 lakh in fine for Covid violations||The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has collected Rs 11.58 lakh in fine in the past three months from residents and establishments in its jurisdiction for violation of Covid-19 lockdown norms. The drive was conducted in all the four wards of the civic body.The violations in June, July and August pertain to not wearing masks, not maintaining social distancing in shops and establishments.Of the Rs 11,58,124 collected in fine, Rs 81,124 was collected from those who did not wear masks, Rs 8,20,800 was collected after sealing of shops and from vehicles, Rs 2,42,700 was collected for encroachment violations.Panvel municipal commissioner, Sudhakar Deshmukh, said, “We shall continue with the drive to ensure total implementation of the guidelines. Our intention is not to make money but to instil a sense of discipline amongst the few who, by their actions, are putting themselves and also others at risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/panvel-civic-body-collects-rs-11-58-lakh-in-fine-for-covid-violations/story-7coYW81FYu3rXWZfpLvDOM.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Man befriends woman on matrimonial site, dupes her of Rs 7.13 lakh in Ulhasnagar||A woman has been duped of Rs.7.13 lakh by a man on the pretext of sending her gifts from abroad. The woman befriended the man on an online matrimonial site.The Ulhasnagar Central police are investigating the matter.The woman, 36, works in a private company and is in a good position. She created her account on a matrimonial site a few months ago. She got a request from the accused, who used Rajnish Chaudhary as his name, and told her that he was settled abroad.An officer from Ulhasnagar central police station, said, “They both started chatting and became friends in 20 days. The woman who didn’t want to settle outside India refused the marriage proposal. The man then asked her to accept an expensive gift which he would be sending her. Later he told her that the gift was stuck in the custom and asked her to pay Rs 7.13 lakh in a bank account. The woman paid the amount but she never got the gift. She finally reached the police station on Thursday to file a case against the unknown person. We have registered a case under IPC and cyber law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-befriends-woman-on-matrimonial-site-dupes-her-of-rs-7-13l-in-ulhasnagar-near-mumbai/story-ZXa4zcyCWuRTM9lmxs7ElI.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Non-removal of electric cables brings Dombivli ROB work to standstill||The work of long-awaited Dombivli Rail Over Bridge (ROB) has come to a standstill because the work of removing five electric cables is pending.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has approached the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) asking it to remove the cables.   The work of the ROB was taken up during lockdown period by the civic body. However, it has now slowed down.“We cannot carry forward the work unless the cables are removed. We have asked the MSEDCL to carry out the work with priority and they have also agreed to it,” said Tarun Juneja, executive engineer, KDMC.Once the cables are removed, the civic body will take up the work of laying concrete for the bridge. The KDMC expect to complete the work by November.The repair work of the Dombivli ROB was initiated in June by the civic body and Central Railway (CR) after a major part of the bridge was dismantled in a span of 15 days, taking advantage of the lockdown period.The bridge was shut in September 2019 after it was declared unsafe by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay in May 2019 after an audit.The entire repair work will cost around Rs 10.50cr.As the repair work got delayed, there have been complaints from the commuters regarding the ordeal they face while taking the alternative Thakurli ROB through the narrow lanes in the city. There has been a continuous demand to take up the repair work.“The closure of the bridge has led to major traffic snarls in the city. It is high time it was repaired and opened for the commuters. Since the lockdown is relaxed, vehicles have started moving out and again there is congestion reported,” said Manohar Pillai, 36, a resident of Dombivli.An officer from MSEDCL who did not wish to be named said, “As per the requirement, we have asked the contractor to take up the work of removing the cables. We have directed the contractor to complete the work by September 27.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/work-on-rob-in-dombivli-near-mumbai-comes-to-a-halt/story-3So4BKdO1y4lUfPevKXKDM.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Mass antigen tests begin in rural Panvel to curb Covid-19 spread||Due to the rising Covid cases in the rural areas of Panvel, antigen tests are being conducted on mass level for the residents in these areas as per the directions of Raigad Collector Nidhi Choudhary.This is the first time that a mass level antigen test is being conducted in the rural belt of Panvel.Panvel has five Primary Health Centres (PHC) – at Nere, Ajivali, Aapta, Gavhan and Vavanje villages – and one Urban Health Centre (UHC) of Cidco at Ulwe. Panvel Taluka health officer, Dr Sunil Nakhate, said that the mass testing will curb cases in the villages.The initiative was started on September 3. The front warriors, involving health workers, sanitisation workers, school teachers, anganwadi workers, ASHA workers have been specifically asked to go through the tests along with the residents.Nakhate said, “We have asked the residents to get their tests done. If found positive, they are asked to get quarantined. Some of them have the facility to quarantine themselves at their homes and choose that. Those who don’t are sent to our Covid facility centres.”Till September 10, around 1,516 people underwent the test. Of these, 132 were found positive and the rest negative. Of those found postive, 62 were symptomatic while the remaining asymptomatic. Twenty eight patients were above 50 years of age.Nakhate added, “We have received 3,000 kits so far. We will receive more as per our requirement. In the next batch of antigen kits that would be received by the taluka office, the first preference would be for the shopkeepers, vegetable sellers and others who have been providing essentials to the people.School teachers, anganwadi workers, ASHA workers are all together working to spread awareness as well among the people. In Ulwe, there have been announcements made by rickshaw drivers in the node about free antigen tests that is made available for the people.As per the state figures, the Raigad district has a total of 22,720 positive cases and 555 deaths. In NumbersTotal Antigen Kits received: 3000  Village             Testing kits      Testing Done  Positive casesGavhan            550      312      11Vavanje           250      212      16 Nere    775      284      26 Ajivali             575      310      61 Apta    550      356      18 Ulwe   300      42        0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mass-antigen-tests-begin-in-rural-panvel-to-curb-covid-19-spread/story-vA90iXLiEkDdJQ2U6TPCAL.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi civic body to test entire housing society even if one person tests positive for Covid-19||The Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) is conducting tests for entire housing society even if one person in it tests positive. Unlike earlier, residents are also eager to get themselves tested in Bhiwandi.Bhiwandi city civic chief Pankaj Ashiya said, “We no longer have cases in any particular area. There are sporadic cases. With increased travelling for work, most of the cases are from residential complexes. Hence, we have started antigen testing for everyone in the society even if a single patient tests positive. We will also begin 24-hour testing at all Covid care centres and hospitals while a mobile testing facility will also be operational. Our current focus is making testing easily accessible for locals; both antigen and RT-PCR are available.”The BNCMC reported 19 positive cases and two deaths on Thursday. Till now, it has recorded 4,723 positive cases. However, among the 23 deaths that took place in August, 15 of them were getting treated outside Bhiwandi. Similarly, from among the 180 active cases in the city currently, 30 are in facilities based outside Bhiwandi civic body precincts. The civic body has a positivity percentage less than 5%.“There are many from Bhiwandi who prefer getting treated in Thane or Mumbai, but we are making efforts to ensure that everyone avails treatment within the corporation. Through this, we can save on the transport distance and provide timely treatment, and also helps us monitor their health,” added Ashiya.Harsha Muduli, 49, resident of Varaladevi Society in Padma Nagar, said, “Earlier, even if there were symptoms, people would not get them tested or even visit a doctor. However, with increased testing facilities introduced through various means by the civic body; the residents seem eager. When we had a positive case in our society, all the residents cooperated and came forward to get them tested through the antigen facility.”  ‘Not to reject any patient’With fewer positive cases, two-thirds of Covid beds in the city have been given to patients from rural areas and other municipal corporations. “This has been our policy to not reject any patients. We have more than two-thirds beds available for other corporations. There are many from Badlapur, Shahapur rural, Bhiwandi rural and other places who visit our facilities for treatment. Similar trust is expected from those residing within the Bhiwandi civic body,” added Ashiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-civic-body-to-test-entire-housing-society-even-if-one-person-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-F3xpphBcUEZNyDW6S2HEVO.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation to start resurvey for new Development Plan||With the current Development Plan (DP) for the city completing 20 years in 2023, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has decided to start a resurvey of the city to prepare a new DP by that year. The corporation has tabled a proposal in the general body meeting to be held on September 18 to start work on the new DP. The corporation has so far implemented merely 35 per cent of the old DP.The work of formulating a new DP will include re-examination of the sanctioned DP, carrying out a fresh survey of the city in accordance with the provisions of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act, 1966, mapping the existing land usage, finalising provisions for the new DP of the city keeping in mind the projected population for the next 20 years.  The earlier DP was formulated in 1999 and implemented in 2003. The total area of TMC is 128.23sqm, the city has creek on one side and national park mountain on the other side. The city also has one of the biggest industrial belt at Wagale Estate. The new DP will have to take into account the real estate boom in the last two decades and the exponential increase in population.An officer from TMC said, “As per the rule, for the formulation of new DP, we will first have to carry out a survey of existing land use, how much of the land is encroached upon, the open spaces and the reserved plots among others. The map of this land use will then be drafted and published to invite suggestions and objections. The work of the actual DP will then start. This will require at least three years as we will have to conduct a Geographical Information Survey (GIS) of the city.”The proposal for the fresh survey is tabled in the general body for approval.   SALIENT FEATURES OF EARLIER PLAN The total area of corporation is 128.23sqm. The broad categorisation shows that 59.30sqm is developable, 36.82sqm non-developable while 32.11sqm is under green zoneThere are 11 planning sectors, where 804 are total reserved sites covering area of 12.67sqmThe area under road shown in the development plan is 7.42sqm. The area under residential zone is 26.65sqm, while that under industrial zone is 12.54sqmAs per 1991 prices, the cost of acquisition of entire land under reservation has been worked out as Rs 209 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-corporation-to-start-resurvey-for-new-development-plan/story-LmnFZIrBXUgNNwYqfebREP.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||804 industrial units in Taloja MIDC belt reopen; lakhs of workers rejoice||Around 804 industrial units in Taloja MIDC belt that had been shut for the past five months have received permission from the state government to start operations from Thursday.The entire Taloja MIDC belt is now operational for the first time since lockdown was announced. Lakhs of workers employed in the belt have heaved a sigh of relief. There are a total of 973 units in Taloja industrial belt. Of these, 169 had been operational as they provided essential goods and services. The remaining 804 had been shut resulting in hardship for the employees and the management. Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhari has stated that the industries permitted to be reopened in the Taloja belt will be monitored by her officials to ensure strict implementation of the Covid-related guidelines specified for the industries. She has also suggested that the managements will test each of their workers so that the virus does not spread. Speaking on the permission granted for reopening of the industries, Chaudhari said, “There was some lack of clarity in the guidelines that had resulted in the industries remaining closed. It said that the MMR non-essential industries will not be allowed to be opened. The guidelines were for MMR industries and Taloja is in the municipal corporation area. We had written to the state government to clarify on the issue.”She added that the state has permitted to open up the industries including those in Taloja. The district was keen to start the industries as it was causing employment issues. Chaudhari said, “The industries have to work with Covid-appropriate behaviour. We have our officers appointed to verify if the employees are being tested, masks are being worn, physical distancing being maintained, canteens not functioning and other multiple guidelines.”The Taloja Industries Association (TIA) had been following up on the issue with the state government to get the industries started. Satish Shetty, president of TIA, said, “We had been in touch with all levels of the government and gave representations to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhary. We have finally succeeded in our efforts.” There are over two lakh workers employed in the belt. Most of them were unemployed as the units shut in lockdown period. Shetty added, “Several returned to their native places. Now there will be new job opportunities. We shall follow all the norms and guidelines given by the government and start our operations as we have received the requisite permission.” Mangesh Suryavanshi, a worker employed in a chemical factory, said, “Our prayers have been answered. I was having a very difficult time managing my family and had to take up some temporary daily wage jobs. Now I can look forward to a steady income.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lakhs-of-workers-rejoice-as-804-industrial-units-in-taloja-midc-belt-in-navi-mumbai-reopen/story-BryGUGsSO84CbeU7S94fkN.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Four years on, water woes of Kharghar residents may end||After facing water problems for four years, residents of Sectors 30 to 36 in Kharghar are finally free of water tankers.Thousands of residents residing on higher altitude in Kharghar can now get adequate water supply in their taps as three High Service Reservoirs (HSRs) at Owa hills in Kharghar are now commissioned.The three HSRs on the Owa hills were constructed around six years ago but have been commissioned to use only recently.Placed on a higher altitude of Kharghar node, Sectors 30 to 36 including Taloja jail require 68 to 70 million litres per day (MLD) of water supply. However, only 55 to 60 MLD of water had been supplied for over four years leading to an acute shortage. The three HSRs have now increased the supply to 63-65 MLD.Gajanan Dalal, chief engineer from CIDCO water department, said, “Previously, the water received at pump house in Kharghar directly pumped the water to the consumers in these sectors. The water was carried in horizontal pipelines. Thus, the pressure of water was less so as to reach the Sectors at higher altitude. Now, we are using HSR which are on the top of Owa hills.”According Dalal, the water from dam comes to pump house. This is first pumped to the three new HSRs that are inter-connected with a total capacity of 54 MLD. “When the valve of the HSR is opened, the water from the HSR uses gravitational force as pressure to flow down to the housing societies,” Dalal said.Dalal, however, refused to comment on the reason for delay in commissioning of the HSR, claiming that he took charge recently and the delay was not during his tenure.The Kharghar Taloja Colonies Welfare Association (KTCWA) had been writing to CIDCO officers and staging protests demanding regular water supply since the last three years.Mangesh Ranawade (51), chairman of KTCWA, said, “With the joint efforts of KTCWA and CIDCO officials, the Sectors between 30 and 36 were highly dependent on tankers. Now, we have finally become tanker-free. We were grappling with water scarcity for the last three to four years. By commissioning the new reservoirs, water is also distributed equally to the societies.”To solve the issues, KTCWA and CIDCO conducted a systematic study of more than 115 societies in the area with respect to number of flats and their meter readings.Girish Divekar, 39, a resident of Ventures Residency, said, “We used to face issues in all seasons except during rainy months. There was a major issue of unequal distribution of water. Since April, the situation has improved. CIDCO has committed to provide 675 litres per flat. Ours is a small society with only 24 flats, yet we needed tankers daily during summer.” Minor issues still unresolvedAnuj Tomar, 36, secretary of Ellite Homes Housing Society, said they were still facing issues due to the piping of the society. “We need to change the old pipelines in our society as the pressure of the water is now good and we too can get adequate supply. I am staying here since six years but facing water crisis for the last three years. The water scarcity started as the population in the area started increasing. Last year, our society had to get a bore well dug too,” Tomar said.Ranawade informed that the last 10 societies in these sectors were still facing issues and the forum is working to resolve them. He said, “After discussions with CIDCO on September 4, it was decided to change the piping of the societies as they were quite old. Once that is done, their issues too would be resolved.” Call for helpMembers of KTCWA have appealed to the societies in Kharghar Sectors 30 to 36 to contact KTCWA on WhatsApp number 7798833777, and give details if they were still facing water-related issues. In NumbersKharghar needs: 70 MLD  NMMC provides: 10 MLD  Hetawane Dam provides: 55 MLD  Shortage: 5 MLD   HOW THE PROBLEM OF SECTORS 30-36 WAS SOLVED?  Lapses in distribution identifiedSystematic study conducted of more than 115 societies in these areas with respect to number of flats and their meter readingsSocieties’ piping that were old and had less thickness changedUtilised High Service Reservoirs (HSR) at Owa hills  Direct supply from HSRs to Kharghar instead of from pump house High Service Reservoirs historyThe three HSRs on the Owa hills were constructed around six years ago and the piping work and commissioning of the same had been pending since then. Following frequent demands, the piping work of HSRs was completed and it is now being utilised.It has three inter-connected tanks – one with 24MLD and two with 15 MLDs each – with a total capacity of 54 MLD. Even if the dam undergoes a shutdown, HSRs will always have a back-up of 54 MLD water to supply to the node||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-four-years-on-water-woes-of-kharghar-residents-may-end/story-3SWFUc6HdIANh3CLCJ6eGK.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra at 1 million: Covid-19 spreads in rural areas||Although Mumbai, Thane and Pune still remain the epicentre of the pandemic, Covid-19 infection is fast spreading in rural districts of Maharashtra, with districts once tagged as green zones owing to minimal cases, recording the highest growth rate in the past 10 days. Many districts have acute shortage of beds in intensive care units (ICU) and essentials, including drugs and oxygen. While Mumbai, Thane, and Pune constitute almost 54% of total Covid-19 cases in the state, the growth rate has come under control. Between September 1 and 10, Pune has recorded 22.3% growth, followed by Mumbai with 19.1% and Thane 12.6%. But districts like Bhandara, 908km away from Mumbai, recorded a 105.2% growth in the past 10 days, the highest in the state. On September 1, 1,173 Covid-19 cases were reported, which rose to 2,408 on September 10. Wardha, which was a green zone in April, has recorded a 96.7% rise, as the number of patients rose to 2,019 from 1,026 in the same period. Gondia registered 1,569 cases on the first day of September, which increased to 2,769 within 10 days. This counts as 76.4% rise in cases. In Chandrapur, cases surged to 4,697 from 2,639 (78.3%). Sindhudurg, which was again a green zone district, has gained the fifth top slot by registering 64.9% growth rate. The cases rose to 2,157 from 1,308 in 10 days. “Pandemic spreads like waves of the earthquake. It started with Mumbai and Pune, but has now spread to all districts. With the gradual unlocking of the lockdown, movement of people in the interiors have increased and so this was expected,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. Many hospitals in these regions are facing acute shortage of medical staff and essential drugs. Dr Ajay Dawale, district health officer, Wardha, said, “We have enough beds with oxygen facilities, but we don’t have an adequate number of ICU beds. We are in talks with private hospitals to increase ICU and ventilator beds at the earliest. We have already tied up with 27 private hospitals. We need more medical staffers to treat patients in government hospitals.” Human right activists have complained there is an acute shortage of drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, which are an integral part of Covid-19 treatment. “It took me two days to arrange for a unit of Tocilizumab for a 54-year-old patient admitted at a private hospital. The government is just focussing on Pune and Mumbai. The sudden rise in cases in Bhandara has taken the government by surprise. We don’t have basic medical amenities like oxygen,” said Surendra Patil, part of the NGO, Jan Vidhan in Bhandara. Dr Milind Motghare, district health officer, said, “Initially, there were some shortages, but now we have enough stock.” To address the oxygen crisis, especially in far-off rural parts of the state, the health department has started control rooms in all districts. However, as cases are increasing in these areas, they often face problems in transporting oxygen when sudden need arises. “On Friday, we held a meeting with all district medical officers. We have already instructed them to procure dura oxygen cylinders on priority. After receiving the list of requirements from 16 districts, we have handed over the jumbo cylinders to them,” said Dr Archana Patil, director of health, Maharashtra. “We have also held meetings with the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) for the procurement process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-at-1-million-covid-19-spreads-in-rural-areas/story-rkJBxSd0GHBr053ShF1o4L.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||You don’t demolish Dawood Ibrahim’s house, but you razed Kangana’s: Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis takes pot shots at Shiv Sena||Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday took pot shots at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the demolition of actor Kangana Ranaut’s office by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the alleged illegal structural changes. The civic body is ruled by the Shiv Sena. Fadnavis questioned why the house of underworld gangster Dawood Ibrahim has not been demolished.“The issue was blown out of proportion by you [Shiv Sena]. After you went to demolish her house, reports on illegal houses of Shiv Sena leaders are coming out. You don’t go to demolish Dawood’s home but you razed her [Ranaut’s] place,” the former chief minister (CM) said.“BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) has nothing to do with her [Ranaut],” Fadnavis said in response to a question over his party’s links with the actor.He also said this was not a national issue. Fadnavis said Sena leaders behaved “foolishly” and are now putting the blame on the BJP.“In fact, her [Ranaut’s] mother in an interview said the family was related to Congress and were expecting support from the party, but when an attempt was made on Kangana’s life, the Bharatiya Janata Party provided her security,” he clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/you-don-t-demolish-dawood-ibrahim-s-house-but-you-razed-kangana-s-former-maharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis-takes-pot-shots-at-shiv-sena/story-tIG1McNR5prXqAOxnVvNLI.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||‘Covid-19 yet to reach peak in Maharashtra’||While Maharashtra went past 10 lakh Covid-19 cases on Friday, state health department officials said the pandemic is expected to rage on for two more months. Officials said the state has not touched the peak of coronavirus cases yet as districts are at various stages of the outbreak. In the past 15 days alone, the state has added 83,198 active cases, with a 46.67% spike in active caseload. On August 27, Maharashtra had 178,234 active cases which rose to 261,432 on September 10. Yet to peak Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said the state will continue showing a higher number of cases as tests have increased. However, Awate pointed out the “positives” stating that over seven lakh people have recovered so far and the case fatality rate (CFR) has seen a dip in September. He said the spread has moved from Mumbai-Thane belt to rural areas, adding that Nagpur and districts in western Maharashtra are seeing a high number of cases due to proximity to Pune district. “We will continue to see a record high for a few more weeks. But there are positive signs in districts like Parbhani and Sindhudurg, where discharges are more than new cases… It is a tendency of people to look at 10 lakh cases, but it should be highlighted that over seven lakh people have recovered. Of them, nearly two lakh have recovered between August 25 and September 10,” he said. Awate, however, conceded the concern for the state for the past few weeks is the spread of coronavirus in rural areas. “The spread in rural and semi-urban areas has seen an increase. For instance, the growth rate in Pune rural is 25%, while Pimpri-Chinchwad is 12%. The situation is similar in Solapur city and its rural part,” he said. Subhash Salunkhe, former director of health services in Maharashtra, who is also on the state-appointed Covid task force, said, “We will record more cases for two more months. We are still reaching the peak of the pandemic. In the meantime, public and private hospitals need to work together to supplement the shortfall of health infrastructure in rural areas. Besides, self-discipline is crucial to help contain the spread.” Deaths a concern The increasing number of deaths on a daily basis is another worry for the state. In September alone, Maharashtra recorded 4,092 fatalities due to Covid-19, which is nearly 15% of the state’s death toll due to Covid. The state has, so far, recorded 28,724 fatalities since the outbreak. Awate said, “The case fatality rate (CFR) in five districts, including Nagpur, Solapur and Mumbai, is higher than 3%. However, it will be brought under control with increased surveillance. On the positive side, CFR in September has been around 1.8%, which is lower than the overall rate (2.83%).” Salunkhe blamed the lackadaisical approach of the district and municipal bodies to trace and track high-risk contacts in time as one of the reasons for mortality. He said, “There are laid protocols and guidelines; there is nothing left to do to bring down CFR other than aggressive surveillance. Tracing and tracking are crucial. Besides, the health department should also train doctors. An intensivist treating a patient in Mumbai or Thane will be different than one treating in rural or semi-urban areas.” The state government has started tele-ICU initiative for doctors from rural areas to get assistance from Covid task force of specialist doctors for critical patients. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health expert, said lack of manpower and late admission in hospital are key reasons for higher mortality rate. “People, especially with co-morbidities, need to get admitted in time. Generally, it is observed they get admitted four-five days after the first symptom appears, which is when they cannot get admitted on a normal oxygenated bed, but need ICCU beds. There is no skilled manpower. The government needs to think of training doctors and retrain them as the virus is changing patterns.” Way forward The state health department officials said people would have to get used to “living with the virus”, but with adequate precautions. A senior bureaucrat said, “Since unlocking of activities began, we had anticipated the increase in cases. Now with inter-district movement allowed, the cases have shot up. How can lockdown go on? People will have to carry on their activities, but they have to discipline themselves to save themselves from falling prey to the virus.”Salunkhe added that though cases are going up in Mumbai and Pune over the past few days, a limited period lockdown will be “counter-productive”. “Instead, self-discipline is needed. I still see people in Pune do not wear face masks,” he said. He added that despite the fatigue catching up, local bodies also need to continue surveillance. “People must remain alert for symptoms and get tested. People over the age of 60 must not step out; if any symptoms show, they need to get admitted to a Covid hospital,” he said. Pattiwar added the state government needs to create more awareness, more so in rural areas. “The government needs to constantly remind people of the dangers of Covid and the precautions. Unless this is done, unlock and lack of precautions will continue to give rise to cases,” he said. “Successive governments have ignored health infrastructure in the country and state. However, there are two ways to look at it – glass half full or half empty. Right now, we need to look at the half-full and tackle the other bit later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-yet-to-reach-peak-in-maharashtra/story-VDwyDBMC1s5cziqqmP7zWM.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Ready reckoner rates hiked in Maharashtra from today; realty sector unhappy||In a damper for the realty sector – which is already reeling under an acute slowdown – the Maharashtra government has hiked the ready reckoner rates by an average of 1.74% across the state from Saturday. The move will result in costlier properties, as the stamp duty is set to increase, apart from increasing the overall project cost for the builders.The move has evoked criticism from the real estate sector on Friday, with most stakeholders terming the move as uncalled for, given the current unprecedented crisis caused owing to the Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown. The decision comes after the state recently reduced the stamp duty for a temporary basis to boost property sales.Omprakash Deshmukh, inspector general of stamps and registration, termed the hike “negligible”.“The average hike is just 1.74% across the state and this will hardly affect the real estate sector. We have hiked ready reckoner rates after more than two years and the rates are from the time of 2017,” said Deshmukh.He justified the hike and said the increase in the rate in Mumbai was only 0.5 %, while for Navi Mumbai, Thane and Raigad the rates are revised to 0.99%, 0.44% and 3%, respectively.Deshmukh said the hike was implemented after studying various aspects such as the stamp duty registrations, sales data, local surveys, visits to property exhibitions and major transactions conducted over the year.Builders have condemned the hike as a “negative step”.“How can we reduce prices when the government is hiking the rates instead of decreasing them,” said Sandeep Runwal, director of Runwal Group.“All the factors such as premiums, stamp duty as well as income tax rates are linked to ready reckoner rates and this increase will have a cascading effect all across,” he added.Anuj Puri, the chairman of ANAROCK Property Consultants, said the sector was looking for cuts in the ready reckoner rates.“Hiking the ready reckoner rates limits the room for builders to cut down the real estate prices,” said Puri.The ready reckoner rate is a guide published annually by the state government, which determines the rate of properties in a particular area, on which stamp duty and registration charges are levied. In addition, all calculations related to real estate whether it is premiums, tax collection or even Income tax matters related to the construction sector is dependent on ready reckoner rates .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ready-reckoner-rates-hiked-in-maharashtra-from-today-realty-sector-unhappy/story-l4WUC82Yb6aow8xTUscvxK.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Herd immunity not proven, learn to live with the virus: Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra Covid-19 task force||As the number of Covid-19 cases in the state crossed the 10-lakh mark on Friday, experts are saying we will have to learn to live with this pandemic until the vaccine is out. HT spoke to Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid task force appointed for clinical management of patients to understand the way ahead. Dr Joshi admitted that the administration has failed to ramp up public health infrastructure adequately and contested the projection of herd immunity in Mumbai saying there was no proven pattern in the world. Excerpts:With unlocking measures rolled out by the government, the number of cases has gone up. Secondly, the spike is because of the high number of testing being carried out. In Mumbai, the number of daily tests has increased to 14,000 from 5,000. While cases are growing, the case fatality rate (CFR) is coming down. Our aim is to keep CFR below 1%. The vaccine is unlikely to be out before March 2021, and till then, we have to learn to live with the virus. No. In many places such as Pune, Thane, Nashik, Nagpur, Kolhapur and Sangli, the infrastructure is not capable of taking up severely ill patients. We have had enough time during the lockdown for capacity building and ramping up healthcare infrastructure, but unfortunately, we have fallen short in many districts. We are short of intensive care unit and critical care beds at many places. After the unlocking, cases started rising and authorities were caught unawares. Besides, we need to have a hyper vigilant public health system which will ensure faster tracing of contacts. Failure on these fronts has led to local transmission, which could have been averted.We also need to have community participation to neutralise the stigma and fear. Our recommendations are save lives, diagnose early, treat fast. We also suggest that state machineries focus on supportive care with oxygen and ventilator availability. Number of cases may go up, but lives should be saved. This can also be achieved by community sensitisation with the help of a lot of information campaigns. Citizens should follow appropriate Covid-19 behaviour till the vaccine arrives. We have added two more points — sanitisation, and masking and social distancing — to the protocol and asked people to avoid crowded and poorly ventilated places and focus on no-touch policy. Elderly people and those with comorbidities should not venture out. I would not like to comment on it.I wish and pray we will eventually end up with herd immunity. But, we need to study to see whether the antibodies last that long. It is a new virus and it can spread some amount of immunity. Areas like Dharavi, Cheetah Camp, Govandi might already have some immunity. But, exposure to the virus with positive antibodies is not equal to antibodies needed for herd immunity. The concept has not yet been proven anywhere in the world, so currently it is speculative. The data published so far on the global level does not suggest antibodies to have lasted long.No, I think this is still the first wave. The number is high because of the rise in tests, and more tests are good as they help in containing the spread of the virus. As far as CFR is concerned, it is declining; there is no need to worry about that. It is going down in Mumbai and elsewhere in the state. We should have at least 1.5 lakh daily tests, with more rapid antigen tests rather than RT-PCR. The CFR should fall below 1% and the positivity rate should come down to 3-5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/herd-immunity-not-proven-learn-to-live-with-the-virus-dr-shashank-joshi-member-of-maharashtra-covid-19-task-force/story-H7ptiBOvBRE0zTT1X0DHWK.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||RTE admissions: BMC education department asks private schools in Mumbai to comply, grant admissions||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s education department has issued letters to some private schools in Mumbai after they failed to admit students under the 25% Right to Education (RTE) quota for the academic year 2020-21. The department recently sent out written orders asking such schools to comply with the admission guidelines under the RTE act and grant admissions to students before September 15, which is the last date to do so. “It has been found that despite several instructions and repeated reminders, these schools have not complied with the norms with respect to the RTE act. Complaints have been received against such schools from parents and local activists. We have thus asked them to grant admissions to eligible students at the earliest,” said an official from the BMC education department. Names of these schools were not divulged as they still have time to comply. But sources in the department said that nearly 3-4 schools were sent such letters. This year, the civic body is yet to complete admissions under the 25% quota in Mumbai. With the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, schools have now been asked to grant provisional admissions to students whose names have appeared in the lotteries. Even with several relaxations, very few students have been able to confirm their admissions so far. This year, a total of 14,135 applications were made against 7,069 available seats under the quota in the city. Of these only 2,682 seats have been confirmed their admissions while 2,846 students have been provisionally admitted. Sudhir Paranjape, an activist from the Anudanit Shiksha Bachao Samiti, an NGO working for the disadvantaged sections said that with the entire admission process moving online, parents are having a tough time. “In addition to this, several parents who have applied for the admissions have got no allocation yet. Since so many seats lie vacant every year so we have demanded the government to allot nearby schools to these students. A letter has gone on behalf of over 2,000 parents in the city to the state government. We demand that at least in aided schools across the state, the RTE act be implemented entirely,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rte-admissions-bmc-education-department-asks-private-schools-in-mumbai-to-comply-grant-admissions/story-leFknkR85vcnObEedg99DM.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Decide on pleas of cooperative bank employees, seeking permission to travel by local, in 3 weeks: Bombay HC to Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the Maharashtra government to take a decision on two representations of Cooperative Bank Employees Union, Mumbai, seeking permission for employees of cooperative banks in Mumbai and Thane to travel by suburban trains to reach their workplaces.The bench of justice KK Tated and justice NR Borkar directed the state government to decide on the representations of the union and communicate the decision to its members in three weeks.The union moved HC after its members were being stopped by police from boarding local trains. Advocate TJ Pandian, the counsel for the union, submitted that a vast majority of employees working in various cooperative banks in Mumbai reside at far off places. Before the lockdown, these employees used to travel to their respective workplaces on local trains. However, after the lockdown was imposed, they are not being allowed to travel by locals, despite the fact that employees in essential services are permitted to travel by trains. This is causing serious hardships to the bank employees in reporting to their places of work, Pandian said.He further submitted that the Union home ministry allowed employees of nationalised banks to travel by local trains, but the employees of cooperative banks are given discriminatory treatment.Additional government pleader Rupali Shinde said considering the present Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, it is very difficult to allow the members of the union to travel by local trains.However, after the petitioner’s lawyer pointed out that their representations, dated June 15 and July 2, were not pending, HC issued the direction to the government to decide the representations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decide-on-pleas-of-cooperative-bank-employees-seeking-permission-to-travel-by-local-in-3-weeks-bombay-hc-to-maharashtra-government/story-xquNuavxWaNRcRVlx8uAOK.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||40-year-old stabs brother over property dispute in Mumbai, surrenders||A 40-year-old man stabbed his younger brother with a knife over a property dispute and later surrendered himself before Andheri police. The incident took place around 10am on Thursday when Andheri police received a call stating that a person was lying in a pool of blood. While a police team was sent to the spot at Telligalli in Andheri (East), the accused, Tanaji Dongre, walked into Andheri police station and confessed to the crime. The police team took Sandeep Dongre, 37, to Cooper Hospital. His condition is said to be stable. Sandeep’s wife Nikita has lodged a complaint against Dongre. Dongre told police that the dispute was over a room at Sai Wadi in Telligalli which belonged to their father. Sandeep was living with his wife in the house, where both the brothers had equal share. “Sandeep had told Tanaji (Dongre) that he would pay half the money of the total value of the house. But Sandeep used to ask for more time whenever Tanaji asked for money,” said a police officer. Dongre said he was in need of money and when Sandeep again gave excuses, he got angry and stabbed him. He has been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-year-old-stabs-brother-over-property-dispute-in-mumbai-surrenders/story-rX6lHb6ZBv99eZiJJxE0mO.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses bail to quack booked for causing death by negligence||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has refused to grant any relief to a quack booked for negligently causing death of one of his patients. The accused, Padmanath Patil, allegedly practiced medicines claiming to be an Ayurveda graduate.Patil, 63, has been booked by Amalner police in Jalgaon for allegedly committing offences punishable under section 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and section 33 (practicing medicines without registration) of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961.The case was filed based on a complaint by Vidya Mahajan who alleged Patil had in January 2019 prescribed two allopathic medicines to her husband, Shaligram, although he claimed to have BAMS (Bachelor in Ayurvedic Medicines and Surgery) degree, and that her husband died due to adverse reaction to the medicine.Police booked Patil under section 33 of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961 after finding out that while he claimed to have finished his medical course before 1976, the certificate of registration did not mention the year.Patil had moved HC seeking quashing of the case primarily on the grounds that after the June 2014 amendment to the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961, even BAMS doctors can prescribe allopathic medicines, and therefore, he could not be prosecuted for prescribing allopathic medicines.The division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar, however, rejected the contention. The bench noted that the amendment requires BAMS degree holders to undergo training in allopathy before they are allowed to prescribe allopathic medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-quack-booked-for-causing-death-by-negligence/story-pcRD9bKreFWArkzRxjSPWN.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty, brother’s bail pleas rejected by special NDPS court in Mumbai||A special court constituted under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday rejected the bail applications of actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and four other accused arrested in the case actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The six are among nine people arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing allegations of drug abuse and distribution in the case. On Friday, the bail pleas of Chakraborty, Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Mira-nda, Rajput’s domestic help Dipesh Sawant, and Bandra residents Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar were moved. Public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said, “The bail pleas of all accused were rejected and we will share the detailed order once the order copy will come”. Chakaraborty and Showik’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde also confirmed the development. “Once we get a copy of the order, we will decide on the course of action about approaching the high court,” said Maneshinde In her plea, Chakraborty, who has been booked under section 27A (financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) of the NDPS ACT, said she was innocent and had been falsely implicated. “The allegations against the present accused would, at the most, make out a case of purchasing small quantity of drug, which is in essence a bailable offence. There is not a shred of evidence to connect the applicant with financing any illicit traffic or harbouring any offender,” read Chakraborty’s plea. Showik has also been booked under section 27A of the NDPS Act. The defence also alleged that NCB had invoked section 27A against Chakraborty and Showik despite their alleged role in Rajput’s death being identical to that of another accused Kaizan Ebrahim. However, Ebrahim was released on provisional bail within a day of his remand by the magistrate court. On Thursday, the prosecution opposed pleas and stated all the accused are connected and they cannot be investigated in isolation. NCB also said that the quantity of the total contraband seized from all the accused becomes a commercial quantity and as a result, the offence is non-bailable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-chakraborty-brother-s-bail-pleas-rejected-by-special-ndps-court-in-mumbai/story-XaMiMk9XIEZdZl5y8kO0qN.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||6 Shiv Sena workers arrested for assaulting 65-year-old retired Navy officer in Mumbai||A group of around eight-10 activists of Shiv Sena party assaulted a 65-year-old retired Navy officer from Kandivli on Friday for sharing a cartoon of chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on a WhatsApp group. The Samta Nagar police have registered a case of assault and rioting and have arrested six accused.The complainant, Madan Kashinath Sharma, who retired from Navy in 1990, is a resident of Thakur Complex in Kandivli (East). In the FIR (HT has a copy) Sharma has stated that on Wednesday he received a photo on a WhatsApp group. “In this photo a cartoon of CM Thackeray is seen doing a namaskar to the photos of Sonia Gandhi and Sharad Pawar. I forwarded the photo in another WhatsApp group,” Sharma said in his statement.On Friday morning Sharma received a phone call from an unknown person enquiring about him. The person, who identified himself as Kamlesh Kadam, asked him to come down at his society’s gate. When Sharma came down, Kadam and eight-10 other people attacked him outside the society.“They assaulted me, punched me and kicked me. My right eye sustained injuries,” Sharma said in the complaint.The police were informed about the incident. “A case of assault and rioting under various sections of Indian Penal Code was registered against Kadam, who is Sena’s local shakha pramukh, and others. Kadam and five others were arrested on Friday night,” said Raju Kasbe, senior inspector of Samta Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-shiv-sena-workers-arrested-for-assaulting-65-year-old-retired-navy-officer-in-mumbai/story-JqOeDFg9UJiJOBmLaJAxyH.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Aarey Colony areas adjacent to Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park to be reserve forest: Maharashtra government||Following a survey of Aarey Milk Colony on Friday by various state bodies and state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, more than 600 acres at the green lung adjacent to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) may be declared a reserve forest. The final declaration is expected by September 20. On September 3, Thackeray had announced 600 acres (one-fifth of Aarey’s 3,122 acres) near SGNP would be declared reserve forest area under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927. On Friday, a state panel led by Thackeray, principal secretaries of forest and environment departments, Aarey administration, SGNP officials, and Dindoshi legislator Sunil Prabhu undertook a three-hour survey of areas in Aarey to be brought under protection. Thackeray said, “Friday’s survey was to see the place with our own eyes rather than just declaring it on paper. We wanted to see how much more area can be protected.” A state official said an additional 50-75 acres may be added to the proposed 600 acres. Milind Mhaiksar, principal secretary (forest), said they found areas devoid of construction within the proposed 600 acres. “We are going for the protection of this area in our first phase. Leopard movement is pretty much everywhere in and around Aarey, but our immediate focus is to provide protection for areas contiguous to SGNP where big cats have been spotted,” he said. Areas that will fall outside the protected zone include Film City, Royal Palms, and similar pockets where infrastructure projects have been proposed. Conservator of forest, SGNP, G Malikarjuna, who was present during Friday’s survey, said, “It was decided on Friday and we will see to it that major hillocks and green zones where leopard movement has been captured by us through camera traps, contiguous to SGNP will be included in this proposal,” he said. “As per the provisions of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, once this area is declared as reserve forest, there will be bar on accruing of any new rights, and any violations (tree felling, habitat destruction etc.) will be booked as an offence under various sections of the Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aarey-areas-adjacent-to-mumbai-s-sanjay-gandhi-national-park-to-be-reserve-forest-maharashtra-government/story-5pb4FtIwRamqryiA7Xu4eP.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Video lectures by IIT faculty now available for all engineering students during Covid-19 lockdown||Engineering students, who had wished to study at an Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) but couldn’t make it, have a reason to cheer. Video lectures by faculty from various IITs are now being telecasted through educational channels on TV.The video content has been prepared by all major IITs in the country to help engineering students who are unable to attend classes due to the Covid-19 lockdown.“Lectures are recorded at home by faculty members from many central universities. They are then telecasted through the Swayam Prabha channels,” said K Mangala Sunder, head of the department of chemistry at IIT-Madras, and chief coordinator, DTH Swayam Prabha.Swayam Prabha is a group of 34 direct to home channels launched by the ministry of education for telecasting educational programmes all through the day. The lectures from IITs on engineering courses will be telecast on channels 11 through 18. The first such lecture was broadcast on August 28.Classes for the online semester at IIT-Bombay (IIT-B) kicked off on August 10 and lectures delivered by faculty members were recorded. The institute has prepared videos for 30 courses for this semester and they will be telecast depending on slots available on the channels. “We are enthusiastic about this project and have completed recordings. We are now handing them over to Swayam Prabha,” said Kannan Moudgalya, professor, department of chemical engineering, and coordinator for the Swayam Prabha project at IIT-B.According to Sunder, the focus was to create crash courses with an emphasis on problem-solving approaches. The regular 40-50-hour lectures of an entire course were condensed to 10-15 hrs for fast assimilation by students during the lockdown. They were created to meet or exceed the academic standards set by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and other academic bodies such as the All India Council of Technical Education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/video-lectures-by-iit-faculty-now-available-for-all-engineering-students-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-ThxHV9TfByC26HiwYDEpNN.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 count crosses 1 million, only state in the world to cross the grim milestone||Maharashtra reported its first Covid-19 cases on March 9 and 187 days later on Friday, the state became the first in India to cross a million infections. With a record 24-hour spike of 24,886 cases, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 count rose to 1,015,681, making it the only state, province, or region in the world to cross the grim milestone. If Maharashtra were a country, it would be fifth on the list of nations with most cases. The number of active cases in state has now risen to 271,566, which accounts for 26.73% of the total infections, and the toll stands at 28,724 with an addition of 393 deaths on Friday.The state has also crossed the 200,000 cases-mark in just 11 days of September, with 223,068 infections being reported this month, at an average of 20,278 cases a day. Maharashtra has struggled to the control the spread of cases and curb fatalities even though it was the first in India to impose a complete lockdown, a day before the country-wide restrictions came into force in March. The state has formed multiple taskforces — comprising health experts and senior bureaucrats; capped testing prices to encourage people to get tested; acquired 80% beds at private hospitals for Covid-19 patients; and provided free insurance for treatment of all the citizens; among other things, but the numbers have still remained hiNO PEAK YETState officials expect the number of daily infections to increase further across the state as the government has announced fresh relaxations and with more people likely to step out of their homes during the upcoming festival season, the spread of infection may get worse.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said the cases are unlikely to come down in the near future. “With fresh relaxations and increased activities, a significant number of people have been exposed to the virus and that has resulted in a surge in cases. They will continue to get exposed and rise in cases will continue until the vulnerable section of the society is covered. Also, coronavirus has spread in most of the rural areas,” Salunkhe said. “It means the surge in cases will stay for over a month. It also means that the tally of infections will go up to 30,000 a day.”Salunkhe, who is also a public health expert, holds citizens responsible for making the situation worse. “A major reason for the increase in cases is irresponsible behaviour by people. Everyone is now aware what coronavirus is, but they just don’t care to take precautions. They don’t understand that the government has its own limitations. It has been more than six months and the entire health infrastructure and staff is completely exhausted. Until and unless people won’t come forward and take the pandemic seriously, the situation may not improve,” he said.From June 3, the state had started giving graded relaxations in lockdown. It is yet to allow local trains and Metro to begin ops for general public, educational institutions, restaurants (except for takeaway), theatres and places of worship to open. In containment zones, only movement for medical emergencies, supply of goods and essential goods shops are allowed.State officials said that they had no options but to relax restrictions as people cannot be kept under lockdown forever. “People had already started facing hardships owing to financial losses. Businesses were badly hit and the state’s economy also plunged to its lowest level. Survival in that situation had become impossible for everyone and thus the option of graded relaxation was adopted,” said a senior bureaucrat.SPREAD IN RURAL AREAS The rise in infections is a result of the state getting new hotspots, with a significant number of cases being reported in rural areas.Health officials admit that the state is still finding it difficult to beef up health infrastructure in the rural areas. “Whatever infrastructure we have in rural areas is not sufficient. We don’t even have an adequate number of health staff, including doctors, to fight the battle and efforts are on to improve the situation,” said a health department official.The current major hotspot districts in the state are Pune, Jalgaon, Satara, Raigad, Sangli, Solapur, Kolhapur, Ahmednagar and Nagpur where fresh cases recorded were 1,555, 1,137, 893, 733, 603, 585, 550, 498 and 497 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-count-crosses-1-million-only-state-in-the-world-to-cross-the-grim-milestone/story-xXciOAEPaGZgUGUMUVs0aJ.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra at 1 million Covid-19 cases||A little over six months since the day it detected its first case, Maharashtra on Friday became the first and only state or province in the world to report more than a million cases of Covid-19. The state also set a new record for daily cases, with 24,886 new infections taking the state’s tally to 1,015,681.Brazil’s Sao Paulo province (874,754 cases) has the second highest infections of any state or province in the world.If it were a nation, Maharashtra would be on the fifth spot in the world in terms of total cases — just below Russia, which had 1,051,874 cases as of Friday night.Maharashtra has also seen the highest number of deaths in the country – 28,724 – and features among the states with the worst case fatality rates (CFR).India, meanwhile, reported 97,661 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of infections in the country to 4,657,371, and 1,203 new deaths pushed the total fatalities to 77,506.This means that one in every five cases diagnosed across the country has come from Maharashtra, and one in every three deaths can be traced to the state, a statistic that shows how disproportionately the state has been hit by the pandemic.Maharashtra has consistently been among the worst-hit Indian states through the six months of the disease’s run and has on its hands a fierce struggle to control the spread of the virus that has shown little sign of relenting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-at-1-million-covid-19-cases/story-LQT7N9KMN9o6zlMoyyX14N.html
12-09-2020||City||8 tremors in felt in Maharashtra’s Palghar district in 4 hours, no one injured||rEight tremors were recorded in a span of four hours in Dahanu on Friday. No loss of life and property was reported.“The first earthquake of 3.5 magnitude was felt at 3.29am, the second tremor was recorded at 3.57am measuring 3.5 on the Richter scale and the third quake of magnitude 3.6 was recorded at 7.06am. Other tremors were recorded between 2.2 to 2.6 on the Richter scale, with Dhundalwadi being the epicentre,” said Vivekanand Kadam, chief of the Palghar disaster management response department.Palghar district officials have visited the villages and awareness programmes are being conducted to ward off fears. The villagers have been sleeping in the open area, as most homes in these villages have thatched roofs.Ashima Mittal, sub-divisional officer, Dahanu said, “Local tehsildars have ordered an inspection of the quake-affected villages. Big tents have been set up in open spaces in the Dahanu and Talasari villages so that residents can take refuge in them during the tremors.”Mock drills will be carried out in the villages to make people aware of the dos and don’ts during such natural incidents, Mittal said.Series of tremorsOn 9 September a tremor measuring 3.2 on Richter scale was recorded at 4.17am in Dahanu, while on September 8 two tremors measuring 3.8 and 2.5 on the Richter scale were recorded in Dahanu. On September 7, a mild tremor of 3.5 magnitude was recorded in Dahanu. Four earthquakes measuring 2.8, 4, 3.6 and 2.7 respectively on the Richter scale were recorded in Dahanu villages on September 5. No casualty or damage to property was reported.People of Dapcheri, Talasari, Dongripada, Amboli, Dhanivare, Osarvira, Kasa, Bordi, Dhundalwadi, Shisne and other villages ran out of their homes in panic and stayed the night outside even as the Talasari police made public announcements, asking them not to panic.Since November 2018, villages around Dhundalwadi and other areas of Dahanu, have been experiencing mild tremors at regular intervals.Newly appointed Palghar collector Dr Manik Gulsale along with senior officials visited the quake spots in Dahanu and Talasari where cracks were developed in some houses. He also visited the Covid hospital at Vikramgadh to take stock of the arrangements and other medical services rendered to Covid patients in the Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-tremors-in-felt-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-district-in-4-hours-no-one-injured/story-rR14JPQLP7jYyp0fpPGTaI.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||J&K crosses 50,000 mark with 1,578 fresh infections||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded nine deaths and 1,578 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union territory to 50,712, as per the medical bulletin.The UT crossed the 50,000 mark in seven months after the first Covid-19 cases were registered. Of the new cases, 808 were from Jammu division and 770 from Kashmir. The region is recording more than 1,000 fresh cases daily for the past one week. The infections in Jammu district have also significantly spiked in the past few days.Nine more people have also succumbed to the virus—six in Jammu and three in Kashmir. The death toll has reached 854. Of the total fatalities, 717 people have died in ten districts of Kashmir with 247 deaths in Srinagar followed by 111 in Baramulla, so far. Jammu and Srinagar districts witnessed highest spike in fresh cases on Friday. The government has conducted 11,77,773 tests across J&K till date. A senior doctor said the number of cases in Jammu could go further up in the coming days. “Earlier, very less number of people used to come out from their homes in Jammu. However, it has changed now and so there is spike in the cases. People should take precautions,” he said. Medical superintendent at SKIMS Dr Farooq Jan said the situation in the Valley is now under control despite fresh cases being reported daily. “We have sufficient beds to adjust new patients at SKIMS,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-crosses-50-000-mark-with-1-578-fresh-infections/story-DSka3USj5hrX8qkT0IYQZO.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Special NIA court erred in allowing 90-day extension of custody: Teltumbde to Bombay HC||Dr Anand Teltumbde, one of the accused in the Elgar Parishad case who is currently lodged at Taloja jail, filed an application before the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday seeking setting aside of the July 12 order of the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court which allowed an extension of his detention by another 90 days.The application challenges the NIA court order on the grounds that the extension granted was not as per the norms laid down under section 43(D) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, and hence, the extension should be set aside and the special court should be ordered to grant bail to Dr Teltumbde. As the bench that was to hear the application on Friday recused, the application is expected to be heard next week.According to the application filed by advocate R Satyanarayanan, after Dr Teltumbde had surrendered on April 14, as per a Supreme Court (SC) direction, he had been arrested and detained at Taloja jail. On July 12, Teltumbde completed 90 days in custody but as the investigation had not been completed, the state had applied for an extension of his custody before the NIA court.The state had also sought extension of custody of co-accused Gautam Navlakha in the application. In its application, the state had averred that as the draft of the charge sheet was voluminous due to the Covid pandemic, it had not been able to file it before the appropriate court. The state application further said that interrogation of witnesses and perusal of forensic evidence was also pending due to the lockdown. Hence it needed an extension of Dr Teltumbde and Navlakha’s custody, based on section 43(D) of the UAPA Act. Section 43(D) of the UAPA Act states that extension of custody for 90 days can be sought on the grounds of progress in the investigation and compelling reasons showing a need for extension of custody.Dr Teltumbde’s application states that the special NIA court did not heed the information provided by the state in its application, which said that “sufficient evidence has been being collected”. Nor did the court abide by an SC order which states that a person cannot be detained beyond 90 days if investigators are unable to complete the investigation and file a charge sheet within the stipulated period.Dr Teltumbde’s application further states that as his custody would not contribute towards the recording of statements of witnesses or receiving forensic reports, the special court should not have granted extension of 90 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-special-nia-court-erred-in-allowing-90-day-extension-of-custody-teltumbde-to-bombay-hc/story-JaclRTHHtP9iUc5jeg10GM.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Green stretch along Buddha Nullah inspected||With an aim to stop dumping of garbage in the Buddha Nullah and increase plantations for its beautification, head of special task force (STF) Satguru Uday Singh, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu on Friday visited the site in ward number 81 where councillor Rashi Aggarwal has developed a green stretch of around 550 metres along the nullah.Ashu and Satguru Uday Singh deliberated on replicating the idea at the entire 14-km stretch of the nullah moving through the city. While barbed wires have been installed to stop residents from dumping waste into the nullah, plantations have been taken up at the banks for beautification. Aggarwal said she is working to develop another stretch of around 300 metres in her ward on similar lines. Residents and MC are also extending the required support, she added. Satguru Uday Singh has appreciated the efforts done by Rashi Aggarwal.“We will urge other councillors to take up similar projects in their wards. Satguru Uday Sigh has also assured that the Naamdhari sect will also contribute for the purpose. The state government is already working on a project to clean the nullah at a cost of around Rs 650 crore and we at the city level will work for beautification. A project for installing a fence alongside the nullah has already been approved under Smart City Mission and the project will commence at ground level soon,” Ashu said.He added that they had also visited the Sidhwan canal waterfront in Sarabha Nagar area which has been developed under Smart City Mission to apprise Satguru Uday Singh about the efforts which are being done to clean the canal and its beautification. As per sources, Singh conducted a meeting with dairy owners in the evening to take stock of status of projects being taken up to stop dumping of dairy waste in the nullah. Plantation drive at Jagraon bridgeMayor Balkar Sandhu and councillor Rakesh Prashar also planted trees alongside the retaining wall of Jagraon bridge on Friday. Sandhu said that trees have been planted for beautification of the area as the bridge would soon be opened for the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-green-stretch-along-buddha-nullah-inspected/story-h7wf7BvIbtm60KFqzju6FK.html
12-09-2020||City||Indian Youth Congress launches ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign in J&K||All India Congress Committee joint secretary and Indian Youth Congress (IYC) in-charge Krishna Allavaru on Friday said the Modi government had destroyed the country’s economic structure. He launched the nationwide ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign to highlight the issue of rising unemployment under the BJP regime and to demand that the government create job opportunities for them. Talking to reporters, Allavaru said the Modi government’s decision to demonetise the currency, ‘faulty’ implementation of GST and inept handling of the coronavirus crisis and the lockdown had destroyed the country’s economic structure. “The PM had promised the youth that he will give jobs to two crore youngsters every year. He sold a dream but the reality is that 14 crore people have become unemployed due to Modi’s policies,” he said, adding that India no longer had the capacity to provide employment to its youth. Allavaru also criticised the J&K government for abolishing the self-help group scheme, which has directly affected approximately 16,000 local unemployed engineers. He slammed the government for abolishing the results of the J&K Bank probationary officer (PO) recruitment and not filling the 50,000 vacancies announced by the then J&K governor on fast track basis among other issues. J&K Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said the country was witnessing an all-time low economic growth and employment rate. He said that all sections of society in J&K were facing difficulties but the youth were the worst hit due to unemployment and anti-youth policies of the present dispensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indian-youth-congress-launches-rozgar-do-campaign-in-j-k/story-XC7c5btMCcwnFooDhn9OON.html
12-09-2020||City||Wanted in a Ludhiana murder case, notorious gangster Kancha nabbed by OCCU||Notorious gangster Kancha, alias Sonu, on the run in six cases registered in Ludhiana, including one of murder, was arrested by a team of the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) near Chandigarh on Friday.OCCU inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said a team led by DSP Vibhor Kumar nabbed Kancha with a country-made pistol. Singh said Kancha was declared a proclaimed offender in six cases registered in various police stations of Ludhiana.Among these was the June 1 murder of Ramandeep Singh, 30, of Bulara village. Ramandeep was allegedly hacked to death by Kancha at Kwality Chowk, Shimlapuri. His friend, Gagandeep Singh, of Jujhar Nagar had suffered severe injuries in the attack. The Shimlapuri police had registered a murder case in this regard.In August, an OCCU team had nabbed Kancha’s accomplice Karanvir, alias Mani, in Muktsar. On a specific tip-off, the OCCU team was now able to arrest Kancha, the IGP added.He was produced before a Mohali court and sent to three-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wanted-in-murder-case-notorious-gangster-kancha-nabbed-by-occu/story-pVfbqmJjmWNe2Iz2syUldJ.html
12-09-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Custody of 3 Kabir Kala Manch members extended till September 19||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court on Friday extended NIA custody of three members of Kabir Kala Manch – Jyoti Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor – till September 19.Gorkhe and Gaichor were arrested by NIA on Monday, while Jagtap was arrested on Tuesday, for their alleged role in the Elgar Parishad case.As their custody ended on Friday, special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty sought for extension of their custody. Shetty contended that they got very less time to interrogate them.The prosecution argued that the case involves a deep-rooted conspiracy whereby the accused need to be confronted with the data recovered.NIA has so far alleged that the three accused, Jagtap, Gorkhe and Gaichor, “were propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology”, and were co-conspirators with others arrested. “It has also come on record that they were in contact with Milind Teltumbde, who is absconding, about the urban network of CPI (Maoist). It is established that during their visits [of Kabir Kala Manch members] in the jungle, they underwent weapon and explosive training, and awareness programmes on various topics related to the Maoist movement,” the agency had claimed in the statement released following their arrest.“It is also established that as per the evidence on record, in June 2018, Teltumbde discussed the Elgar Parishad programme which was organised at Pune, the subsequent in-roads made by the CPI (Maoist) in the organisation, and execution through the members of Kabir Kala Manch and other frontal organisations,” the NIA statement added.The three accused were named in the original first information report (FIR) registered by Pune Police against the organisers of the event held at Shaniwarwada on December 31, 2017. According to the FIR registered at Vishraumbaug police station, on January 8, members of Kabir Kala Manch had allegedly made provocative speeches, sang songs and performed skits that led to violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018.The initial investigation was conducted by Pune Police and two charge sheets were filed in the case. The probe was transferred to NIA earlier this year. The agency has so far arrested Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha and Hanybabu Musaliyavittil Tarayil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-custody-of-3-kabir-kala-manch-members-extended-till-september-19/story-1soUfID02AQXGpl4xBen3K.html
12-09-2020||City||Ludhiana farmer bludgeons 14-year-old in brawl over watering crops||A 14-year-old boy was bludgeoned to death by a farmer during an argument over watering crops in Kadiana village, Meharban area, on Friday morning.The victim has been identified as Gurpreet Singh Gopi, of Kadiana village. He was a student of Class 9.The accused, Saroop Ram, 30, also lives in the same village.Victim’s father Makhan Singh, who is a farmer, said as the schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, his son used to help him at their fields. On Friday morning, Gurpreet was watering the crops next to accused Saroop Ram’s fields. Ram indulged in an altercation with the teenager over this. In a fit of rage, Ram snatched a hoe from the teenager and bludgeoned his head.“The accused fled the spot thereafter. Gurpreet was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared dead,” said inspector Kulwant Singh, SHO at Meharban police station.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A manhunt has been launched to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-farmer-bludgeons-14-year-old-in-brawl-over-watering-crops/story-bgMlKCVESKCYoDBKXD3OZK.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram case fatality rate now stands at less than 1%||Despite a steady increase in Covid-19 cases over the past three weeks, the district’s mortality rate on Friday dipped below 1% for the first time in at least three months. With 143 deaths (against a total tally of 14,584 reported infections), Gurugram’s mortality rate on Friday stood at 0.98%.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gururgam, said, “It is only natural that the more we test, the more the mortality rate will fall. In any case, the case fatality rate is not an accurate yardstick of Covid-19’s deadliness, it is a function of testing. Even so, it is a positive development that less than 1% of the cases have turned out to be fatal. The credit goes to our rapid response teams that are monitoring the health of patients in home isolation, with the help of pulse oximeters to detect worsening symptoms. Pulse oximeters can detect the oxygen saturation level in blood. Further, five months into the pandemic, treatment protocols have also improved and have helped to reduce mortality.” With tests set to touch as many as 5,000 samples per day in the coming weeks, the mortality rate may dip even further, said Yadav.Experts too agreed with the opinion of the chief medical officer. “We already know that Covid-19 seems to be less deadly in India than elsewhere, for reasons that are still being investigated. But with an increase in testing, both mortality rate and recovery rate are affected. While a mortality rate of under 1% is reassuring, it only tells us about the extent of testing. The real measure of Covid-19’s mortality will come from looking at Gurgaon’s infection fatality rate, for which seroprevalence data can be used,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine, PGIMER. Of the 143 Covid deaths noted in Gurugram so far, 83 were among those aged 60 and above. However, only 1,422 reported cases belong in this age bracket. Another 42 deaths were reported in the 40-60 age bracket (as against 3,816 reported infections in the same age group). The largest number of reported infections were in the 20-40 age group (7,779), but there were only 18 deaths among this age group. Meanwhile, no deaths were reported out of 1,568 Covid-19 patients, who were between 0-20 years old, health department data shows.Meanwhile, with 289 new cases confirmed on Friday, the total number of active cases reached 2,040. The total number of active cases had last crossed 2,000 in the first week of June. Thereafter till mid-July, it fluctuated between 1,500 to 1,000 at a daily growth rate of 2.6% to 1.7%. Presently, the total count of infected persons stands at 14,4584. Out of 2,040 active cases, 1,820 are in home isolation, 21 in Covid Care Centres and 199 in various hospitals of the city. Till now, 143 have succumbed to the illness, with three deaths being reported on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-case-fatality-rate-now-stands-at-less-than-1/story-rOXLNPAgnY33dHa0JRZ6WP.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC ropes in experts from engineering college to test soil of Jainpur sports park site||The municipal corporation (MC) has roped in experts from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) for soil testing of the Jainpur site, where a sports park is being established on an area of 32 acre under Smart City Project. The proposal to shift legacy waste from the site has been scrapped.A meeting regarding the same was held at the MC’s Zone D office on Thursday wherein mayor Balkar Sandhu, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and councillor Mamta Ashu discussed the project with the experts.Sandhu said cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu is regularly monitoring the project as there is a need to improve the sports infrastructure in the city. They decided that there is no need to shift legacy waste from the site as most of it has turned into soil over the years. The experts from GNDEC have been asked to commence soil testing so that the project can be started at the earliest. “Apart from a cricket ground, infrastructure will also be developed for hockey, lawn tennis and basketball among other games at a cost of around ₹52 crore,” Sandhu said.Earlier, the consultant company of Smart City Mission had tabled a proposal to shift the legacy waste from the site at a cost of around ₹20 crore. But, the proposal was dumped by Ashu and the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-ropes-in-experts-from-engineering-college-to-test-soil-of-jainpur-sports-park-site/story-VtY1Ze8cIghieqG9XnF43O.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Daily tests cross 3,500-mark; active cases cross 2,000||The number of tests for Covid-19 touched a new high on Friday in the district, with 3,538 samples being tested in 24 hours, according to the district health bulletin. On Thursday, the district had administered a record high of over 3,188 tests. The district health officials stated that they would be doing 5,000 Covid-19 tests in the coming weeks. On Friday, at least 2,601 Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) were administered by government labs, while 937 tests were conducted private labs. Notably, the government lab collected at least 1,634 samples for RT-PCR, highest in a single day. Health officials said that the target is to conduct 60% RT-PCR and 40% RAT. With 289 new cases confirmed on Friday, the total number of active cases also reached 2,040. The total number of active cases had last crossed 2,000 in the first week of June. Thereafter till mid-July, it fluctuated between 1,500 to 1,000 at a daily growth rate of 2.6% to 1.7%. Presently, the total count of infected persons stands at 14,4584. Out of 2,040 active cases, 1,820 are in home isolation, 21 in Covid Care Centres and 199 in various hospitals of the city. Till now, 143 have succumbed to the illness, with three deaths being reported on Friday. At least 100 have died due to co-morbidities and 43 without co-morbidities. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Even though the overall number of active cases has been increasing, people are getting cured of the illness. The fatality rate has already come down to 0.97%, while the recovery rate is 85.37%. The health department is working on a plan to conduct 5,000 tests every day. Testing has to be increased to identify patients in the initial weeks of contracting the virus. Still, citizens should take care of the basic health hygiene to prevent infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-daily-tests-cross-3-500-mark-active-cases-cross-2-000/story-DmB9byxlf3GqxhuyhypXkL.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||First ecorestoration project under Gurujal initiative complete, work ongoing to revive 15 ponds this year||Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on Friday inaugurated a pond site in Pataudi’s Mojabad village, marking it the district administration’s first completed eco-restoration project under its Gurujal initiative.The one-acre water body, officials said, has already begun to replenish the region’s groundwater reserves, which depleted by at least 1.5 metres between 2019 and 2020, as per data from the district agriculture department. “The pond will recharge groundwater every month by up to 3000 kilo litres a day (KLD). It has a depth of 15 feet. It’s mostly empty now, but that is because we have desilted the bed and water is percolating at the site much faster than we anticipated. It will take at least a year for a permanent water body to form,” said Yasin Khan, a civil engineer working with Gurujal, which is tasked with implementing the Centre’s Jal Shakti Abhiyan in Gurugram. . Situated about 40kms from Gurugram, and located on the outskirts of the village, the site is the lowest lying area of Mojabad village. “We have some 250 odd homes and 1600 people. Waste water from the homes used to accumulate here (at the pond site). It had become one large, open sewer though everyone in the village remembers that there was a pond here once,” said Keshu Ram, sarpanch, Mojabad.Fixing the issue started with draining the sewage, de-silting it and finally levelling the bed to better retain incoming water. “We constructed a 100 KLD sewage treatment plant (STP, to treat local sewage) which is dispensing recycled water here daily. Just adjacent to the pond is a temple area which we have developed for use as public space,” said Anjali Singh, associate community mobiliser, Gurujal.Seeing as Mojabad also suffers from erratic power supply, which would hinder the functioning of a standard electromechanic sewage treatment plant, officials opted for a ‘bio-STP’, which relies on phytoremediation and gravity to treat wastewater. “There are no chemicals or pumps involved. The sewers bring all the water to this low lying area, and it is treated by filtering through the root systems of plants before percolating down under the influence of gravity,” Khan explained, adding that this technology would also be deployed in at least two other villages where pond revival projects are in the works, including Palasoli and Dhaula villages in the district.In all, under the Gurujal initiative, a total of 72 water bodies identified across Gurugram are slated to be restored in a similar manner. “Work is presently underway at 15 other sites, including Kasan, Khentawas, Dhaula, Wazirpur, Navada and Dharampur villages. Mojabad is the smallest of these projects, while Kasan is the largest, in terms of scale. Most other ponds will be revived using traditional STPs with larger capacities, of about 250KLD,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, programme manager, Gurujal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/first-ecorestoration-project-under-gurujal-initiative-complete-work-ongoing-to-revive-15-ponds-this-year/story-d3bFF4EZGX5vRh8rSc8aiP.html
12-09-2020||Gurugram||Private labs prefer RT-PCR over antigen and antibody tests||Private labs in the city are conducting fewer IgM (antigen) and IgG ( antibody) tests as compared to government facilities. In the last one week, seven private labs together administered only 537 Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT), as compared to government labs, which carried out 6,353 such tests. According to representatives of private diagnostic labs, such tests are not conducted unless the patient specifically asks for it. According to the district health bulletin issued on Friday, private labs conducted only 8% (75 antigen tests) of the total antigen tests conducted, while government labs conducted 33% (or 967) of the 2,601 antigen detection tests. “Patients visiting our lab are usually counselled by doctors first. As such, RT-PCR tests are generally prescribed by doctors as they are considered to be the gold standard of Covid-19 testing. Since RAT is not reliable, we prefer not to administer it,” said Dr Santosh Kumar, microbiologist, MolQ laboratory. “We don’t see the point in doing two tests — first RAT and then RT-PCR. Also, people coming to a private lab have the capacity to pay for the RT-PCR test, which now costs ₹1,600.” he said.According to Kumar, the lab has hardly been conducting any antigen tests, while antibody tests are not being conducted as people are not asking for it. “Antibody tests do not help in the detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Antibodies can only be developed in the body two weeks after the infection. Therefore, it is not preferred,” said Kumar. The RAT detects proteins attached to SARS-CoV2 virus by testing the sample collected from the nasal cavity using swabs. It delivers result within 30 minutes. Antibody tests, on the other hand, is used to detect previous Covid-19 infection by taking blood samples. It looks for antibodies, which are developed in two weeks after the infection.Modern Diagnostic and Research Centre too confirmed that they are not administering the RAT. “If RAT results are negative then deciding whether to go for RT-PCR is challenging. For this, the treating physician has to take the decision. The lab cannot conduct the physical examination and take its own decision. Therefore, we are not conducting the RAT,” said Dr Rishabh Singh Rajput, microbiologist of the Modern Lab. “A sense of confusion can prevail if the person is both symptomatic and negative. Following up in such a case can be quite a task, especially if the person comes without a prescription.”Rajput said that their lab has been doing a limited number of antibody tests, only if a hospital approaches them. The state government has fixed the cost of antibody test at ₹250, lower than antigen test ( at ₹650) and RT-PCR ( at ₹1,600) for private labs. “It has come into our notice that private labs are conducting antigen or antibody tests only if there is any urgent case. Costs for the two tests can be an issue, while arranging for RAT kits also might not be easy,” said a district health official, who preferred anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/private-labs-prefer-rt-pcr-over-antigen-and-antibody-tests/story-X2GeNR4XS66rJXxCxZjdFI.html
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||School on Ludhiana agri varsity campus gets boundary walls after 40 years||: After 40 years, a railing-cum-boundary wall has been constructed at the government primary school on the Punjab Agricultural University campus. School head Amanpreet Kaur, said, “Boundary wall is must in every school. When we received funds for major repairs last month, I decided to first get a railing-cum- gate constructed, keeping in mind the safety of the students. Earlier, the school campus was an open ground, accessible to anybody.” With limited funds of Rs 65,000, the school head also contributed some amount, and got it constructed near the classrooms which will also cover the play area. A gate has also been constructed.The school is spread over an area of 500 yards and with these funds it was not possible to cover the entire area, so only the areas around the classrooms and office have been covered. For the last 10 years, the school authorities have been writing to the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) office and the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) for a three-sided boundary wall, but to no avail. The school has a strength of 317 students studying in pre-primary to Class 5 and the enrolment has increased from last year’s 216 students.“Once the school reopens, we will require more classrooms to accommodate students,” Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-on-ludhiana-agri-varsity-campus-gets-boundary-walls-after-40-years/story-F3Xgt0gJAz3pPNw2buBrZP.html
12-09-2020||City||Ludhiana’s patient tally crosses 13,000 mark||With 256 Ludhiana residents testing positive for Covid-19, the number of cases crossed the 13,000 mark on Friday.As many as 12 patients also succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 558. Since the beginning of September, Ludhiana has recorded 147 (26%) of the total fatalities so far.Of the 13,010 cases in the district now, 1,816 are still active, while 10,636 patients have recovered. Among the 12 fatalities on Friday, four were women. The deceased include a 78-year-old woman from Khanna, a 78-year-old man from Ram Nagar, Mundian Kalan; a 72-year-old man from Gurdev Nagar, a 70-year-old man from Model Town, a 69-year-old man from Sherpur Chowk, two 68-year-old men from Jagraon and SBS Nagar, a 65-year-old woman from Partap Singh Wala, a 62-year-old woman from Dalip Singh Nagar, Khanna; a 58-year-old man from Janetpura village, a 50-year-old woman from Issa Nagri and a 45-year-old man from Civil Lines.Among the latest positive patients are 37 people with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), 80 are contacts of infected patients and 55 people were referred from outpatient departments (OPDs). These patients included 13 healthcare workers, two pregnant women and two police personnel. SLIGHT DIP IN DAILY DEATHSThe Covid fatalities, which were daily averaging between 16 and 18 around August 31, have been decreasing since September 4. After 18 deaths again on September 3, the following days recorded 14 deaths or fewer until September 8 that saw 15 people succumbing to the disease. Thereon, the number dipped to 13, 11 and 12 on September 9, 10 and 11, respectively. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the number of deaths coming down to 11 on Thursday and 12 on Friday was a slight respite. “Hospitals are reporting that there is more awareness among people, and even those with the slightest symptoms were coming forward to get themselves tested. This is a good sign,” he said.SIX LIT STAFFERS FOUND INFECTEDAs many as six employees of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) were among the fresh cases on Friday. These include an SDO, a driver and four clerical and Class-four staffers. Estate officer Kuljeet Kaur said, “The tests were done as a precautionary measure on Tuesday and six employees tested positive. The office building has been sanitised.”THREE TEST POSITIVE AT FREE CAMP Three people were also found positive after samples were collected during a free testing camp organised by Bhai Ghanayia Ji Mission Seva Society on the invitation of the district administration in Kartar Nagar, Model Town, on Friday. The camp was organised in association with the Red Cross Society. Additional deputy commissioner (general) Amarjit Singh Bains inaugurated the camp.PPCB PULLS UP DMCH AGAINFinding anomalies in the disposal of bio-medical waste, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has directed DMCH authorities to hire a firm to properly dispose of Covid-19 related waste and also conduct a third-party audit regarding disposal of waste. The board will conduct an inspection after the audit. PPCB had earlier issued a notice to the hospital and a hearing of the case was held before chairman Satwinder Singh Marwaha on Friday. Officials said general waste was being mixed with Covid-19 waste by the hospital. PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said the hospital authorities had been told to segregate the waste properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-patient-tally-crosses-13-000-mark/story-Brkj8JcOeIS2THSVMhlLdP.html
12-09-2020||City||Inquiry marked into issuance of fuel against ‘defunct’ tractors of Ludhiana MC||An inquiry has been marked against issuance of fuel against three tractors of the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC), which as per senior officials have been lying defunct for a long time.The inquiry was marked on the recommendation of mayor Balkar Sandhu after MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon suspected a few employees deputed at Zone C office of indulging in the fraudulent practice since 2018.Sekhon said the tractors were sent to the MC workshop two months back. “On checking the record, it came to light that fuel had been issued for the tractors after some employees had claimed that the machines were functional. However, their condition is such, they were probably lying defunct for months.”Mayor Sandhu said, “Initially it seemed like sanitary inspector Jagtar Singh was involved. Joint commissioner Swati Tiwana is conducting an inquiry in the matter. Jagtar Singh is deputed at the main dump site on Tajpur road where no field work is required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inquiry-marked-into-issuance-of-fuel-against-defunct-tractors-of-ludhiana-mc/story-BIhbz07hwibslT5JbihA1H.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 testing crosses 60k in Delhi, but dip in RT-PCR method||For the fourth consecutive day, the Capital breached its Covid-19 testing record, with more than 60,000 samples collected for the first time, as per the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday.Of the 60,580 tests conducted on the day, 4,266 people tested positive for the infectious disease — the second highest daily case spike ever in the city, after 4,308 new cases on Thursday. However, with the increased tests, the case positivity rate fell from the previous day — from 7.38% on Thursday to 7.04% on Friday. This is a decline from 9.55% recorded on September 1. The seven-day average positivity rate in Delhi stands at 7.92%, a decline from 8.98% the week before. However, samples tested using the more reliable RT-PCR tests fell for the second straight day, with just 8,305, or 13.7%, tested using the gold standard diagnosis on Friday, as against 9,004 the previous day.Also read: Covid-19 respite for Mumbai unlikely till New Year says BMC, it has a logicThe number of hospitalisations on Friday due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi breached the 6,000-mark. The number of hospitalisations on Friday stood at 6,031, or 22.4% of total active cases. The last time it breached the 6,000-mark was on June 23 when 6,264 people were hospitalised in a single day. Additionally, in order to scale up testing further, the Delhi government has directed its mohalla clinics to start conducting tests from Friday after daily consultations are over at 2pm. The clinics will function as testing centres between 2pm and 5pm every day in addition to the 300 dispensaries and Delhi government hospitals that already conduct tests. HT was first to report on September 2 that the government plans to conduct tests at mohalla clinics to scale up testing to the 40,000 a day target. “In order to augment Covid testing drive, it has been decided to initiate Covid testing at all AAMC (aam aadmi mohalla clinics) from 2 pm to 5 pm on all working days with immediate effect. All CDMOs cum mission directors are requested to ensure AAMC empanelled staff is trained for testing procedure, including training for doffing/ donning,” read the communication by Dr Shelley Kamra, state nodal officer, Mohalla Clinic cell. There are 450 mohalla clinics in the city. Unlike government hospitals and dispensaries, where the staff are either government employees or hired as ad-hoc, mohalla clinics are run by private empanelled doctors and staff paid on a per patient basis. Also read: 6.4 million Covid-19 cases were estimated in India by early May, says first national serosurvey reportSimilar incentives will be given to the staff running the testing centres. According to the communication by Dr Kamra, a copy of which is with the HT, a doctor will be paid ₹30 per person tested and entered in the ICMR portal. An assistant will be paid ₹30, a pharmacists ₹15, a multi-task worker ₹15, and a data-entry operator will be paid ₹10 per patient. The CDMOs will be responsible for ensuring availability of PPE kits, support for disposal of bio-medical waste, and thorough sanitisation of each centre after testing to prevent the infection from spreading next day during consultations. “When there is an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, there could be two scenarios. One, we are detecting more cases because we are simply testing more and two, because the positivity rate is on the increase. Whatever be the scenario, we are getting more and more cases and the resources to treat them remain finite and that is a cause of concern. The government has been saying that we have enough beds, but I have heard of people who struggled to get one. The only encouraging thing is that the positivity rate is slowly going down, meaning we are likely to see fewer cases in the future,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/testing-crosses-60k-in-delhi-but-dip-in-rt-pcr-method/story-9RIZ9Ya982xsVmXV5okG2K.html
12-09-2020||Indore||MP man died by suicide 15 days after wedding, wife also attempts; survives||A medical student who lost her husband two days back jumped off the third floor of a shopping mall in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore city on Friday morning. She survived the suicide attempt but has sustained serious injures, police said. The couple had been married for just about a fortnight.Her husband, Subham Khandelwal, a contractor in Ujjain district about 50 km away, had died by suicide on Wednesday, leaving behind a note that blamed two engineers of the local municipal corporation for his death.Sania Khandelwal, who is in her early 20’s and studying medicine at a private college in Ujjain, is hospitalised in Indore’s MY hospital. She has suffered injuries in her head and legs and is under observation of doctors in an intensive care unit (ICU), police said.Sania had come to Indore with her father who had came to take her home to Haryana’s Faridabad after hearing about his son-in-law’s death. She was to accompany her father to Faridabad on the outskirts of national capital Delhi. They were staying in a hotel in Indore’s Sarvate bus stand area and were scheduled to catch a flight on Friday afternoon.Early on Friday, Sania stepped out of the hotel, telling her father that she was going to get herself some fruit juice. But she reached the shopping mall in Vijay Nagar about 5-6 km away and jumped off the third floor, a police office said.She was rushed to a nearby hospital by some mall employees from where she was referred to MY hospital. Police said they found a note in which she said she wanted to be with her husband.“Prima facie, it is a case of attempt to suicide. The woman has been hospitalised. We are looking into the matter,” Indore city superintendent of police, Rakesh Gupta said.Sania’s attempted suicide in Indore on Friday morning put the spotlight on the circumstances that led to her husband’s death.Within hours, the Ujjain Police registered a case against two junior engineers of Ujjain Nagar Nigam - Naresh Jain and Sanjay Khujeni and another person named Chinnu - for abetment to suicide, said police.Subham Khandelwal had been found injured in his car that had met with an accident near Nalwa locality in Ujjain on Wednesday night. He died. Police initially treated his death as a case of suicide but later found a note in which he had said that he was committing suicide due to harassment by the three persons. Police said he had consumed some poisonous substance.Police said they were still investigating the 32-year-old contractor’s death.Rupesh Dwivedi, the additional superintendent of police, Ujjain, said Shubham Khandelwal “prima facie had committed suicide”.“A suicide note was found from his possession which is being examined. Some other evidence has been collected from the spot. An FIR has been lodged against two junior engineers of Ujjain Nagar Nigam - Naresh Jain and Sanjay Khujneri and one Chinnu under sections 306 and 34 of Indian Penal Code,” Dwivedi said, adding that no arrests had been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/newly-wed-medic-jumps-off-shopping-mall-in-indore-2-days-after-husband-s-suicide/story-7cDg8WWrVMBrQ7RV7pqhJO.html
12-09-2020||City||Maken challenges SC’s slum demolition order, demands rehabilitation before eviction||Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken has challenged the Supreme Court’s August 31 order in which the top court had directed the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings situated along Delhi’s railway tracks within three months. To ensure compliance of its order, the top court stopped any other court from passing a stay order on their demolition. In his petition, Maken termed the order “inhuman” and demanded that no slum resident should be evicted without being given alternative housing under the Delhi Slum & Jhuggi Jhopri (JJ) Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015. The policy categorically provides for the rehabilitation of JJ clusters before their demolition.HT was the first to report the Supreme Court order story on September 3.Maken’s lawyers have also moved an urgent request for listing the plea as the Railways had issued demolition notices against the 48,000 shanties and fixed the demolition drive for Friday (September 11) and Monday (September 14). A three-judge bench of the apex court headed by justice Arun Mishra (since retired) had passed the August 31 order in the MC Mehta case relating to Delhi pollution matters. Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde will have to constitute a bench to hear Maken’s application.Quoting a 1986 judgement of the Supreme Court, Maken, in his petition, said the SC order is violative of the principles of natural justice by which the affected slum dwellers were required to be heard either individually or represented by a group or organisation. In the Olga Tellis versus Bombay Municipal Corporation (1986), the apex court had held that there can be no justification for denying an opportunity of hearing to slum dwellers living on pavements or public properties.According to Maken’s petition, the order barring any court to grant stay amounted to “grave obstruction in the Right to Access to Justice”.Since the Railways and the Delhi government were heard by the top court before passing the order, Maken attacked both the Centre and Delhi administrations for keeping the court in the dark about the protocol for evicting slum dwellers approved by the Delhi High Court on March 18, 2019 on a petition filed by Maken. This protocol was prepared by the municipal corporations, Delhi government’s DUSIB (Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board), Railways and Ministry of Urban Development.The protocol provided that “all Jhuggi-Jhopri bastis in Delhi that came into existence prior to January 1, 2006 and jhuggis which came into existence in such bastis before January 1, 2015 shall not be demolished without providing alternative housing.” According to Maken, the 48,000 slum clusters sought to be demolished have been in existence for past 30-40 years and are home to over 2.4 lakh persons.On Friday, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Delhi government has written to the Northern Railways that without rehabilitation any demolition will be unconstitutional and illegal. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had called a meeting with officials of the public works department (PWD) and the Delhi urban shelter improvement board (DUSIB) on Thursday to discuss the court order and explore ways possible ways to rehabilitate the displaced people. DUSIB had suggested rehabilitating the displaced families in its vacant flats for economically weaker sections. Maken, in his petition, said the railways had not challenged the high court decision but “has now circumvented the HC judgment by directly approaching this Supreme Court without mentioning the law laid down in that case”. Officials from the Railways ministry and Northern Railways refused to comment on the issue.The Master Plan for Delhi 2021 also provides for in-situ rehabilitation of slum dwellers wherever possible and relocation of slum dwellers in other cases. The Rajiv Awas Yojna, renamed as the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, also aims towards slum free India by 2022 and the scheme also provides for either in-situ rehabilitation or relocation in exceptional cases, Maken’s application said. These facts were not brought to the notice of the court before it passed the August 31 order, the Congress leader said in the petition.Maken requested the authorities concerned (Ministry of Railways, Delhi government, and DUSIB) to follow the Delhi Slum & JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015 and the protocol laid down by the Delhi High Court before evicting the slum dwellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maken-challenges-sc-s-slum-demolition-order-demands-rehabilitation-before-eviction/story-T0GAYg3B8FwhUJ8RvPXbaK.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Relocate, then demolish: Delhi govt’s slum board to railways||The Delhi government has written to the Northern Railway, urging it to not demolish slums situated along the city’s railway tracks without first rehabilitating its dwellers.The letter, from the government’s Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), said the slum dwelling units, which the rail utility is set to demolish in pursuance of a Supreme Court order, are protected under the provisions of the NCT of Delhi Laws (special provision) Second Act, 2011. “It is clarified that as per provisions of ...of the NCT of Delhi Laws (special provision) Second Act, 2011,... JJ (jhuggi jhopri) bastis which have come up before 01.01.2006 are protected and shall not be removed without orderly arrangement for relocation and rehabilitation of JJ dwellers and the jhuggi jhopri clusters in the NCT of Delhi in accordance with the provisions of the DUSIB Act, 2010,” read the letter.“Accordingly, you are requested not to demolish the jhuggis situated on railway land without providing alternative accommodation as per provisions of the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015,” it further said.The contents of the letter dated September 10, a copy of which was seen by HT, was approved by DUSIB vice-chairperson and urban development minister Satyendar Jain. DUSIB also mentioned that the slum dwellers are eligible for alternative housing under the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015. The letter cited these rules while referring to the eviction notices sent by the Northern Railway to slum dwellers over the past few days. The action by the Northern Railway came after the Supreme Court, on August 31, ordered the removal of 48,000 slum dwellings situated along railway tracks within three months. To ensure compliance with its order, the top court also stopped all other courts from issuing a stay order on their removal. In its letter, the Delhi government also attached a list of 45,857 flats constructed by DUSIB under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), which it has now offered for rehabilitation of slum dwellers, though at a cost. It stated that the Railways, which is the land owning agency in this matter, will have to pay the cost of construction of alternative dwelling units; the cost of land, as per the institutional rate at which DUSIB purchased the land; and the cost of relocation. According to the Delhi Slum Rehabilitation Policy, the relocation charges range from ₹7.55 lakh to ₹11.30 lakh per flat, depending on the location of the flat.Of the 45,857 flats, 29,257 are “ready to move in” units located in areas such as Sultanpuri, Savda Ghevra, Bhalswa, Bawana and Narela. The remaining 16,600 flats are located in Tikri and Pooth Khurd, the government said, and these will be ready by December 2021.The DUSIB, however, said some of the funds given by the Central government for construction of flats could be adjusted towards the amount payable by the land owning agency (Railways). Repeated calls and text messages to the spokesperson of the Northern Railway for a comment on the matter went unanswered.According to the Delhi Slum Rehabilitation Policy, DUSIB is the nodal agency for rehabilitation and relocation of slums with respect to the lands belonging to the municipal corporations and the Delhi government and its departments and agencies. The policy insists on ‘in situ’ rehabilitation of slum dwellers in which the DUSIB has to either provide alternative housing on the same land or within a 5km radius of the original habitation. In exceptional circumstances, however, the DUSIB can also relocate inland, beyond the 5km radius, with prior approval from its board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/relocate-then-demolish-delhi-govt-s-slum-board-to-railways/story-J9dOjaX0F6xkRJYkIRWNDM.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||After SDMC move, east Delhi school teachers asked to boost student enrolment||The east municipal corporation has launched a special drive to boost the admission process in its schools and asked all its teachers to enrol at least 20 students each in their respective institutes by September 30, including it as a criterion in their annual performance assessment report (APAR). The south Delhi municipal corporation had launched a similar drive in August to increase enrolment in its schools. HT had on August 15 reported how the three civic bodies -- east, south and north-- are having fewer admissions this year. The north, east and south corporations run 765, 365, and 581 schools, respectively, and cater to children up to class 5. In an order issued to all principals of its schools earlier this week, the east MCD’s education department said, “As per the practice, an extensive drive is undertaken by the principals/teachers of the EDMC schools at the end of March every year for the enrolment of students. However, keeping in view of the prevailing situation of lockdown in March/April in the country due Covid-19, the practice could not be conducted during the current year affecting the enrolment of new students in the schools.” Every year, the admissions start in April but this year it had begun in July due the pandemic and lockdown.The east MCD directed its zonal education officers to take steps for maximum enrolment in its schools. “All heads of schools and teachers to conduct an extensive drive in catchment areas of their respective schools and to make an extra effort for new admissions, and at least 20 new admissions per teacher by 30.09.2020,” the order said. Alka Sharma, additional commissioner east MCD, said the civic body has added the “enrolment of new students” as a criteria to the annual assessment report of teachers. “After observing fewer admissions this year, we decided to launch the drive. We engaged all our contractual teachers in the drive and linked it as a criterion in their assessment report. We have around 4,000 teachers and if all of them get at least 20 new students each, we will have sufficient admissions this year,” she said. The south civic body said a similar drive proved to be successful for their schools. Mukesh Suryan, the chairperson of the south civic body’s education committee, said, “We managed to get over 84,000 new admissions in the last one month. We are expecting to cross one lakh by the end of this month. Before the drive, we were struggling. Since the 20 admission per teacher criteria is linked to their performance assessment, each and every one is participating in the drive with a lot of enthusiasm.” Ramnivas Solanki, president of the Delhi municipal corporation teachers’ association, said teachers do not have any issue with linking admissions with APAR. “If there are fewer admissions, the probability of engaging guest or contractual teachers will be less. We should all work together to get as many new admissions as possible. The north MCD should also launch a drive like this,” he said. A senior official at the north MCD said, “Our teachers are already working on boosting the admission process in our schools. There is no plan to link it with APAR as of now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-sdmc-move-east-delhi-school-teachers-asked-to-boost-student-enrolment/story-DAkEx2v0hu2XWtHfSxKwwO.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Shift slum dwellers to vacant flats or we will: BJP ultimatum to AAP||Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta Friday gave an ultimatum to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government to shift within 90 days the 48,000 families living in slums along railway tracks to the 52,000 vacant flats available with the state government. Gupta said if the Delhi government fails to do so, then the BJP will step in to shift the residents to these flats.The Supreme Court had ordered authorities to remove nearly 48,000 slum dwellings situated along railway tracks in Delhi within three months -- an order that has led to a fresh political slugfest between the BJP and the AAP.Also read: Kejriwal govt will give railway slum residents home if Centre doesn’t: Raghav ChadhaTargeting the AAP, the BJP said despite being in power for over five years, the ruling party has done little to rehabilitate slum dwellers. “This is an ultimatum for the Delhi government -- if they do not shift the slum dwellers within the next 90 days into those 52,000 houses lying vacant, then we will start shifting the slum dwellers into those vacant houses,” Gupta said.The BJP said the government has nearly 52,000 flats ready for slums dwellers in different parts of the city. Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said, “The central government bore 50% of the cost of constructing these flats. The Delhi government should relocate slum dwellers there.”Addressing a press conference on Friday, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Delhi government has written to the Northern Railway, arguing that any demolition without rehabilitating residents would be “unconstitutional” and “illegal”. “This affidavit proves that Kejriwal is not only the chief minister of Delhi, but also the elder son to the families of the slum dwellers. Kejriwal will take up every responsibility of the elder son and will not allow any eviction unless the BJP-ruled Centre comes up with a proper rehabilitation plan. The ongoing case in the apex court is not even about slum demolition, but the BJP filed the affidavit in a bid to get a court order so they can demolish the slums as they were unable to do so earlier because of the Arvind Kejriwal government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shift-slum-dwellers-to-vacant-flats-or-we-will-bjp-ultimatum-to-aap/story-Lu1yhGBDka2pPFRBqBXbKI.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal govt will give railway slum residents home if Centre doesn’t: Raghav Chadha||New Delhi: Continuing its attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the eviction of residents of slums along Delhi’s railway tracks, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s government will provide homes to the displaced if the Centre fails to do so. Addressing a press conference on Friday, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Delhi government has written to the Northern Railway, arguing that any demolition without rehabilitating residents would be “unconstitutional” and “illegal”. Chadha’s comments came a day after he tore eviction notices sent to the residents by the railways and said no one could raze their shanties “till Kejriwal is alive”.In Friday’s press briefing, Chadha presented an affidavit and an action-taken report submitted by the Northern Railways to the Supreme Court (SC) which stated that the mushrooming of slums along railway tracks is acting as a hindrance towards keeping them clean. “In its affidavit to the SC, the BJP government has noted that due to the slums and its dwellers, the railway tracks remain dirty, and therefore, the slums should be demolished. This is irrefutable evidence, which exposes the BJP’s anti-poor agenda,” he said.“The apex court was hearing a matter regarding the garbage-cleaning issue in Delhi. The Central government silently submitted this affidavit on August 18, in which it observed that people who stay in slums along the railway lines are the reason behind the filth on and around the tracks. This is why the BJP wants to demolish these slums,” Chadha said.The Northern Railway’s document mentions that it has been unable to evict the residents despite having a special task force ready sending numerous notices for encroachment removal due to various political interferences. The document, which HT has seen, reads, “There are circumstances prevailing upon Railways due to mushrooming of JJ clusters in the land adjoining railway land specially in and around Delhi areas and quite often goes beyond the control of the Railway authority, mainly due to the hindrance created by the local public representatives and sometimes due to stay orders passed by various courts in removal of unauthorised encroachment from the railway land to the unauthorised JJ cluster which have become the continuous source of MSW (municipal solid waste) where these encroachers burn garbage, MSW…” read the document submitted to the Apex Court by the Railways. Chadha, who is also the vice-chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), said the AAP takes these admissions by the Railways “as a matter of pride”. “This affidavit proves that Kejriwal is not only the chief minister of Delhi, but also the elder son to the families of the slum dwellers. Kejriwal will take up every responsibility of the elder son and will not allow any eviction unless the BJP-ruled Centre comes up with a proper rehabilitation plan. The ongoing case in the apex court is not even about slum demolition, but the BJP filed the affidavit in a bid to get a court order so they can demolish the slums as they were unable to do so earlier because of the Arvind Kejriwal government,” he said. AAP also talked about the letter sent by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to the Northern Railways requesting it not to carry out any demolition without rehabilitating the slum dwellers.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Friday alleged that despite being in power for over five years, the ruling party has done little to rehabilitate people living in slums in the Capital. “This is an ultimatum for the Delhi government that if they do not shift the slum dwellers in the 52,000 houses lying vacant within the next 90 days, then we will shift the slum dwellers in those vacant houses,” Gupta said.Repeated calls and text messages to the spokesperson of the Northern Railway for a comment went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-govt-will-give-railway-slum-residents-home-if-centre-doesn-t-raghav-chadha/story-NpOWEw5tC51POZh3eD3yBO.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Cyclist fatally mowed down by SUV in Badarpur, driver nabbed using CCTV footage||A 38-year-old factory worker cycling on the Faridabad-Delhi Skyway was fatally mowed down on Monday evening by a Range Rover in south-east Delhi’s Badarpur, the police said Friday after CCTV footage from a private hospital helped them solve the blind hit-and-run case.The driver of the SUV, identified as Sonit Jain, a 28-year-old businessman, had driven the injured cyclist to the hospital but fled on realising that the accident victim had succumbed to injuries, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east).Jain was arrested on charges of causing death by negligence and his SUV has been seized, Meena said. Police said Jain runs a soundproofing business.The victim, Sanjesh Awasthi, worked at a factory in Old Faridabad and lived with his family in Aali Vihar village near Sarita Vihar in south Delhi. He cycled to work every day, his family said.On Monday evening, when he didn’t return home by his usual time of 7.30pm, his family went looking for him. On Tuesday, they finally found the mangled remains of his bicycle and his footwear on the flyover.“They approached the Badarpur police station and registered a missing person complaint. We began investigating his disappearance,” Meena said.Meanwhile, in the south Delhi district, police received a call from Moolchand Hospital about a man being declared dead on arrival after a hit-and-run accident. A case of causing death by negligence was registered at the Amar Colony police station.“When we probed further, we got to know about the case registered at the Amar Colony station. So, we checked the CCTV footage from the hospital to identify the vehicle in which the victim was brought in. It turned out to be a Range Rover,” the DCP said.Police identified Jain as the owner of the SUV and arrested him. “He revealed that he was driving from Faridabad to his Greater Kailash home when his vehicle hit the cyclist. He then rushed the badly injured to hospital,” Meena said.“Awasthi was declared dead on arrival and Jain fled the hospital without sharing his credentials,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cyclist-fatally-mowed-down-by-suv-in-badarpur-driver-nabbed-using-cctv-footage/story-BfaXXB6BY18OUSe7rQgFMJ.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt hospitals move to increase ICU bed capacity||As the number of hospitalisations due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spikes, the Delhi government is working to increase its intensive care unit (ICU) capacity in at least three of its big hospitals dedicated for the treatment of the contagious pathogen. The number of hospitalisations in Delhi crossed 6,000 on Friday, the first time since the surge in cases in June. At least 2,203 ICU beds are earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in government and private hospitals in Delhi. Over 62.7% of these were occupied as on Sunday evening, according to data from the Delhi Corona App.Also read: 6.4 million Covid-19 cases were estimated in India by early May, says first national serosurvey reportA stock-taking meeting was held this week on how to augment ICU beds. “The CM had directed authorities to increase the number of ICU beds in the hospitals,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said after the meeting. The situation is worse in multispeciality private hospitals. More than 89% of ICU beds with ventilators in 11 biggest hospitals were occupied on Friday. And 82% of ICU beds without ventilators in eight large hospitals were filled. At the Delhi government-run 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital, 55% of 300 ICU beds with and without ventilators were occupied, the Delhi Corona app showed. The government plans to increase Lok Nayak’s ICU capacity to 500. “Work has begun on increasing ICU beds. Most of these additional beds will have non-invasive ventilator equipment such as high-flow nasal oxygen (Bipap) as doctors have now seen that this is better than invasive mechanical ventilation for Covid-19 patients,” said a senior Lok Nayak official.Also read: Maharashtra at 1 million Covid-19 casesEquipment was purchased last month and recruitment of senior residents, paramedics and nurses has begun. “The hiring process of senior residents is over and 100 nurses will join from Saturday. Within two or three days, around 50 more beds will be converted into ICU,” said the official. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, 16% of the 200 ICU beds were occupied on Sunday. “The number of patients in need of ICU care is going up. We have been asked to increase the number of ICU beds. We have the equipment, and depending on manpower, we will scale up as much as possible,” said a senior doctor. Doctors said medical personnel are being directed from other hospitals to run the ICU. “The government is looking for resources at every nook and cranny and diverting it to the hospital. We are looking at ways to increase the manpower needed to run about 500 ICU beds,” said the doctor quoted above on condition of anonymity. At Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, where 86% of the 100 ICU beds are occupied, the government has asked it to scale up the capacity by 28 beds. “Work is on to convert 28 high-dependence unit beds to ICU beds. However, where will we get trained nurses and intensivists to run ICUs? There is already an acute shortage of staff,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. The Delhi government did not respond to messages and calls for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-hospitals-move-to-increase-icu-bed-capacity/story-DUeOCkSpTAri8U9EaazE2O.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro to resume normal timings of 6am to 11pm from today||The Delhi Metro Friday resumed services in two more corridors -- the Magenta Line(Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden), and the Grey Line (Dwarka to Najafgarh) as part of its graded unlock plan. With this, it has now reopened all its major lines. The last line on the network, the Airport Express Line, will open Saturday, when the Delhi Metro will revert to its pre-lockdown operational timings of 6am to 11pm. The metro services were shut on March 22, in view of Covid-19 outbreakOn Friday, the Delhi Metro recorded a total ridership of 1,28,886 (till 7.30pm). The Magenta Line catered to 6,953 passengers and Grey Line to 514 passengers. The ridership on the Yellow Line (Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli) was 41,689, while it was 38,623 on the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector-21 to Vaishali/Noida Electronic Centre). Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) got 8,678 passengers and Red Line 15,485 passengers. Around 11,119 people travelled on the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate to Ballabhgarh) and 5,825 on the Green Line (Inderlok/Kirti Nagar to Bahadurgarh). Anticipating a further increase in passenger footfall, Mangu Singh, managing director, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), sent out a video message to Delhi residents, urging them to “break the peak” and avoid crowding on the system. He also urged them to use the Metro system for travel only if necessary during the pandemic. “From tomorrow (Saturday) normal services will resume on the Delhi Metro. However, with social distancing norms in place, our carrying capacity has reduced drastically. Earlier, we could ferry around 300 passengers in a coach but that has now reduced to just 50. Keeping this in mind, I request you to stagger your travel hours,” Singh said. He continued in the video message, “If you avoid travelling during rush hours, DMRC will also be able to give you the best service. I also request all employers, to stagger your office timings and allow your staff flexible working hours. Do not think that the situation has returned to normal; people who are working from home, kindly continue to do so.” To ensure travel options for those appearing for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday, the DMRC has also decided to start its services from 6am, instead of the usual 8am on Sundays, on all lines. However, the DMRC advised students to reach stations with ample time in hand for the process of screening and sanitisation at the gates and in view of the increased travel time owing to longer stoppage time at each station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/metro-will-resume-normal-timings-of-6am-to-11pm-from-saturday/story-Bbqu4qKk70JRFQFaO8RmhN.html
12-09-2020||Delhi||Metro deploys flying squads to ensure commuters keep their masks on inside trains||With the Delhi Metro resuming full service on nearly all routes on Saturday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) started deploying flying squads on all its corridors to ensure that passengers are wearing masks at all times and adhering to social distancing norms put in place to contain the Covid-19 spread. In a statement issued Friday, the DMRC said the decision to form squads was taken after it was observed that with more lines being thrown open, there were instances of passengers removing their masks after entering trains. “In view of such cases that were reported on social media, the DMRC has now decided to deploy flying squads across all lines to randomly check for violations and counsel people to follow rules for their own safety and everyone’s else’s,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said. Dayal said the squads have been formed with the primary intention of educating passengers on the importance of wearing masks at all times while using the Metro. However, in case a passenger refuses to follow directions even after being cautioned, then the DMRC will be at the liberty to penalise him/her under the Operations and Maintenance Act, 2002 (O&M Act) of the Delhi Metro. The Metro also has a Plan B -- filing FIRs against violators. On its first day, the flying squad counselled over 150 passengers who were found violating safety protocols and slapped fines of ₹200 each on 92 passengers, under Section 59 of the O&M Act for causing public nuisance. The fines were issued to only those who failed to adhere to directions and continued to break rules even after being counselled.“Since the Metro services have resumed only recently, we are hopeful that people will soon be well versed with the new rules and help the DMRC run its services without any health risk to any passenger,” Dayal appealed. The DMRC has also deployed around 1,500 Metro officials and civil defence volunteers to guide commuters and remind them of the new rules. The Delhi Metro had also installed LED screens in stations with high footfall to regularly display safety and precautionary messages. “As part of its multi-tier strategy, DMRC has not only introduced a new set of announcements, which are being made frequently at stations and on trains, advising public to wear masks throughout the travel, we are also running short films on new travel norms at major Metro stations and on trains that have LED screens,” Dayal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/metro-deploys-flying-squads-to-ensure-commuters-keep-their-masks-on-inside-trains/story-7O7P1lHW888oWQDrhg1phP.html
12-09-2020||Noida||In Noida, 20% of all Covid cases reported in first 11 days of September||Of all the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases detected so far in Gautam Budh Nagar, 20% of them were reported in the first 11 days of September. According to official figures, of a total of 9,808 cases in the district till September 11, 2,063 cases were reported from September 1 to 11. Not only that, the number of patients discharged after treatment also went down to 1,071 in September (till 11). By contrast, in the entire month of August, as many as 2,864 new cases were reported and 2,174 patients were discharged.The data report reveals that the daily figure of active cases in the district has gone up six times in September so far, which up to August 31, had crossed the 200-mark only three times since March 8, when the first case was reported in the district.According to chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri, the recent surge in cases is due to an increase in testing. “Earlier, we used to test around 1,500 persons a day, but now it is around 3,000 people a day. The more you test, the more will come out positive. But, we are not worried as the fatality rate in the district is low,” he said.The district administration attributed this surge to the reverse migration of workers from their home towns to the industrial city of Noida, increased rate of testing as well as easing of movement restrictions, but the trading community felt that the rising tide of cases will prove an even bigger blow to industries than the lockdown.District magistrate Suhas LY said it being an industrial hub, Gautam Budh Nagar has a floating population, especially of migrant workers from other states. “Since the unlock process has been eased, they have started coming back to the city for work, and it is expected to cause the surge. The transitional season before winter has also increased the viral load these days. Hopefully, cases will start decreasing soon,” he said.The DM further said the main aim of the administration is to reduce the case fatality rate (CFR). “We are successful from that point of view. The district’s CFR has gone down to 0.48%, which is much better than the national CFR of 1.71% and the state CFR of 1.43%. It clearly indicates that our sampling rate and recovery rate have been increasing day by day. Not only that, Gautam Budh Nagar has the lowest mortality rate among all districts of the state,” he said.Lalit Thukral, president of Noida apparel export cluster (NAEC), doesn’t appear to believe that reverse migration has caused the surge in Covid-19 cases. “Does the administration have any data on how many workers have been found infected with Covid-19 in the district? We are in a Catch-22 situation now. While our workers are scared to come back and we are continuing work with limited strength, our overseas buyers are apprehensive to give us orders as most of them feel that if the situation remains the same, the government may impose another lockdown,” he said.Sushil Kumar Jain, the president of Sector 18 market association, also said he felt that the surge in cases adversely impacted businesses. “The turnout of customers, which had increased in the last week of August, has again gone down. If the situation persists for long, traders will have no option other than to permanently shut shop,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-noida-20-of-all-covid-cases-reported-in-first-11-days-of-september/story-hpXrxv7XGFim2IjqWS7doL.html
12-09-2020||Noida||Noida: UP pollution control body sends notices to 13 high-rise societies over untreated sewage||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has sent a show cause notice to a total of 13 high-rise societies of the city on why they are allegedly not treating sewage being generated at their premises, officials said Friday.Earlier this month, the pollution monitoring agency had inspected and collected samples from 20 high-rise societies in sectors 74, 75, 76, 78 and 137. Out of these, six did not have a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) and the STPs of seven others were either not functioning or the plant was found to not have been treating effluents properly. Only seven high rises were following the norms.“We served notices to 13 high-rise societies earlier this week seeking a reply on why they were not treating the effluents properly or in some cases, why they don’t have an STP at all. They have two weeks’ time to respond. Following this, we will initiate the process of imposing environmental compensation, which applies on both type of violators, though the amount varies in case the STP was not functioning properly or there was no STP at all,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.He said the notices were served a few days back and another high-rise was inspected earlier this week in Sector 74 where the norms were not being followed either. “We inspected another high-rise this week and collected samples. Though there was an STP in the high-rise, it wasn’t operational. We have sought details of the high-rises from the Noida authority,” said Kumar. According to rules laid down by the Noida authority, all high-rises in the city must treat sewage generated within their premises through STPs. The treated water should be used for horticulture and washing purposes within the residential societies, and only leftover, treated wastewater should be released into drains. “For a society which does not have an STP, the fine is minimum ₹5,000 per day from the date of its occupancy. So if the society is operational for a year without an STP, which most of them are, the minimum environmental compensation they could see comes to around ₹18 lakh. For those which have an STP but did not follow norms, the compensation is calculated drawing different constraints like the degree of pollutant, volume of effluents, number of occupants, days of violation etc.,” said Kumar, adding that the high-rise societies often switch off their STPs and swiftly discharge untreated sewage in drains in order to save on the expenses of treatment. According to Noida authority officials, they had in July inspected a total of 33 high-rise societies, of which a list of 21 was forwarded to UPPCB for inspection and sample collection. The officials said soon they will forward a list of more suspected high-rises to UPPCB.“We will in a phase-wise manner inspect all high-rises of the city, which have occupancy, to check whether untreated sewage is being diverted in flood drains or treated. The second list of eight more high-rises is being prepared which will be forwarded to UPPCB for inspection as they have the expertise and can impose environment compensation. The UPPCB has sought details of high-rises already inspected, including the date of occupancy, to calculate the penalty. We have prepared the list and shall forward them soon,” said Avinash Tripathi, office on special duty, health, Noida.The estimated sewage generation in Noida is around 210 million litres a day (MLD). According to officials, the city has the capacity to treat 230 MLD of sewage through its six STPs. However, untreated sewer from high-rises often reaches up to Yamuna and Hindon rivers through flood drains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-up-pollution-control-body-sends-notices-to-13-high-rise-societies-over-untreated-sewage/story-Dx17XEvc1x1XdJ8pk5pgAK.html
12-09-2020||Pune||Pune police collect Rs 1.40 crore in fines from ‘mask offenders’ in eight days||Acting tough against mask offenders, the Pune police collected Rs 1.40 crore from 27,989 violators between September 2 and September 10. The action was carried out across all police zones in the city.While those not wearing masks at public places were warned under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) since Covid-19 cases broke in the city, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had not authorised the police to collect fines.The action was backed by fine after union minister Prakash Javadekar and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar urged the police to implement it pointing out that rising virus cases in the city.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) national directive for Covid-19 management states: “Wearing of face cover is compulsory in public places; in workplaces; and during transport”. The directive empowers the police to prosecute people without masks.After the state home department gave its authorisation to the police to take action against offenders, police stations, including the traffic branch, have been ordered to fine mask offenders. Standing instructions have been issued to lodge FIRs against persons who argue and obstruct government servants from discharging their duties.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has ordered municipal corporations to take effective steps to check virus spread and delegated powers to the city police to recover fine of Rs 500 from residents found not wearing mask in public places.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “People need to follow virus prevention norms strictly. Our action against offenders is to sensitise the public. From September, Pune police intensified action against people not wearing masks and offenders were fined Rs 500.Mask violatorsZone 1- 4,576Zone 2- 4,049Zone 3- 3,589Zone 4- 4,431Zone 5- 5,462Traffic police- 5,882Total 27,989 Rs 500 Fine collected from mask offenderStandard operating procedures (SOP) for cops while taking actionWhen taking action against a person who travels without a mask, the reason for fine, violator’s name and place must be mentioned in the receipt issued post fine collectionPenalties should not be imposed without a receiptPeople who do not have masks and those who deliberately do not wear masks fall under priority category for taking actionWider dissemination on information related to dangers of not wearing masks and avoid disputes while taking punitive action.A person who is alone and travels without a mask, but is not in contact/conversation with anyone should be given instructions about using a mask first.Even after giving a message, if the person is indifferent to the advice or the person is found to be deliberately avoiding the use of the mask, penalty should be imposed and a receipt issuedAll officers and staff should use hand gloves, masks, face shields and sanitiser after each action. Police officers and staff should maintain a physical distance during action||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-collect-rs-1-40-crore-in-fines-from-mask-offenders-in-eight-days/story-Bi0qbZhYIC0SUPnWYtvgWP.html
