14-09-2020||City||Documentary-maker couple questioned by special cell||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Monday questioned documentary filmmaker couple Saba Dewan and Rahul Roy in connection with the Delhi riots, a day after former JNU student Umar Khalid was arrested on charges of allegedly conspiring to trigger violence in north-east Delhi this February. According to a senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified, the couple was sent summons on Sunday to join the probe and they visited the Lodhi Colony office of the Delhi Police’s special cell for questioning. “Saba Dewan and Rahul Roy have been served notice to join investigation,” was the only official statement released by the police. “We are questioning them about their role in the riots, and about whatever else they maybe aware of,” said the officer. Over a dozen people, including Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, have already been questioned in connection with the riots. Apoorvanand had denied allegations of involvement in the Delhi riots. Neither Dewan, nor Roy, responded to HT’s phone calls and text messages seeking their response. Delhi police claimed that investigation showed that the couple was part of a WhatsApp group, Delhi Protest Support Group, which was formed in December to “plan the anti-CAA protests”. Dewan and Roy have been involved in making several documentary films, particularly on the issue of gender justice. Roy’s name was mentioned in an attachment in one of the riots-related charge sheet submitted by police in a Delhi court last year. The attachment had an alleged disclosure statement by an accused, Devangana Kalita claiming that a host of prominent personalities, including Roy, had instigated the protesters. Police had attached her statement (Kalita had refused to sign this statement), in the charge sheet. A disclosure statement made before the police is not an admissible evidence in court. Others, alleged members of the WhatsApp group, who feature in a statement purportedly given by another accused Gulfisha Khatoon were general secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist), Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj Abhiyan founder Yogendra Yadav, Apoorvanand, and advocate Mahmood Pracha. All of them have criticised Delhi police for dragging their names at the instance of BJP-led Central government to muzzle dissenting voices. The uproar over these names mentioned in the charge sheet had prompted the Delhi Police to issue a statement that these people were not charge sheeted and that their “names were mentioned in the disclosure statement of one of the accused, which was recorded truthfully”. As for Dewan, it is the first time that her name has appeared in the ongoing probe in the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/documentary-maker-couple-questioned-by-special-cell/story-aFAHANLOJ1JZh7450TAx1H.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||CAG report: HP fiscal deficit down by 9.2% in 2018-19||Himachal Pradesh’s fiscal deficit decreased by 9.2% in 2018-2019 financial year, as per the comptroller and auditor general’s (CAG’s) report tabled in the state assembly on Monday. The deficit, which stood at ₹3,870 crore in 2017-18, dropped to ₹3,512 crore , logging a decrease of ₹358 crore. Fiscal deficit, in very broad terms, is the amount an entity has to take as loan. In general, the lower it is, the better it is. The capital expenditure (₹4,583 crore) increased by 22% (₹827 crore) over previous year’s ₹3,756 crore. The share of capital expenditure to total expenditure increased from 12% in 2017-18 to 29% in 2018-19. The primary fiscal deficit of ₹82 crore in 2017-18 was offset by a primary surplus of ₹ 510 crore in 2018-19. In the same duration, the state’s revenue receipts (₹30,950 crore) increased by 13% over the previous year’s ₹27,367 crore.Only 33% of the revenue receipts came from the state’s own resources comprising taxes and non-taxes. Central transfers comprising the state’s share in central taxes and duties (18%) and grants-in-aid from the Union government (49%) brought in the remaining 67%. The CAG report says the total expenditure, ₹34,493 crore, increased by 10% (₹3,181 crore) and revenue constituted 85.3% of the total expenditure. The total expenditure on four components — salary and wages, pension liabilities, interest payments and subsidies — formed 73% of the revenue expenditure.Overall fiscal liabilities at the end of the year 2018-19 were ₹54,299 crore with a growth of 6.4% over the previous year. Fiscal liabilities were 36% of GSDP and 1.75 times the revenue receipts.PUBLIC DEBT INCREASESThe total public debt increased from ₹25,729 crore in 2014-15 to ₹36,425 crore in 2018-19 registering annual average growth rate of 9.6%. The share of market borrowings in total public debt went up from 59%. During 2018-19, the total public debt increased 5% over previous year.In the next ten years, of total outstanding market loans and Ujjwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) bonds of ₹26,573 crore, the state has to repay the principal of market loans and UDAY bonds of ₹ 25,005 crore (94.1%) and interest amounting to ₹12,521 crore.Revenue surplus (the difference between revenue receipts and revenue expenditure) increased from ₹314 crore in 2017-18 to ₹1,508 crore in 2018-19. During 2018-19, an expenditure of Rs 42,46,910 crore (90.4% was incurred against total grants and appropriation of Rs 46,98,468 crore. Overall savings of Rs 24,51,558 crore were the result of savings of Rs 5,33,695 crore minus excess expenditure of Rs 821.3 crore in various grants/appropriations, which, in addition to excess expenditure of Rs 8,33,335 crore from 2013-14 to 2017-18 required regularisation of the State Legislature under Article 205 of the Constitution of India.The CAG reports further points out of 5,758 Utilisation Certificates (UCs) due in respect of grants aggregating ₹5,128.42 crore, 2,407 UCs aggregating ₹1,898.8 crore were pending as of March 2019.High pendency of UCs is fraught with risk of misappropriation of funds and fraud and state government must ensure timely submission of utilisation certificates in respect of grants released to grantee institutions, and may also review whether grants should continue to be given to grantees with high pendency in submission of UCc, the report states.It points out that of 14 autonomous bodies, only three had submitted accounts for 2018-19. The state government reported 44 cases of misappropriation, loss or theft of government money amounting to ₹94 lakh up to March 2019, on which final action was still pending. Forty-one of 44 cases have been pending for over five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cag-report-hp-fiscal-deficit-down-by-9-2-in-2018-19/story-UOKTNV2D3UQH97vKRskhDL.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||BEST driver who ferried Mumbai’s essential workers, spent 65 days in hospital battling Covid-19||After spending 65 days in hospital, of which 17 days were with ventilator support in the intensive care unit (ICU), Dilip Paikade, a 55-year-old Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) driver has become a shining example for his colleagues.Paikade, a Bhandup resident, is a BEST bus driver posted at Majas depot in Goregaon. He operated bus services for essential care workers and passengers after the state government resumed services in the city on June 8. “I would go to work with my mask and gloves, and would use them throughout my eight-hour shift,” he said.However, on June 20, Paikade woke up with a fever and body pain that persisted even after taking medication from his family doctor. Fearing he had contracted the coronavirus, Paikade approached a government hospital in Mulund as his symptoms persisted. His reports came positive, and he soon started having difficulty breathing.He informed his son who is studying medicine in New Delhi. His son then informed senior BEST officials who rushed Paikade to the Covid isolation facility at SevenHills Hospital in Andheri.“The minute I reached SevenHills Hospital, the doctor hooked me up with oxygen as I was completely out of breath. I do not remember anything much after that. I remember the doctor saying mine is a critical case. I was put on a ventilator for 17 days,” he recalled.Paikade’s wife had also tested positive for Covid-19 and was kept at a quarantine centre where she recovered. His children reside outside the city.“It was very lonely and emotionally draining. I had prepared for anything, but my family gave me strength. My son is studying medicine which is why I was positive after speaking to him,” said Paikade.Senior BEST officials have lauded his courage and said that his positive outlook has motivated others. “He has been positive and courageous. Despite spending 65 days in hospital and on ventilator, he has encouraged other BEST employees to work through the pandemic,” said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade.Paikade is yet to recover completely and has difficulty breathing while climbing stairs.When asked about resuming work, he said he is planning to take some time off to heal. “I will have to recover fully and will then decide. The doctor has told me it will take eight months to fully recover, but I am positive. I step outside only to get medicines or for any important work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-driver-who-ferried-mumbai-s-essential-workers-spent-65-days-in-hospital-battling-covid-19/story-QEOVKISRCODgRxaptmHkJL.html
14-09-2020||City||Virus scare keeps many away from DU’s open-book exams||New Delhi: With Delhi University kick-starting the second phase of the open book examination (OBE) for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, scores of candidates reached the exam centres on Monday with their own answer sheets, mobile phones, and face masks. Students were screened thermally before being allowed into the exam halls. At the Shaheed Rajguru College in Vasundhara Enclave, students were asked to stand in painted circles outside the college premises to ensure social distancing.Guniganti Bindu, a student from School of Open Learning who also works in the jewellery sector, said, “We carried our own answer sheets as per the guidelines put in place due to Covid-19 crisis. At the centre, we were asked to sanitise our hands. We were a bit nervous but the examination was conducted smoothly.”However, officials said not all registered students appeared for the exams in offline mode. DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said, “We are yet to collect data from the examination centres and also find out how many students appeared in the online exams. The final statistics would be available on Tuesday. We are getting reports that not all of those who registered for offline exams turned up at the centres. This could be because a majority of them are SOL students. Even generally, there is a trend that of the registered students, only 50-60% SOL students appear for their papers.”Of the 12,000 students, who have registered to appear in the exams (OBE), only 3,000 had opted for offline mode. Unlike the first phase of the OBE exams conducted between 10-31 August, students this time were given the choice to either appear for the exam online or visit the university’s examination centres to take the tests. Due to the low number of students opting for physical or offline exams, the varsity selected a handful of colleges as examination centres for SOL students, including Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women, Deen Dyal Upadhayay (DDU) College, Deshbandhu College, Shaheed Bhagat Singh College and Shyama Prasad Mukherji College for Women (Girls), along with three other centres.Hem Chand Jain, officiating principal of DDU College, said, “While the university has allotted us 450 students, we had around 12 students who visited the campus for the paper. Around 200 students will be appearing for their papers in the evening shift on Tuesday. Our security officials will ensure that there is no crowding at these centres.”Jain added that the college staff will be conducting thermal scanning and check Aarogya Setu application. “Masks are mandatory for students while invigilators have also been provided gloves and face masks,” he said.Not all colleges held physical exams on Monday. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “Eight of our students who were scheduled to appear for their paper today had opted for the online mode of exams. We have a candidate who will be appearing for exam tomorrow on campus. We have made all arrangements to assist the student.”Ramjatan Yadav, an undergraduate student who hails from Sultanpur and is currently in Delhi, said, “I had already put myself at risk by travelling to Dwarka and appearing for the postgraduate entrance exams (Delhi University Entrance Test) last week. So, I opted for the online mode of exams for my final-year papers.”The visually-impaired student said he did not appear for the first phase of OBE exams as he was not able to gather enough accessible reading material. “I was able to arrange for reading material by the time of the second phase of exams. However, appearing for the papers is still a challenge since getting a scribe was risky. So I had to read all resources, process it, and then type my answers online. It is a new process and hence time-consuming. There is an uncertainty over how this will affect my performance,” he said, while writing his papers at his local guardian’s home in Sangam Vihar.The exams – which will continue till October 1 – are being conducted in two three-hour shifts beginning at 9 am and 3 pm respectively. As per the guidelines, the examination centres and the seating areas will be sanitised between the two shifts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-scare-keeps-many-away-from-du-s-open-book-exams/story-ilu1LJAfIf6DW7za6CYx4J.html
14-09-2020||City||Two of Sonu Punjaban gang held for swindling spa customers in NCR||Noida; Two members of gangster Sonu Punjaban’s gang were nabbed by the Noida police Monday morning for allegedly duping and robbing people on the pretext of providing them spa services.The suspects were identified as Sanjay Bhatia (32) and Arjun (22), both residents of Delhi. Police said Sanjay is a distant cousin of pimp Sonu Punjaban, aka Geeta Arora, who was first arrested in 2007 in Delhi for human trafficking and running a major call girl racket. According to Noida police, the suspects would allegedly lure customers on the pretext of providing women for spa services at home.“They would take the women with them in a car and meet prospective clients at a pre-decided location, where they would take the money from them in advance through e-wallets. Then they would demand an additional amount for a security charge. If the victims refused, they would assault them and take the money or their valuables forcefully and then flee the spot,” said Anil Kumar, station house officer, Sector 58 police station.He said most victims do not inform the authorities about these incidents but one Noida-based man had filed an FIR at the Sector 58 police station on Sunday after he was robbed of ₹3,000 in cash in a similar manner on September 2. He had alleged that the suspects had also taken ₹5,500 from him via an online transaction. A case under sections 420, 392 and 504 was registered against the suspects.“They were nabbed around 3am from near the small D-park where they were travelling in a Santro car, which was then seized. Two phones used in the case and the stolen money were also recovered. They confessed to the crime and we also have the transaction history of the e-wallet,” said the SHO.Police said Punjaban was convicted and is currently serving time in Delhi’s Tihar jail and the majority of the operation was being run allegedly by Bhatia in Delhi-NCR. Police have identified 23 cases against him.“We are now on the lookout for the women who were helping them and other members of the gang working in this area,” said Kumar.Police added that Bhatia would allegedly take a majority of the money retrieved from customers who suspect them to be involved in several more cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-of-sonu-punjaban-gang-held-for-swindling-spa-customers-in-ncr/story-sE942WwiKsltimCmXccAAP.html
14-09-2020||City||Fringe group members arrested in Ghaziabad for attempting to create communal unrest||As many as 10 members of a local fringe group were detained by the Badalpur police on Sunday for allegedly trying to have a gathering to spread communal discord in the Dadri area.The suspects were allegedly using a murder case from September 8 to provoke people, said the police. The victim, Sher Singh (25), the son of a retired Delhi police constable, had allegedly been stabbed to death by three persons over a personal rivalry. On September 7, the victim allegedly had a fight with the prime suspect, Jamshed, said the police, adding that in retaliation, Jamshed, along with his two friends, had allegedly stabbed Singh. A case of murder had been registered at the Dadri police station. Jamshed and one of the alleged accomplices were arrested on September 10 while the third was arrested a day later.“A few members of a fringe group were sharing objectionable videos and content on social media while they were also making disharmonic posts. They were also appealing to people to come for a large gathering in Dadri’s Chhitehra village on Sunday,” said a police spokesperson.Police said while they were on their way, ten people were detained by the Badalpur police under Section 151 of the CrPC before they could reach the destination and create any disturbance.“They were using the murder case for nefarious purposes,” said Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station.Police also said such an unauthorised gathering was also in violation of Section 144 that has been imposed in the district and goes against guidelines issued by the central government for the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.The suspects were booked at the Dadri police station under sections 188, 269, 270, 271, 153A and 295A of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the IT Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fringe-group-members-arrested-in-ghaziabad-for-attempting-to-create-communal-unrest/story-wk4CORiEQKSl6cBUkFBqAN.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers on warpath, Khattar govt on backfoot||The knee-jerk reaction to farmers’ rally in Kurukshtera --- where peasants protesting against Centre’s agriculture ordinances were lathicharged --- has put the BJP-JJP government in Haryana on the backfoot. A major farmers’ movement has started gaining momentum in the state and protesters have announced to block all roads in Haryana on September 20, followed by a statewide yatra from September 27. The current scenario has fired up the principal opposition party -- the Congress – that is looking to corner the government over this sensitive issue. The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), on the other hand, is also preparing to cash in on this anti-government sentiment of farmers. The BJP has been struggling to convince the protesting peasants that their apprehensions about the Centre’s three ordinances are unfounded. Political observers say one of the key reasons behind the BJP’s worry is that a majority of farmers hail from the dominant Jat community that has been at loggerheads with the party since it came to power in October 2014. The Jats had hit the BJP hard in October 2019 assembly elections. The saffron party (with 40 seats) was six MLAs short to cross the magical mark and therefore formed the government in an alliance with the Jannayak Janta Party having 10 MLAs. The JJP has been keeping the BJP on the edge on this issue. Dhankar-led delegation to meet Tomar todayOn Tuesday, state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar will lead a party delegation that will meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to hand over a report containing feedback of the agitating farmers against the farm ordinances. Dhankar had set up a three-member panel to look into the grievances of the farmers. The committee, comprising Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, held marathon meetings with farmers and traders on Saturday and Sunday. The panel handed over report to Dhankar in New Delhi on Monday. “An atmosphere of fear is being created...rumours are being spread that MSP will cease to exist and the grain markets will be shut,” Dhankar told HT. JJP asks BJP to clear farmers’ doubtsThe JJP, which draws its political muscle mainly from farmers, has been nudging the BJP to clear the misgivings of the farmers. The party has also been keeping the BJP on tenterhooks by giving conflicting statements regarding the three ordinances. JJP state president Nishan Singh says those in authority must give an unequivocal assurance backed with proof to the farmers that the Centre will not stop foodgrain procurement under MSP. He said MSP gives security to farmers and the JJP wants this to continue. “We are with the farmers on this issue. The government must apply brakes on the attempts being made to mislead the farmers. The earlier it is done, the better it will be,” he said. The JJP statement assumes significance as the farmers are mobilising support against the ordinances. The BJP, on its part, doesn’t want the protest to snowball into a major unrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-on-warpath-khattar-govt-on-backfoot/story-A8cqnFB5oLnMWCY6nsxwqM.html
14-09-2020||City||Sharp shooter arrested for the contract killing of 26-year-old in Modinagar||The police Monday arrested a sharp shooter who was allegedly hired to kill 26-year-old Akshay Sangwan on the night of August 24 outside his house on Tibra Road, Modinagar. Sangwan’s family has also accused the husband of the local MLA of criminal conspiracy in the case, but the police said he had no role in the incident and that the murder was allegedly planned by a woman whose brother Sangwan was accused of killing in 2019. The suspect who was arrested Monday from the area near Niwari Road was identified as Ujjwal Sharma. Police said he took ₹50,000 for carrying out the hit on Sangwan. The police also added that one of Sharma’s accomplices is on the run and will be arrested soon. According to the police investigation, Sangwan had several cases against him and had been in jail for killing his friend, Dipendra Kumar, in April 2019. Sangwan had come out on bail last November. “The murder was planned by Kumar’s sister Ruby Singh and her husband Vikas Singh who wanted to avenge Kumar’s killing. They planned the murder with the help of their accomplice Ashwini Singh and Anurag Tyagi and hired two men, one of whom was arrested on Monday. Our teams combed through a jungle area for about four days to find Sharma’s hideout and arrest him. He was nabbed while he trying to flee,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). Sangwan was gunned down outside his house on the evening of August 24. The police had said that one of the suspects, Anurag Tyagi, sustained an accidental gunshot wound during the incident and had died a day later at a Meerut hospital. Police said Ashwini had surrendered before a court in Ghaziabad on August 28 and Ruby Singh was arrested last week. “Both Vikas Singh (Ruby’s husband) and another accomplice Sappu Gurjar had come out on bail in connection with a case of Arms Act registered against them in Delhi. As per their the plan, they returned to jail on August 18, days before the killing was to be executed on August 24. But their role has emerged during’s Ashwini’s questioning . In all, we have about three more suspects, who are on the run, to arrest,” Jadaun said. The police are yet to seize an i10 car which was used in the crime. They suspect that the car is still with the suspects who are on the run. “So far, no role of the MLA’s made has been made out in the case. The murder plan was hatched by Ruby and her husband. They took the help of two shooters and roped in other accomplices. The suspects who are absconding will be arrested soon,” Jadaun said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sharp-shooter-arrested-for-the-contract-killing-of-26-year-old-in-modinagar/story-O9LHTUT0F8kJOmH7nyGswM.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Two men with criminal histories killed in scuffle between their groups||Two men, both with criminal antecedents, were killed in a face-off between their respective groups after an argument got out of hand in west Delhi’s Khyala early Monday. Police identified the deceased men as Rohit (single name) and Ashish Pandey and said they had been engaged in fights with each other previously as well. Police said around 12.30am Monday, an argument ensued between them and Rohit attacked Ashish with a knife. Seeing this, one of Ashish’s friends, Sahil Singh, attacked Rohit with a knife, killing him. Sahil was later arrested and booked for murder.Police said 27-year-old Rohit was a known criminal in the area with cases of robbery, extortion and attempt to murder against him, Ashish Pandey, 24, also had a criminal past. Both lived in Raghubir Nagar, Khyala.According to police, two calls were received by the police control room -- at 12.56am and 12.57am -- reporting a quarrel between two groups at a slum colony in Raghubir Nagar. One of the callers was a woman, Meena, who reported that her son Rohit had been stabbed to death by two or three men.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said a police team reached the spot and found Rohit lying critically injured. He was rushed to Guru Gobind Singh hospital where the doctors pronounced him dead. Inquiries revealed that an injured Ashish, who had also been admitted to the same hospital, had died during treatment, Purohit said.He said preliminary inquiries have revealed that on Sunday evening, Rohit had an argument with a man who had thrashed him, the DCP said.“Furious and drunk, Rohit was on the lookout for that man when around 12.30am he crossed paths with three men on a two-wheeler -- Ashish and his friends Sahil Singh, 22, and Dinesh, 21,” Purohit said.Quoting witnesses,Purohit said Ashish stopped Rohit and tried talking to him.But Rohit, who was already agitated, didn’t want to talk and told them off.“The three men left the spot but soon returned looking for him. As they spotted Rohit with a knife in his hand, they asked him why he needed one. This led to an argument that soon got out of hand. Rohit stabbed Ashish multiple times. When Sahil tried to intervene, Rohit stabbed him in the leg. Sahil, who was also carrying a knife, then stabbed Rohit and fled the spot,” the officer said.Purohit said he formed teams to search for Sahil and he was arrested before he could flee the neighbourhood. “He was booked for Rohit’s murder,” the DCP said.As the incident took place near Rohit’s house, hearing the commotion, Rohit’s mother Meena rushed out to see her son being attacked. She had then called police for help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-men-with-criminal-histories-killed-in-scuffle-between-their-groups/story-yXxWsneUbnPFs3ZRxEuaBP.html
14-09-2020||City||Three men on motorcycle crushed by car on Eastern Peripheral Expressway||Three men lost their lives to a road accident late Sunday on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) near Muradnagar they were crushed under a vehicle. The police said they have arrested the driver and also seized the car allegedly involved in the accident.The three victims were identified as Karamvir Singh, 18, Deepak Sharma, 20 and Priyanshu Tyagi, 19. Karamvir and Deepak are residents of Rewri Rewda village while Tyagi was a resident of Saithli village. The three friends, after their schooling, were preparing to give the Delhi police’s recruitment drive a shot and used to run and do other physical activities to prepare for the competitive exam.“The three friends were on a motorcycle and were going to drop Priyanshu to his house. Midway, they took to the EPE and stopped in between when one of them received a call on his mobile. While they were standing on one side of the expressway, they were crushed by a car. Locals rushed them to a hospital but they could not survive. On a complaint given by their families, we have registered an FIR against the car driver,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).“We sent the bodies for post mortem,” he added. The police identified the suspect car driver as Surya Kumar, who is stated to be resident of Patel Nagar in Ghaziabad and was allegedly driving his Sierra car at the time. According to the hospital, the victims were brought dead. “The three victims were brought to the hospital in an injured state but they were brought dead,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar.According to the family of the victims, the three had been preparing daily so as to crack the Delhi police’s entrance tests. “They often engaged in long distance running and other activities as they had planned to join the Delhi police. On the night of the incident, Priyanshu had got late. So, the other two decided to drop him home. They set out on a motorcycle but met with the accident on the expressway. We have given a police complaint in connection with the incident,” said Uday Vir Singh, Karamvir’s uncle. Officers from Muradnagar police station said the suspect allegedly told them that he was trying to evade a truck in front of him and could not spot the three victims who were standing on the expressway.The officials of the National Highways Authority of India, the agency which completed the EPE project, said that two-wheelers are not allowed on the expressway stretch.“The EPE is only for cars and other commercial vehicles and two-wheelers are not allowed on the expressway. However, it is difficult to contain the local population as denying their two-wheelers access often leads to confrontation; driving two-wheelers often leads to accidents. The EPE is a high-speed expressway on which cars are allowed to reach 120kmph while commercial vehicles have a speed limit of 100kmph,” said an officer from the authority, who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-men-on-motorcycle-crushed-by-car-on-eastern-peripheral-expressway/story-sgRLozUsi0hIJ1Frmf0HUK.html
14-09-2020||Noida||Stop strike or face dismissals, Noida authority warns sanitation workers||The Noida authority has warned striking contractual workers that they may face dismissals if they don’t return to work immediately and submit their attendance through smart phone application FaceApp.A section of contractual workers are on strike since September 1, when the authority started recording their attendance via the app, the authority officials said.The employees had stopped work in protest as they do not want their attendance to be recorded via the app.“Most of the sanitation employees fear that if they record their attendance via FaceApp, then the authority may soon put them out of their jobs. Some employee leaders have created this perception in the minds of the workers and we are anxious about using this app. The authority must communicate with us properly on this issue,” said Brij Bhooshan a contractual employee.According to the authority, only 30% of the around 4,000 contractual employees engaged in sanitation work across the city are recording their attendance via FaceApp at present. The remaining workers are either not reporting to work in protest or are not recording their attendance on the app.“Instead of giving us permanent jobs, the authority wants to render us jobless and that is why they are using new methods to harass us,” said a sweeper, requesting anonymity.However, employees themselves are divided over using the app and not all are in support of the strike. Shiv Kumar, a contractual employee, said, “Those who are protesting want to take salary without working the mandated 10 hours. If they record their attendance via the app, and the time stamp doesn’t show 10 hours, then they may face salary cuts. What is the harm in filing attendance?” The authority started sing FaceApp for attendance to ensure that all employees mark their attendance daily, and work he stipulated 10 hours.“A worker has to log in on the app in the morning with the help of a login number and password. The app takes their picture so that we know who are at work and who are not. In manual attendance, there was a possibility of irregularities,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority.The authority pays a monthly salary of ₹12,000-16,000 to each employee, who are on the payroll of a private agency. Due to the strike the sanitation work has been hit across the city.“We are taking help of a new agency to tide over the crisis. We have asked the private agency to remove those who are on strike. We will remove all of them who will not return to work and follow the attendance protocols,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/stop-strike-or-face-dismissals-noida-authority-warns-sanitation-workers/story-yPLX1porzluCpnBHXMELwK.html
14-09-2020||City||Greater Noida authority to resume public grievances hearings from Tuesday||The Greater Noida authority will resume public hearings from Tuesday for the first in more than five months.Beginning Tuesday, all authority departments will meet members of the public, especially property allottees, from 10am to 12pm every working day. Since the nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25, the authority had stopped public hearings completely in order to contain the spread of Covid-19. Before the lockdown. officials of the authority would meet property allottees in public hearings once a week. Now, however, the authority will organise public hearing daily five days in a week to clear the backlog of issues being faced by allottees in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, said officials. “We have decided to start this practice of holding public hearings beginning from Tuesday daily especially keeping in mind the work property allottees need to get done. The department heads and I along with other staff members will be available at these hearings to address the issues of property allottees,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority said.The authority has however appealed all visitors and property allottees who come to the main administrative building in Sector Knowledge Park 4 to adhere to all social distancing protocols. Since the lockdown, visitors were allowed to submit written complaints at the building’s gate only or could get their work done through email or the authority’s online portal.The authority officials have also appealed visitors to attend public hearings only for important works. If possible, they should get in touch with the authority officials either on www.greaternoidaauthority.in or by writing to prauthority@gnida.in., officials said.The property department’s heads will be available in the mini auditorium for meetings with the property allottees, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-authority-to-resume-public-grievances-hearings-from-tuesday/story-6TjXZAPSacOHEctzd2FdGM.html
14-09-2020||City||Residents, village heads demand government college in Dadri||Residents of Haryana’s Dadri have been waiting for the state government to establish a government college at the district headquarters since last four years.Dadri has only four colleges—three in rural areas and the government aided Janta College at the district headquarters. The Janata College at the district headquarters was established in 1965 and since then no government college has been set up there.Now, over 36 village heads in Dadri have demanded establishment of a government college at the district headquarters. They have also sent memorandums in this regard to Dadri deputy commissioner Shiv Prasad. Narender Dudi, sarpanch of Fatehgarh village, said over 5,000 students from the district will have to migrate to other cities like Bhiwani, Rohtak and Hisar since there is only one college at the district headquarters, which too, does not have honours course in graduation and post-graduation.“The Janta college does not provide even sociology in the bachelor of arts degree. We have been demanding a government college at district headquarters,” he added.Sunil Kumar, sarpanch of Ranila village said, “The Janata College was established when Dadri had a population of 15,000 only and now it has crossed 90,000. Still, no new college has been opened here.”“The government has discriminated with our district and we are yet to get a full-fledged college. Many parents prefer to get their daughters married instead of sending them to other districts due to financial crunch. We have sent a memorandum in this regard to Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan and administrative officials,” he added.Senior Congress leader and former MLA Ran Singh Mann said, “The government has been claiming to set up medical colleges at all district headquarters. However, people have been struggling to get a government college which has all graduation and post-graduation courses.”Dadri deputy commissioner Shiv Prasad said he has received memorandums from many panchayat heads and residents demanding a government college at the district headquarters. “I have forwarded these memorandums to concerned officials,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-village-heads-demand-government-college-in-dadri/story-MOa4O0L4agVWlSVotHvwSL.html
14-09-2020||City||UP govt clarifies charges under paid Covid treatment, private hospitals told to comply||The Ghaziabad administration Monday directed private hospitals providing paid Covid treatment to comply with a recent order of the Uttar Pradesh government, clarifying the services/facilities that are to be included/excluded from treatment charges fixed by the government.On July 10, the government had capped Covid treatment charges at private hospitals in accordance with the recommendations of a committee headed by Dr VK Paul, professor member of Niti Aayog. The July 10 order had grouped patients under the heads of ‘moderate sickness’, ‘severe sickness’ and ‘very severe sickness’ and the rates were applicable to all hospitals, both accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) and not. However, the July 10 order did not specify the different treatments that were to be included or excluded from the government rates and that had led to patient complaints of hospitals overcharging. To sort out the issues, state health secretary Amit Mohan Prasad Prasad on September 10 revised the order fixing charges for specific treatments and the ones that were included in the government rates. The revised order states that the charge for an isolation bed for ‘moderate sickness’ will be ₹10,000 a day (NABH-accredited) and ₹8,000 a day (non-accredited). The treatment will include oxygen and other essentials. The charge for an ICU bed (without ventilator) will be ₹15,000 a day (NABH-accredited) and ₹13,000 (non-accredited). An ICU bed with ventilator will cost ₹18,000 a day (NABH-accredited) and ₹15,000 (non-accredited). The order says the charges will include invasive and non-invasive mechanical ventilation. The revised order said all charges are inclusive of facilities in the form of a package. “This package includes bed, food and facilities like nursing care, monitoring, imaging and other investigations, and doctors’ consultations. The package also includes treatment of patients with co-morbidity and requiring short-term hemodialysis,” the order said. It further said high value medicines such as remdesivir and tests such as RT-PCR and IL-6 are not part of the package. The package rates are also applicable for paediatric patients. It also clarified that charges for normal delivery or C-section and treatment of newborn will be as per the rates of the Ayushman Bharat Yojna (a patient need not pay them). “On Monday, we provided private hospitals and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) with a copy of the new order and urged them to comply. Hospitals have been asked to put up the rates on their websites and also to display them prominently within their premises,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said he has formed a committee to take up patient complaints in case they are charged more. “The committee will inquire into the complaint and take appropriate action. In case of non-compliance, the erring hospital may face action under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The new order will be applicable from the date of issue,” Gupta said. Dr VB Jindal, president of IMA, Ghaziabad, said, “The rates are higher when compared to those of Ayushman Yojna. So, hospitals will have better viability and will also put an end to the prevailing confusion,” he said.“The new order will be helpful.. We are already charging as per the prescribed rates,” Dr Mahesh Chaudhary, director (operations), Navin Hospital i Vaishali, said. Spokesperson of Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi, said, “We have already implemented the order. We have L2 and L3 care facility and package rates are already applicable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-clarifies-charges-under-paid-covid-treatment-private-hospitals-told-to-comply/story-gsYot6mqj4Kn8GW2l2A3pO.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA extends permissions for building construction in areas of Mumbai till December||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has issued a circular extending the validity for various development permissions granted for building construction in areas under its special planning authority (SPA). This follows a similar extension offered by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation‘s (BMC) in April. In a circular issued on September 10, metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev ruled that the validity of all permissions, no-objection certificates or commencement certificates that expired on or after March 25 will automatically be extended for another nine months, till December. HT has accessed a copy of the order. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, by considering ‘force majeure’ situation, the ministry of housing and urban affairs had issued an advisory to extend the validity of various kinds of approval,” the circular states. Rajeev said, “By extending the validity of permissions, we are hoping to provide some relief to the real estate industry, which is already facing many problems owing to the pandemic.” According to the circular, MMRDA received several requests from stakeholders including CREDAI-MCHI, an apex body consisting of members from the real estate industry in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The document further states no penalty will be charged while granting renewals or revalidations during this period. MMRDA is SPA for several areas within and outside Mumbai, including Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), Wadala notified area; Oshiwara district; the Backbay reclamation scheme; Ambernath Kulgaon-Badlapur and surrounding area; 27 villages in Kalyan and Bhiwandi notified area, among others. According to estimates, the development potential in the Wadala notified area alone is worth ₹35,000 crore. Representatives from the real estate industry applauded the move. Mumbai-based architect Vilas Nagalkar said, “It is a good gesture from the state agencies as it would have been difficult to undertake the procedures in a lockdown.” In April 2020, BMC had ruled that the validity of all intimations of disapproval (IODs) expiring between March and June this year has been extended till September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-extends-permissions-for-building-construction-in-areas-of-mumbai-till-december/story-IsqcibgSbZAZf5MbH5hzzH.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty named Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh, Simone Khambatta, confirms NCB||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drug case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has named actors Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta in her statement, said KPS Malhotra, NCB deputy director.However, the context in which the names were taken was not clear yet. “Their roles can’t be given right now and NCB has not issued a summons to them as of now,” said Malhotra.Malhotra further said that confirmations were given after due diligence and veracity is checked. “Some speculations run even before we have zeroed upon a further course of action,” said Malhotra.NCB has claimed that Rhea had links with drug peddlers and had arrested her on September 9 after questioning her for three consecutive days.Rhea, who is presently lodged at Byculla jail, has, however, retracted her statements given to NCB under section 67 of the NDPS Act. A special NDPS court had on September 11 rejected bail pleas filed by Rhea and her brother Showik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-named-sara-ali-khan-rakul-preet-singh-simone-khambatta-confirms-ncb/story-OxNnNqNrHAjWwgb0G9PHaL.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man wanted for harassing women arrested in Solan||A team of the inter-state cell of Crime Branch, Delhi, arrested a wanted criminal, Dhaval Trivedi, from Solan in Himachal Pradesh. There was a bounty of Rs 5 lakh on his arrest.He was wanted for luring and sexually exploiting minor girls on pretext of tuitions, said officials of Crime Branch, Delhi.As per the chargesheet filed by CID (crime) in an earlier case, Trivedi is a serial offender, who was married twice and has kidnapped eight women including minors in the past. He is highly intelligent, knows eight languages and has worked as a principal and a teacher at different schools.He used pseudonyms and changed appearances to conceal his identity. During his absconding period, he used to stay at gurdwaras and the waiting halls of railway stations to avoid tracking by law agencies.Police said, the accused has revealed that he was planning to write a book on his life experiences and wanted to name it ‘Ten perfect women in my life’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-wanted-for-harassing-women-arrested-in-solan/story-UornEohPYEmb6A7wLiMt5J.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s CSMIA sets up 24x7 Covid-19 testing facility for international passengers||After the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) allowed arriving international passengers to get tested for Covid-19, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) set up a 24x7 express Covid-19 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test facility. The airport operator Mumbai International Airport Ltd. (MIAL) will charge passengers ₹1,600 onwards for the test, and results will be released within eight hours. MIAL has therefore advised passengers to book their onward flights only after a gap of eight to 12 hours. The airport operator will also make the facility available for departing passengers. Passengers will be able to register on www.suburbandiagnostics.com and can enrol for the tests at a helpdesk set up at the arrival terminal. “On submission of test samples, arriving passengers can remain at the waiting lounge as they wait for the results, and special food and beverage arrangements will be provided. Alternatively, passengers can also opt to book a room at the airport hotel, with the approval of the state authorities. Passengers who test negative will be allowed to proceed to their final destinations; they will receive a stamp indicating home quarantine by state officials. In the event of a positive report, the passenger will be transferred by state authorities to a designated institution,” said a spokesperson for MIAL.The spokesperson said that passengers departing from Mumbai will soon be able to undergo the RT-PCR test at CSMIA and have their reports emailed to them. As per an earlier initiative, all international arriving passengers could choose to be exempted from institutional quarantine by filling an online self-declaration form as well as uploading the results of an RT-PCR test undertaken within 96 hours before take-off. International arriving passengers leaving from Mumbai airport were allowed to display the results of the RT-PCR test to opt-out of institutional quarantine and instead observe a 14-day home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-csmia-sets-up-24x7-covid-19-testing-facility-for-international-passengers/story-UwPBfjZPjeI1iOwsLSbnNJ.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||70% rise in Mumbai’s pollution levels during first week of September||The drop in rainfall during the first week of September led to a sharp spike in the city’s air pollution levels, much before the end of the monsoon. Mumbai witnessed a 70% rise in particulate matter PM2.5 levels in Mumbai during the first week of September as compared to PM2.5 levels throughout monsoon and during the four phases of the Covid-19 lockdown, an analysis from January to September by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), a Delhi-based air quality research group, revealed.The study showed Vile Parle, Andheri, Kurla, Sion and Worli were the five most polluted areas in Mumbai during the first week of September.The air has suspended particulate matter (PM) of different sizes. Many of these are a complex mixture of dust, pollen, soot and smoke and they are hazardous. Of this, PM 2.5 is smaller, with a diameter not more than 2.5 micrometres. These are fine particles that can stay in the air for days or weeks and are small enough to invade the narrowest of lung airways. According to CEEW’s analysis, the study period over nine months was divided into three phases — pre lockdown (January 1 to March 24), lockdown (March 25 - May 31) and monsoon or post lockdown (June 1 to September 10). The assessment, using data averages from 10 continuous air quality monitoring stations in Mumbai under the state pollution control board, showed: highest PM2.5 concentration for pre-lockdown was recorded on January 2 at 107.1 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³), 33 μg/m³ was the highest for the four phases of the lockdown on May 16 while 53.3 μg/m³ was recorded on September 6, the highest during the post lockdown phase so far. The study also identified the cleanest air days with 16 μg/m³ on March 11 (for pre-lockdown), 7.1 μg/m³ on May 29 (lockdown), and 4.8 μg/m³ on June 30 (during monsoon). The 24-hour safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 μg/m³.“Mumbai has been experiencing good air quality for the past few months owing to monsoon and lockdown restrictions. With decreased rain during September first, air quality started worsening in the city. On September 6, readings showed a sharp spike in PM 2.5 levels, which was 70% higher than the PM2.5 levels during the entire lockdown and monsoon period,” said LS Kurinji, research analyst, CEEW, adding, “With the resumption of industries, constructions and other economic activities due to lockdown relaxations, anthropogenic (human-induced) emissions will soon worsen air quality. The city should start actively addressing its pollution sources to counter rising PM 2.5 levels.”Independent experts said the lockdown and weather impacts are temporary factors for air quality improvement. “Cities like Mumbai have been working on their respective National Clean Air Program (NCAP) action plans, but there hasn’t been major emission reduction on ground yet. Current interventions are disaggregated with multiple state departments involved in different activities compromising accountability,” said Polash Mukherjee, lead (air pollution) Natural Resources Defence Council (NRDC) India.The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) said as identified under the NCAP for Mumbai’s action plan, if two sources — vehicular pollution and re-suspended dust — are addressed, Mumbai would see much cleaner air as far as particulate pollution is concerned.“While the Covid-19 associated lockdown did throw our usual lives out of gear, one silver lining was the reduction in air pollution. However, as restrictions have been eased, the rise in emissions will be visible,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB adding, “For vehicles, the move towards Bharat Stage VI will help us remove not only nitrogen oxide, but PM. The issue of legacy vehicles remain, and we need to tackle that. Secondly, the use of water sprinklers, vacuum sweeping, having more green spaces, paving of roads as mandates issued to the civic body to arrest re-suspended dust. Work on this is going on and it should show results soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/70-rise-in-mumbai-s-pollution-levels-during-first-week-of-september/story-0S6ed3DWuuPTXHQeV0J4cP.html
14-09-2020||City||Yamuna pollution: Haryana told to expedite work on sewage plants||New Delhi:The NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee has told the Haryana government to “expedite” its pending projects related to the construction and upgrade of effluent and sewage treatment plants as untreated or partially treated industrial effluents and domestic sewage are flowing into the Yamuna and adding to its pollution. The Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC), in a review meeting of the Yamuna Action Plan held via video conferencing last week, told senior Haryana officials to “compress the timelines of the said projects” and find alternative ways to reduce the toxic discharge from entering the Yamuna. “Though substantial progress had been made in decision making connected with the construction of STPs/CETPs, the timelines of awarding of work and construction need to be compressed. Temporary alternatives be found to make a substantial difference to the huge pollution entering the river Yamuna,” the YMC stated in the minutes of the meeting drafted on September 10. The two-member YMC comprises former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra and former NGT expert member BS Sajwan. The committee said of the 14 existing CETPs, 11 are either not functioning because of design fault or are not functioning to capacity and need to be upgraded. “Presently, 521 MLD (million litres per day) untreated effluent is being discharged into the Yamuna from different towns of Haryana. This is huge and there has been no reduction over the last two years,” it said. During the Covid lockdown, there was no discharge as industries were shut, which was one of the major reasons for a cleaner Yamuna during that time. Now with the gradual opening of industries in Haryana, the drains are again carrying high levels of untreated effluents that finally go into the river, adding to its pollution load. The Yamuna flows for 54 km in Delhi between Palla in north and Badarpur in south, of which the 22-km stretch downstream of the Wazirabad barrage to Okhla barrage is the most polluted. The committee said work on 30 new STPs in several towns has been much delayed. Major cities like Faridabad do not have functional STPs. Besides, the laying of sewerage network in major cities has been delayed by almost a year and hence untreated sewage is being discharged into the drains. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Haryana Yamuna Monitoring Committee (HYMC) reports showed BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) and COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) levels continue to remain high and way above permissible limits in major Haryana drains. BOD is the amount of oxygen used by microorganisms in the oxidation of organic matter. COD refers to the total amount of organic and inorganic chemicals in waste water. High levels of BOD and COD in waste water indicate untreated sewage and effluents. The YMC said the increasing pollution load in the Yamuna is caused by mixing of discharge from Haryana’s drain no.6 and a channel carrying effluents from the Kundli CETP into drain no. 8 at Sonepat. “This mixing of discharge is affecting the water treatment plant in Delhi’s Wazirabad, because of which potable drinking water is polluted and the plant needs to be shut down at times,” the committee said. S Naryanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said some projects had been delayed because of Covid and financial constraints. “Most work regarding the construction of STPs and CETPs are in the pipeline and will be completed soon. Some alternative measures such as bio-remediation are being experimented in Gurugram and based on the results, will be extended to other cities. We will submit a status report to the state government on the projects this week,” said Naryanan. PKMK Das, member, Haryana Yamuna Monitoring Committee, said nine new CETPs are being constructed in towns such as Panipat, Sonepat and Kundli. “The new CETPs will help in better treatment of effluents while the existing ones are being upgraded both in terms of design and capacity. A proposal to construct two conduit carriages has been approved to fix the mixing of discharge in drains that are affecting the Wazirabad plant in Delhi,” Das said. Manoj Misra, convenor of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said discharge of untreated industrial effluents from Haryana is a major contributor to pollution in the Yamuna. “Haryana, which is upstream of Delhi, covers the city from three sides (North, West and South) and hence effluents from its drains, for instance, drain no. 2 in Panipat, flow directly into the Yamuna. The government needs to bring in stringent measures to curb untreated discharge,” said Misra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamuna-pollution-haryana-told-to-expedite-work-on-sewage-plants/story-mJDDBdUHL5PLzRsW9GfkeO.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Question hour: Land acquisition for Pathankot-Mandi four lane initiated, says Jai Ram||The land acquisition process for the construction of the Pathankot-Mandi four lane has been initiated and compensation will be decided soon, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday.He was replying to a question jointly raised by MLAs Pawan Kajal and Arun Kumar. The CM said the width of the road will be 30 to 40 metres and a revised detailed project report (DPR) is being prepared. He said the date and cost of construction will be announced after the DPR is approved.“For repairing roads, NHAI regional officers of have been granted permission to spend up to ₹10 crore and ₹14.93 crore had already been spent since 2019.Responding to Bharmour legislator Jiya Lal, agriculture minister Virendra Kanwar said farmers can take loans up to ₹7.50 lakh for agricultural fund. “The government will give a subsidy of 5% on the interest for three years and a 3% subsidy for two years”.“The Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme is in force since in 2016. As per the scheme, 2% premium is charged on Kharif crop and 1.5% premium is charged on Rabi crops,” Kanwar said, adding that crops like peas, cabbage, capsicum that are damaged due to bad weather are also covered under the insurance scheme and farmers only have to pay 5% premium for it.Responding to a question asked by BJP MLA Vishal Nehria, the CM said the matter of problems being faced by residents of Yol Cantonment area in Kangra had been raised with the ministry of defence. Education minister Govind Thakur, in response to Vinod Kumar, said that state government will start an Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya in every Vidhan Sabha Constituency and ₹15 crore will be spent on it. The amount will be sanctioned by Central government and this matter has been raised in the ministry of finance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/question-hour-land-acquisition-for-pathankot-mandi-four-lane-initiated-says-jai-ram/story-kKOqssAljsSKVJts3Wki3O.html
14-09-2020||City||Kasturba Hospital nurses hold protest over pending salaries||New Delhi:Nurses of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Kasturba Hospital on Monday held a two-hour-long protest against the non-payment of pending salaries for three months. B L Sharma, president, Kasturba Hospital Nurses Union, said they were last given the salary for May. He said the protest will go on till they get assurance from the administration. Salaries of June, July and August are pending. “For how long shall we work without money? It is becoming a routine affair now. The authorities (civic body and the Delhi government) keep blaming each other for the mess but it will not solve the problem. We want a permanent solution and want regular payment of our salaries,” he said.Nearly 1,000 senior doctors, 500 resident doctors and 1,500 nursing staff are employed across medical facilities managed by the north corporation. In June, resident doctors of Kasturba Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital, both managed by the north civic body, had threatened to tender mass resignations over the non-payment of salaries for 3-4 months. The north corporation then them paid salaries for two months to calm them.Besides health care staff, many employees of other departments of the north corporation such as school teachers, civil contractors, engineers and administrative staff have not been paid for the last 2-3 months. They had been staging protests outside the Civic Centre for over a week.Jai Prakash, mayor of the North Corporation, said: “There is fund crunch in the corporation but we are releasing salaries to various departments one by one. We are making arrangements to pay salaries of the agitating employees as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kasturba-hospital-nurses-hold-protest-over-pending-salaries/story-ibhpZY3OaaXgV9oGcO2CoL.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro now puts floor stickers to ensure social distancing||To further enhance social distancing norms in Delhi Metro trains, the DMRC has put floor markers inside coaches, besides the existing stickers on alternate seats, officials said on Monday.Nearly 2.5 lakh commuters used the services of the Delhi Metro across various corridors till late evening on Monday, the first working day since the resumption of full services post 169-day hiatus due to Covid-19.The DMRC has been taking to social media to raise awareness among the commuters about observing social distancing to curb the spread of Covid-19.“Apart from stickers on alternate seats, DMRC is now further strengthening the social distancing signages inside its trains. 800 coaches are already equipped with the floor markers & within a week, floor markers will be placed in the remaining 1400 metro coaches. MetroBackOnTrack,” it tweeted on Monday.The seat stickers indicate commuters to sit on alternate seats.A train coach can accommodate about 50 passengers on seats and a total of nearly 300 riders in the entire compartment, including standing commuters. With social distancing norms, this number has been reduced drastically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-now-puts-floor-stickers-to-ensure-social-distancing/story-8y2fkUcWkhPso7apQ97zZN.html
14-09-2020||City||Rural roads more deadly: NCRB report||Though the urban areas have more traffic, it is the rural areas in Ludhiana that witnessed more road-mishap related deaths in 2019, as per the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) report released recently.Of the total 189 deaths recorded in Ludhiana’s rural areas in the past one year, 158 were males while 31 were females. In urban areas too, the number of male victims was more (151) than females (25).The residential localities seem to be the deadliest in both rural and urban areas, with the maximum number of fatalities being reported from here. While in rural areas, 27% of the total mishap-related fatalities were seen in residential areas, in urban areas, the figure was much higher at 44%. Areas near school, colleges and other educational institutes in rural parts were the safest, as no accident deaths were reported from such spots in 2019, while in urban areas, 12 deaths were reported from near educational institutions. In rural areas, as many as 23 deaths were reported near industrial areas, nine near religious places and only one near recreational centres/cinema halls.In urban areas, 14 people died while crossing roads on pedestrian crossings, eight died in mishaps near religious places and six near recreational places/cinema and five in mishaps near industrial areas.Dr Kamal Soi, member national road safety council, said that roads in rural areas are in a bad shape. Besides, there is no law enforcement and medical facilities are also in a bad shape, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rural-roads-more-deadly-ncrb-report/story-KNkV0VtuqI5XLANNeDQ1SN.html
14-09-2020||City||Gangster Puneet Bains arrested from Delhi||Wanted in at least five criminal cases, including attempt to murder, dacoity, robbery and possession of illegal weapons, notorious gangster Puneet Bains alias Mani Bains was arrested from Delhi in a joint operation by a team of the Ludhiana Counter Intelligence and Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) on Monday. Police have recovered two .32 bore pistols, a magazine, five live bullets, a .9 mm pistol from his possession.The accused had procured the weapons for executing another crime, said the police. Bains, 25, is resident of Ghora Colony near Cheema Chowk in Ludhiana. The police team had camped in Delhi for four days before finally nabbing him. Ludhiana superintendent of police (counter intelligence) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said Bains was wanted in five criminal cases in Ludhiana and was also facing trial in five cases in Fatehgarh Sahib for conspiring robberies. During interrogation, the accused confessed that he had bought a weapon from a Delhi-based smuggler and two others from a Ludhiana smuggler to carry out an attack on his rivals. Long list of crimesBains had allegedly carried out a dacoity at a farm house in Ludhiana on August 14 when a gambling party was going on. The accused had opened fire in the air, threatened the gamblers and robbed them of ₹14.5 lakh cash and gold chains, gold rings and gold pendants at gunpoint. His accomplices: Neeraj Kumar Ashu of Ganesh Nagar, Mandeep Singh Manna of Noormehal and Deepak Deepu of Ghora Colony, Vivek Manu Jhangi of Model Gram and Sahil Kanda of New Chandar Nagar have already been arrested. On June 9, the Division Number 3 police registered an attempt to murder case against Bains and his accomplices for opening fire outside the house of Rishav Banipal, who is lodged in jail in a case of attempt to murder, in Dharampura area. On May 30, the Tibba police had booked Bains along with a local gangster Jatinder Singh Jindi and his accomplices for opening fire at realtor Kuldeep Singh and his son Jaspreet Singh of Mayapuri, Tibba area. Before opening fire, the accused had also thrashed Jaspreet over a monetary dispute. On October 8, 2019 Bains and his accomplices had opened fire at a DJ operator at Shankar Dhaba in Transport Nagar following an argument.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-puneet-bains-arrested-from-delhi/story-88JwdWMxLYrVBPDRA4ZMhJ.html
14-09-2020||City||Shiv Sena workers booked for staging protest||Several leaders of Shiv Sena (Punjab) were booked for lockdown violations after they staged a protest near the Ludhiana railways station on Sunday. The party’s supporters were protesting against Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, the self-styled legal advisor of the USA-based Sikhs for Justice, accusing him of instigating the youths and farmers of Punjab. Pannu had reportedly asked people to stop trains on Sunday, however, the call received no response. But the Shiv Sena supporters gathered near the Clock Tower around afternoon and started marching towards Gate Number 2 of the railway station, holding Tricolours in their hand. Assistant sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said the Sena supporters flouted social distancing norms and staged a protest despite a ban on gathering of five or more people. Those who have been booked include Shiv Sena Punjab chairman Rajiv Tandon, Sandeep Thapar, Amit Arora, Arvind Walia, Prince Sharma, Samar Disuza, Ajay Mishra, Ritesh Raja, Hemant Thakur, Ashwani Chopra, Rohit Joshi, Bhanu Partap Singh and seven others, who are yet to be identified. The case has been registered under Section 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-workers-booked-for-staging-protest/story-qzFUksJ8H9X46o4EreiUeM.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sampled for Covid-19 in one day, man gets positive and negative reports from two labs||A 45-year-old man who got himself tested at two private Covid-19 labs in Chandigarh on the same day was confirmed positive by one and negative by the other.Amit Singla, a businessman living in Sector 27B said he decided to get himself tested after returning from Leh on Saturday.“After self-quarantining at home, I got the reports and discovered that the Atulaya Testing Lab report showed that I had Covid-19 while the other one from SRL Labs showed otherwise. This was confusing,” Singla said.Dr Mini P Singh, professor at the department of virology at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said contradictory results were possible and depended on the condition of sampling as well as storage of samples.“Expertise at different levels is required to properly conduct a test. So, test results can be altered if a sample has not been taken correctly or is not properly stored. Labs should ideally keep a check on the number of positives being reported among the samples daily and there should not be a huge jump or dip. If technically the labs cannot rule out the infection or prove its presence, a repeat sample should be taken,” she added.However, the patient had to be isolated till infection was ruled out, Dr Singh said.Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla said the administration should keep a check on such issues and testing in government sectors should be improved.“This is the second time in a week that such a problem has come to fore. It is (due to) the carelessness of the administration,” Babla said.Meanwhile, Autyuala Healthcare said they had proper checks and balances in place and testing was being done as per protocol.“These are baseless allegations that the labs are minting money by giving false results. To clear the air, I have asked the health department to conduct an audit on the functioning of our lab,” said Pankaj Kansal, director, Atulaya Healthcare.The response of SRL Diagnostics was awaited at the time of filing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sampled-for-covid-19-in-one-day-man-gets-positive-and-negative-reports-from-two-labs/story-CXnJpWV4UxkXeGM9NYJA0H.html
14-09-2020||City||Panic grips Durgapuri area after authorities seal 17 streets||Panic gripped the Durgapuri area on Monday morning as the police sealed 17 streets in the locality. The move was taken after 15 cases were detected in the locality, said civil surgeon Ragesh Bagga.Sources in the health department said the area was declared a containment zone last Wednesday; however, as cases kept piling on, authorities decided to seal the streets to further check the spread of the virus. The move did not go down well with the residents. Many complained that they faced difficulties in getting to work and were even unable to go out to purchase essentials such as milk and vegetables. “The health department should have informed us in advance so that we could stock up on groceries and other ration items. The streets were sealed suddenly in the morning, leaving everyone in shock. I am perfectly fine but still I could not go for work,” complained Munish Dogra, a resident of Durgapuri. Another resident said, “The prolonged lockdown has already caused financial troubles for everyone and now the police has sealed our area. I had to take the long route to reach my workplace.”Naina Sharma, a homemaker, said there was no milk or vegetables in her house all through the day. “I could go and get vegetables only in the evening when we were given some relaxations,” she said. Area councilor Lovleen Kaur Toor said the street was sealed due to the rising number of cases. “However, in the evening the restrictions were removed and cops were also deployed in the area,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panic-grips-durgapuri-area-after-authorities-seal-17-streets/story-gMGh4jdhIeUKyp7BgT75XI.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to auction off 70 old cars||The fund-starved municipal corporation (MC) has decided to auction off around 70 old vehicles (mostly ambassadors and gypsy cars) to reduce expenditure incurred on their fuel and repairs. Most of these vehicles are over 15-years-old and were allotted to superintendent and sub-divisional level officers of the MC. Sources in the civic body said that with this move, the MC is also trying to put a stop to the unnecessary use of government vehicles by officials. Now, a specified number of vehicles will be provided at the zone offices which will be allotted to field staff only after getting permission from the zonal commissioner. An official, requesting anonymity, said, “Officials will now have to use their own vehicles. This will stop wastage of fuel, as many times, the officials use government vehicles for personal reasons. Mayor Balkar Sandhu is keeping an eye on fuel consumption and has also caught a few cases of fuel theft by MC officials.” The decision on purchase of new vehicles will be taken by higher authorities. MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon said, “The outdated vehicles have been kept at the MC’s workshop in Hambran road. The decision to auction them off has been taken due to their low mileage and high maintenance costs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-to-auction-off-70-old-cars/story-gu5UL2XYnlefzQIzmsFwRM.html
14-09-2020||City||Miscreants open fire outside hosiery trader’s house in Ludhiana||Two miscreants opened fire outside the house of a hosiery trader in Deep Nagar on late Sunday night. Though no one was hurt, the hosiery owner has accused the husband of the Congress councillor for conspiring the attack, as he had filed a writ petition in Punjab and Haryana high court against construction of a hotel in the residential area. Police recovered two bullet shells from the spot and lodged a case against two accused, identified as Mohit Sahni of New Deep Nagar and Honey Sahota of Prem Nagar. The complainant Yogesh Maini, 40, said that on Saturday night at around 10pm, he was standing outside his house with some neighbours. The accused turned up in a car and started abusing him and creating ruckus. After the accused left the place, he went to Kailash Nagar police post for lodging an FIR. When he reached the police post, he received a call from his wife who told him that the accused had opened fire outside their home. He rushed home immediately, but the accused had already fled by then. Maini alleged that the accused are aides of Sushil Raju Thapar, husband of Congress councillor Indu Thapar. Gaurav Kalia, a BJP worker and Maini’s neighbour, alleged that the accused had made derogatory remarks against them on social networking sites at the behest of Thapar. During lockdown, the accused also had thrown liquor bottles outside his house. Kalia also alleged that according to eyewitnesses, the accused had pointed the gun at Yogesh’s wife, however, the locals intervened. When contacted, Sushil Raju Thapar, refuted the allegations. He said he had no rivalry against anyone and also stated that he had all valid documents and permission for constructing the hotel. Division Number 8 station house officer inspector Jarnail Singh said a case has been registered under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-open-fire-outside-hosiery-trader-s-house-in-ludhiana/story-OZVZJWqi4p9AtP5rcO5TFM.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||September 15 is last date to avail EPF benefits under PMGKY||Officials from the Employee Provident Fund Office (EPFO) said that Tuesday, September 15, is the last date to avail EPF benefits under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY).Various measures have been announced by the Centre from time to time to provide relief to employers and employees of establishments covered under the EPF and MP Act, 1952, who are distressed by the Covid spread and other disruptions due to the pandemic.Under the PMGKY, the government of India on March 26, announced a package to prevent disruption in the employment of low wage earning employees and support establishments employing up to 100 employees.As per the scheme, the entire employees EPF contribution (12% of wages) and employers’ EPF &EPS contribution (12% of wages) totalling 24% of the monthly wages for the next three months were to be directly paid by the central government in the EPF accounts(UAN) of the employees, who are already members of EPF Scheme,1952 and drawing wages less than Rs 15,000 per month. The beneficiaries need to be employed in establishments, already covered under the EPF & MP Act,1952,employing up to one 100 employees, with 90% or more of such employees earning less than Rs.15,000 monthly wages. The scheme was initially valid for the wage months March, April and May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/september-15-is-last-date-to-avail-epf-benefits-under-pmgky/story-O3UxrnhqHOdkBdI6S4fb7L.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Oxygen demand shoots up as Covid cases spike in tricity||With Covid-19 cases crossing the 19,000 mark in the tricity, demand for oxygen has shot up because of patients requiring breathing support due to lung complications associated with the disease .Medical oxygen suppliers report major increase in demand since private hospitals started admitting Covid-19 patients.There are around 2,728 active cases in Chandigarh with 9.6% in hospitals, most of them requiring oxygen. “Around 5% Covid-19 patients require oxygen in Mohali and government hospitals have ample supplies. But in private hospitals the demand has gone up as patients from others parts of the region are being admitted,” said Dr Manjit Singh, Mohali civil Surgeon.There was no oxygen shortage though, as “we had accessed the growing demand on time and made arrangements accordingly,” said Dr Ravi Gupta, medical superintendent, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh.However, demand for oxygen was increasing in a number of hospitals, including GMCH in Sector 48, where supply was coming in through cylinders. Similarly, at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), demand had increased in the last two weeks as more Covid-19 patients were being admitted – not just in the dedicated Covid block but also in emergency. “Though a few services have been curtailed to provide Covid-19 services, there has been a marginal increase in oxygen consumption in the hospital, which was expected to grow manifold in future considering the present scenario. At present the supply chain is as per requirement,” said a senior PGIMER doctor. Surinder Singh Virdi, managing director of Anaesthetic Gases Private Limited, Dera Bassi, a major supplier of oxygen in the tricity, says: “Demand is up since private hospitals started admitting patients. Before Covid, we used to supply around 15,000 bulk oxygen cylinders per month in the region and now it’s 25,000 cylinders.Rupinder Singh Sachdeva, managing director, Hitech Industries Limited, a key producer of medical oxygen in the region, said they were now only supplying to major hospitals. “Our firm’s daily procurement of liquid oxygen from other states have fallen from around 30% as suppliers are meeting the demand of other states,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/oxygen-demand-shoots-up-as-covid-cases-spike-in-tricity/story-4wCV6rYJfJJn41Z2EOiHLM.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Inferior quality of roads in Ludhiana: SAD councillors seek action against contractors, MC officials||: Seeking action against municipal corporation officials and contractors for inferior quality of roads in the city, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors handed over a memorandum to mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Monday evening. The group of councillors, led by leader of opposition in general House of MC, Harbhajan Singh Dang, also handed over a list of 11 roads, whose samples failed the quality test conducted by MC in the past. Others who were present at the meeting included Jaspal Singh Giaspura, Manpreet Manna, Sarabjit Singh Laddi, Nirmal Singh, Vijay Danav among others. ”Recently, 11 road samples failed the quality tests conducted in different areas including Ashok Nagar, Himmat Singh Nagar, textile colony, Baba Mukand Singh nagar and Bal Singh Nagar . But, no action has been taken against the officials and contractors who have constructed inferior quality roads. Public money is being wasted and the MC is taking no action against the same. We have demanded that strict departmental action should be taken against the officials concerned including sub divisional officers and executive engineers. MC should stop pending payment of the contractors and blacklist them to set an example for others,” Dang said.He added that they have also asked the mayor to look into alleged manipulations and embezzlement in the Jagraon bridge project. ”Inquiries have already been marked in the cases wherein the road samples had failed quality tests. Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh is also getting more roads inspected. No payment is being made to the erring contractors,” Sandhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inferior-quality-of-roads-in-ludhiana-sad-councillors-seek-action-against-contractors-mc-officials/story-Uwd6EP8pJrXYAezBYNrT6M.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana vet varsity appoints four office-bearers||The board of management, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), in its 48th meeting on Monday, appointed four office bearers of the university. JPS Gill has been appointed director of research, Parkash Singh Brar, director of extension education; Satyavan Rampal, director students’ welfare-cum-estate officer and HS Banga, registrar. JPS Gill, appointed director research for his second term, is a renowned academician and leading researcher for the last 30 years with 11 years of administrative experience. He is also the adjunct professor at University of Saskatchewan in Canada. Gill has managed 38 research projects as principal investigator (PI) and co-PI and developed nine international collaborations and research proposals. He is also a member of the high-powered committee formed by the Punjab CM to develop a road map to boost the dairy sector in the state. Gill is a member of four scientific panels of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. Dr Parkash Singh Brar, currently the dean, college of veterinary science, has been appointed director of extension education. He had earlier served as PAU’s director of livestock farms.He won India’s first ever twin project in collaboration with University of Calgary in veterinary education funded by World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) and has 23 other research projects funded by national and international agencies. As coordinator of Institution Development Plan funded by World Bank and government of India, he put in place plans to inculcate entrepreneurship skills in students and improve competence of teachers. Satyavan Rampal has been appointed director students’ welfare and estate officer for second term. During his first term, he was nicknamed the “Green man of GADVASU” as the established solar panel systems for renewable energy and extensive plantation. He strengthened the engineering unit for construction of various buildings at the GADVASU campus and uplifted sports facilities in various hostels for the overall development of the students. Dr Rampal has several national and international publications to his credit. HeHarmanjit Singh Banga, eminent veterinary pathologist, has been appointed registrar. He was earlier professor-cum-head, veterinary pathology, university librarian and currently, dean, College of Veterinary Science, Rampura Phul (Bathinda). He is the founder-director of Centre of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) as it was during his tenure as head that the department bagged this coveted centre. Banga is the recipient of the Canadian Commonwealth Scholarship for pursuing his PhD at University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-vet-varsity-appoints-four-office-bearers/story-ICpuoYYWeTPSEjduNonlCM.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Congress councillor opposes serving of CLU notices to shopkeepers in Ludhiana||Shopkeepers of the Ghumar Mandi area and Congress councillor-cum-chairman of Punjab State Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC), Gurpreet Gogi, have opposed the municipal corporation’s move to recover change of land use charges (CLU) charges from shops in different parts of the city amid the pandemic. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, zonal commissioner Kulpreet Singh and Gogi had a meeting in Ghumar Mandi area on Monday wherein shopkeepers and Gogi strongly opposed the move. The shopkeepers said that they will be forced to raise an agitation against the MC and state government, if the civic body did not stop serving the notices.Shopkeepers from other nearby markets in National road and video market also participated in the meeting. “The shopkeepers had raised the issue with me, so I asked the mayor to visit the area and listen to their grievances. Notices are being served to decade-old shops, when CLU norms were not even notified. Also, no prior approval has been taken from the general House of MC before serving the notices. Even if the MC has to recover the charges, the matter should be taken up in the general House meeting and a committee should be formed to take decisions like rate of CLU charges. Such activities are putting a blot on the image of the state government, which is not acceptable,” Gogi said. Shopkeepers also raised questions on the timing of the notices as they are already reeling under losses due to the pandemic and many of them are struggling to make ends meet.President of Ghumar mandi market association, Pawan Batra, said,”The shopkeepers are struggling as we are left with 20 to 25 % business amid the pandemic. First of all, the notices are being served to every shop without even looking into the records to know whether the CLU norms apply on them or not. Secondly, how will the shopkeepers pay CLU charges worth lakhs, when they are facing financial crunch. They will be forced to move on roads if the MC does not stop serving notices.”Earlier, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra had also raised objections against notices being served to decade-old shops.”We are already in talks with the government to reduce CLU charges and minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had also taken up the matter at state level in the past. We will again discuss the matter at the state level to bringing some relief to the shopkeepers,” Sandhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-councillor-opposes-serving-of-clu-notices-to-shopkeepers-in-ludhiana/story-WP6DtPrmTOOOfJZNFjLWNK.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Despite relaxations, malls in Ludhiana receive low footfall||Even though the state government has extended the time limit to keep the stores open to 9pm and even abolished the Saturday lockdown, the malls in the city continue to witness low footfall.The residents’ apprehensions and their reduced incomes has negatively impacted businesses, said the store owners.An employee at a garment store in Westend Mall, Sukhwinder Singh, said, “The relaxations did not have much impact on the footfall. Only those customers visit the malls who need something specific, that too mostly on Sundays.”The employees of stores situated in other malls said the negotiations were on with the mall management regarding reduction in rent. Many employees even lost their jobs as stores cut down their fixed expenses.The manager at an eating joint in MBD Neopolis, Rohit, said, “The footfall is less as cinemas are closed and people are avoiding eating out. Even when we are taking all precautions, the response has reduced by around 70%. But our expenses are the same. Our team is negotiating with the mall management regarding the rent.”Marketing manager of Westend Mall, Ramesh Gandhi, said, “We cannot reveal the figures regarding the overall response, but it is increasing with the relaxations being announced by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-relaxations-malls-in-ludhiana-receive-low-footfall/story-00ZvAuM4QAxaPmiKj8xjcM.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Oyo founder booked for fraud, company refutes charges||An FIR has been registered against Ritesh Agarwal, founder and CEO of Oyo Hotels and Homes Private Limited (OHHPL), and Sandeep Lodha, CEO of OHHPL’s brand Weddingz.in, for alleged fraud and conspiracy. An Oyo spokesperson, however, refuted the charges against the company.The case was registered by the Dera Bassi police last week after Chandigarh businessman Vikas Gupta alleged that the OHHPL top management wriggled out of an agreement with him illegally and with criminal intent. The agreement was signed in 2019 with Gupta’s Manimajra-based company, Vikas Mineral Foods Limited (VMFL), which runs the marriage palace Casa Villaz Resorts in Dera Bassi. Gupta, who held a press conference on Monday, said he had submitted all the documents OHHPL had asked for and after its top management, including finance and legal teams, were satisfied with the paperwork the agreement was signed allowing the company to run Casa Villaz Resorts.Also read: Govt bans export of onions with immediate effectThings were running smoothly till the Covid-19 outbreak, after which restrictions were imposed on gatherings for weddings and events. Gupta alleged that OHHPL, fearing losses, hatched a premeditated conspiracy, and against the terms of the agreement, sent him a notice on March 3, 2020, to again submit the NOCs and other documents. Gupta said he was given a 15-day notice to reply whereas the agreement stipulated a 30-day notice period to any party wishing to end the agreement.Gupta alleged the documents OHHPL had wanted resubmitted were the ones he had given earlier. Soon, however, OHHPL terminated the agreement.A notice was then sent by OHHPL, Gupta alleged, and instead of paying him damages for ending the agreement it slapped a penalty of about Rs 5 crore (approximately) on him as “part of a criminal conspiracy to make huge and easy money through pressure tactics.” Refuting the charges, an Oyo spokesperson said late on Monday: “OYO Hotels & Homes and all its businesses including Weddingz.in have always maintained the highest level of integrity, transparency and commitment to its venue partners and operates keeping in mind the mutual interests of its venue partners, customers and employees. OYO refutes such baseless and publicity-oriented claims made against the company’s founder and other executives.” Also read: Won’t be enough Covid-19 vaccines till 2024 - Serum Institute’s Adar PoonawallaAnother allegation Gupta made was that in what appeared to be “criminal intent,” the name of Casa Villaz Resorts was still being used by OHHPL and “innocent people were being cheated of money by booking marriages.” There was proof that weddings had been booked till December 2020, Gupta said, adding that he was being made a scapegoat in the whole modus operandi.A case under Section 420 (cheating) and 120-B ( criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against Ritesh Agarwal and Sandeep Lodha at the Dera Bassi police station. Oyo’s responseIn response, the Oyo statement said: “In the present issue, the dispute between the contracting parties is civil and commercial in nature and there is no criminality involved. Any disputes between the parties ought to be adjudicated by the arbitral tribunal and moreover, both parties have already nominated /proposed arbitrators vide their arbitration notices, under the arbitration clause in the contract signed between both parties. In spite of the same, such frivolous FIRs in matters that are essentially civil disputes are filed against reputed CEOs, young Indian entrepreneurs only with a malafide intent to harass the corporate and its senior management and to damage global reputation of OYO Hotels & Homes and India as a destination for global business.”Calling these allegations “baseless, incorrect and defamatory in nature,” the Oyo statement read: “On a similar matter where an FIR was wrongfully filed against OYO, the Honourable Karnataka High Court while observing that the issue was civil in nature, granted an interim relief in favour of OYO. OYO has reposed its faith in the judicial system and will submit its representations to the higher administrative authorities and judiciary to ensure that justice prevails.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/oyo-founder-ritesh-agarwal-booked-for-fraud-criminal-conspiracy/story-azHBHSNyk4EjTNqCbNgC8I.html
14-09-2020||City||Proposed sports park: Soil testing of identified site in Jainpur begins||Experts of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) have initiated the work to conduct soil testing at Jainpur site to develop a sports park in 32 acres of land.A sports park is to be developed at the Jainpur village at a cost of around ₹52 crore under the Smart City Mission. It has been planned to set up playgrounds for cricket, football, hockey, lawn tennis, etc, at the sports park.Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal visited the site along with civic body officials and experts from GNDEC to kickstart the work on Monday.A huge amount of legacy waste (garbage) is lying at the site for a long time. The MC has decided to use the legacy waste in the foundation of the park after consulting the experts.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “There is no need to shift the legacy waste from the site as most of it has been turned into soil over the years. The experts from GNDEC have started soil testing and the project would be commenced at the earliest. Apart from a cricket ground, infrastructure would also be developed for hockey, lawn tennis, basketball among other games at a cost of around ₹52 crores.”Earlier the consultant company of Smart City Mission had tabled a proposal to shift the legacy waste from the site at the cost of around ₹20 crores. But the proposal was declined by Ashu and Balkar Sandhu.Ashu said, “The project was hanging fire for a long time as no one took the initiative. We have been conducting meetings in the last few months and soil testing is now being conducted. The officials are also preparing a detailed project report, following which tenders would be floated. It is expected that the construction work will begin by December.”Expedite construction of ROB, RUBs: Ashu tells officialsCabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Monday held a meeting with officials of the MC and railway to take stock of the ongoing construction work of rail overbridge (ROB) and two rail under bridges (RUBs) on Pakhowal road here. He was accompanied by mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal.The minister asked the officials to expedite the construction of the bridges, especially the under path (RUB) first to facilitate the traffic. The construction of a ROB and two RUBs on Pakhowal Road has been a long pending demand of the city residents. This joint project is worth around ₹120 crore and would provide a much-needed respite from traffic congestion to the city residents.To ease the traffic movement and avoid congestions due to the construction, the minister also requested railway officials to temporarily open the level crossing near the ROB on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur section during the construction period for smooth execution of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/proposed-sports-park-soil-testing-of-identified-site-in-jainpur-begins/story-Mu6UGheOB6ZQvi7ViH1vtK.html
14-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Senior deputy mayor pulls up officials over defunct water coolers in MC headquarters||Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra conducted an inspection at the municipal corporation (MC) headquarters in Zone A near Mata Rani chowk on Monday and pulled up the officials over defunct water coolers in the office. Malhotra conducted an inspection to check the working of staff in the property tax wing, following which he was apprised about the lack of potable water supply in the office. Malhotra said, “The water cooler and purifier are lying defunct in the MC headquarters which puts a blot on the image of the civic body. The employees informed me that they are forced to bring water from their homes as the water cooler is lying defunct for a long time. If the bottles run empty, they are left with no water. There is no facility to provide potable water to visitors also.”“I have told the officials to move out of their offices frequently so that they could know the problems being faced by staff and visitors. The officials have been asked to get the cooler and purifier repaired at the earliest,” said Malhotra. He said that directions have also been issued to the house tax branch that no agents should be allowed to enter the offices and residents should not face any trouble especially in getting a TS1 (NOC) certificate. The superintendents have also been told to display the contact numbers and respective block number of clerks outside the offices. Despite repeated attempts, zonal commissioner, Tejinderpal Singh could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-senior-deputy-mayor-pulls-up-officials-over-defunct-water-coolers-in-mc-headquarters/story-yN4KD7SsotLkCQReiNp0DJ.html
14-09-2020||City||Parents protest against private school, demand fee waiver||High drama was witnessed at Silver Spot Convent School, Hargobind Marg as many parents gathered in front of the school opposing the decision to demand fee from the students.More than 70 parents gathered at the school gate and raised slogans against the school management for demanding fees and other charges. Parents alleged that the authorities were harassing students, who did not deposit the fee, by removing their names from WhatsApp groups and not allowing them to take online evaluation tests.Parents protested outside the school for over two hours and later submitted a complaint (a copy of which HT has seen) to the assistant commissioner of police (Central) Waryam Singh. In the complaint, parents have requested the authorities to resolve the matter as they are unable to deposit the fee due to financial losses incurred due to the lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of Covid-19. They said they were already under stress as they had not received salaries during the lockdown period while some of the parents had even lost their jobs or suffered losses in their business. However, the ACP (central) has asked the parents to submit the complaint to the commissioner of police. Now, the parents will again gather at the CP office on Tuesday to submit a written complaint against the school. ACP Waryam Singh said, “A protest was held by the parents outside the school and the police reached the spot to pacify them. The team asked the parents to stop the protest in view of the pandemic. I have asked the parents to submit the complaint with the CP on Tuesday.”Parents also alleged that the school was affiliated with the Punjab School Education Board and for the last few years, the school authorities claimed that they were affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education. The board outside the school premises still displays that it is affiliated with PSEB. Parents must be told the truth. A protesting parent, Jatinder Chanana said, “On September 7, we had raised an agitation outside the school and contacted the principal but to no avail. To resolve the matter, cops from the Shingar police post reached the spot and contacted the school authorities and asked the parents to visit the school today. When we have visited the school, we found the gates were locked and the principal was not responding to our calls. My daughter is studying in Class 6 and she was removed from the WhatsApp group last week. When we contacted the class teacher to know the reason, it revoked no response.”Another parent, Prince Kalra, said, “Due to financial constraints, parents are unable to pay the school fee and if the school authorities can resolve this issue then students will be able to continue their education. We have requested the school authorities twice to initiate dialogue with parents so that we can reach to a conclusion.” Despite repeated attempts, school principal, Harmohanjit Kaur could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-protest-against-private-school-demand-fee-waiver/story-qjnxwEOrrmTG4EizhIbLGL.html
14-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Patwari held on graft charge||The Vigilance Bureau on Monday arrested a patwari, posted in Ayali Village, on the charge of accepting Rs 4,000 bribe in lieu of helping a villager correct her name in the revenue records.The patwari was identified as Anil Narula, posted in Patvarkhana of Ayali Village.The case has been registered following the complaint of Seema of Government Colony near Fountain Chowk. The woman said that her mother, Bimla Devi, owns a 125 square yard house in Dashmesh Nagar of Ayali Khurd. In 2008, they had availed a loan of ₹4 lakh from UCO Bank in Ayali against the property.She said though they have repaid the loan amount and got a NOC from the bank, she approached the patwari for adding the NOC in the revenue record. While updating the record, the patwari wrote her mother’s name in the documents.On September 4, she had approached Narula again for making corrections in the name. The patwari allegedly demanded a bribe of ₹5,000 for correction of the name and a deal was settled in ₹4,000.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP, vigilance bureau) Rupinder Singh said that the woman filed a complaint. The Vigilance Bureau laid a trap and arrested the accused while he was accepting the bribe. A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-patwari-held-on-graft-charge/story-Gvalt0hM79EhhSX8unhM2K.html
14-09-2020||City||Covid cases cross 14,000-mark, death toll hits 588 in Ludhiana||The number of confirmed cases of coronavirus in Ludhiana crossed the 14,000-mark, with 324 testing positive for the virus on Monday. Currently, the tally stands at 14,184, which includes 1,855 active cases, 11,738 cured and 588 deaths. The speed at which the infection is spreading could be gauged from the fact that as many as 1,000 Covid-19 cases were reported in merely four days. On Friday, the district recorded 256 cases, while 435 persons tested positive on Saturday and 415 on Sunday. The positive cases reported on Monday include 99 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness, 80 were referred by the out-patient departments and 34 are contacts of positive patients. Among them, 11 were health workers. Besides, 11 deaths were reported on Monday, taking the death toll to 588, of which 177 were reported this month. Those who succumbed to the disease on Monday include a 67-year-old man from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, a 70-year-old woman from Dhandra road, a 45-year-old man from Iraq village, a 70-year-old woman from Kichlu Nagar, a 46-year-old woman from BRS Nagar, a 38-year-old man from Dhandari Kalan, a 75-year-old woman from Urban Estate, Dugri, a 54-year-old man from Basti Jodhewal, a 70-year-old man from Durgapuri, a 42-year-old man from Kakowal Road, Pink City, a 78-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-cases-cross-14-000-mark-death-toll-hits-588-in-ludhiana/story-wo0jWwT1XSaezXXanbj5aN.html
14-09-2020||City||20-day-old boy among 19 Covid deaths across Chandigarh tricity||A 20-day-old boy from Chandigarh’s Colony No. 4, a slum settlement near the Industrial Area, is among 19 people whose deaths were confirmed across the tricity on Monday, in the highest Covid-19 toll recorded in a day so far.While Mohali district reported eight deaths, Panchkula followed with six, its highest number of fatalities in a day, and Chandigarh recorded five casualties. The tricity’s toll has piled up to 284 since the first infection surfaced in Chandigarh on March 18.The infant who died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, on Sunday had multiple organ failure and sepsis and later tested positive for Covid-19, stated a Chandigarh health department release.Among the other four who died in the Union Territory, two are men aged above 70. They were residents of Sector 15 and 40 and were undergoing treatment at private hospitals in Mohali. A man, aged 57, from Sector 39, and a woman, aged 69, from Mauli Jagran, both of whom had diabetes, also succumbed, taking the UT’s toll to 95.Those who lost their life in Mohali include five senior citizens, all with comorbid conditions, mostly hypertension and diabetes. They have been identified as two women, aged 75 and 84, from Kharar and Mohali, respectively, and three men, aged 62, 68 and 81, from Kharar, Dera Bassi and Sunny Enclave in Kharar, respectively. A 31-year-old man from Dharamgarh and two women, aged 30 and 52, from Nayagaon and Kharar, respectively, also succumbed. They, too, had pre-existing medical conditions, said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, adding that all eight were hospitalised for more than two weeks and were on critical care. The district has recorded 142 deaths so far.In Panchkula, two men, aged 75, from Sector 10 and Kalka besides a 72-year-old man from Saketri were among the casualties. Two women, aged 60, from Sector 11 and Majra Mehtab and a 34-year-old man from Pinjore also died, taking the district’s toll to 47. 623 people test +veMeanwhile, 623 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across the tricity, a day after a record 865 infections had surfaced.As many as 254 fresh cases surfaced in Chandigarh, taking its tally past 8,000. So far, 8,245 people have tested positive in the UT, and 2,847 (35%) cases are still active.In just the past two weeks, since the beginning of September, Chandigarh has recorded above 3,800 cases, more than the infections reported throughout August. Also, 41% of the total deaths have occurred just this month, with on an average three being reported daily, up from one in August.Mohali district recorded 274 fresh cases, with 99 surfacing just in the city. Dhakoli followed with 50, Gharuan with 46, Kharar with 38 and Dera Bassi with 29.The total has reached 6,937, 2,289 (33%) of which are active. With 204 more patients being discharged, the number of those cured stands at 4,506. In Panchkula, 95 fresh cases surfaced, including of three CRPF men. As many as 4,205 people have tested positive so far, and 1,219 (29%) cases remain active. “It’s high time people exercise self-restraint and not venture out unnecessarily. If is in inevitable, proper hand hygiene should be followed and masks should be used properly,” said Dr Yogesh Chawla, former director, PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-day-old-boy-among-19-covid-deaths-across-chandigarh-tricity/story-qjdc0CI4FZ7WCeHXG2VWgK.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon withdrawal after Sept 24, but dry weather likely ahead in Chandigarh: IMD||Even as Chandigarh has recorded a surplus monsoon this year, September is 91% deficient with only 8.1mm rain so far, and the situation is unlikely to improve much, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Monsoon this month has remained weak in the region as compared to the previous months, and is active mostly over peninsular India now,” said Chandigarh IMD director Surender Paul.Paul said light rain can be expected in the region on September 17 and 18, but it will be present in isolated areas. “Over the next 10 days, dry conditions are likely to persist,” he said. According to the weather bulletin, mercury will hover between 26°C and 35°C in the coming three days.Monsoon season is considered from June to September. As much as 919.6mm rain has been recorded so far, against a normal of 790mm till September 14, making it 16% surplus. This was due to heavy spells in July and August and above normal rain in June as well. Last year, 120.9mm rain was recorded in September, while in 2018, the figure stood at 270mm.Even though no rain is being recorded in the region, monsoon withdrawal is unlikely to happen before September 24, said Paul. “Even though not bringing much rain, a system of easterlies is still active in the region. Monsoon withdrawal cannot be declared while they are active,” he said.IMD had recently adjusted the normal monsoon withdrawal date for the city from September 21 to September 23, but this year it’s likely to be later than normal. Even last year, withdrawal got delayed till October 9.During the withdrawal period, too, rain can also be expected in the region, said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh, attributing it to possible interaction between western disturbances and easterlies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-withdrawal-after-sept-24-but-dry-weather-likely-ahead-in-chandigarh-imd/story-uHshTs86hQqdvm8E94tFCM.html
14-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 2,579 fresh positive cases, 25 deaths on Monday||Pune district reported 2,579 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 25 deaths on Monday, as per the state health department.This takes the progressive positive count of Covid-19 cases to 2,35,419 of which 1,52,297 have recovered, 4,838 were declared dead and 78,284 are active cases. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 1,202 fresh positive cases taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,30,094. At least 15 deaths in the last 24 hours till Monday evening took the death toll to 2,981. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 671 fresh positive cases taking the total Covid-19 cases to 62,528 and three deaths in the last 24 hours took the death toll to 913 while Pune rural reported 706 fresh positive cases taking the total Covid-19 cases to 42,797 and seven deaths took the death toll to 944.As per the state health department 15,789 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and till September 14, 7,55,850 Covid-19 patients have been discharged. Recovery rate in the state is 70.16 per cent. A total of 17,066 new cases and 257 deaths were reported in the state on Monday. Case fatality rate in the state currently stands at 2.77%. Of 53,21,116 laboratory samples, 10,77,374 have tested positive (20.2%) for Covid-19 till September 14. Currently, 17,12,160 people are in home quarantine and 37,198 people are in institutional quarantine across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-2-579-fresh-positive-cases-25-deaths-on-monday/story-sUFyfgHEZuYPFZerqeLFGL.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Languages have no religion, says lyricist Irshad Kamil||Poet and lyricist Irshad Kamil on Monday said that bringing together Hindi, Punjabi, and Urdu on Hindi Diwas, was a big achievement.Kamil, who is a Panjab University (PU) alumnus, was speaking on the concluding day of the month-long Hindi Diwas celebrations organised by PU’s department of Hindi.Kamil was the chief guest on the occasion. He spoke about the common legacy of languages and stressed upon the fact that just as countries and continents sprang from the same land, languages stemmed from a common seed.“It is unfortunate that languages have begun to be associated with religion. It is important that we all understand and respect the common legacy of all languages,” he said.Gurmeet Singh, chairperson, department of Hindi, said, “Today’s event is a tribute to the common legacy of Hindi, Punjabi, and Urdu. Punjab has borne the pain of partition and Hindi, Urdu, and Punjabi poets have written about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/languages-have-no-religion-says-lyricist-irshad-kamil/story-AcGxkRKgEyVctdheTA8MCO.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Second round of counselling for Class 11 from Friday||The UT education department will be holding the second round of counselling for students of Class 11 from September 18. Speaking about this, DEO Alka Mehta said, “The counselling is for students who want to request a change in stream or school. Candidates, who had applied for admission in the first counselling but were not allotted a seat or didn't take admission for any reason, can also apply.” The students will have to submit their revised preference on the education department website: www.chdeducation.gov.in/. Those who had not participated in the first round can also register for the second round by paying Rs 130 online fees. Officials said that currently, a list of vacant seats is being compiled that will be uploaded on the website by September 18. The counselling will go on till 5pm on September 21 and the list will be displayed on September 25. After verification, students will have to deposit their fees and documents between 11am on September 29 and 5pm on September 30. A total of 14,723 students had applied for 12,815 seats in 40 government schools of the city, of which 6,420 are for humanities stream, 3,080 for science (medical and non-medical), 1,755 for vocational courses, and 1,560 for commerce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-second-round-of-counselling-for-class-11-from-friday/story-K7N2EBqHYufJDDLVnEEQqL.html
14-09-2020||Noida||Bleak September for GB Nagar: One Covid case reported every 8.45 minutes||The month of September so far has broken all records of Covid-19 spread in the district -- the 14 days of month as reported many as 2,384 cases so far, which averages to 170 cases a day or one every 8.45 minutes. According to the district health department figures, the case frequency in March, in contrast, was just one case every 15 hours. In April, a case was reported every seven hours and in May, every 2.5 hours. The frequency picked up in June when one Covid-19 case was reported every 23 minutes and in July, every 17 minutes. The speed of spread in August remained more or less the same as that of July with one case reported every 16 minutes. However, the speed of spread doubled in September with the district recording one Covid-19 case every 8.45 minutes. District magistrate Suhas LY said with all economic activities restarting after the nationwide lockdown, the main aim of the administration now is to reduce the case fatality rate (CFR) and keep it to a minimum, while simultaneously increasing the scale of testing. “We have adapted ‘track, test and treat’ methodology for checking the spread of Covid-19. As a result, GB Nagar’s CFR has gone down to 0.46%, which is much better than national figure of 1.67% and the state’s 1.41%,” he said. The DM also said Gautam Budh Nagar’s testing rate is the “best among all districts of north India”. “Our testing rate per million per day is over 1,750, which is nearly 150 more than other best districts in north India. We have also issued advisories for factories and other industrial establishments to strictly follow the safety protocols. Six teams, with the help of district industries department, have been constituted to inspect whether safety protocols are being followed in workplaces and factories,” he said. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said to check the spread of Covid-19 in the district, daily testing has been increased and rapid antigen kit testing camps are being organised regularly at different places in the district. “Testing camps will be organised in sectors 61, 93B and 52 on Tuesday, and in sectors 62, 71 and 77 on Wednesday,” he said. The CMO further said besides ramping up testing, the district has stepped up monitoring of patients in home isolation. The health department’s surveillance teams have started implementing stringent containment rules. “Early hospitalisation of patients needing medical support and efficient infection control at health care facilities are our top priorities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bleak-september-for-gb-nagar-one-covid-case-reported-every-8-45-minutes/story-6fbq07ohKhNrZWuX712hfL.html
14-09-2020||City||Widow of war veteran murdered by adopted son in Samrala||Ludhiana A 70-year-old widow of a war veteran was murdered allegedly by her adopted son at Haidon village of Samrala on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Accused Jagdeep Singh, 30, allegedly slit the veins of Manjit Kaur near her ankles and she died of excessive bleeding. The accused, who reportedly is addicted to drugs, has been arrested. Naik Gulzar Singh, who had fought the 1962 India-China war, and Manjit had adopted Jagdeep as they had no issue. Some locals found Manjit’s body on the cot on Monday morning and informed the police. The police reached at the spot and initiated investigation. Samrala SHO inspector Kuljinder Singh said Jagdeep was the son of brother-in-law of Manjit. He said the accused would thrash Manjit often for money to buy drugs. Jagdeep was married, but his wife left him over his addiction to drugs. The accused has been booked for murder, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/widow-of-war-veteran-murdered-by-adopted-son-in-samrala/story-4y7Hfs97y0e8lyl6Zbiz4K.html
14-09-2020||City||7kg heroin seized in Rajouri, one arrested||In a major success, the Jammu and Kashmir Police foiled a smuggling bid with the arrest of a drug peddler and recovery of 7kg heroin from Rajouri on Monday.Rajouri senior superintendent of police (SSP) Chandan Kohli said that a team of police headed by Rajouri SHO Sameer Jillani were at a checkpost when a Tata Mobile was stopped for routine checking. “During checking, police recovered the contraband which was hidden in a cavity in the vehicle. The driver identified as Tariq Ahmed Ganai, of Bachro Kulgam, was arrested on the spot and the vehicle was impounded,” the SSP added. “Questioning of the accused is on and we are working on unearthing all his links and the source of the contraband,” he said. All possible angles, including cross-border smuggling, are being probed and more arrests are likely to b made. A case has been registered under Sections 8(A), 21/60 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Rajouri police station.This was the second drug recovery from Rajouri in five days. Earlier, a youth from Ninganar Thandikassi area was nabbed with 670gm heroin from Panjal Gala Namblan village in Rajouri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7kg-heroin-seized-in-rajouri-one-arrested/story-iRknWmetXFcvxDRvlaPkQP.html
14-09-2020||City||Bhartiya Kisan Union begins online registration of farmers joining protest in Haryana||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) has started online registration of farmers who want to join the protest against the Centre’s three agriculture ordinances beginning from September 15 at the district headquarters in Haryana.To ensure a huge gathering, BKU state president Gurnam Singh Chaduni, has urged farmers to fill the online forms to join the protest. The online form has the name, village, district, contact number and the state of the farmer.As per the farmer leaders, there is a possibility that the state government may use police force and this form will help them contact the farmers and their family if required. The mobile numbers of farmer leaders have also been provided for assistance. Chaduni said the farmers have unanimously decided to begin the protests at district headquarters from September 15 to September 19. On September 20 all roads of the state will be blocked for three hours, he added. He said the protests will be peaceful and a foot march will be launched from September 27 to ensure that all farmers in Haryana can join the protest.BKU state secretary Harpal Singh Sudhal said, “Thousands of farmers have already expressed their interest to join the protests and we are expecting a huge gathering at the district headquarters across the state.” He said it has been decided that the protests will be held from 10:00am to 4:00pm.There are reports that the BKU leaders are contacting leaders of other farmer organisations in the state seeking their support during the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhartiya-kisan-union-begins-online-registration-of-farmers-joining-protest-in-haryana/story-GJb9iD32AfK11CefJVk0jI.html
14-09-2020||City||Farmers seek compensation for damaged crops during mahapanchayat in Hisar’s Balsamand village||More than 2,000 farmers from 20 villages in Hisar held a mahapanchayat at Balsamand village on Monday seeking special ‘girdawari’ for damaged crops including cotton, bajra and moong.Kurdaram Nambardar, a farmer leader, said they have been demanding compensation for almost all Kharif crops, which have been damaged due to scanty rainfall, whitefly attacks and other diseases, since the last 10 days.“We had launched a dharna after revenue officials showed only 10% damage to the cotton crop by whitefly in 20 villages, which was a false report. We want a written assurance from Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni that she will initiate a special ‘girdawari’. If not, then we will intensify our stir,” he said.Meham MLA extends support Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, reached the dharna site and extended support to the agitating farmers. Kundu said the government is reluctant to solve the issues of farmers and asked them to snatch their rights from the ‘blind and deaf’ government.“ I condemn the use of force by police on farmers at the Pipli rally on the state government’s direction. The BJP-JJP government is anti-farmers and have brought three ordinances from back door. This government wants to give your lands to private players and destroy farming,” he added.He also urged the farmers to ban the entry of BJP leaders in their respective villages. “The BJP leaders had promised to implement the Swaminathan commission report six years ago but they failed to do so. After the Pipli attack, it is now time to restrict the entry of BJP leaders in the villages,” Kundu said.Farmers in several parts of Bhiwani district have also been holding protests seeking special girdawari for damaged crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-seek-compensation-for-damaged-crops-during-mahapanchayat-in-hisar-s-balsamand-village/story-8GU1S4rainobXrAXMOMH2K.html
14-09-2020||City||Mask of confusion: Fine the driver, but not the passengers, says dy speaker of legislative council Neelam Gorhe||PUNE: Deputy speaker of the Maharashtra legislative council Neelam Gorhe laid out for media persons what she believed was the action needed to ensure Punekars in cars kept to the anti-Covid mask rule. In the city on Monday, after her election to the legislative council post, Gorhe said: “Citizens must use masks, but, at the same time, police also need to take action against car drivers not wearing masks. There is no need to act against car passengers not using masks if their windows are closed.” “It is true that Pune’s Covid situation is becoming critical. One of the reasons is the transfer of the municipal commissioner. There are some errors at the administrative level. Despite awareness, citizens avoid the use of masks, which is wrong,” she said. ‘Not in the loop, no invitations: this is wrong’ Deputy speaker of the Maharashtra legislative council Neelam Gorhe also raised objections about the functioning of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). Gorhe said, “PMRDA and the university of Pune are not keeping MLAs in the loop and are not even sending out any invitations. This is wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mask-of-confusion-fine-the-driver-but-not-the-passengers-says-dy-speaker-of-legislative-council-neelam-gorhe/story-e5vu4cUSFlIUx0NOlB3apO.html
14-09-2020||City||Outgoing assembly has 136 MLAs facing criminal charges||PATNAThe outgoing Bihar assembly has 136 (57%) MLAs facing criminal cases and while 94 (39%) MLAs having serious criminal cases against them, according to a report by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch released on Monday.Assembly elections in the state due in October-November. The report has brought the spotlight on the Supreme Court order passed in February this year, making it mandatory for all political parties to publicise, on their respective party websites, social media handles and in newspapers, the details of candidates with criminal background being fielded to contest elections within a specified time period. It also said that parties must explain the reasons for selecting the candidate, and why someone without a criminal record was been selected instead. The ADR report, which analysed the 2015 election affidavits of 240 sitting MLAs(three seats are vacant), said 11 MLAs had declared cases related to murder, 30 related to attempt to murder and five of the MLAs declared cases of crime against women, including one of rape. This analysis is based on the affidavits submitted by the candidates prior to the 2015 assembly elections and bypolls conducted thereafter.Party-wise, out of 80 MLAs of RJD, 45(56%) had criminal cases, while 34(49%) out of 69 MLAs from JD(U) had criminal cases against them. JD (U)’s alliance partner in NDA, the BJP, was not far behind, with 34(63%) of its 54 MLAs facing criminal cases, followed by 14(56%) out of 25 MLAs from Congress, two out of two (100%) of LJP, three (100%) out of 3 MLAs from CPI(ML)(L) and four (80%) out of five Independent MLAs. The outgoing assembly had 160 (67%) crorepati MLAs, which works out to Rs 3.06 crore per MLA. Of these, 51 (74%) out of 69 MLAs are from JD(U), 51(64%) out of 80 MLAs are from RJD, 33(61%) out of 54 MLAs are from BJP, 17(68%) out of 25 MLAs from INC, 2(100%) out of 2 MLAs from LJP, 1(100%) out of 1 MLA from All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and 5(100%) out of 5 MLAs from Independent have declared assets valued more than Rs 1 crore. “The average assets per MLA for 80 RJD MLAs analysed is Rs.3.02 crore, Rs 2.79 crore for 69 JD(U) MLAs, Rs.2.38 crore for 54 BJP MLAs and Rs 4.36 crore for 25 Congress MLAs,” reveals the study.Similarly, 94 (39%) MLAs have declared their educational qualifications to be between 5th pass and 12th pass while 134 (56%) MLAs have declared having an educational qualification of graduate or above.Nine MLAs have declared in their affidavits that they are just literate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/outgoing-assembly-has-136-mlas-facing-criminal-charges/story-A0qdWKCItRTRGa0DuoZIMM.html
14-09-2020||Patna||‘He was compelled’: Raghuvansh Singh’s letter sparks row after his demise||Even before the mortal remains of former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh could be consigned to flames, an ugly verbal spat has broken out between Grand Alliance and NDA leaders over the letter written by Singh from his hospital bed in New Delhi days before his death. The RJD and Congress cast doubts over letters written by him and alleged that “he was compelled to write such letters.” Singh, who died at AIIMS in New Delhi on Sunday, had on Thursday announced his resignation from the party vide a hand-written letter addressed to jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad and followed it up with a series of communications the next day, drawing the attention of chief minister Nitish Kumar towards a number of issues. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while inaugurating oil and natural gas projects in Bihar, had appealed to CM to execute the development projects he wrote about in the letter. “Let’s together--the state and the Centre--fulfil his wishes,” Modi said. Among other things, Singh had sought extension of MGNREGA benefits to the farm sector. The RJD and Congress leaders termed the whole matter as “fishy.’ Also read: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tests positive for Covid-19“No person admitted to a hospital ICU can write a letter. He was upset over many things which he had expressed freely. But he never betrayed any intention of quitting the party he had nurtured. The state government is doing politics in the matter,” said Bhai Birendra, RJD MLA from Maner. “It seems to be a conspiracy of the NDA,” he added. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Prasad SIngh backed RJD MLA. “I met Raghuvansh babu just a week back. He was a transparent man and had he really been thinking of quitting his party, he would not have tried to hide it. There is some conspiracy at some level”, the Congress leader said. “He was critical of Nitish Kumar during our meeting,” he said. The NDA leaders, on the other hand, expressed their shock over the allegations of the GA leaders. “They are shameless. No RJD leader bothered about him when he was ill. Now, when he raised certain issues related to Vaishali, they are talking rubbish,” said minister and JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar. Also read: The importance of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh“Singh had been tormented by the pettiness of the RJDs new generation of leaders. Who can forget Tej Pratap Yadav’s remarks demeaning his stature? The party will face his curse,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand. Lalu Prasad’s eldest son Tejpratap Yadav Yadav had reacted to Singh’s exit by saying “a lota (pot) of water makes no difference to an ocean”. Former BJP state president and Rajya Sabha MP Gopal Narain SIngh too joined the issue and called it “novice” politics of young RJD leaders.Meanwhile, on Monday afternoon, former union minister’s body was consigned to flames with full state honours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raghuvansh-s-letter-sparks-a-spat-after-his-death/story-oeP6OCk5VViqHNKDi1q5RK.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana IAS officer Rajesh Khullar appointed executive director, World Bank||The appointments committee of the cabinet has approved the appointment of Haryana IAS officer Rajesh Khullar as executive director, World Bank headquarters, in Washington DC. A 1988 batch IAS officer, Khullar is currently posted as principal secretary to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. He will join the World Bank in first week of November. The World Bank after receiving Khullar’s nomination from the Union ministry of finance will hold an election to select him for appointment by October. His tenure will be for three years from the date of assumption of charge or till he retires in August 2023. Khullar will represent a group of countries including India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka as the World Bank executive director. He is the second Haryana IAS officer after Dhanendra Kumar, a former principal secretary to the then chief minister, Bhajan Lal, to have been appointed as World Bank ED. The World Bank Group comprises 25 executive directors who represent a country, or constituency of countries, and they are either appointed or elected to the position. The 1988 batch officer had served in the Union finance ministry as joint secretary for four years from February 2011 till 2015. He was repatriated to his parent cadre subsequently as special officer in the chief minister’s office, served as additional principal secretary to CM for a while before being appointed as principal secretary to CM in November 2015. Khullar did postgraduation in physics from Panjab University in 1984.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-ias-officer-rajesh-khullar-appointed-executive-director-world-bank/story-4WbKloD5HnH1Ruml8oPu9M.html
14-09-2020||City||Capt stresses on local production of medical oxygen to meet demand||Chandigarh With Covid cases and fatalities on the rise in the state, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday directed the health department to step up local manufacturing of medical oxygen to ensure that there is no shortage to tackle any future crisis. He was chairing a meeting to take stock of the Covid situation in the state. The CM was told that the health department has so far issued licence to an industrial supplier to manufacture medical oxygen, while six packaging units have been allowed to package oxygen for medical use. With this, the state now has internal capacity to manufacture 800 medical oxygen cylinders and package 2,000 units per day. With the supplies from other states, there will be enough oxygen to meet any further escalation in demand, the CM was told. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan said Punjab was following the 10-day discharge policy as per ICMR guidelines. She said, to manage the increasing number of cases, it has been decided to add 50 L3 beds at Faridkot Medical College. Dr KK Talwar, head of the group of experts on health for the government, said the panel will be sending samples to IMTECH to check on the nature of the virus and ascertain if it has mutated in the last one month, in comparison with the samples sent earlier. ‘Punjab figures not worst in country’A special invitee to the meeting, Ambuj Roy, a professor of cardiology, AIIMS, New Delhi, said majority of the Covid deaths in Punjab had taken place after August 6. At 2.96% the case fatality rate (CFR) in Punjab was higher than the national average of 1.65%, as was the deaths per million at 78.5 (national average 58.3), he noted, but added these figures were still better than many states in the country. In fact, Punjab’s positivity rate of 5.72% was much better than the national average of 8.47%. To a query from the chief minister on the success of plasma therapy, Dr Talwar said studies did not confirm results so far though FDA had recommended this course of treatment. However, given that there was no evidence of any negative impact either, it was advisable to give plasma therapy to moderate and moderately serious patients, said Dr Talwar. Health secretary Hussan Lal, in his presentation, apprised the chief minister of the various measures taken to boost testing and monitor home isolation cases, with the health department in the process of engaging a professional agency to monitor these cases. To boost testing, various steps have been taken to streamline walk-in testing, with sufficient teams and counters being put in place across districts to minimise waiting time and make the entire process smooth for the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-stresses-on-local-production-of-medical-oxygen-to-meet-demand/story-ivxOgtmLMDUWow4OBFt5iK.html
14-09-2020||City||Maharashtra government’s initiative of door-to-door survey to begin in Thane from today||As part of the My Family My Responsibility initiative of the state government; Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) will be starting door to door survey in two sessions from September 15 onwards. Through this, all residents will be screened for oxygen levels and fever, those with symptoms will be recommended further tests.“Each house within the civic body jurisdiction will be visited twice. The health survey will include creating awareness, preparing a database of those with illness and identifying those with Covid symptoms, in each family. Representatives from the health department, social health workers along with two local volunteers will be a part of the door to door survey,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner. The survey will also include a screening of every resident, for oxygen levels and temperature. They will provide medical help and guidance if required.The first phase of the survey will begin from September 15 to October 10; the second phase is from October 14 to 24. This will also be adopted in the rural areas of Thane district. “We have created a plan and prepared teams for each area, comprising health workers, representatives from the health department, Anganwadi staff and local volunteers,” said Hiralal Sonawane, chief operating officer, Thane zilla parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-s-initiative-of-door-to-door-survey-to-begin-in-thane-from-today/story-N98khRhbQDkuRtGdYBrriN.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers remind govt of promise to double their income, hold lalkar rallies in 5 Punjab districts||Thousands of farmers from 10 organisations under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordinator Committee (AIKSCC) held rallies in five districts of Punjab against three agriculture ordinances and campaigned for the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 on Monday.The farmers assembled at the Barnala grain market to participate in the lalkar (challenge) rally to protest against what they said were the Centre’s three anti-farmer ordinances introduced amid the Covid-19 pandemic. These were the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance.Farmer leaders Buta Singh Burjgill, Ruldu Singh Mansa, Jaipal Singh and Baldev Singh Nihalgarh said in a joint statement that the Central and state governments were pursuing and implementing anti-farming policies mandated by the World Trade Organisation. The government wanted to hand over agriculture to national and international corporates, they alleged.“The BJP had promised to implement the Swaminathan Commission recommendations during the Parliamentary election campaign in 2014. Also, the Central government promised to double the farmer’s income by 2022. We want to remind the government of these promises,” said Burjgill.“A large number of farmers are protesting outside Parliament and thousands of farmers held protests in Amritsar, Jalandhar (Phagwara), Barnala, Patiala and Moga districts of Punjab. The Central government has enlisted these ordinances to present on the very first day of the Parliament session. It was just a symbolic rally but we have asked our cadre to prepare for September 16 action when we may block rail or other places,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda).Accusing the Shiromani Akali Dal of taking “U-turns” and asking its leaders to “stop shedding crocodile tears,” Jagmohan Singh said if the party shared the farmers’ concerns it should withdraw its support to the Central Government and come forward openly to support the farmers’ agitation.Bridge over Beas blockedMeanwhile, in their campaign against the ordinances, farmers from Hoshiarpur and Gurdaspur districts laid siege to the Tanda-Sri Hargobindpur road and blocked the bridge over the Beas river. Led by the Kisan Sangharsh Committee state general secretary Sawinder Singh Chutala, the farmers started their dharna at about 11 am, which continued till late in the evening. However, despite heavy police presence and prohibitory orders in place the agitators were allowed to give speeches. Chutala said the agitation would be intensified if the Centre did not repeal the ordinances and lower diesel rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-remind-govt-of-promise-to-double-their-income-hold-lalkar-rallies-in-5-punjab-districts/story-mlDIPHmrHm72shvjoJwURN.html
14-09-2020||Pune||Drink-driving: Car driver booked for injuring two pedestrians in Pune||Two pedestrians were injured after a drunk driver rammed his car into them on Sunday evening in Hadapsar, Pune. The driver was identified as Ravindra Dada Khepe while the identities of the injured could not be immediately ascertained. The windshield of the white Maruti Swift Dzire car that the offender was driving was damaged in the accident. “One of the injured is under treatment, while the other sustained scratches,” said police inspector (crime) HT Kumbhar . “Test carried out showed that the accused was driving under the influence of alcohol,” said senior inspector Ramesh Sathe of Hadapsar police station. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/drink-driving-car-driver-booked-for-injuring-two-pedestrians-in-pune/story-hKitsR1CPRyYdo0gll1PIK.html
14-09-2020||City||Covid-19: 5 staff test positive, CMO office shut for 4 days in UP’s Meerut||The office of Meerut’s chief medical officer (CMO) was shut for four days for sanitisation as five medical officers, including two assistant chief medical officers and a deputy chief medical officer, have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last eight days. Almost all top health officials involved in the battle against the virus operate from the office. The monitoring and surveillance of Covid-19 cases in the district are also carried out from the office.Also read: Cured patients in Uttar Pradesh asked to follow Centre’s post-Covid protocolDr Rajkumar, the chief medical officer, said the health authorities were now functioning from his camp office with the support of limited staff. He added detection of positive cases in the office created a scare among other staff members. “We are managing it somehow.”The Covid-19 infection tally in the district has gone up to 6,121. They include 1,554 active cases. As many as 647 asymptomatic people are undergoing treatment in home isolation and 154 patients have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-5-staff-test-positive-cmo-office-shut-for-4-days-in-up-s-meerut/story-zeniTT6wYitHmFbpVgu5DP.html
14-09-2020||Bhopal||MP govt to rechristen Ladli Laxmi scheme, aims to make girls self-reliant||The Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led Madhya Pradesh (MP) government has apparently realised the flaws in the save the girl child campaign called Ladli Laxmi Scheme (LLS) 13 years after it was launched. The realisation has come following a decrease in sex ratio at birth by 33 points.The state government is considering certain changes to the LLS to make it more effective. State women and child development (WCD) department officials said the LLS couldn’t be effective as more focus was given on providing financial assistance to girls for school education and also for their marriage. These measures were not enough to change the patriarchal mindset of the public towards a girl child, they added. Officials said the data released by various national agencies in the past related to skewed sex ratio at birth, drop-out rates of girls from schools, the growing number of cases of female infanticide and foeticide suggest a worrisome trend. “The benefit, which is being provided under the LLS, will continue as it has become a law. But the WCD department is all set to introduce an integrated scheme in place of all old state-run schemes, including the LLS with a new vision to save the girl child. The renewed focus will be more on making girls self-reliant, independent, breadwinners for their respective families and inspiration for others in ushering social changes,” said a WCD official.“Under the new scheme, the girls will be given financial aid for higher education, for preparation of competitive examinations and to set up a business. A campaign will be run to give a social message that a girl child can earn and is no more a burden. The achievers will be projected as brand ambassadors by the department,” said the officer. “Similarly, training will be held regularly in rural and urban areas for boys to make them sensitive about girls and to change their mindset. A social audit will be conducted regularly to know the change in society,” he added. According to a new draft, the home, law, industry and other few departments will also be part of the scheme in a bid to ensure if any crime is committed against a woman, then justice will be delivered to her. Plans are afoot to eradicate stigmatisation of rape survivors and her family members and other acts of violence against women. In 2007, the LLS was introduced to improve skewed sex ratio, foster a positive attitude towards girls in the society, provide education to them and stop social evils such as infanticide and foeticide.But, the scheme failed to deliver expected results, the government data showed. MP’s sex ratio at birth worsened from 960 in 2005-06 to 927 in 2015-16, as per the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) report. Non-governmental organisation (NGO) Pratham’s Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), 2018, report, which was released the following year, showed that the drop-out rate for girls in the 11-14 age group and in the 15-16 age category increased to 7.7% and 26.8%, respectively, from 7.3% and 23.4%, respectively, in 2006. The Asian Centre for Human Rights Commission (ACHRC) report, which was released in 2016, showed that MP had the highest cases of female infanticide and foeticide (537) in the country between 1994 and 2014. The report had prompted the state government to make changes to the LLS.Veena Bandyopadhyay, social policy specialist, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), said: Some positive changes were found, but the preference for sons continues in the society. The state government should take additional measures to promote girl child by providing job training and helping them in becoming an earning member of her family.” Waseem Siddique, convener, Childline Indore, said, “The LLS has failed to curb foeticide and infanticide cases in the state. Though MP is the worst-affected state, only 50 such cases were reported until 2018. A total of seven people have got convicted until August under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC&PNDT) Act, 1994” The WCD department has accepted the flaws in the scheme during various inter-departmental meetings, officials said. “The scheme, which has over 36 lakh beneficiaries, failed to address several concerns. The major flaw in the LLS is that the beneficiary gets Rs 1 lakh after she attains 21 years of age and the money cannot be used for education. The money is set aside for solemnising a girl child’s marriage. Similarly, the grant of Rs 12,000, which is being given in three installments to ensure school education of girls, is not enough to change the mindset of the public,” said a WCD officer, requesting anonymity. Another WCD officer said, “The government’s emphasis on marriage and school education finances created an impression that a girl child is a burden. In the past 13 years, the department hardly conducted any mass survey to know the impact of the scheme, which led to various unfavourable reports.” Prashant Dubey, a child rights activist, said parents feel marriage is the only way to protect their daughters. “The department should address this concern of parents because this is also a reason behind infanticide, foeticide and drop-out from schools,” he said.Minister for WCD Imarti Devi said, “The old benefits in the LLS will continue. In the new scheme, we will focus more on making a girl child independent and self-reliant. Similarly, the coordination with other departments, including home and panchayat, will also help to provide a safe environment to our girls. We are serious about our girls’ future and the changes in the campaign will reflect our intent. The new scheme will address all pending issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-govt-to-rechristen-ladli-laxmi-scheme-aims-to-make-girls-self-reliant/story-n8rrRWAS8vmS8f5WSI5AiP.html
14-09-2020||City||33% of Delhi lives in rented houses, govt’s survey finds||New Delhi: A socio-economic survey conducted by the Delhi government has found that 66.63% households in the city own their homes, while 32.38% live in rented accommodations. However, since most of those who said they own the property were living in the pockets where a majority of resettlement colonies are located, experts said the data reflects the increasing presence of informal settlements in the form of unauthorised colonies and slums in the national Capital. The survey, carried out between November 2018 and 2019, covered 20.05 lakh households and 1.02 crore population. Delhi’s actual population as per the state’s planning department is over 2 crore.The survey report showed that house ownership was highest in areas under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), which is the most cash-strapped civic body in the city, and where several unauthorised colonies are located. While 62.70% of the households surveyed in the New Delhi Municipal Council’s area were found to be living in rented accommodations.Debolina Kundu, professor at the national institute of urban affairs (NIUA) and member of the 5th Delhi finance commission, pointed out that if one analyses district-wise data, the Shahdara district has the maximum households living in their own properties (76.37%), followed by the Central district (72.36%). Only 44.73% of the households surveyed in the New Delhi district had their own houses. Delhi has 11 districts. “The fact that east Delhi and the Shahdara district have the highest number of families living in their own properties suggests that the Capital continues to have a high share of unauthorised colonies, slums and villages. If EDMC has the highest percentage of people living in their own accommodation then it also clearly explains the low property tax collection from these areas because the corporation still remains the most cash-starved,” she said. Kundu further said the NDMC has the largest share of those living on rent because of the exorbitant property prices in the area, which is also a hub for various private and government offices.“This report could provide important inputs to prepare the Master Plan of Delhi 2041,” she said. Vehicle ownershipOf the 20.05 lakh households surveyed, 51.78% owned motorised vehicles for personal use. The number of households who possess only two-wheelers in Delhi was 40.35%, whereas 4.34% households possessed only four-wheelers and 6.59% owned both two and four wheelers. Only 0.50% had ‘other motorised vehicles’ for personal use. Households in the average monthly expenditure group of Rs.10,000 to Rs.25,000 owned the highest number of two-wheelers only, whereas, households in the group of more than Rs 50,000 had the maximum number of four wheelers for personal use, the report stated.Air-conditioners and water supplyThe report also shows that 22.22% households have air-conditioners and 21.27% have a computer. Of the households that had a computer or a laptop, 80.15% were using an internet connection. It also revealed that 93.83% of households surveyed in Delhi have mobile phones.A senior government official said these trends corroborate the fact that over 85% of Delhi’s population belong to the low-income group and lower mixed incomer group categories.The study stated that 40.78% of the surveyed households had ration cards issued by the food and civil supplies department. Of these, 85.98% were getting ration from the public distribution system.It also said that 70.98% households get tap water, while 5.82% did not have it. “These figures are close to the 2011 Census and illustrates that access to tap water has not improved much and the government needs to invest in water provision. This report will help in various policy interventions,” the official said. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who had commissioned this survey in 2018 did not respond to calls and text messages for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/33-of-delhi-lives-in-rented-houses-govt-s-survey-finds/story-jBj2jXY2iXfCdSZcg19TpO.html
14-09-2020||City||A textbook problem: Schools shut, publishers count losses||New Delhi: For the past six decades, Rajiv Gupta’s family has been selling school and college textbooks from their shop in Delhi’s Nai Sarak, one of the country’s biggest textbook markets. The shop, which saw a never-ending stream of students before the onset of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, hardly receives any customers these days.“ These days, only a few parents come to buy books for their children. My sales have plummeted by 70% this year, ” says Gupta. The continued closure of schools and other educational institutions due to the Coronavirus pandemic has dealt a blow to the textbook industry, with booksellers and publishers experiencing an unprecedented decline in their business after decades of robust growth. According to the India Book Market Report by Nielsen released in 2015, there were about 21,000 book retailers and about 9,000 publishers in India, out of which 8,107 published books for schools, colleges and higher educational institutions. Educational books formed about 70% of the book market in India--- with the school and college books market valued at Rs. 18,600 crore and Rs. 5,600 crore respectively in 2013–14. According to the report, the K-12 books market was likely to grow at a Compound Annual Growth Rate of 19.6%, from Rs 22,170 crore in 2014-15 to 54,190 crore by 2019-20. But this otherwise exciting story of textbook publishing in India has taken a grim turn with sales of many well-known publishers dropping as much as 50% compared to last year.“Publishers are sitting on massive unsold stocks. Since the Coronavirus lockdown happened in March, the last-mile sales of books suffered. Most publishers had dispatched the books to distributors or bookshops but a lot of stocks are still lying unsold with them. Nearly 30-40% stocks may come back as returns,” said Monica Malhotra Kandhari, vice president, Federation of Indian Publishers and managing director, MBD Group, one of India’s oldest and largest publishing companies.“Our sales have plummeted 50% this academic session,” says Ashwani Goyal, managing director, Goyal Publishers, one of the country’s largest publishers of language learning books. Many in the industry say that one of the major reasons for the fall in the textbook sales is also the fact that a large number of children of migrant workers in budget schools have gone back to their villages, and are unable to continue their education online. The point is endorsed by the owners of the budget schools. “Our schools had 400 children, most of them belonging to low-income migrant families, and we have lost touch with 50% of them. We have been able to provide online education to only about 30 children. Our fee is only Rs 700 for Class 8 and Rs 400 for nursery, still only 21 out of 400 children paid fees last month. Their families are struggling for survival; education and books do not seem to be their priority, ” says DP Sharma, who runs Ved Pal Memorial School in Hastal in Uttam Nagar, west Delhi, which has 150 budget schools, most of which came up in the past two decades; most complain of thousands of “missing” students. Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Unaided Recognized Private Schools, an association of private schools in Delhi, says that this year many private schools also recommended digital books. “A lot of private schools put the list of books on websites recommended and digital books in case the children were unable to buy physical copies. Besides, schools were also sending chapters of various books online in April . There has never been such online consumption of education content before, ” he adds. Ashwani Goyal said what has also affected sales is online piracy “ I am surprised by the number of illegal PDFs of our printed books available online,” says Goyal, who has about 800 titles in circulation, catering to school and college students. In the past few months, he has digitized most of his titles and made them available on e-reading platforms such as Bru. Like many other publishers, Goyal feels that recycling of old books during the lockdown in April and May also affected sales. Aparajitha Gautam, president, Delhi Parents Association, says that between March and May, the association aggressively promoted the exchange of old books across the city through thousands of parents’ WhatsApp groups. “This helped children procure books when all bookshops were closed and even-e-commerce companies were not delivering books. Eventually, a large number of parents did not buy new books at all, and many bought only a few select books apart from notebooks,” she says. Ish Kapur, who runs Dhanpat Rai Publications, says sales of books have been affected differently in different parts of the country. “ Textbooks sales are particularly dismal in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu , which are severely hit by the Coronavirus pandemic. The sales of books for primary classes have been particularly bad,” says Kapur, whose publication house is known for its mathematics books by RD Sharma. “Our sales are down by 25%; we have never seen such a downturn in business in our 70-year-old history. The sales of even our best -selling titles have been affected,” adds Kapur. The textbook industry follows a sales and marketing strategy that is completely different from that of trade publishers because it is aligned with the school academic year. Every year, in October, representatives and salespersons of various publishing companies start visiting schools across the country for meeting principals and teachers, to make presentations on their books. “We touched base with 70,000 schools last year. However, we are not sure if we will be able to undertake the same exercise this year as the schools are still closed. The production of books starts in August-September each year; but this year as the publishers are sitting with huge stocks, it seems like only 10-20% production may happen,” says Kandhari. Talking of the future of print textbooks in the post-Covid world, she says textbook publishers will have to reinvent themselves. “Hybrid model of education with a mix of online and in-person classes is going to be the new normal. The textbooks will co-exist with digital learning content,” says Kandhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-textbook-problem-schools-shut-publishers-count-losses/story-VO9iDKNu1I0Eq1vOLtG63I.html
14-09-2020||City||MPD-2041 to have a regeneration policy for old areas||New Delhi: The Master Plan of Delhi-2041, which is the vision document for the city, will spell out a detailed “regeneration policy” for areas that have come up decades ago and now need better civic infrastructure. Though the current master plan also allows redevelopment of existing areas but the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has asked the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which is preparing the next master plan, to work on a regeneration policy keeping the ground realities in mind.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “The regeneration policy will be one of the key focus areas on the new Master Plan. It is an important aspect, as large parts of the city were developed a long time back.”“The city has grown over the years and so has the infrastructure requirement. Regeneration of old areas in a planned manner will help in providing better civic infrastructure and basic amenities to people and improve quality of life,” said Jain.Officials said the policy will only provide a legal provision and a broad road map for redevelopment but it is up to the people of a particular locality to pool in land -- the component critical to build new facilities -- for more amenities with the DDA only facilitating the effort. Experts say that bringing people together for such projects was the key reason why only two major projects -- East Kidwai Nagar and the seven general pool residential accommodation colonies -- could be taken up under the redevelopment policy laid out under MPD-2021. Since government was the land owner, there was no hurdle in implementing the projects. Residents want redevelopmentSeveral housing societies in Indraprastha Extension in East Delhi, which came up in the late 70s and early 80s, have been demanding redevelopment. Despite several efforts by some residents, no redevelopment projects were sanctioned in this area. Madan Khatri, president of Vikalp cooperative group housing society, said, “For nearly a decade, we have been running from pillar to post to get the benefit of the redevelopment scheme. Our societies are designed as per the 1962 MPD and can’t meet the growing civic infrastructure needs. We want the DDA to clearly draft the redevelopment policy so that people can benefit from it.”The resident welfare associations say that the policy will be beneficial for residential colonies that came up four-five decades back. “There are several double-storeyed resettlement developments in Lajpat Nagar, Rajendra Nagar etc., which came up in the 60s. These colonies don’t have the adequate civic infrastructure. But the DDA should clearly spell out the norms, as getting people together for redevelopment is difficult,” said Atul Goyal, president of URJA, a collective of RWAs across Delhi.Need for area-specific plansUrban development experts agree that a regeneration or redevelopment policy is needed, as there are several areas, especially urbanised villages, unauthorised colonies, resettlement colonies, etc, where redevelopment is the only way forward to improve the quality of life. But instead of a broad policy, efforts should be made to chalk out area-specific plans, they added. To ensure that the policy gets implemented and people actually benefit from it, AK Jain, former planning commission with the DDA, said the policy should encourage community-based approach and be area specific. “For the redevelopment, we can’t have a blanket policy for all the areas. It should be area specific as the problems of an urbanised village are very different from a plotted colony or unauthorised colonies. There are other issues such as ownership rights, etc which needs to be addressed,” said Jain.Boon for resettlement, commercial areas The policy can be useful in improving the civic infrastructure in developing areas with mixed land use, resettlement colonies, unauthorised colonies, rural and urbanised villages and slums.Sanjukkta Bhaduri, professor of urban planning and dean research at the School of Planning and Architecture, said areas such as Mangolpuri where several resettlement colonies came up in the late 1960s. “Redevelopment is the only way forward for these areas. But it should be based on the local area plan which must be prepared ward-wise. We also need to assess the impact of the project on the nearby areas.”In the last two decades, large parts of residential areas in the Capital have become fully commercial as over 2,500 streets were declared as commercial and mixed land use. Shamsher Singh, the former chief town planner with the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), said parking has become a serious problem in these areas, especially roads which were declared completely commercial.“While 100% commercial activity is allowed on residential plots on streets declared as commercial, the building byelaws are residential. If these plots are allowed to redevelop as per commercial norms, the issue of parking and other infrastructure can be resolved,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mpd-2041-to-have-a-regeneration-policy-for-old-areas/story-NCRgMmlp3rzxdOt5Hs5KSM.html
14-09-2020||City||Face shields cannot be an alternative to masks||Tired of wearing face masks for long periods, many consumers are in recent weeks switching to face shields for protection against the coronavirus, while visiting friends and relatives or even at work. However, experts warn that face shields cannot be a substitute for the mask.The biggest problem with the shield is that when worn, there are gaps between the face and the visor at two places- near the chin and the ears and scientists say that aerosolised droplets carrying the virus can enter the respiratory tract of the wearer through these gaps. In fact earlier, when Covid-19 was believed to spread mainly through large respiratory droplets, plastic face shields that extended lower than the chin and went beyond the ears with no gap between the forehead and the shield’s head piece, were believed to be quite effective and some scientists even argued that they were better than the mask in preventing the spread of the disease. The added advantage of the shield was that it protected the eyes too and also prevented the wearer from touching the face. However, with growing scientific evidence that airborne aerosols carrying the virus may play a major role in spreading the disease, many countries are enforcing strict rules against their usage as an alternative to face mask and reiterating that they can only provide an added layer of protection when worn over a face mask.In fact in July, the Swiss health officials warned against using face shields as a substitute for masks and said it gave the wearer a false sense of security. According to media reports, the warning came after an outbreak of Covid-19 in a hotel in the Graubunden region, wherein it was found that hotel employees who wore face shields were infected while those who wore masks were spared.The most recent work on the topic in Physics of Fluids, published by the American Institute of Physics on September1 , strongly discourages the use of face shields and says that they could have an adverse impact on Covid-19 mitigation efforts (“Visualising droplet dispersal for face shields and masks with exhalation valves”, Siddhartha Verma et al).The researchers, who used qualitative visualisation to examine the performance of face shields in preventing the spread of the virus, said although the shield blocked the large respiratory droplets, the smaller aerosol-sized droplets can disperse over a wide area in lateral and longitudinal directions and flow around the visor , even though with decreasing droplet concentration.In conclusion, the researchers recommended use of high quality cloth or plain surgical masks without exhale valves for minimizing the community spread of the disease.Yes, face masks may win over face shields, but here again, their effectiveness will depend on the quality of the mask and even more important, how it is worn. A study published in April this year in the American Chemical Society Journal (ACS Nano), showed how a loose and ill-fitting mask considerably brought down the filtration efficiency , defeating the very purpose of wearing the mask. The research also said a hybrid cloth mask made of different fabrics provided high filtration efficiency. (“Aerosol filtration efficiency of common fabrics used in respiratory cloth masks” )I must also mention that these days, consumers seem to be under the impression that they need not maintain social distancing, once they wear the mask. They must remember that social distancing , hand washing and correct usage of the mask are all equally and absolutely essential for protection against the virus.To emphasise the importance of social distancing, I must mention another study published in Physics of Fluids by the same authors in June this year , which pointed to uncovered emulated coughs travelling further than the currently recommended 6-feet distancing guidelines-- in fact up to 12 feet. The authors observed that there may be need to update the current social distancing guidelines “to account for the aerosol-based transmission of pathogens”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/face-shields-cannot-be-an-alternative-to-masks/story-75vpjpSBQHb3dMNIObCiyH.html
14-09-2020||Pune||Covid Impact: Depositors in various cases probed by police in Pune believe refunds will take longer||Investors, mostly senior citizens, who have been duped in various schemes, are worried over the unfolding of the Covid-19 situation and its devastating impact on the possible return of their money. The Covid induced lockdown has been a double whammy for investors in DSK and Shivajirao Bhosale bank case, currently being probed by police. As many as 33,000 depositors, most of them senior citizens are demanding their money back amid their fading hope as prices of properties owned by city-based developer DS Kulkarni and the delay in case has prolonged their wait. DSK along with wife Hemanti, son Shirish, son-in-law Kedar Vanjpe and his wife Sai have been arrested by the Economic Offence Wing, which is probing a Rs2,043 crore fraud. Though activists fighting for the investors feel the cases being heard must be fast-tracked, investors believe that it will take a long time before they will finally get their dues from the state government. Jyotsana Kulkarni, a resident of Baner and investor in DSK scheme said, “We had deposited the money with DSK group as fixed deposit and expected it will help us in our old age. During the last two years, we are constantly hoping that we will get the refund but the case is not being heard during the Covid-19 crisis and it is a cause of concern. We believe that the refunds won’t come early as frauds take long time for being investigated by the police and decided by the courts.” The impatience has grown among most investors, who had put in their life savings in various schemes run by DSK, expecting bright returns. During one of the hearing earlier last year, an investor shouted at DSK’s wife Hemanti in the courtroom blaming her for her husband’s death. The judge had to ask staff to take depositors away. Special public prosecutor Pravin Chavan said, “Covid-19 has impacted the functioning of the court since lockdown. With the courts opening as per the district judge orders, we will see hearing into the case after which the case will move ahead on a regular basis. It is because of Covid-19 that the case has been delayed. The courts are going to begin from Monday and the DSK case will definitely get momentum and will be heard regularly.” RTI Activist Vijay Kumbhar who has been helping DSK investors since the beginning, said, “We have been demanding a fast-track court to ensure that the victims are compensated at the earliest. The DSK investors are facing problems for their day to day living since a long as all their savings have been lost. The investors have been suffering from a long time and now with Covid-19, there seems to be no immediate relief from their problems and it will be a long wait for them before they get their money back from the government.” In the Shivajirao Bhosale bank case, police have arrested the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member of legislative council Shivaji Bhosale along with other bank officers on charges of ₹71 crore fraud and other financial misappropriations running into crores. The bank, with 12 branches and ₹430 crore deposits, across Pune district and 1.10 lakh account holders, was promoted by Bhosale. According to Hemant Shedge, president, Kothrud depositors samiti which is fighting for the investors right in the multi-crore Shivajirao Bhosale bank case, the pandemic may further delay their hope for a return of money. “It took very long for the state government to take action against the bank directors. Covid-19 has multiplied their problems further as the courts were shut for a very long time and the investigation too is going on amidst the growing Covid crisis. The depositors believe that it will take long before the final dues get settled and one never knows whether they will be alive or dead at that time,” he said. Sarika Patil, who lost a ten-lakh deposit in the bank said, “We don’t have any money left as we had kept the bank FD for our medical expenses and daughter’s marriage. Since the last two years, there is no hope left.” Investors awaiting refund in another scheme – The Pan Card Club, which began operations in 1997 collected ₹1,400 crores from depositors nationally. Siddhartha Kanse, an investor in the scheme said, “We have done all our work and the case is legally settled but still the payments have not been given. I believe that it will take some more time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-impact-depositors-in-various-cases-probed-by-police-believe-refunds-will-take-longer/story-n1WxCBLghEzxXVC3jBYj4L.html
14-09-2020||Pune||Only 50 golfers allowed to play at a time on the course: Swastik Sirsikar, golf captain, Poona club golf course||The lockdown facilitated the early renovation of the club house at Poona club golf course. The golf course restarted its operations on August 5 and since then has functioned smoothly. Members are happy with the condition of the course and the renovated club house adds to the joy of playing their favourite sport. Swastik Sirsikar, golf captain of the Poona club golf course, described how a golf course with safety SOPs can score a birdie even during a pandemic.How challenging was it to get the course ready again?No one had expected that it would be such a long lockdown. We closed our course on March 17, but had hoped that it would reopen in April or May. The conditions were challenging as our staff members were not coming in, also we are located very close to a containment zone, Yerawada, and many of the maintenance staff lived in the same place, so we faced a lot of difficulty. We got e-passes and permission for a few staffers to come and do the work only for couple of hours daily. Right before we open our course, we got our whole staff tested for Covid to assure our members that they will be playing in a safe environment.Has the number of golfers coming to the course increased?We were apprehensive about the number of golfers who would come back in the first month of our reopening (August). First it was 80 or 90 golfers who had prior bookings. Currently, 150 members visit the golf course in a day at separate time intervals allotted to them between 7am and 6pm. Only 50 golfers are allowed to play at a time on the course. We are not focused on how much money is coming in as right now we just want to provide our recreational facilities to the members who have been locked down over the past few months. We cannot open our restaurants and cafeterias as it gives people a chance to socialise.How has the functioning of the golf course been tracked?Everything is monitored on a daily basis and everyone is happy with standard operating procedures (SOP) in place. The committee meets every week on Wednesday to review all the operations, if not physical then through online platforms. The SOPs are upgraded too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/only-50-golfers-allowed-to-play-at-a-time-on-the-course-swastik-sirsikar-golf-captain-poona-club-golf-course/story-vCtimhm2B9vNYtahq9WQTP.html
14-09-2020||Pune||Teeing off in post-Covid era is all about staying at par with course SOPs in Pune||The coronavirus pandemic is showing no signs of relenting even after six months of precautions and lockdown. Sportspersons have been hit the worst with many unable to practice due to closure of sports arenas. With unlock phasing in the country, sport is seeing a dynamic change from no fans to no contact sports as of now. However, the city has seen tennis and golf tee up to the Covid challenge and start the games with safety on the mind.The Poona club golf course restarted its operations on August 5 keeping on par with all Covid-19 safety measures with strict standard operating procedures. The start was staggered as golfers trickled in and rules were put in place to make sure, its a smooth drive down the long course for the club. Only 50 golfers have been allowed inside the course at the club which boasts of almost 500 members. Sanitisation at the entry/exit, three-balls to tee off at an interval of 15 minutes and only forecaddies (caddies who are course, ahead of the players to keep a track of the balls) allowed are some of the new measures put in place by the golf course management. Maintaining social distance and using sanitisers frequently are now looked at habits, golfers have to develop.“Course is open for members only and one is only allowed after following all the SOPs. Strict measures have been taken by our committee and in one month, all the things have been progressing smoothly,” explained Santosh Datta, Rules and Discipline Chairman of the Poona club golf course.One on one coaching had been halted at the course but resumed from September 12. As of now, no guest players are allowed on the course.Along with being a competitive sport, golf courses have always been a place to socialise and catch up with friends, however, in the post-Covid era, this has changed. “All clinics, tournaments, banquets and gatherings have been suspended and gathering of more than four persons at any place has is prohibited,” reads the screens constantly displaying all the SOPs in place at the course.“Most of the golf courses, even in Mumbai and Delhi, are following the SOPs which we brought in place. Many guest players are seeking permission to start playing here, but we have not agreed on that front yet,” said Swastik Sirsikar, Golf Captain of the Poona club golf course.Radhika Kanitkar Tulpule, a former tennis player and also a regular at the golf course, is extremely happy with the way the club house has been renovated and the course is maintained.“I have been to course since it restarted and it has been maintained really well. Sirsikar and president of the course Rahul Dhole Patil managed to keep the course up to par even during Covid-19,” added Tulpule.Standard Operating Procedures at golf coursesThe Poona Club Golf Course, Yerawada, is implementing a two-phase plan to open up the golf course keeping in mind all Covid-19 precautionsFirst phase (August 5- September 11) Caddies were not allowed in the first phaseAll practice areas were not operational, except box netsSecond phase (From September 12) Only limited number of caddies allowed to foresee the balls Coaching on one-on-one basis is allowedMaximum four players are allowed to practice on chipping and putting areaGolfers at the course Only 3-ball allowed to tee off at a time (four-balls allowed in second phase)Maximum 50 golfers are permitted on the course at any given timeTee offs will be at an interval of 15 minutesOnly one player allowed in one cartPlayers to carry their own personal sanitisers for the club grips and ballsGolfers at the entry Use sanitser to wash hands at entry pointsBody temperature check will be carried out at the entry pointSanitise the golf bags and trolleys before and after the gameCaddies’ corner At least 200 caddies are dependent on the Poona Club for their daily earnings and ever since the lockdown started, Poona club management distributes ration packets to all the caddies every 15 days.“Although we don’t appoint caddies officially, they earn their livelihood from the golf course, so the course management decided to support them. Now, we have allowed fore caddies at our golf course,” said Swastik Sirsikar, Golf Captain, Poona Club Golf Course, Yerawada.“The management is supporting us wholeheartedly till date. I am a fore caddie right now and I miss my conversation with the golfers, which is not allowed now. Most caddies are still connected with golf and a few others joined different professions to earn a living,” said Amir Khan, caddie at the Poona Club Golf Course, Yerawada, over the last 18 years.Golfers say Kumar Chandragupta, golferI continued to follow my golf exercises and practiced golf swings during the lockdown. When I came in first, I only played 9 holes as I was tired, today I played all the 18 holes as it takes time to get back into the habit of playing 18 holes.Nalin Mheta, golferGolf course opened in very good condition and it is very well managed. Since we cannot have personal caddies, we get tired early and carry our own trolley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/teeing-off-in-post-covid-era-is-all-about-staying-at-par-with-course-sops-in-pune/story-1pncH8X9wP9iYEsEN5IvtI.html
14-09-2020||Kolkata||Eye on polls, Mamata Banerjee launches party’s new Hindi cell on Hindi Diwas||In a bid to woo Hindi-speaking voters in some of West Bengal’s urban, semi-urban and industrial belts where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bagged seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Monday launched an all-new three-tier Hindi cell of her party. India observes Hindi Diwas on September 14, the day on which the Constituent Assembly adopted Hindi as one of the official languages in 1949. Dinesh Trivedi, former Lok Sabha member from Barrackpore, one of these industrial belts, has been appointed chairman of the restructured Hindi cell which will have separate committees at state, district and community block levels. Also Read: PM Modi, Amit Shah extend greetings on occasion of Hindi DiwasThe decision, senior TMC leaders said, was based on recommendations made by election strategist Prashant Kishor. Kishor, who earlier helped the BJP, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and YSR Congress win elections, was roped in by Banerjee after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The TMC’s tally came down from 34 seats to 22. The BJP poses a challenge to Banerjee in the run-up to the 2021 assembly polls. Though Banerjee gave official language status to Hindi in 2012, within a year of coming to power, the TMC’s old Hindi cell was practically non-functional, party leaders said. Vivek Gupta has been made president of the new cell. Banerjee on Monday afternoon reached out to the Hindi-speaking population with her tweets on Hindi Diwas. “Warm wishes on #HindiDiwas. Bengal is a land of inclusivity and through our persistent efforts we have proudly inculcated Tagore’s values of ‘Unity in Diversity’.GoWB has taken various initiatives to strengthen Hindi Education, Culture and Welfare of the community in Bengal,” she wrote. Warm wishes on #HindiDiwas.Bengal is a land of inclusivity and through our persistent efforts we have proudly inculcated Tagore’s values of ‘Unity in Diversity’.GoWB has taken various initiatives to strengthen Hindi Education, Culture and Welfare of the community in Bengal (1/2)“GoWB has constantly persevered to undertake inclusive development for all by giving recognition to Hindi, Urdu, Gurmukhi, Ol Chiki, Rajbanshi, Kamtapuri, Kurukh languages. I urge the Centre to follow suit by also including Bengali as a classical language in NEP 2020,” said her second tweet. Trivedi too held a press conference where he spoke in Hindi and talked about the recognition Banerjee has given to ethnic languages. “The reconstituted Hindi cell will have a three-tier structure… We believe this would ensure greater representation to people from the Hindi community within the party, provide a platform to make suggestions, address their grievances and make them active stakeholders in Smt Mamata Banerjee’s cause for furthering all-round development in Bengal,” the TMC said in a statement. “The Hindi Cell would actively strive towards strengthening Hindi education, culture and overall welfare of the community in Bengal. We believe the work that began in 2011, will only get greater impetus through this reconstituted Hindi cell,” the statement added. In 2019, Trivedi lost the Barrackpore seat to Arjun Singh who left the TMC and joined the BJP. Singh’s son and brother are legislators from two assembly segments in Barrackpore. Among the other BJP-controlled Lok Sabha constituencies that have a substantial Hindi-speaking population are Midnapore, Asansol and Darjeeling. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, who is the MP from Midnapore, was in Delhi on Monday to attend the Lok Sabha. “All these years Banerjee had been saying that Bengali and Bengal will prevail over others. Now she is suddenly giving plum posts to Hindi-speaking leaders. A party cannot run like this. She is trying to copy the BJP but minus the policies that we follow,” Ghosh told reporters in Delhi. “It appears that Banerjee wants to use the Hindi language to counter religious polarisation,” said Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/eye-on-polls-mamata-banerjee-launches-party-s-new-hindi-cell-on-hindi-diwas/story-XwRHdwZ1eNHIiYtrfRzX5N.html
14-09-2020||Pune||Pune civic chief visits Katraj as overflowing lake revives memories of 2019 flash floods||The two hours of heavy showers saw water logging on most of the roads in and around Katraj lake, which began overflowing on Friday night. On Sunday, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar along with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator Ashwini Kadam visited the areas affected by rain. Looking at the condition, corporator Kadam has placed demands to the PMC and asked for quick action. Kadam said by accumulating trash and soil over the years, the depth of Ambil Odha stream has reduced. This has caused an overflow with usually one or two heavy spells of rain and spreading fear in the nearby residents. There should be a provision to release water from Katraj lake like other dams so that it will not cause flood situations. The corporator also demanded that illegal constructions shall be demolished to broaden the height and width of Ambil Odha stream keeping the vision of future requirements (of next 50 years). It will help to survive situations like a cloudburst. The boundary walls shall be erected immediately to protect residents. Although, the situation did not turn grim like the flash floods of September 2019 but the high-intensity flow of water brings back the memories of 2019 when 26 people died and caused massive damage to property. “None of the PMC officials came to help Katraj people. The JCB which you saw (Facebook live video) was my private and whole work yesterday night was done by party members and local people,” said Vasant More, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) corporator said. The water from Katraj-Kondhwa road was overflowing and water entered in few areas of Shelar Mala, Katraj. More and more members from the MNS party were actively working till midnight to clear the passage of water flow. The damage like broken walls bent electric poles and debris have not been cleared by PMC officials. “In the complete one year, even after complaints from people, PMC still has not done any repair work. Since pipelines are damaged, water entered few areas. Our members released water on the right time and made sure it did not cause much damage,” said More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-chief-visits-katraj-as-overflowing-lake-revives-memories-of-2019-flash-floods/story-xuqs9ND668BGf4HBVz14VJ.html
14-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Haryana bans gatherings at pilgrimage sites during Amavasya||The Haryana government has imposed a ban on gathering of devotees during Amavasya on Thursday (September 17) at pilgrimage sites in the state such as Kurukshetra and Pehowa because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.A state government spokesperson said that devotees gather at Kurukshetra and Pehowa pilgrimage sites every year on Amavasya to offer food to their ancestors on the occasion of Pitra Paksha. Also read: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar recovers from Covid-19, returns to ChandigarhBut in a bid to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Kurukshetra district administration has imposed a ban on the gathering of devotees at both the pilgrimage sites on Amavasya this year. The devotees have been asked to take care of their own and other people’s health and refrain from gathering at Kurukshetra and Pehowa, the district administration added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-haryana-bans-gatherings-at-pilgrimage-sites-during-amavasya/story-P2O7BOKcoBcDfKuCHaAY5I.html
14-09-2020||Pune||Ex-employee of SCDL in Pune booked for allegedly leaking details of 178 students for financial gains||Two people, including a former employee of city-based Symbiosis Centre for Distance Learning (SCDL), have been booked for allegedly leaking details of 178 students for financial gains.The two persons have been identified as Sandeep Hengale and Sumar Kumar. While Hengale was in the examination department of the institute, Kumar is a former student, according to the police.“He was working in our examination department. He shared the contact details of the students. That was our initial complaint. We formed a committee and corrected the situation and informed the particular students as well. There were no financial transactions, fortunately. He accepted his guilt and tendered his resignation,” said Swati Mujumdar, director, Symbiosis Open Education Society.Symbiosis Centre for Distance Learning, which operates under the Symbiosis Open Education Society, found the leak of data back in December 2019.The incident took place between September 2018 and December 2019 and a complaint was lodged in December 2019. However, a case in the matter was registered on Saturday, according to college officials. Whether Mujumdar did manage to get in touch with any of the students is a matter of investigation.“We have asked the police to investigate whether marks were changed at all. That was in December 2019. Since then, we have rectified the situation. Most of the over 170 students had not even failed. These are on-demand exams that students can take at any time. To the few students who could have been affected, we asked them to take a re-exam and they willingly did,” said Mujumdar.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Namdev Kumbhar (58), an official of the college, a resident of Model Colony.“The issue was brought to light by the IT cell of the college itself. They brought the complaint to us,” said senior police inspector Sriram Paygude, cyber police station, Pune.The evaluation head was found in breach of the University’s grace mark policy, according to the complaint.“Now whether the students are party to the crime or are victims who were lured into the situation is a part further investigation,” said Paygude.A case under Sections 464 (making false document), 465 (punishment for forgery), and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Cyber police station of Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ex-employee-of-scdl-in-pune-booked-for-allegedly-leaking-details-of-178-students-for-financial-gains/story-zasaLce6BUfTf6sPVNyuJP.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police get 10-day custody of Umar Khalid after his arrest under anti-terror law||A Delhi court on Monday sent Umar Khalid to 10-day police custody day after his arrest under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for alleged role in the conspiracy behind the February riots in the national capital.Also Read: Umar Khalid arrested in connection with North-East Delhi riotsSpecial public prosecutor Amit Prasad had told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat at the Karkardooma district court that Khalid has to be confronted with voluminous documentary evidence.The Delhi Police’s special cell is looking into a larger conspiracy case in addition to multiple cases filed in connection with the riots that left 53 people dead and close to 400 injured.In separate charge sheets related to the riots, the police have said Khalid met suspended and jailed Aam Aadmi Party’s councillor Tahir Hussain and activist Khalid Saifi on January 8 at the Shaheen Bagh sit-in protest site against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA)-National Register of Citiznens (NRC) to allegedly plan the riots. He has been interrogated twice in the last two months for his alleged role. The police have also linked Khalid’s speeches to the riots.Khalid’s lawyer, Trideep Pais, told the court during the virtual hearing that the police have to clarify where he gave the speeches and show the proof that his client asked people to come and protest. He added Khalid is against the CAA and he is not ashamed of it. Khalid’s father, Sayed Qasim Rasool Ilyas, has accused the Delhi police of targeting those who participated in the protests against the CAA and NRC.“This is nothing but an attempt to corner the activists and silence the voices of those who dissent against the government. The Delhi police have been trying to weave a false story by naming few people who participated in the anti-CAA-NRC protests, including Umar, as the ‘masterminds’ behind the north-east [Delhi] violence. However, everyone knows who was actually behind the riots.”The riots were triggered following clashes between supporters of the CAA and its opponents.The CAA’s passage in December to fast-track the citizenship process for non-Muslims, who have entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Bangladesh before December 31, 2014, triggered protests across the country. Opponents of the law insist it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out the Muslims and links faith to citizenship in a secular country. They say it could result in the expulsion or detentions of the Muslims unable to provide the documentation if the law is seen in the context of a proposed pan-India NRC. A process carried out in Assam to detect undocumented immigrants led to the exclusion of around two million people from the NRC in 2018.Khalid was arrested after being questioned twice. He has denied the allegations, calling the inquiry a conspiracy.Shocked that an anti-terror law UAPA has been used to arrest a young, thinking, idealist like @UmarKhalidJNU who has always opposed violence and communalism in any form.He is undoubtedly among the leaders that India deserves.@DelhiPolice can't detain India's future for long.Also Read: Umar Khalid’s arrest: Activists, academicians, politicians express solidarity, call it a ‘witch-hunt’Hussain, Jamia student Meeran Haider, Jamia Coordination Committee’s Safoora Zargar, and Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita have also been arrested under UAPA on charges of allegedly planning and executing the north-east Delhi riots.The riots were triggered in the run-up to the assembly elections in Delhi and right-wing groups have also faced accusations of fanning them.Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav called Khalid a thinking idealist and added he is shocked that an anti-terror law has been used to arrest the activist who has always opposed violence and communalism in any form. “He is undoubtedly among the leaders that India deserves. @DelhiPolice can’t detain India’s future for long,” Yadav said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/umar-khalid-produced-in-court-delhi-police-seeks-10-day-custody/story-RR98Lx89UbSHNf2ezBmtEO.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health dept website back in new avatar after four days||The Punjab health department’s website, pbhealth.gov.in, that had not been working since September 11 was restored at 3pm on Monday with a new look. The message on the homepage read, “Welcome to the new website of Department of Health & Family Welfare, Punjab. The updation of the website is in progress.” The website provides updates on the Covid-19 situation, intimates the public about government instructions to hospitals besides contact details of nodal officers and control rooms, and uploads public notices and media bulletins. It also provides details about the Covid-19 protocol for non-resident Indians (NRIs) headed for Punjab. The Punjab government website, punjab.gov.in, has a webpage of the Punjab health and family welfare department but it contains only contact details of ministers and senior officials of the department. There was concern among health staff and people as the website had stopped working at a time when the Punjab government is trying to counter rumours and misinformation about Covid-19 on social media. There have been rumours of organ smuggling of Covid-19 patients being spread on social media, resulting in people avoiding getting tested or hospitalised for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-department-website-catches-virus-in-covid-time/story-ypa8lGoIpgJXG7mR1VKUJP.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Foreigner held with 1.63 kg cannabis near Bhuntar in HP||An Italian national has been arrested with 1.63 kg cannabis (charas) near Manali in Kullu district.Claudio Piccirilli (52) was travelling to Delhi from Manali in a private Volvo bus on Sunday night, which was stopped by police for checking near Bhuntar.Finding his nervousness suspicious police checked his bag and found the cannabis, after which Piccirilli was arrested.Superintendent of police (SP) Kullu Gaurav Singh said a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, was registered against the accused and investigations were being conducted.Piccirilli had come to Manali two weeks ago and was staying in a guest house, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/foreigner-held-with-1-63-kg-cannabis-near-bhuntar-in-hp/story-iXfhFajEKPzffM26GbtZMM.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Umar Khalid’s arrest: Activists, academicians, politicians express solidarity, call it a ‘witch-hunt’||Several academics, politicians, and lawyers on Monday expressed solidarity with activist Umar Khalid a day after the Delhi police’s special cell arrested him under anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Protection) Act (UAPA) for his alleged role in the conspiracy behind the February riots in Delhi.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor called for standing with people like Khalid citing imperilling of civil liberties and democracy. “....When democracy & civil liberties are imperilled by the actions of the Govt [government], whether it is [Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram] Yechury, Umar Khalid or Kafeel Khan, we must all stand with them.”Swaraj India chief, Yogendra Yadav, called Khalid a thinking idealist, who has always opposed violence in any form. “Shocked that an anti-terror law UAPA has been used to arrest a young, thinking, idealist like @UmarKhalidJNU who has always opposed violence and communalism in any form. He is undoubtedly among the leaders that India deserves. @DelhiPolice can’t detain India’s future for long,” he tweeted.Shocked that an anti-terror law UAPA has been used to arrest a young, thinking, idealist like @UmarKhalidJNU who has always opposed violence and communalism in any form.He is undoubtedly among the leaders that India deserves.@DelhiPolice can't detain India's future for long.Lawyer Prashant Bhushan called Khalid’s arrest a conspiracy to frame peaceful activists in the guise of investigation. “Umar Khalid’s arrest by Delhi police after naming Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, [academics] Jayati Ghosh & Apoorvanand, leaves no doubt at all about the malafide nature of its investigation into Delhi riots,” he tweeted.Bhushan was referring to a charge sheet related to the riots filed last month that has the statement of an accused attached to it claiming Yechury, Apoorvanand, former lawmaker Chaudhary Mateen and advocate Mahmood Pracha instigated anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protestors. The Delhi police have issued a clarification saying these individuals have not been named as accused in the case.Also Read: Umar Khalid arrested in connection with North-East Delhi riotsThe riots were triggered following clashes between supporters of the CAA and its opponents. The CAA’s passage in December to fast-track the citizenship process for non-Muslims, who have entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Bangladesh before December 31, 2014, triggered protests across the country. Opponents of the law insist it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out the Muslims and links faith to citizenship in a secular country. They say it could result in the expulsion or detentions of the Muslims unable to provide the documentation if the law is seen in the context of a proposed pan-India National Register of Citizens (NRC). A process carried out in Assam to detect undocumented immigrants led to the exclusion of around two million people from NRC in 2018.Activist Harsh Mandar said Khalid speaks about Gandhi and non-violence. “...He’s a youth a country should be proud of - idealistic, progressive, brave. We spoke together in anti-CAA protests: he spoke always of non-violence & Gandhi. Today he’s arrested under draconian UAPA on trumped up charges of conspiracy. Cry out, my country,” he tweeted.#StandWithUmarKhalid He's a youth a country should be proud of - idealistic, progressive, brave. We spoke together in anti-CAA protests: he spoke always of non-violence & Gandhi. Today he's arrested under draconian UAPA on trumped up charges of conspiracy. Cry out, my country https://t.co/cvS7ysd5LsA group of academics and activists separately issued a statement in Khalid’s support and called his arrest a “witch-hunt”. “As citizens deeply committed to Constitutional values, we condemn the arrest of Umar Khalid who has been subjected to a malicious investigation targeting peaceful anti-CAA protestors. He has been booked under several charges including UAPA, sedition and conspiracy for murder. With deep anguish, we have no doubt in saying that this investigation is not about the violence in February 2020 in the national capital, but on the completely peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional CAA,” the statement said.The signatories to the statement include Ravi Kiran Jain and V Suresh of the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties; lawyers Mihir Desai and ND Pancholi; academics Satish Deshpande, Mary John, Apoorvanand, Nandini Sundar and Shuddhabrata Sengupta; and rights activists Aakar Patel, Mander, Farah Naqvi and Biraj Patnaik.Also Read: ‘Delhi Police trying to mute voices of those who dissent against govt’: Umar Khalid’s father“It is very significant that of the 20 arrested, 19 are under the age of 31. Of which 17 have been charged under the draconian UAPA and have been imprisoned on charges of a conspiracy for the Delhi violence whereas those who actually instigated and participated in the violence have not been touched. Of the ones incarcerated, five are women, except for one all are also students,” the statement added.Jamia Millia Islamia student Meeran Haider, Jamia Coordination Committee’s Safoora Zargar, and Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita have also been arrested under UAPA on charges of allegedly planning and executing the riots.Left-wing All India Students Association (AISA) said all the speeches of anti-CAA protesters are in the public domain and to claim a conspiracy is “not only laughable but points fingers” at the credibility of the investigation. “Activists, students and political leaders who participated in these spontaneous protests that erupted across India were fighting to defend the constitution and plurality of our society. Umar Khalid along with Khalid Saifi and other activists was doing the very same i.e. defending the constitution and democracy,” AISA said in a statement.Actors Swara Bhaskar, Prakash Raj, and Zeeshan Ayyub also tweeted in Khalid’s support..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/umar-khalid-s-arrest-activists-academicians-politicians-express-solidarity-call-it-a-witch-hunt/story-3sbr01ZDiw2Aexfe49rUJO.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar back in Chandigarh after recovering from Covid-19||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday returned to the state capital of Chandigarh from Gurugram after recovering from Covid-19 and urged people to religiously follow all guidelines such as wearing masks and observing social distancing to stay safe. He asserted that there was no need to be afraid of coronavirus, but we have to remain vigilant. After testing positive for novel coronavirus on August 24, just two days before the day-long monsoon session of the state assembly, Khattar, 66, was admitted to Gurugram’s Medanta hospital for treatment. He had developed fever and body ache three days before testing positive on August 24. He was taken to the hospital around 2.30am on August 25 where he remained admitted for the next 17 days. He was discharged on September 10 after he tested negative a day earlier. It was decided that he will rest in Gurugram for three days after his discharge. THANKS HOSPITAL STAFF, WELL-WISHERS Talking to reporters in Gurugram shortly before leaving for Chandigarh, Khattar said he had fully recovered though doctors had advised him to monitor his health for the next 10 days. “I want to thank all those who wished and prayed for my speedy recovery as well as the doctors who were involved in my treatment,” he said. A multidisciplinary team of doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi; Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, Gurgaon civil surgeon Dr Virender Yadav, and Medanta’s Dr Sushila Kataria reviewed his condition, line of treatment and progress made, a state government statement had said earlier. OFFICIAL WORK KEPT CM BUSY Replying to a question, he said while he was on the road to recovery, he kept himself engaged with official work. To another query, he said he can’t say for sure from where he contracted the infection, but just before catching the virus, he had attended official meetings in Delhi. One of the meetings Khattar attended days before he tested positive was with Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who also tested positive later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-back-in-chandigarh-after-recovering-from-covid-19/story-Qo05ZDhE4MjHpm9rqNtV7H.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Political slugfest continues over Kangana Ranaut’s departure||Political parties are engaged in a slanging match after actor Kangana Ranaut left Mumbai for her hometown Manali in Himachal Pradesh (HP) on Monday.Ranaut is locked in a bitter war of words with the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death probe.The Congress and the NCP criticised Ranaut for her studied silence about the alleged drug nexus in Bollywood. The Opposition, Bharatiya Janata Party, questioned the Maharashtra government for allowing her to leave Mumbai. “When she says that she has the information about the Bollywood drug mafia, she should have ideally gone to the Mumbai NCB (Narcotics Control Bureau) office and recorded her statement. Instead she is going back to Manali,” said Sachin Sawant, a spokesperson for the Congress. Sawant said two inferences could be drawn from her radio silence. “Either, she is not disclosing the fact that in itself is a crime, or she has made up a story,” he added.The NCP criticised Ranaut for driving her own personal agenda. “She is defaming Mumbai because she plans to join politics. It is sad that she is defaming Mumbai, which has given her everything,” said Nawab Malik, who belongs to the NCP and also a minister in the MVA coalition government. “That’s alright, she has only this work now (to make statements against Mumbai). The people can clearly see her love for Mumbai through these statements. Mumbaikars will now decide whether she can live in Mumbai or not after she equated Mumbai with Pakistan occupied Kashmir. She has got a dual personality. She’s an actor too. Whatever script she’s given, she will say those lines... journalists should investigate who has given her the script,” Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab said, reacting to Ranaut’s statement.The BJP criticised the MVA coalition government for Ranaut’s departure from Mumbai. “Home minister Anil Deshmukh had said Maharashtra Police would investigate the allegations that Ranaut used to consume drugs. Was she investigated? How come the state government allowed her to leave Mumbai in the first place without questioning her?” asked Atul Bhatalkar, a BJP member in the Maharashtra legislative assembly (MLA). Ranaut tweeted that she was leaving Mumbai with a heavy heart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-political-slugfest-continues-over-kangana-ranaut-s-departure/story-V1Qp7yGxsREnYCW1Dnnh0M.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Slums along Delhi railway tracks won’t be demolished till final decision: Centre to SC||The Supreme Court was on Monday informed that the Centre and Delhi government are in the process of making a decision with regard to the clearing of 48,000 slums situated adjacent to railway tracks in Delhi.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the top court that no demolition action will commence till a decision is in place by the Indian Railways, ministry of urban development and Delhi government.The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde recorded this submission of Mehta and adjourned the matter after four weeks.On August 31, the Supreme Court had directed the Indian Railways to remove the 48,000 slums situated in the railway’s safety zone within three months. The court further directed that no court in Delhi would stay the demolition process.Applications were filed by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken and 11 slum dwellers asking the top court not to remove close to 2.4 lakh dwellers till alternate housing is provided to them.Mehta informed the top court that under August 31 order no demolition has started and no coercive action will take place till a decision is taken jointly by the Centre and Delhi government.The bench said, “It is fair” and went on to record the submission of Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/slums-along-delhi-railway-tracks-won-t-be-demolished-till-final-decision-is-taken-centre-tells-supreme-court/story-qdoLMsfRYtFOxHEAhlLwVN.html
14-09-2020||Kolkata||Wife of Calcutta High Court lawyer pronounced guilty of murdering him in 2018||The Barasat court in North 24 Parganas district on Monday declared Anindita Pal Dey, 35, guilty of murdering her husband Rajat Kumar Dey, who was a Calcutta High Court lawyer, on November 25, 2018. The court will pronounce the sentence on Wednesday. Dey, who was 34, was strangled with the cable of a mobile phone charger. Anindita Pal Dey, who is also a lawyer, was also accused of tampering with evidence. Dey’s body was found on the floor of the couple’s bedroom. Anindita initially told the police that he fell from the bed and had a heart attack. “I want maximum punishment for her,” said Samir Dey, the victim’s father, who was present in the court on Monday. “It is the victory of truth. The verdict has proved that evidence has the last word,” said Bibhas Chatterjee, the public prosecutor. Anindita, who was out on bail till now, was also present in the court. The police had arrested her six days after the murder. She made contradictory statements for six days in an apparent bid to mislead investigators, the police said. Avvaru Ravindranath, the then deputy commissioner (detective department) of Bidhannagar City Police, said she broke down during interrogation and confessed. “The contradictions in her statement became apparent after the autopsy report confirmed that Dey’s death was caused by strangulation,” Ravindranath told HT in December 2018. The police said the couple often fought over the number of phone calls that Anindita made. The couple had allegedly quarrelled on the night of the murder as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/wife-of-calcutta-high-court-lawyer-pronounced-guilty-of-murdering-him-in-2018/story-vyOMl7PrQ80JihLQYC698J.html
14-09-2020||Lifestyle||Unlock 4.0: Fitness enthusiasts rejoice as gym and yoga institutes reopen in Delhi||“The last six months have been financially exhausting for all of us. I’m glad the government finally decided to heed to our demands and allowed reopening of gyms in the city,” says Ankur Sehgal, owner of two centres of Strength Gym in Paschim Vihar, Delhi. Most gym owners and fitness enthusiasts in Delhi are happy with the recent orders that permit reopening of gyms and yoga institutes, within the guidelines that mention how strictly these places need to follow social distancing and other standard operating procedures due to Covid-19 situation.Gym owners feel that the resumption of their businesses will help them pay their employees. “I’ve been lending a helping hand to all my employees, and did not lay off anyone. But, this wasn’t the case with all places in Delhi as many lost their jobs during the time when gyms and other fitness centres were asked to remain shut, and not everyone had an alternate source of living. Hopefully now all those people will get some financial support,” adds Sehgal. Fitness enthusiasts are excited that they’ll be able to resume their regime, which had taken a hit because of the temporary closure of gyms. “Ever since the lockdown, I tried working out at home and used various apps to keep myself fit. But, it was extremely tough for me to maintain a routine. Now that the gyms are opening up again, I’m happy that I’ll have an hour just to myself,” says Rupsi Kumar, a Delhi-based HR professional.Arpan Khosla, a Dwarka-based stand-up comedian, is hopeful that people will be careful while resuming their visits to fitness centres amid the pandemic, and says, “Though we are still battling cases of Covid-19, I feel it’s a good thing that gyms are reopening since they are important for a person’s physical and mental health; both of which have deteriorated during the pandemic. But, I hope all the safety measures are followed!”“We will ensure all safety measures are complied with,” says Nikhil Kakkar, COO, Gold’s Gym India. Sharing that the safety of their staff and members is on top of their mind, he adds, “Trainers have been asked to wear masks and gloves at all times, and sanitisation stations have been erected at all centres. We will follow basic cleaning and disinfecting protocols, and will sanitise the clubs on an hourly basis. There will be less members for each session in order to main social distancing.”Since the orders came in late night on Sunday, not all gym in the Capital could reopen on Monday morning as many were busy making arrangements to ensure they run in compliance with the Covid-19 safety protocol. But some gym owners are still feeling the pinch of delay in the decision to reopen the gyms. “This decision should have been taken three months back, when salons were allowed to open across India. We made several representations to the government in the last four months, which went unheard,” says Istayak Ansari, founder and director, UFC Gym India, adding that the losses that the industry has suffered will take at least a year to recover. “There has been zero revenue for the last six months, and gym members are expecting their memberships to be extended for the Covid-19 period. This will also lead to revenue loss in absence of any help from the government,” says Ansari.In non-containment zones, yoga institutes have also been granted permission to reopen. Poonam Arora, who runs Priyasha Yoga Studio in Rohini, says, “I’ve reduced my batch size, and am screening all members (before they enter the class). During this pandemic, people have become more conscious of their health and well-being, so I’m hoping this will boost our business after a six-month lull!”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lifestyle/unlock-4-0-fitness-enthusiasts-rejoice-as-gym-and-yoga-institutes-in-delhi-get-green-signal-to-reopen/story-gAMLkoYY5fc1KJ1EOB0B6N.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Income hit by lockdown, BMC looks to cut costs this year||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which was once known as the country’s richest civic body, is looking to cut costs this year amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.BMC’s income has taken a hit during the Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions, as the earnings under several heads such as property and water taxes, development charge etc; have dipped because of the viral outbreak. It’s expenditures have also risen by around Rs 600 crore because of Covid-19 relief measures, according to the latest available figure. Last week, BMC’s general body slashed Rs 2,500 crore from the funds allocated to various infrastructure projects in Mumbai such as coastal road, Gargai dam and road works.The civic body has asked all its departments to slash their revenue expenditure by at least 20%. BMC has also incurred losses from delayed collection of property, water and sewerage taxes during the lockdown period and also a loss of income in the development plan department. All departments have been asked to communicate to the accounts department how they plan to reduce their revenue expenditure. The order was issued by the accounts department 10 days ago.Revenue expenditure is the cost incurred by the civic body to keep its machinery running, including establishments and administrative costs, pensions and gratuity, and operations and maintenance costs. However, the slashing of revenue expenditure will not affect establishment cost, pensions, and corporators’ funds. “On many instances, it is noticed that departments use this money before the close of the financial year only because it is allocated in the budget,” the circular stated. In February, the then BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had presented a budget of Rs 33,441 crore, of which Rs 18,797 crore and 14,637 was revenue and capital expenditures, respectively. The budget had also enlisted measures to reduce revenue expenditure incurred by the civic body. It had introduced a hiring freeze in a bid save the civic body Rs 250 crore a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/income-hit-by-lockdown-bmc-looks-to-cut-costs-this-year/story-fmsGKpqvxewLh7HYWZnu5L.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kangana makes quiet return to Himachal, steers clear of media in Chandigarh||Unlike her high-profile departure on September 9, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut made a quiet arrival at Chandigarh airport on Monday afternoon on her way from Mumbai to her native place in Himachal Pradesh. Kangana left Mumbai “with a heavy heart” in the morning, saying she has been terrorised with “constant attacks and abuses” and declaring that her analogy comparing the city with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir was “bang on”. The actor, whose comments triggered a spat with Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena, did not talk to the media at the airport and only waved from a distance. Last week, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) took exception to the videography by TV channels on board her Chandigarh-Mumbai Indigo flight, saying such action was prohibited which compromises air safety, creates chaos and violates norms. The aviation regulator issued an order for commercial flights stating that violation of in-flight norms will invite a suspension of that scheduled route for two weeks. The actor has been aggressively criticising the film industry and the way it functions since the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June. She initially said it was not a suicide but a “planned murder” by an industry that does not acknowledge outsiders. She escalated her attack to tackle the alleged drug nexus in the industry, as well as targeting the Maharashtra government for its handling of the case. She sparked anger after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Her spat with Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut led to her receiving Y-plus security, a detail of around 10 armed commandos who accompany her whenever she travels. On her arrival in Mumbai last week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation exempted Kangana from the 14-day home quarantine rule for those arriving from outside the state after she submitted an online application for the exemption as she was on “a short visit”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kangana-makes-quiet-return-to-himachal-steers-clear-of-media-in-chandigarh/story-UMHmJWYN7hLOQmqZliOCVL.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Bollywood actor ‘relieved’ to have returned from Mumbai safely||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut took to Twitter on Monday to announce that she has arrived at Chandigarh and she is relieved to do so safely. Kangana Ranaut in her tweet wrote that several people came and wished her on her safe return. She also said that her security has been decreased upon her arrival.  चंडीगढ़ मे उतरते ही मेरी सिक्यरिटी नाम मात्र रह गयी है, लोग ख़ुशी से बधाई दे रेही हैं, लगता है इस बार मैं बच गयी, एक दिन था जब मुंबई में माँ के आँचल की शीतलता महसूस होती थी आज वो दिन है जब जान बची तो लाखों पाए, शिव सेना से सोनिया सेना होते ही मुंबई में आतंकी प्रशासन का बोल बाला।She highlighted that the atmosphere in Mumbai is full of fear and the city has been unable to retain its warm and welcoming nature. She also called the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government ‘Sonia Sena’ alluding to Congress’ partnership in the coalition. She said that there is a ‘reign of terror’ in Maharashtra.In a separate tweet, she also accused the state of inciting feelings of anti-nationalism and said that real freedom is in danger. She also said that her “voice was silenced” and she “paid the price for exercising her freedom.”The actor was referring to the recent series of events in Maharashtra. She had criticised the film industry and the Maharashtra government over the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Her tussle with the Maharashtra government intensified when she compared the state to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. After her spat with Shiv Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut over the remark she was assigned Y+ security cover. The actor’s office in Bandra was also demolished by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday. BMC alleged that there were illegal alterations made to bungalow but the Bombay High Court stayed the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bollywood-actor-relieved-to-have-returned-from-mumbai-safely/story-WP4YMRt730H0z51J5ZHtyL.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi socio-economic survey: All you need to know||A socio-economic survey conducted by the Delhi government has found that nearly one-third or 33% of the city’s households live in rented accommodations, while the remaining two-third or 66% have their own homes.The survey was carried out by the Delhi Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES). Here’s all you need to know about it:• The survey was carried out between November 2018 and 2019. A total of 20.05 lakh households and 1.02 crore people, were surveyed. As per the Delhi planning department, Delhi’s actual population is over two crore.• House ownership was found to be the highest in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), city’s most cash-strapped body. New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), meanwhile, was found to have maximum number of households on rent.• Of Delhi’s 11 districts, Shahdara (76.37%) and Central district (72.36%) have the maximum number of households. Debolina Kundu, member of Delhi’s fifth finance commission, says this shows Delhi still has large number of unauthorised colonies and slums.• 51.78% of the 20.05 lakh households surveyed were found to have vehicles for personal use. The highest number of two-wheelers were found in households with average monthly expenditure of Rs 10,000-25,000.• Air-conditioners and computers were found in 22.22% and 21.27% households. A massive 93.83% households, meanwhile, had mobile phones.• 40.78% households have ration cards and 70.98% households get tap water. Tap water, however, is not available to 5.82% households.• The survey was commissioned by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-socio-economic-survey-all-you-need-to-know/story-cYn2mMtKi6M1ijWbGcxFFI.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||‘Delhi Police trying to mute voices of those who dissent against govt’: Umar Khalid’s father||Activist Umar Khalid’s father, Sayed Qasim Rasool Ilyas, on Monday accused the Delhi police of trying to mute the voices of dissent against the government and weaving a false story a day after his son was arrested under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).The Delhi police’s special cell on Sunday arrested Khalid, 33, for his alleged role in the conspiracy behind the February riots in the national capital.Ilyas said Khalid is being targeted for participating in the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).“This is nothing but an attempt to corner the activists and silence the voices of those who dissent against the government. The Delhi police have been trying to weave a false story by naming few people who participated in the anti-CAA-NRC protests, including Umar, as the ‘masterminds’ behind the north-east [Delhi] violence. However, everyone knows who was actually behind the riots.”Also Read: Umar Khalid arrested in connection with North-East Delhi riotsThe CAA’s passage in December to fast-track the citizenship process for non-Muslims, who have entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Bangladesh before December 31, 2014, triggered protests across the country. Opponents of the law insist it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out the Muslims and links faith to citizenship in a secular country. They say it could result in the expulsion or detentions of the Muslims unable to provide the documentation if the law is seen in the context of a proposed pan-India NRC. A process carried out in Assam to detect undocumented immigrants led to the exclusion of around two million people from the NRC in 2018.Illyas alleged the Delhi police were using the same “tactic” as used in the Bhima Koregaon case in which intellectuals and activists have been accused of conspiring with Maoists to foment violence near Pune two years ago. He added stringent provisions of UAPA have been invoked in the case to ensure that the arrested persons stay in judicial custody for a longer duration.“The Delhi police are replicating what has been happening in the Bhima Koregaon incident investigation for the last two years. They have been arresting activists without any concrete evidence and invoking UAPA against them. The Delhi police are doing the same in this case. Every time they questioned Umar, they told him that they do not have concrete evidence against him but still, they have arrested him,” he said.Also Read: Delhi riots: Filmmakers Saba Dewan, Rahul Roy called for questioningIn at least four charge sheets related to the riots, police have said Khalid met suspended and jailed Aam Aadmi Party’s councillor Tahir Hussain and activist Khalid Saifi on January 8 at the Shaheen Bagh sit-in protest site against the CAA-NRC to allegedly plan the riots. He has been interrogated twice in the last two months for his alleged role.Illyas accused the police of carrying out a “witch-hunt”. “It is the clear message from the Delhi police that no one will be spared if they raise a voice against the CAA and NRC. It is just an attempt to curtail any possibility of protests against this Act in the future… They are recording false statements against certain people.”At a virtual press conference on September 4, Khalid said the police have been following two kinds of laws in Delhi -- one is for the supporters of the ruling party and another is for the people against whom evidence is being manufactured.Ilyas said the family will fight for justice. “They [police] have been trying to seek his custody. We will fight against it. But the family is not afraid. We are used to this witch-hunt now.”Hussain, Jamia student Meeran Haider, Jamia Coordination Committee’s Safoora Zargar, and Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita have also been arrested under UAPA on charges of allegedly planning and executing the north-east Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-trying-to-mute-voices-of-those-who-dissent-against-govt-umar-khalid-s-father/story-FNK4gotl2Er8nmgtxSivUI.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Remarriage during pendency of appeal against divorce not void: Bombay high court||The Bombay high court (HC) has held that a second marriage performed by a Hindu during pendency of an appeal against a decree of dissolution of h/her marriage -- though prohibited by law -- cannot be termed legally binding.The HC held that such an act cannot also be termed as a contempt of court.Justice Anil Kilor last week held that Section 15 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, allows remarriage only after the dismissal of appeal against a decree of divorce, but since no consequences for contravention of the provision are provided in the Act, a remarriage during pendency of appeal cannot be termed void.“It is clear that having provided no consequences of a marriage performed in contravention of Section 15 of the Act, it cannot be said that such marriage would be void,” said justice Kilor while dismissing a petition filed by a resident (35) of Akola, Maharashtra.The judge also rejected the petitioner’s contention that her husband, a teacher (40), who also belongs to Akola, was liable to be punished for contempt of court for having performed a second marriage during pendency of her appeal challenging the decree of divorce passed by the Akola district judge.The couple had got married in December 2003, but their conjugal ties were strained from the outset. Soon, the wife left her husband. He filed for divorce on the ground of cruelty and desertion, but a joint civil judge rejected his divorce petition in October 2009.However, the Akola district judge allowed the teacher’s appeal on November 25, 2015, and dissolved the marriage by a decree of divorce. Then, the woman moved the HC and while the appeal was pending, her husband remarried on March 20, 2016.The woman contended that under the Contempt of Court Act, 1971, willful disobedience of judgement, orders, directions and “other process of a court” are punishable as civil contempt.She argued that since the right of appeal under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, is a “process of a court”, her husband was liable to be punished for having committed civil contempt.Justice Kilor rejected the argument, observing that the “willful disobedience” is related to the same command issued by a court between admitting a legal proceeding to giving its verdict.The judge clarified that during these stages various commands need to be issued by a court such as issuance of summons, deposit of cost, compelling appearance of any expert or person as a witness, production of documents or record etc, and disobedience of any such orders would come within the ambit of “other process of a court”.But, by no stretch of imagination it can be said that contravention of provision of Section 15 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 would amount to willful disobedience of “other process of a Court”, as contemplated under the Contempt of Court Act, 1971, the HC observed.“In the said backdrop, I am of the considered view that performance of a second marriage during the pendency of appeal would be a contravention or a breach of prohibition stipulated under Section 15 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, but in no case it would amount to disobedience of any command of the court,” said Justice Kilor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/remarriage-during-pendency-of-appeal-against-divorce-not-void-bombay-high-court/story-DOx3MTmK4Rh0Uy9B852kON.html
14-09-2020||Noida||3-year-old dies after father allegedly smashes her on floor during fight: Police||A three-year-old girl died in a fight between her parents during which she was allegedly smashed on the floor by her father in Uttar Pradesh’s Noida on Sunday, police said. Her mother was also brutally injured in the incident that took place around 9.30 am at their home in Barola village, under Sector 49 police station limits, the police said. “When a local police team reached the spot, the woman was found injured and the child was found dead. They were immediately taken to a hospital, where the woman is undergoing treatment,” Additional Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh said. “An inquiry from neighbours and other locals revealed that the man was an alcoholic and often fought with his wife. They had a major fight day before yesterday also,” Singh said. The accused, identified as Amit, is a native of Bulandshahr district. He worked here and stayed with his family but is absconding now, according to the police. The accused also informed the family of his wife Renu that the child has died but told them it happened due to some other reason, the police said. “He tried to misinform his in-laws,” the Additional DCP said, adding that it prima facie appears that Amit killed his child and wounded his wife. An FIR has been lodged at the local police station and efforts are on to arrest the man, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-year-old-dies-after-father-allegedly-smashes-her-on-floor-during-fight-police/story-1L9W7C7k1jCS0qEYgmHJUJ.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Filmmakers Saba Dewan, Rahul Roy called for questioning||The Delhi police on Monday summoned documentary filmmakers Rahul Roy and Saba Dewan for questioning in connection with the North-East Delhi riots in February, a day after they arrested former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid on charges of conspiracy in the case.A police officer, who did not want to be named, confirmed the development and said that the two are yet to appear before them.Also Read: Umar Khalid arrested in connection with North-East Delhi riotsRoy was earlier named in a supplementary charge sheet filed by the police in connection with the riots. While Dewan was not mentioned in the charge sheet, another investigator said that the two were part of a WhatsApp group called ‘Delhi Protests Support Group’.Dewan did not respond to phone calls and messages for comments.The Welfare Party of India accused the Delhi police of trying to crush dissent by implicating those who took part in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. “We stand in solidarity with them against this injustice and demand that all charges be withdrawn and those who have been arrested released immediately,” it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-filmmakers-saba-dewan-rahul-roy-called-for-questioning/story-91EG6i2fHQKuKjSj2N7frK.html
14-09-2020||City||Health research picks up in Bihar in last decade, but still limited, says study||A study published in an international peer-reviewed journal this month has found an extraordinary rise in health research output from Bihar, the third most populous state of India, post-2010. “For the ten-year period from 2010 to 2019, a total of 706 research articles was published during this decade, which is more than 70% of total health research output on Bihar. In terms of growth, this was more than five times higher in output as compared to the previous decade. Clinical subjects (25 %) followed by leishmaniasis (23%) were the most common theme.”The study by Keshri VR and Tigga NS and published in Global Health Reports said medical institutions (45%) were the biggest contributors to health research and over 60% of papers were authored by a lead author from outside Bihar with a majority not having a local co-author.Also read: Centre revises most Ayushman packagesThe majority of lead authors of research papers based on Bihar were affiliated to an institution or organisation outside Bihar (61.5%). But a majority of the research papers in basic or clinical research domain were led by authors located in Bihar (54.7%).Researchers based in other Indian states and outside India contributed to 41.2% and 16.6% of the research papers on Bihar. Among international authors, the highest proportion was based in the US (8.4%), followed by European countries, including the UK (5.6%). The location of the lead authors of around 3.8% of total papers was either not mentioned or was not available.Leishmaniasis, an endemic disease whose 80% of the total cases in India are reported from Bihar, was the most common subject funded by both national (53.1%) and international (31.5%) funding sources.The study, however, found the number of papers per million of the population was 0.1 and 2.9 for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh compared to 9.3 for Karnataka. It cites inadequate teaching and research facilities as significant bottlenecks of Bihar’s health sector.The study has called for a policy intervention to address Bihar’s “very limited health research output”, which is also not aligned with the priorities of health systems and disease burden.“Overall, the health research output from a group of eight large states with 46% of the population of India accounted for less than 10% of total health research output of the country. Health in India is a subject matter under the jurisdiction of state governments and a significant disparity in health systems and health research output indicate skewed priorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-research-picks-up-in-bihar-in-last-decade-but-still-limited-says-study/story-lBuvjStpacq6UDDI0tFFqM.html
14-09-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Police book 24-year-old woman for kidnapping minor girl||The Madhya Pradesh police have booked a 24-year-old woman for kidnapping a minor girl after tracing the two to Rajasthan’s Dholpur, where they had moved after getting married in Agra, a police officer said. The two had earlier become friends on a social media site, he added. “The minor girl went missing on August 20. An FIR [First Information Report] was lodged with police in Bhind by her family under section 363 [kidnapping] of the IPC [Indian Penal Code]. The girl reportedly came to Jabalpur and resided with the 24-year-old woman. They later went to Dholpur. A missing person report regarding the woman was registered by her mother with Gohalpur police station in Jabalpur,” said Jabalpur police superintendent Siddharth Bahuguna. He added two days back, the woman informed her mother that she had married the minor girl in Agra, whom she had met via Facebook a few months ago, and wanted to spend the rest of her life with her. “The mother informed the police. A police team traced the two to Dholpur and brought them back to Jabalpur,” said Bahuguna.He said they were investigating the matter to know why they chose to live in Dholpur and if there is any other person involved.The police brought the two from Dholpur to Jabalpur on Saturday and recorded the statement of the 17-year-old girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-police-book-24-year-old-woman-for-kidnapping-minor-girl/story-xxLlaxlBUELiFM248kzHZN.html
14-09-2020||Education||Second phase of OBE: 1/4th students to appear for DU exams in person||Delhi University (DU) will start conducting the second phase of open book exams (OBE) in blended mode --both online and offline ---from Monday, with around 12,780 students expected to take the tests. While 9,467 students will take the exam in online mode, only 3,313 have chosen to appear for it in-person.According to the DU’s officiating dean (examination) DS Rawat, of around 12,780 registered students,10,780 are from the School of Open Learning (SoL) and around 2,000 are those enrolled in regular colleges and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB). “While regular students and those from NCWEB will visit their respective colleges and departments to take their exams, those enrolled in the school of learning (SoL) have been allotted centres located in different areas across the city,” he said.HT had on September 11 reported that only a quarter of students appearing in the second phase of DU exams have opted to appear in-person for their exams. In some colleges, including Sri Ram College of Commerce and Aryabhatta College, no student had registered to appear in the second phase of the exams physically. The exam will be held between September 14 and October 1.The colleges selected as examination centres for SoL students included Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women, Deen Dyal Upadhayay (DDU) College, Deshbandhu College, Saheed Bhagat Singh College and Shyama Prasad Mukherji College for Women (Girls), along with three other SoL centers.DU will conduct the second phase of its open-book exams for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students who could not appear in the first phase, that was held online between August 10 and August 31. This time, the students have been given the option to either write the exam online or visit the university’s examination centres to take the tests.The university’s examination department had last week issued a detailed advisory to all the colleges and asked them to be ready with thermal scanners, sanitisers and masks before the exams commenced. At the colleges or examination centres, students will be asked to submit an undertaking declaring themselves free of any symptom of Covid-19. They have been asked to carry their own paper sheets to write the exams; gadgets such as mobile phones or laptops to download the question paper, sanitisers, masks, gloves, and a transparent water bottle.Payal Mago, principal of Shaheed Rajguru College in Vasundhara Enclave, said that they have exams in two shifts at their college on Monday. “In the first shift we are expecting only seven students. But in the second shift, around 150 students will take the exam on Monday. We are ready with all the arrangements. We have also procured oximeters to have a quick check on students before they enter the exam centres,” she said.Principal of all other colleges said that they will sanitise their campus premises before students will arrive on Monday. Rajiv Agarwal, principal of Deshbandhu College, said that they are expecting around 80 students on Monday. “We have an exam only in the second shift tomorrow. We procured face masks, gloves and sanitising lotions. We have kept boxes in each room for students to keep their answers scripts after completing the exams. We are making efforts to make it a contactless exam,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/second-phase-of-obe-1-4th-students-to-appear-for-du-exams-in-person/story-VA20aDmLMJjSKjJdsnvvZL.html
14-09-2020||Education||Order inside NEET exam halls, but many parents flout norms||The country’s most competitive medical entrance examination, the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), was held in more than 3,800 centres across the country, with strict protocols necessitated by the pandemic, which had also led to the exam being postponed twice previously this year.The exam was conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for admissions to various medical courses and 15,97,433 candidates had registered to appear in it this year.While the exam began at 2pm, students were asked to report at their respective examination centres in staggered slots from 11am onwards to avoid crowds at a single time in any centre. Outside centres, students were required to stand inside circles drawn on the ground and spaced five or six feet apart. Candidates’ temperatures were checked before they were allowed into the centres, and upon entering, students were handed fresh face masks and asked to sanitise their hands. Examination halls were allowed to accommodate a maximum of 12 candidates at a time to allow social distance. Students were not permitted to carry anything other than the admit card, ID cards, two passport-size photographs, a sanitiser and a transparent water bottle. The exam concluded at 5 pm.Over 110 centres in the Capital were earmarked for the exam, and around 54,000 students were supposed to appear in it, with many travelling to the city from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Among the aspirants was Ankit Mehra, 17, who had taken a roadways bus from Haryana’s Rohtak district to his centre in Mayur Vihar. “I took an auto from the bus stand to my exam centre. I was initially scared because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, but I am satisfied with the arrangements made at the centre,” he said.While many students travelled to the centres in private vehicles, some took taxis, while others used the Delhi Metro, which began operations early on Sunday, in view of the exam. Shrishti Bansal, 18, a resident of Dilshad Garden, who used the Metro to travel to her centre in Rohini. “It was more convenient to take the Metro than a taxi. I was glad the service restarted operations before the exam, because we don’t own a vehicle,” she said.Many students, however, said they had a tough time writing exams while wearing gloves. Rubina Siddiqui, 18, a resident of Shankar Vihar, said, “It’s very challenging to write an exam while wearing a mask and gloves. It would have been better if the exam was being conducted on computers at the centres.”Most students, however, said they were relieved the exam is now over. Sweta Singh, 19, a resident of Lakshmi Nagar, said she had dropped a year to prepare for NEET. “I was getting very anxious because of the delay in the exam... I was waiting for this exam for the last 18 months, and am glad it’s finished now,” she said.The NTA allowed in students with high body temperature, but no other Covid-19 symptoms. At an examination centre in north Delhi’s Raj Niwas Road, special arrangements were made for a student after her temperature was recorded to be above the normal. “The student had no other symptoms. We made her sit and take the exam in a separate room,” an official at the centre said.Meanwhile, many parents complained that social distancing was not maintained outside several examination centres. Ramesh Singh, a businessman from Narela whose daughter appeared in the exam at a centre in east Delhi, said, “There was so much crowd outside the exam centre at around 5pm. Many parents were not even wearing masks. People continued to gather there despite officials trying to disperse crowds and requesting parents to keep a distance.”Similar concerns were raised by parents from an examination centre in Narela. Amit Sehgal, father of an 18-year-old aspirant, said, “My son was satisfied with the management inside the exam centre, but the crowd management outside was very poor. There was a sea of parents outside the centre in the evening, with no proper distancing maintained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/order-inside-neet-exam-halls-but-many-parents-flout-norms/story-rzW6gORcBvQlO94rcqrbKL.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi gyms: Select few reopen, most remain shut due to late night order||A select few gymnasiums resumed their services on Monday morning because owners either were making the necessary arrangements to ensure proper sanitisation and hygiene following the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, or were unaware of any such order being passed by the Delhi government that has also allowed yoga centres to operate.In a late night order on Sunday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed gymnasiums and yoga institutes to reopen with immediate effect on condition that they strictly follow all the Covid-19 safety protocols that have been put in place by the government.Also Read: Delhi govt permits gyms and yoga centres to open under Unlock 4On Monday morning, a few small gymnasiums in the national capital reopened, but most of them largely remained shut.Sunil Kumar Tonk, the owner of Black’s Gym, which has 16 fitness centres across Delhi-national capital region (NCR), said he would need up to three days to reopen all his gymnasiums.“The order came so late on Sunday night that most gymnasiums owners still do not know about it. On Monday and Tuesday, I shall hold meetings with the heads of my fitness centres to ensure that all the safety measures are in place. We will reopen the fitness centres after taking all precautions,” Tonk said.But, Spartan’s Gyms and Aerobics centre at Vikaspuri reopened at 5am and by 8:30am at least five members had used the facility.Lucky Wasan, the owner of the gymnasium, said he was ready with all the preparations. “We have sanitised our premises and equipment. Everyone is wearing a mask while working out. However, our changing rooms are shut for now,” Wasan said.Aditi Rai, a member of the gymnasium who came for a workout session, said the Delhi government’s decision is a big relief for her. “Working out is like meditation for me. For all these days, I somehow adjusted with home workouts, but there’s nothing like sweating it out in the gymnasium with your peers and trainers to pump you up. However, a drawback is that high intensity workout gets difficult while wearing masks. The breathing pattern is somewhat compromised,” she said.There are over 6,000 gyms and fitness centres across the national capital that employ more than 100,000 people.Sunday’s order stated that gymnasiums and yoga centres would be allowed to operate with immediate effect only if they strictly follow the standard operating procedures (SOP) laid down by the Union ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoH&FW). “In case of any violation, owner and manager of the premises shall be liable for persecution under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides sealing of such premises forthwith,” the order, seen by HT, stated. It also directed all district disaster management authorities to ensure that gymnasiums and yoga centres comply strictly with the SOPs in a bid to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The SOPs for gyms issued by the Centre on August 3 had restricted yoga and workout sessions to only such activities that do not require trainers to touch members and not more than 10 people per 1,000 square (sq) feet (ft) of space.Facilities such as sauna, shower, body massage and spas were also not be available until further orders. All other social distancing and preventive measures such as hand hygiene and thermal screening at the entrance were to be strictly followed by members and gymnasium and yoga organisers.Face masks will be mandatory at all times within gymnasium and yoga centre premises. Gymnasiums and yoga institutes must ensure a minimum distance of six feet between individuals. They should try and utilise outdoor space by relocating or offering online training classes wherever possible. Specific entry and exit pathways to be created by floor and wall markings and precautionary instructions on posters to be placed within closed spaces are some of the rules issued by the Centre as part of the SOPs.The Central government under its unlock 3:0 guidelines issued on July 29 had allowed gymnasiums and yoga centres to reopen across the country from August 5. But the DDMA, headed by Lieutenant- Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, did not allow the resumption of these services owing to a spike Covid-19 cases in the national capital. On August 6, the Delhi government had sent a file to the L-G’s office to reopen hotels, weekly markets, gymnasiums and yoga centres in the national capital.The DDMA on August 19 had allowed the reopening of hotels and weekly markets, but gymnasiums and yoga centres were prohibited until Sunday’s order overturned it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-thanks-to-late-night-order-gyms-yet-to-reopen/story-nuCyDVYkYcrrJOE8s3BmZJ.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi slum eviction: BJP to raise the issue in Delhi Assembly||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers will raise the issue of providing housing to 48,000 families living in slums on railway land in the national capital during Delhi assembly’s monsoon session on Monday. The BJP said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government has close to 31,000 flats lying vacant and 20,000 in various stages of construction in different parts of the national capital.The Supreme Court (SC) has recently ordered the removal of 48,000 slum-dwellers from railway land within a period of 90 days.Also Read: Delhi slum eviction: 11 slum dwellers file plea to join proceedings in Supreme Court caseBJP legislator Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is also leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, said, “These flats have been constructed using Central funds. The Delhi government should work out a plan to shift these people in the flats that are lying vacant. We want a discussion on this issue. We want the government to tell us what it plans to do. The government should play a proactive role and assure the slum-dwellers that they will be given accommodation.”The BJP’s Delhi unit is planning a protest march in the national capital over the issue.Manoj Tiwari, who represents north-east Delhi in the Lok Sabha, wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday, urging 48,000 families living in slums on railway land be shifted to vacant flats available with the Delhi government.Also Read: Demolition of slums near tracks illegal without rehabilitation, Delhi govt writes to RailwaysTiwari, a former chief of Delhi’s BJP unit, wrote, “It is the responsibility of your government to ensure that the slum-dwellers are relocated systematically and given proper accommodation without any risk to their lives in the present situation because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.”The two-time Member of Parliament (MP) said that the Delhi government has 31, 424 flats, which were constructed under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). The MP questioned Kejriwal the reason for the delay in allocating the vacant flats to the slum-dwellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-slum-eviction-bjp-to-raise-the-issue-in-delhi-assembly/story-gSxv9pyaHCKFyx9jJaL3DJ.html
14-09-2020||Education||IIT Bombay’s Techfest launches mental health awareness initiative||Techfest, the annual science and technology festival of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, launched a nationwide initiative for college-goers to address mental health concerns among the youth amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The initiative will comprise organising extensive workshops that will be attended by over 90 counsellors from across the country. The festival committee has also launched a section on its official website that will connect students to counsellors and help fight the stigma attached to mental illnesses. It is called HOPE (Healing Occurs with Positivity and Expression).Also Read: Election commission’s tech advisory panel to assess options for remote voting“The website will feature an interactive query section where the students will be able to post their queries and mental health-related issues anonymously and get help from counsellors. The website will also host helpline numbers of more than 10 prominent NGOs (non-governmental organisations) from across the country. Blogs addressing general mental health issues will be also published on the website,” said a spokesperson for Techfest.On Sunday afternoon, the Techfest team started the initiative with an Instagram Live with Radhika Madan, an actor, and Akila Maheshwari, a trustee and the founder of NAMI India—a non-profit working to eradicate and treatment of mental illness in the country by integrating and involving consumers, mentally-challenged people, doctors, healthcare workers, and the government. The website was launched on Sunday and the workshops are expected to begin on September 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-bombay-s-techfest-launches-mental-health-awareness-initiative/story-FZW1liQpMc2jIqyEvV1jzO.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Phase 4 stations to accept ‘one nation one card’: All you need to know||The upcoming Phase 4 lines of the Delhi Metro’s automatic fare collection (AFC) system will be fully compliant with the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) and commuters will also be able to use a mobile phone to enter or exit a station on its corridors, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) chief Mangu Singh has said.The inter-operable NCMC, dubbed One Nation One Card, was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March last year.He said that these two facilities might be rolled out at the Airport Express Line by the end of this year.Know all about the One Nation One Card:• The indigenously-developed NCMC enables people to pay multiple kinds of transport charges, including for metro and bus services across the country, through a common card.• It will also allow card holders to pay their toll taxes, parking charges, retail shopping and even withdraw money.• In Delhi Metro’s Phase 4, the AFC system will fully accept the national common mobility cards, which can be used in any city, Singh told news agency PTI.• A mobile phone will effectively work as smart card, and riders will be able to use to enter or exit the AFC gates, in Phase 4 metro lines.• The DMRC has clarified that old smart cards will also work on the new lines.• The Union Cabinet, in a meeting chaired by PM Modi, in March last year had approved three out of the six corridors of the Delhi Metro’s proposed Phase 4 project.• Under approved segment, 61.679 kilometres of new metro lines shall be constructed across three different corridors comprising 45 metro stations. These new sections shall provide interconnectivity among the already operational lines of the Delhi Metro.• The corridors approved by the Union cabinet include Mukundpur-Maujpur, R K Ashram-Janakpuri West and Aerocity-Tughlakabad. The other three proposed corridors of Phase 4 which have not yet been approved are Rithala-Bawana-Narela, Inderlok-Indraprastha and Lajpat Nagar-Saket G Block.• Work had begun on the construction of Delhi Metro’s Phase 4 project with a groundbreaking ceremony held at Haider Badli Mor on December 30 last year. Piling work had begun for construction of 10 stations of 28.92-km Janakpuri West-R K Ashram Marg corridor, which is an extension of the Magenta Line and will have a total of 22 stations.• The Phase 4 project will see many highs and several firsts for the DMRC, including the first-ever metro bridge over Yamuna to be built using the cantilever construction technique, and the highest point in the DMRC system, at Haiderpur Badli Mor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-phase-4-stations-to-accept-one-nation-one-card-all-you-need-to-know/story-zK3LTYYQKy2uR5zlNowoqK.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||‘Reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid patients’: Delhi govt to private hospitals||With the number of hospitalisations of patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the rise, hospitals in Delhi have started running out of intensive care unit beds. Only 35% of the total 2,201 ICU beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients across hospitals remain vacant as on Monday morning, according to the Delhi Corona App. With this in mind, the Delhi government yesterday ordered 28 big private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. The total number of hospitalisations stood at 6,503, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. This has overshot the highest number of hospitalisations – just over 6,200 - Delhi had seen during the surge in cases in June. Those in hospitals account for only about 22% of the total number of active cases or those still living with the infection in Delhi. The government had set up a committee in the beginning of June to assess the need for hospital beds. Based on the trends then, the committee had predicted that Delhi would need 15,000 beds by the end of June and 42,000 by mid-July. However, the numbers started declining in June-end.The government, in the meantime, had ramped up its bed capacity to over 15,000 and slowly started bringing it down in August when the number of new cases as well as hospitalisations saw a dip. Currently, Delhi has 14,397 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients across hospitals – both government and private. Of these, only 15% beds are in the intensive care units and are either with or without ventilators. To increase the number of ICU beds, the government had first directed its own hospitals - Lok Nayak, Guru Teg Bahadur, and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital - to scale up the number of ICU beds. The three hospitals currently have 600 ICU beds of which almost 48% remain vacant.It is the big private multi-speciality hospitals that are running out of ICU beds, about 85% of the ICU beds in these hospitals are currently occupied.“You see, the patients who had been delaying their surgeries and other planned procedures have started visiting the hospitals in the last one month, with most of the big private hospitals running at 90% of their total ICU capacity. If you look at the statistics from these bigger hospitals in the last three months, they received about 2.5 times non-Covid patients than Covid patients. This means the government would be jeopardising the lives of these non-Covid patients,” said Girdhar Gyani, director general of the Association of Healthcare Providers (India).“Apart from that, this move is also penalising the private hospitals economically. When they say 80% of the ICU beds have to be reserved, it means the beds have to be reserved even if there aren’t any Covid-19 patients. But, the government would not be paying the hospitals. It is one thing to say, reserve 500 beds and we will pay for it. Besides, why should ICU beds be kept vacant when someone else might need it,” said Gyani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/reserve-80-icu-beds-for-covid-patients-delhi-govt-to-private-hospitals/story-4kGIhbDola1oUCKhk5sXrO.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro resumes all services: Monday morning starts with a glitch||Minutes after the Delhi Metro started its services on Monday—the first weekday after the entire network was made operational after nearly six months—train movement on Yellow Line (Samayapur Badli to HUDA City Centre) was affected due to technical reasons.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) informed commuters on Twitter that train services between certain stations will be affected due to “track repair work” between Rajiv Chowk (one of the busiest interchange stations) and New Delhi station.DMRC tweeted, “Delay in services between Rajiv Chowk and Vishwavidyalaya due to track repair work between Rajiv Chowk and New Delhi stations.”Yellow Line UpdateDelay in services between Rajiv Chowk and Vishwavidyalaya due to track repair work between Rajiv Chowk and New Delhi stations.Normal service on all other lines.According to DMRC official, train service between Samaypur Badli and Vishwavidyalaya Metro stations ais normal. Due to track repair, service between Vishwavidyalaya and Rajiv Chowk Metro stations is affected, as only a single track is available for use.“There is normal train service between Rajiv Chowk and HUDA City Centre stations. This is being necessitated in view of the track repair work being undertaken on a portion between Rajiv Chowk and New Delhi section of Up line (going towards Samaypur Badli),” a DMRC statement read. Also Read: Phase-4 stations will accept ‘One Nation One Card’, mobile phones to also work for entry: DMRCWith DMRC starting its operations on September 7 in a staggered manner, Monday is the first working day when the entire network is operational. DMRC officials had said that they have been repairing and maintaining the system during the lockdown. DMRC planned to make 4,500 train trips from Monday, expecting a surge in ridership. Nearly 1.5 lakh people took a ride on the Metro on Saturday, the day when the entire network (spread over 389km) was made operational for the first time after nearly six months. According to DMRC, 1,52, 845 people had travelled on Metro, which was nearly 24,000 more than Friday’s total passenger count. Also Read: 114 commuters penalised for violating norms as DMRC resumes full servicesAnuj Dayal, executive director, DMRC, said, “Over 4,500 trips will be made with 294 trains across the network including Airport Express Line. A team of around 8,000 housekeeping staff will look after the overall cleaning/sanitisation work across the network. Around 1,500 Delhi Metro officers and staff along with civil defence volunteers, in addition to the regular staff, are being specially deployed at the stations to facilitate the commuters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-resumes-all-services-monday-morning-starts-with-a-glitch/story-hDGub5TPUoVkzXPlgczXxH.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Light drizzle, partly cloudy skies in Delhi today||After a dry spell, Delhi is likely to see very light rain or drizzle on Monday with partly cloudy skies. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast light rainfall activity in Delhi and neighbouring regions. Also read: 25% excess rain recorded in peninsular India, NW India largely dry“Though very light rainfall is expected, the day and night temperatures are likely to remain on the higher side because of high humidity levels. However, Delhi may see proper rain or thundershowers only around September 18-19,” said a senior IMD official. On Sunday also, the day temperature was 37 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal while minimum temperature settled at 26.6 degrees C, two notches above normal. “The neighbouring regions are experiencing rainfall because of which there is high moisture content in the atmosphere leading to humidity. Delhi may get some relief from heat in the day with rainfall over the weekend,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/light-drizzle-partly-cloudy-skies-in-delhi-today/story-7MUy7OgxCwaSCI4hyUoHjM.html
14-09-2020||Lucknow||UP to get special security force with powers to search and arrest without any warrant||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday said a special force will be constituted after an order from the Allahabad high court, which had expressed its displeasure over the security at civil courts last December.Briefing reporters in Lucknow, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said, “The state government has given orders for the constitution of a special security force. A roadmap in this regard has been sought from the UP DGP. This is a dream project of the UP chief minister. The basis of this force is an order of the high court, which had ordered that there should be a specialised force for civil courts. In all, there will be 9,919 personnel in the force.”Awasthi said five battalions of the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF) will be constituted in the first phase and it will be headed by an ADG-ranked officer.“Expenses incurred in the first phase will be around Rs 1,747 crore,” Awasthi said.Later, in a statement, he said the force will provide security to the high court, district courts, administrative offices and buildings, metro rail, airports, banks, financial institutions, educational institutions and industrial units.This force will have the powers to search without any warrant. Members of this force will also be able to arrest any person without the orders of a magistrate or a warrant, the statement said.On December 18, 2019, the Allahabad high court had pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government over a shootout at a Bijnor courtroom.Three assailants had on December 17, 2019, opened fire in the court of the Bijnor chief judicial magistrate, killing a murder accused and injuring three others - two policemen and a court employee.The Muzaffarnagar court had witnessed a similar incident in 2015, when an armed man entered the courtroom masquerading as a lawyer and shot dead Vicky Tyagi, an alleged gangster.Chairperson of the Uttar Pradesh Bar Council, Darvesh Kumari Yadav, 36, was shot dead by a colleague in her chamber on the civil court premises in Agra on June 13, 2019.A two-judge high court bench had said that most incompetent police personnel are being posted at the courts, adding that it will seek the deployment of central forces if the state government is not up to the task.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-s-upssf-can-arrest-any-person-without-a-warrant/story-CdAK21jc99LK9gL8dTsqqM.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Fight Covid-19, not the Opposition or Kangana Ranaut, Fadnavis tells Thackeray||Maharashtra accounts for 40 per cent total deaths in the country due to Covid-19, hence Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should fight against Covid-19 rather than the opposition or actor Kangana Ranaut, said Devendra Fadnavis, Maharashtra BJP leader. “Today in Maharashtra there are more than 10 lakh Covid-19 patients and our state accounts for 40 per cent total deaths in the country.... Firstly, our Chief Minister should fight against coronavirus rather than opposition or Kangana,” said Fadnavis. Speaking about Bihar elections, Fadnavis said, “We will practise making man to man contact while maintaining physical distancing. The credibility of our opposition parties has ended. People will bless our alliance.” Earlier on Sunday, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Fadnavis in Bihar’s Ara said that the beating up of a former Naval officer in Mumbai is a kind of “state-sponsored terror”, and reiterated that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should stop the “gunda raj”.“What happened is very wrong. This is a kind of state-sponsored terror. As I did through my tweet yesterday, I call upon the Chief Minister to stop this gunda raj. Six people were arrested yesterday after pressure from the media but were released within 10 minutes. I do not think Maharashtra has ever seen such a situation before,” Fadnavis said while speaking to the media here.Fadnavis reached Bihar on Friday ahead of the state assembly elections along with BJP national president JP Nadda as part of his two-day visit to poll-bound Bihar.Earlier on Friday, Madan Sharma, a former Navy officer alleged that he was beaten up by goons from the Shiv Sena after he forwarded a message on WhatsApp.“An extremely sad and shocking incident. A retired naval officer got beaten up by goons because of just a WhatsApp forward. Please stop this Gunda Raj Hon Uddhav Thackeray ji. We demand strong action and punishment for these goons,” Fadnavis had tweeted on Friday, along with a picture of the officer.Six people were arrested in connection with the incident on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fight-covid-19-not-the-opposition-or-kangana-ranaut-fadnavis-tells-thackeray/story-zmfIJHsEo8uZULaAB66RfP.html
14-09-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro to resume services from today||Kolkata Metro will resume its services from Monday, more than five months after its services were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to reporters, Kolkata Metro General Manager Manoj Joshi said Metro Railway will run 110 services on the Noapara-Kavi Subhash line every day, except Sundays when operations will remain shut for sanitisation of rakes and stations.“Between Noapara and Kavi Subhash, 55 trains will run in each direction starting from 8 am. The last train will leave the terminal stations on both ends at 7 pm,” he said.Operations will also recommence on the East-West line from September 14 between Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium stations with 36 services in each direction.The first train will leave at 8 am and the last train of the day will depart the terminal stations at both ends at 7.40 pm. The services will be available between Monday and Saturday, he said.Railway Minister Piyush Goyal urged passengers to follow the dos and don’t to ensure safe travel.“Kolkata Metro back on track: To ensure safe Metro travel, follow all the Dos and Don’t. This is for your own safety,” Goyal tweeted, asking people to travel responsibly and sensibly.Joshi said that trains will run on the Noapara-Kavi Subhash line at an interval of 10 minutes during peak hours and will have stoppages of 30 seconds at each station instead of the previous 20 seconds, in order to avoid the rush for boarding or deboarding.Metro services on both the lines have remained suspended since March 23 when the nationwide lockdown was announced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Bookings for e-passes will commence from Sunday and a passenger can book both onward and return journeys, Joshi said.The e-passes can be booked from the ‘Pathadisha’ mobile app. Entry to the metro stations will only be allowed on showing the e-passes.Only smart cards will be allowed for travelling on the metro, an official said.The Metro Railway has decided to allow a maximum 400 passengers at a time in its trains to avoid crowding and to maintain Covid-related norms.The Metro Railway has issued a set of dos and don’t for passengers.The passengers will have to wear masks covering face and nose, and will have to sanitise their hands from sanitiser dispensers placed at each platform before boarding a train, according to a Metro official.Passengers will have to get their body temperature checked through thermal screening at the time of entry to a metro station and will have to use specified gates for entry and exit, the official said.The Metro authorities said that passengers having fever, cough or cold should not undertake a journey in its trains.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-metro-to-resume-services-from-today/story-Ft8FIhZwuyqCL9Acie4WtO.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Long rest in Shidipura||The world is so much at turbulence. But here, all is at peace. Which isn’t surprising for this is a graveyard.Shidipura Qabristan, near Filmistan Cinema in central Delhi, isn’t huge, far smaller than that more famous Muslim graveyard—Dilli Gate Qabristan in ITO. But within its limited geography, it exists like an isolated autonomous land, free of the constraints existing beyond its walls.This morning, no one’s here. The only sound is of the cooing of birds hidden amid the thicket of tree leaves. While the hyperactive squirrels are playfully running after one another over the fallen leaves. Some distance away, a long tail slithers under a cover of crackling dry leaves—is that a snake? A large number of graves have plants and weedy grass growing out of them. Some are so thick with this flora that they appear to be like flower pots. The stone slabs of a few graves show long undulating cracks, the surface of the stones have smoothened over the passage of several seasons. As in all cemeteries, it is fascinating to read the inscriptions carved on these gravestones. Quite a few of the buried people here are referred to as “waley”, meaning belonging to. For example: Haji Tajiuddin Tahir Papaiyye Wale. Another gravestone belongs to a woman. The carved inscription doesn’t give away her name. Instead, she is identified as “W/O Late Mohd. Aslam Culcutta Wale.”The graveyard shows absolutely no sign of the life going on outside. While strolling along the narrow track dappled with the shadows of tree leaves, one feels so far removed from the world that coronavirus and all the other news headlines of the day seem like a rumour. But there’s one material exception to this utmost detachment —the colourful paper kites trapped among the trees. Indeed, if you look up, you would keep spotting more and more kites—perhaps they belong to the area’s kite players and drifted over unto the graveyard after their strings were cut.And finally, a living human is sighted. The elderly man is alone. He is carefully sprinkling grains beside a succession of graves. “It’s for birds,” he says, explaining that he comes daily to the graveyard to feed the birds.On stepping outside the cemetery’s gate, the road is clogged with auto rickshaws and cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-long-rest-in-shidipura/story-HSHy8LFJqrNyGSgZQ4nVOI.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s plan for 2041 to revive old colonies||The Master Plan of Delhi-2041, which is the vision document for the city, will spell out a detailed “regeneration policy” for areas that have come up decades ago and now need better civic infrastructure. Though the current master plan also allows redevelopment of existing areas but the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has asked the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which is preparing the next master plan, to work on a regeneration policy keeping the ground realities in mind.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said, “The regeneration policy will be one of the key focus areas on the new Master Plan. It is an important aspect, as large parts of the city were developed a long time back.”“The city has grown over the years and so has the infrastructure requirement. Regeneration of old areas in a planned manner will help in providing better civic infrastructure and basic amenities,” said Jain.Officials said the policy will only provide a legal provision and a road map for redevelopment but it is up to the people of a particular locality to pool in land — the critical component to build new facilities — for more amenities with the DDA only facilitating the effort. Experts say that bringing people together for such projects was the reason why only two major projects —East Kidwai Nagar and the seven pool residential accommodation colonies — could be taken up under the redevelopment policy under MPD-2021. Since government was the land owner, there was no hurdle in the projects. Several housing societies in Indraprastha Extension in East Delhi, which came up in the late 70s and early 80s, have been demanding redevelopment. Despite several efforts by some residents, no redevelopment projects were sanctioned in this area. Madan Khatri, president of Vikalp cooperative group housing society, said, “For nearly a decade, we have been running from pillar to post to get the benefit of the redevelopment scheme. Our societies are designed as per the 1962 MPD and can’t meet the growing civic infrastructure needs. We want the DDA to clearly draft the redevelopment policy so that people can benefit from it.”The resident welfare associations say that the policy will be beneficial for residential colonies that came up four-five decades back. “There are several double-storeyed resettlement developments in Lajpat Nagar, Rajendra Nagar etc., which came up in the 60s. These colonies don’t have the adequate civic infrastructure. But the DDA should spell out the norms, as getting people together for redevelopment is difficult,” said Atul Goyal, president of URJA, a collective of RWAs across Delhi.Urban development experts agree that a regeneration or redevelopment policy is needed, as there are several areas, especially urbanised villages, unauthorised colonies, resettlement colonies, where redevelopment is the only way forward to improve the quality of life. But instead of a broad policy, efforts should be made to chalk out area-specific plans, they added. To ensure that the policy gets implemented and people actually benefit from it, AK Jain, former planning commission with the DDA, said the policy should encourage community-based approach and be area specific. “For the redevelopment, we can’t have a blanket policy for all the areas. It should be area specific as the problems of an urbanised village are very different from a plotted colony or unauthorised colonies. There are other issues too which needs to be addressed,” said Jain.The policy can be useful in improving the civic infrastructure in developing areas with mixed land use, resettlement colonies, unauthorised colonies, rural and urbanised villages and slums.Sanjukkta Bhaduri, professor of urban planning and dean research at the School of Planning and Architecture, said areas such as Mangolpuri where several resettlement colonies came up in the late 1960s. “Redevelopment is the only way forward for these areas. But it should be based on the local area plan which must be prepared ward-wise. We also need to assess the impact of the project on the nearby areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-plan-for-2041-to-revive-old-colonies/story-vKrvcCdVLyfPJJiJo2W5NN.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi assembly session today; 4 MLAs coronavirus-positive||A day ahead of a one-day special session of the Delhi assembly, at least four MLAs had informed the Vidhan Sabha secretariat that they have tested positive for Covid-19. All legislators had been asked to mandatorily get tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) before attending the session on Monday and carry the report with them. The session will be conducted with all Covid-19 protocols, officials said, with the legislators being allowed to sit on a first-come-first serve basis and following strict social distancing norms and wearing face mask. Assembly secretariat officials said the MLAs who have tested positive until Sunday evening were BJP MLA from Ghonda Ajay Mahawar and AAP MLAs from Wazirpur Rajesh Gupta, from Kirari Rituraj Jha and Surendra Kumar from Gokalpuri. Besides legislators, 214 officials, security personnel and support staff were also tested through the rapid antigen test, of which three tested positive. These include two Delhi Assembly officials and one Delhi Police assistant sub-inspector.“Apart from these four, 29 MLAs had got RT-PCR tests done at the Delhi Assembly on Friday. While 22 legislators have tested negative, results of seven are awaited. Rest of the MLAs can either bring their Covid test reports on Monday or get a rapid antigen test done on the Assembly premises before the session begins,” a senior government official, said on condition of anonymity. According to the list of business, the session will have no Question Hour. However, it will have a special mention session where a few MLAs selected by Speaker Ram Niwas Goel will be allowed to speak. “Members (MLAs) have been requested to confine the text of the Special Mention to 8-10 lines only and not to deviate from the original text, while raising the same on the floor of the House. Any deviation will be disallowed and treated as summarily expunged from the proceedings. The matter should relate to only one department and raise only one issue,” Goel said.In the remaining part of the session, various bills and order will be tabled for the approval of the House. These include the recent tariff order issued by the Delhi electricity regulatory commission (DERC) and the Delhi goods and services tax (amendment) bill, 2020.While Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators are planning to talk about the ‘Delhi Model’ in Covid-19 management during the special mentions, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) MLAs said they would raise the issue of demolition of 48,000 slums along Delhi’s railway tracks. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “If the Delhi government fails to rehabilitate the slum dwellers, then BJP will do it and rehabilitate them in the vacant flats. The BJP will vociferously raise the issue of 48,000 slum dwellers ordered to be removed from railway land during the Assembly session,” said Bidhuri.This will be the second session of the assembly to be convened during the Covid-19 pandemic. Previously, a one-day session was held on March 23 to present the budget. But, there were no such precautionary measures being taken in that session except for members of the House being seated at a distance from one another.The Speaker said visitors will not be allowed and the entry of media persons will be strictly on the basis of their Covid-19 negative report.To maintain social distancing, additional extra chairs have been kept in the House. Usually, two MLAs sit on one bench, but now only one person will be allowed to sit on one bench, an Assembly official said.“Seats have been reserved only for the ministers. So, the rest of the MLAs will have to take the seats on first-come-first-serve basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-session-today-4-mlas-coronavirus-positive/story-pLXU236LyJzaJcW1UB1fGJ.html
14-09-2020||City||Cops to quash rape FIR against Cong sarpanch, 2 others as victim contradicts mother’s statement||Police on Sunday initiated the process of quashing the first information report (FIR) against a Congress sarpanch and two other residents of Randhawa village in Kapurthala district that was registered allegedly for raping a minor girl on September 7 as the 15-year-old alleged victim contradicted the statement of her mother before the child welfare committee (CWC). The victim’s mother too changed her statement on Sunday. “The girl told the CWC members that Jaspal alias Jassa (20) of Boot village raped her on the pretext of resolving dispute with her boyfriend. She, however, said sarpanch Billu, Gagan, and Manpreet did not rape her,” said Bholath deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jatinderjit Singh. The police on Saturday had arrested Jassa and booked three under Sections 376-D (gangrape) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). “We are investigating the matter. There is no other evidence against them (sarpanch and 2 others). The FIR will be quashed against the three,” superintendent of police (investigation) Sarabjit Singh said. The case is also being supervised by the district legal service authority (DLSA) and CWC members and they are ensuring financial and medical assistance to the victim as per the POCSO procedure. OUT ON BAIL, RAPE ACCUSED VIOLATES 8-YEAR-OLD GIRLA 35-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly raping a six-year-old girl in the Bholath sub-division of Kapurthala district.The accused, Mohammad Ali, who hails from Bihar and works as a tailor, was out on bail in a rape case. He was arrested in May 2018 for raping a woman. He came out on bail last year. He is married and has three children.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jatinderjit said the case was registered on the statement of the victim’s mother. Medical examinations of the girl confirmed sexual assault, he added.“A case under Sections 376-B (punishment for rape on woman under 12) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) was registered against him. The accused lured the minor on pretext of giving her candies and later raped her at an abandoned place,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-to-quash-rape-fir-against-cong-sarpanch-2-others-as-victim-contradicts-mother-s-statement/story-5BhTAx9ChnxOSAZB6j5kiP.html
14-09-2020||City||Eight-fold rise in weapon seizures on Indo-Pak border in Punjab this year||The recovery of weapons by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab witnessed an eight-fold spike this time as compared to the corresponding month last year. According to officials, 32 weapons of different types, including AK-series assault rifles and Berretta pistols, were seized along the border till September 12. Last year, the figure was only 4 till September 30. The BSF personnel seized 12 and 19 weapons along the Punjab border during the entire year in 2019 and 2018. Also, a spike of more than two-and-a-half times was witnessed in the recoveries of heroin along the international border this year, said BSF. The BSF seized 394-kg heroin along the border till September 12 against 149kg till the corresponding period last year. “Pakistan is really desperate to push in consignments of weapons for Kashmir and anti-national elements in other parts of the country. Prima facie, it appears the weapons are being smuggled to encourage terror activities in India,” said a senior BSF official. “Not only the quantity of heroin recovered increased but also the number of incidents of consignment being pushed into the Indian territory went up. In 2019, the incidents of smuggling were less as compared to this year. We noticed that at least one pistol — either of Pakistan or China make — is being smuggled from across the border with each consignment of heroin,” the official added. BSF inspector general (IG Punjab frontier) Mahipal Yadav said, “Right now, I don’t have access to the data and therefore can’t make any comment on the issue.” Punjab shares 553-kilometre frontier with Pakistan, apart from Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, and Gujarat. A senior Punjab Police official, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “After the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir, strict security arrangements have been put in place there. Now, some people in Pakistan are trying to sneak in weapons into the Indian territory through the Punjab border.” The biggest recent weapon seizure was in the Abohar sector on September 12 in which the BSF’s 124 Battalion seized three AK-47 rifles with six magazines and 91 rounds, two M-16 rifles with four magazines and 57 rounds and two pistols with four magazines and 20 rounds. Also, last month, the BSF’s 103 Battalion shot down five Pakistani intruders who allegedly opened fire on them in the Dal border outpost of Tarn Taran district. During the search operation of the area, an AK-47 assault rifle with two magazines and 27 rounds, four .9mm Berretta pistols with seven magazines and 109 rounds, 9kg heroin and two mobile phones were recovered. Later, the police arrested four persons — two from Dal village and two from Dhunda village in the district who were to receive the consignment. Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said, “Our investigation into the case suggested that the four arrested men were to deliver the consignment to two persons who have been identified. They are still at large. The motive behind the smuggling of weapons will be clear once we nab the two men.” The SSP said they have been holding meetings with the BSF officials to strengthen the second line of defence in the border areas of the district. “In the coming days, we are planning to install joint check-posts with the BSF,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-fold-rise-in-weapon-seizures-on-indo-pak-border-in-punjab-thsi-year/story-vmses1XlJqNhRjHudIcQ0O.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre to review Chandigarh’s Covid preparedness||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases being reported in the city, the Centre is expected to review the union territory’s preparedness on Tuesday.“A review meeting will be held with the secretary of home ministry through video-conferencing on Tuesday to discuss the evolving situation,” said a senior UT health officer, wishing not to be named.In just two weeks of September, the city has reported more cases (3,645) than the total number of cases reported in the month of August. In the last seven days, the 300 daily-case mark was crossed at least three times.This prompted authorities to direct the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to convert the Infosys Foundation Sarai into a hospital for Covid patients.The last time that the Centre had asked the UT administration to bring more areas under the containment zones, restrictions were imposed in 24 more areas across the city. The Centre had also directed UT to create more quarantine centres.The administration has, in turn, sought a team of medical experts from the Centre to guide it in containing the spread of the disease.Officials said a two-member team, constituting a professor-rank community medicine expert from PGIMER and a deputy director-level officer of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), had made rounds of the Covid hospitals in the city and also held several meetings with the UT director health services. However, no report has been submitted thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-to-review-chandigarh-s-covid-preparedness/story-pvdmYyAsufUlMW8Witj8GP.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two youth held for stealing mobile phones in Chandigarh’s Manimajra||Two unemployed youths in their early twenties were arrested for stealing two mobile phones from Manimajra, the police said on Sunday.A daily wager, Tehmud Ahmad, told the police that he had forgotten to lock the doors of his house and when he woke up on Saturday morning, he found that both his mobile phones had been stolen.Police said after tracking the location of the phones and confirming a tip-off from an informer, they arrested Ajay Verma of Mohali and Ajay Kumar of Manimajra on Saturday evening with the two phones.Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) was added to the case already registered under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused were presented in court on Sunday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-youth-held-for-stealing-mobile-phones-in-chandigarh-s-manimajra/story-LsJpSJioZMiRXoFdxW0aSM.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Youth held for attempt to murder, three aides on the run||The police on Sunday arrested a resident of Sector 29 here for attacking a youth of Sector 37 with iron and wooden rods with his aides.As per police, the victim, Vijay Kumar, was attacked near the fish market of EWS Colony in Dhanas on Friday night.Kumar sustained serious injuries on his hands and had to be admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) where his condition is now said to be stable.Police said Kumar was attacked by four men—Rahul, alias Kaku, of Sector 2; Dalip and Vicky of Sector 37; and Psycho of Maloya over old enmity.A case under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against all four men at the Sarangpur police station.On Sunday night, Kaku, 25, was arrested on identification by the complainant.The accused will be produced in the court on Monday.The police said they were still looking for the other three accused and will know more after Kaku’s interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-held-for-attempt-to-murder-three-aides-on-the-run/story-noyc7vkzU8zOI4UU8sIcrN.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt permits gyms and yoga centers to open under Unlock 4||Delhi government permitted the opening of gymnasiums and yoga institutes under Unlock 4 on Sunday. The Centre on July 29 had issued guidelines that permitted the opening of these centers outside of containment zone from August 21 onwards.These institutes will be subject to strict compliance of the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the health ministry.Meanwhile, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on September 3 had allowed functioning of weekly markets on trial basis. One weekly market per day per zone in all three Municipal Corporations was allowed to function. After a review of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, it was decided that the present set up would continue till September 30. In case of any violation of Covid-19 guidelines, action will be taken by DDMA and authorities concerned including closure of the markets.A joint inspection by respective District Magistrate, District DCP and Zonal Deputy Commissioner of Municipal Body will be conducted in consultation with RWAs in order to decide locations and timings of the weekly markets. “All District Magistrates of Delhi & their counterpart District Deputy Commissioners of Police and all authorities concerned shall ensure strict compliance of this order and shall adequately inform and sensitize the field functionaries about these instructions for strict compliance, in letter and spirit,” the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-permits-gyms-and-yoga-centers-to-open-under-unlock-4/story-PYYOIeSKxWlQRaDJZ3sHxJ.html
14-09-2020||Gurugram||With 339 new positive cases, Gurugram sees largest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases||The district reported 339 new positive cases of Covid-19 on Sunday — it’s highest single-day spike since the beginning of the outbreak, taking the total tally of reported infections to 15,249 cases. Of these, 14% (or 2,232 patients) are classified as ‘active’. This is up from 1,686 active cases a week ago.Of the current tally of 2,232 active patients, 189 are hospitalised (up from 175 patients a week ago). The majority of hospital beds reserved for Covid-19 patients continue to remain vacant due to most patients being asymptomatic and preferring to undergo home isolation. At present , 2,008 active cases are being monitored from their homes, up from 1,486 people under home isolation a week ago. Another 35 patients (up from 19 a week ago) are under observation at district Covid centre centres.Gurugram on Sunday also recorded 273 new recoveries (up from 197 the previous day), taking the district’s cumulative recovery rate to 84% (down from 86% a week ago). The district recorded two new deaths on Sunday. The mortality rate in the district, thus far, is 0.97% with 147 fatalities so far. The district saw 10 new Covid-19-related deaths over the past seven days (up from four deaths the week prior).Gurugram on Sunday also collected 3,313 new samples for testing, down from 3,752 samples collected on Saturday. Of these, 783 samples were taken by private labs for RT-PCR tests, with another 92 antigen tests conducted. The health department, meanwhile,collected 1,670 samples for RT-PCR tests, while 768 antigen tests were conducted on Sunday. The backlog of samples whose test results are awaited (from government labs) has increased by more than 100%, from 1,208 samples on September 6 to 3,313 samples on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-339-new-positive-cases-gurugram-sees-largest-ever-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-BGasndJYt4Z2BA33golohJ.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai doctor writes about his viral encounters||I got infected with a serious life-threatening virus while working in the present Covid ICU ward of KEM Hospital in Mumbai. This was long ago in 1984. It was then the male surgical ward no. 5. During this pandemic, the same ward has been converted into the Covid ICU. The potentially fatal virus that infected me then was Hepatitis B. Again, in 1995, I was exposed to another serious and dangerous virus while working as a junior surgeon in Sion Hospital, another major public hospital in Mumbai. Did I become HIV positive?A few days ago, I performed a major surgery on an infant which lasted more than 10 hours. It was an operation to create an oesophagus for an infant, who was born without one. A couple of days later, my assistant surgeon, who had worked in Covid ward a week earlier, developed fever and sore throat. He was at high risk for contracting Covid and as we had come in close contact for a prolonged period during the surgery, I got swabbed too. Thankfully, the result was negative. This piece is a relook at my viral encounters with these potentially fatal viruses, the health issues they raised, how society and authorities reacted, the current status of these viruses on this planet and what inferences we can draw from the past for the future of Covid.In 1984, when I came down with Hepatitis B, quite like the Covid virus, most of us, were blissfully ignorant about the microbe. This may seem surprising because the Hepatitis B virus had been detected years earlier. But back then, communication happened at a snail’s pace. No internet, no social media, no email, no mobiles and no 24x7 international TV. Currently, there is an infodemic running parallel with the Covid pandemic. But when I got infected with Hep B, I had to go to the College Medical library and browse through latest journals to understand more about this virus and the symptoms it causes. Unlike the Covid virus, which is an RNA virus, the Hepatitis B is a DNA virus and is transmitted via contact with infected body fluids. I was then, a young, overworked resident doctor (as resident doctors in public hospitals still are) and we had to operate day and night on surgical conditions and emergencies of all kinds. Accidental needle or cautery pricks and the occasional cut while performing surgeries were not uncommon. In the emergency ward, when a gasping trauma patient would be wheeled in, I remember taking an IV line or intubating him without wearing gloves (often because the right size was unavailable). During one such life-saving procedure, the potentially fatal Hepatitis B virus carried by the patient had entered my body via a small cut on palm. I had remained fully healthy and unaware of this for six weeks (the incubation period) and then developed severe Hepatitis and jaundice. For the first week, my jaundice was dismissed as the commoner Hepatitis A, but someone suggested that we should test for this new virus. My HBsAg antigen test came positive. I was feeling sick and tired and had lost my appetite. My library reading informed me that there was no cure or medication for this virus and that it could be fatal. If you survived, you had a much higher risk of developing liver cancer. It was also called the ‘surgeon’s jaundice’. I was down for two months and had lost a lot of weight. The authorities refused my sick leave as they had no such disease in their list of occupational hazards. It was only after I wrote a couple of articles in the newspapers about this new virus that my leave was sanctioned. Today, 30 years later, Hepatitis B is the most common serious liver infection in the world. Two billion people (or 1 in 3) have been infected and more than 292 million people are living with a chronic Hepatitis B infection. Like Covid, there is a simple test to diagnose a hepatitis B infection. Most importantly there is a safe vaccine to prevent hepatitis B. The vaccine gives adequate immunity in 90-95% of cases. Yet, each year up to 1 million people die from Hepatitis B. As of today there is no definite cure. I hope the Covid scenario after a few decades is not the same as Hepatitis B. Vaccines may become available, but will they reach everyone? Will they be as effective as the Hepatitis B one. Generally, the efficacy of the respiratory virus vaccines is not as good. Influenza vaccines prevent the illness in 40-60% cases only.Ten years after my encounter with the Hepatitis B virus, another serious viral danger came my way – the HIV. The world HIV pandemic raged in the 1990s. By then, I was a junior consultant surgeon and India had entered the era of desktops, internet and email. So this time around, when the virus threatened me, many of us were adequately aware of not just its existence but also its mode of spread. One novelty about this virus, unlike those in the past and Covid, was the amount of stigma attached to it. AIDS, the disease caused by HIV, was known to be associated with promiscuity, homosexuality, drug use and prostitutes. I had operated on a middle aged man, who later turned out to be HIV positive. All of us who participated in the operation were at risk. I was tense and got my blood test done. I knew that there was no cure for HIV, and in those days if you got AIDS, death was certain within one year. It was a huge relief when my test came negative. During this evolving HIV pandemic, I recall attending a meeting in the Sion Hospital auditorium to discuss the situation. The auditorium was packed with hospital doctors. Among the various issues discussed, an important ethical question arose – should we do the HIV test on all patients before they are taken up for surgery? The test was expensive. Should the hospital pay for all these tests or should the patients be charged? It did not take much time to reach a consensus that the test be mandatory for all surgical patients. Doctors’ lives were at risk and must be protected. Just as the meeting was about to end, I remember standing up and posing a corollary tricky question – going by the same yardstick, I asked, shouldn’t all doctors operating or doing procedures on patients, also be required to get their HIV testing done ? There was pandemonium and loud disagreement. And as I recall, this particular matter was deferred for further discussion. There is still no consensus on it.As regards AIDS, till today, we do not have a vaccine against the virus, nor do we have a cure. Only life-prolonging medications are available which have essentially made HIV into a chronic disease. Although new infections have decreased, 1.7m people were newly infected in 2018, and worldwide 32m people have died of AIDS. The examples show that scientific cures and effective vaccines can take a long time. The stories of these two viruses also tell us that we have to live with viruses for many years. Viruses will come and stay. And humanity will have to learn to live and adapt to their peculiar ways. As health care workers, we have to learn and adapt even faster. In our hospital we have commenced doing routine surgeries, albeit with enhanced precautions and protection. Although it is still not the time to lower one’s guard, the fear about the virus is decreasing. The other day, I was pleasantly surprised to gather that the staff nurse assisting me in the operating room had been admitted with Covid in May and had now resumed full duties. The casual banter in the OT lounge during tea and lunch breaks is about Covid antibody levels. One staff nurse was lamenting that though she was antibody positive (meaning she has some immunity against the virus) her levels were not as high as her colleagues!And as we come to terms with this pandemic, we cannot forget the lessons the past viruses have taught us. Ultimately, the pandemic may subside, but it will not end. If Hepatitis B and HIV taught us to change our behaviours as individuals, the Covid pandemic has emphasized the need to change our behaviour as a society. We cannot afford to neglect public health any longer. (Dr Santosh Karmarkar is a consultant pediatric surgeon and pediatric urologist, Lilavati Hospital & Research Centre)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctor-writes-about-his-viral-encounters/story-lynwpV3VDXVCW2qmjwyQrM.html
14-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Kingpin of gang that duped over 100 people on pretext of selling insurance policies arrested||The police on Sunday said they busted a gang of three persons for allegedly duping over 100 people of more than ₹2 crore on the pretext of selling life insurance policies. The police said that they have arrested the “mastermind” of the gang and two suspects are on the run. The police recovered a mobile phone and three registers, three passbooks and ₹22,500 cash from one of the suspect’s possession. The arrested suspects has been identified as Dharmesh Thakur ,38, from Badarpur in Delhi. The two other suspects, who are on the run, were identified as Aakash Verma of Ghaziabad and, Deepak Sharma of Gautampuri in Delhi. The police said that all three suspects are class 10 dropouts.The police said the gang used to operate from different locations and often work from a moving car to evade being identified.The police said Thakur was the mastermind of the gang. He had allegedly started duping people in 2018 after getting inspired from movies. He analysed a lot of fraud cases of insurance companies to figure out ways how to dupe people following which he formed the gang and involved his two friends who had an experience of working in call centres, the police said.The police started searching for the gang members after one Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Gururgam, filed a complaint of cyber police station stating that on September 10, 2019, he had received a call from a man impersonating as an executive of a reputed insurance company. The impersonator sent a link to Kumar’s mobile phone and email id following which ₹50,000 each was deducted in four transactions and he lost ₹2 lakh from his bank account.After detailed investigation, a case was registered ay cyber crime police station under sections 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66D of Information Technology Act on April 30 this year and a probe was initiated in to the matter, said the police.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said a team from cyber police station tracked the location and Thakur’s movement and arrested him from Faridabad on Friday night. “During questioning, he confessed to the crime and revealed that he had formed a gang with his two friends and used to run a small-time call centre to dupe people,” he said.Rao said the suspects used to make calls using data they had bought through an executive working in a call centre in Delhi. “They used to send a link on people’s mobile phone and email id after luring them with heavy discounts of premiums of life insurance and cashback schemes. They used to get the money transferred through e-walltets and used to keep changing locations to evade arrest,” he said. The suspects used to pose as officers from financial service firms, seeking takes and payments under various heads.Rao said as per their records, the suspects have duped more than 100 people of over ₹2 crore, but exact details are yet to be ascertained.The suspects, the police said, even underwent a voice and ascent training from BPO trainers so that they could gain their victims’ trust.“During the probe, the police team took details from banks and the details of their phone numbers through which the calls were made. The suspects used to switch off their mobile phones after making the calls used the same mobile numbers every day. The team reached the Thkaur’s location in Faridabad using technical surveillance Friday late night,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-kingpin-of-gang-that-duped-over-100-people-on-pretext-of-selling-insurance-policies-arrested/story-vdcTC7D2GEyFevZ9F15A3L.html
14-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Technical glitches slow down online admission process||The online admission process for undergraduate courses was marred by technical glitches with students struggling to register on Friday and Saturday. Students said that they were unable to login and even failed to receive assistance via the grievance redressal helpline.Sheetal, an applicant, said that she was unable to retrieve the registration number after the completion of the process. “As soon as one is done filling up the registration form, the website gets reloaded and we don’t get the registration number to proceed ahead. I have even mailed the online help desk but to no avail. I will continue to try till the issue is resolved,” said Sheetal, who goes by her first name.Kajal Raghav, 18, who is applying for BCom (honours), said that she was yet to register due to technical issues “I am waiting to register since the website is facing some issues. My friends are also facing issues in registration and logging in due to technical glitches,” said Raghav.College administrators and nodal admission officers said that while there had been technical snags, they were being resolved from time to time. Pooja Khullar, principal, Dronacharya Government College, said that there were some snags that took place due to issues at the backend. “Sometimes there are technical snags at the backend due to which the website goes into maintenance. On Friday, there were some technical issues due to which we worked till late night. There are outages on and off, but our admissions officers are notified about the same and issues are being resolved,” said Khullar.Sanjay Katyal, nodal admission officer, Government College, Sector 9, said, “There are some issues but the team is working on resolving them. The website gets stuck and students have reported that they are unable to log in. We get maintenance slots from time to time to rectify the problems. We didn’t face any specific issues today when compared to Saturday,” said Katyal. He added that students had many days to complete the admission process and all issues were getting resolved as they were being reported. Registration for admission to undergraduate courses will continue till September 21. Despite efforts, Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, couldn’t be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-technical-glitches-slow-down-online-admission-process/story-TTa3Lm9uE1adBjn3nAniON.html
14-09-2020||City||Faridabad: Man kills his friend’s husband with her help; arrested||Gurugram: The Faridabad police on Saturday arrested a 22-year-old man for allegedly murdering a businessman and dumping his body in the Khekra canal in Baghpat of Uttar Pradesh, 104 kilometres from Faridabad. The suspect allegedly was in a relationship with the victim’s wife and conspired to kill him with her help, the police said. The 28-year-old businessman, identified as Rajat Singh, was a resident of Surya Vihar in Faridabad’s Sector 91. He lived with his wife in an apartment after they got married in June this year, the police said.According to the police, Palla police station received a missing person’s complaint on September 12 by the victim’s brother, identified as Sachin Kumar, a resident of Sector 91 in Faridabad. The complainant alleged that his brother had gone out for a morning walk on September 9 at 7am and did not return home after that. OP Singh, commissioner of police, Faridabad, said that during preliminary investigation it was found out that it was not a case of missing person but there was more to it. “The police questioned Rajat’s wife and they sensed her involvement, following which a crime team Sector 85 was involved for the investigation,” he said. The crime team and cyber crime police team started investigation based on technical surveillance and took out all the call details and locations of the victim and his 21-year-old wife. “It was found that the wife was constantly in touch with another man. His location was tracked and he was questioned. The man broke down before the police and confessed to the crime. He told the police that he was in love with the victim’s wife and they were in a relationship. They wanted to get married but as he was jobless, woman’s family members got her married to the businessman in Faridabad in June,” said Singh. The suspect was identified as Narender alias Pappu of Gothra in Bahgpat. According to the police, the woman has also been questioned in the case and will be arrested soon.The police said the woman even after her marriage kept in touch with Narender and would often meet him. On September 9, Narender got some sleeping pills and gave them to his friend who mixed them in milk meant for her husband. “He fell fast asleep following which she opened the door and called Narender. She caught hold of her husband and Narender attacked him with a sharp weapon. He slit his throat and packed the body in a plastic bag and drove to Baghpat to dispose it of,” said the police commissioner. The police said they have recovered CCTV footage and other crucial evidence in the case that led to the arrest of the accused. The woman is yet to be arrested, they said. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Palla police station. The police produced Narender before the court on Saturday and was taken on three-day police remand to recover the weapon and car used in the crime, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridabad-man-kills-his-friend-s-husband-with-her-help-arrested/story-ravauMNDLeLpD8Qh2BFjJJ.html
14-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Covid situation: September already worse than Aug in terms of cases, deaths||In the first two weeks of September, the district recorded 3,108 new cases of Covid-19, exceeding August’s total reported caseload of 3,046 new infections, according to the state health department. In deaths too, the September with 14 deaths has already managed to outstrip August’s count of 10.The month is also set to overtake July when the district had 3,819 infections (33 deaths) and June with 4,689 cases (94 deaths).Health department officials and experts said that this indicated a rapid spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, among Gurugram’s population, and cautioned against non-essential public movement.From 1,686 on September 6 to 2,232 on September 13, Gurugram saw a 32% increase in the number of active Covid-19 cases over the past week, during which it also registered an average of 275 new positive cases each day (up from 191 new cases each day the week prior).The district’s test positivity rate (TPR, which is the number of positive cases per 100 tests), between 9 to 11%, over the past week was above the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) recommended benchmark of 5% over two weeks.On Sunday, when Gurugram recorded its highest single-day jump of new positives yet, recording 339 cases of Covid-19, the positivity rate stood at 9.4%. In the last week of August, the positivity rate was 6 percent (with fewer tests being conducted daily).Dr. Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMER Chandigarh, said, “A high positivity rate is worrying, especially if it coincides with an increase in testing. What you would hope to see is the opposite, fewer proportion of positive cases when there is an increase in tests. Essentially, what the numbers indicate is that Gurugram may once again be undertesting, and is therefore unable to keep up with the spread of the virus.”The district’s total tally of Covid-19 cases now stands at 15249, up from 13321 a week ago. That is equal is 1928 new cases in seven days, the highest weekly aggregate since the outbreak began in March. The daily growth rate in new positives, as of September 13, was 2.2 percent, and has remained above two percent for at least two weeks now. This is also reflected in the sharp contraction of Gurugram’s doubling rate, which stands at 48 days as of September 13. For comparison, in the last week of August, the doubling rate was around 81 days.“People are disregarding social distancing and basic hand hygiene. While it’s important to resume normal activities, it shouldn’t lead to carelessness. I would advise people to stay at home as much as possible,” said Gurugram chief medical officer Dr. Virender Yadav. He added that the department is taking necessary measures to shore up testing. In coming weeks, the district’s capacity to test for Covid-19 is expected to touch 5,000 samples per day. At present, the district tests around 3,300 samples per day.Even so, officials pointed out that the newer cases are mild in nature. “Deaths are still low. Most people are in home isolation. Why the cases are milder is still a matter of speculation. It could be a different section of the population is getting affected, or a possible mutation of the virus. We don’t know yet,” said Dr. Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram.The district recorded two new deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total toll to 147. The mortality rate, however, remains under one percent (with 0.97 percent of infections leading to death). This, experts explained, is not unexpected. “Our contact tracing efforts are able to find cases earlier into infection, and with treatment protocols having improved, we are able to keep the mortality low, which is the primary aim,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gururgam.BOX:Test-positivity rate (TPR):September 13: 9.4%September 12: 9.2%September 11: 9.1%September 10: 11.2%September 9: 9.9%September 8: 9.2 %September 7: 5.8%September 6: 11.5%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-covid-situation-september-already-worse-than-aug-in-terms-of-cases-deaths/story-xamnZT4LcM0JdfIdD4ZTyI.html
14-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: HSVP to auction land of projects whose licence has been cancelled||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) may auction the land owned by developers of 11 unfinished residential and commercial projects spread across the city whose licences stood cancelled.In 2018, unsatisfied with the progress of the projects, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) cancelled the licences of 16. While four approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court fore relief, one has applied for renewal of license. A meeting under the chairmanship of HSVP administrator Jitender Yadav on Friday decided that an executive engineer of the authority and assistant town planner will inspect these projects and also issue a notice to developers. The notice, Yadav said, will seek information on flats, shops and plots booked, money paid and how much has been paid to land owners. “Basically the objective is to know the extent of third party rights that have been created in these projects. If information is not given to the authority then the officials will visit the offices of these developers and get the information as it is important to resolve the issue,” said Yadav. Yadav further said that, if required, the authority will auction the land or property in these projects so that claims of those who have booked property, pending external development charges and infrastructure development charges (EDC/IDC) payable to the government, and claims of land owners can be fulfilled. The authority estimates that ₹300 crore was pending as EDC/ IDC. Officials of the town planning department and engineering wing of HSVP were present at the meeting. Officials also said that owners who had booked plots in these projects are facing lot of problems as they have taken loans and paying EMIs for projects, which are stuck for years and whose licenses stand cancelled. “Our priority is to ensure that people whose money is stuck in these projects get back their money,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-hsvp-to-auction-land-of-projects-whose-licence-has-been-cancelled/story-HAcj1FQmvL2tNUlzGfnoXI.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||NEET-UG exams in Maharashtra: Very easy, say students at Mumbai centres||Close to 16 lakh undergraduate medical and dental aspirants across the country appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday. A total of 2.28 lakh students from Maharashtra, highest in the country, had registered for the exam this year. Most students found the exam very easy compared to the past few years.While most students found the pre-exam process of admit card checking and frisking before entering the exam centre peaceful and in line with the required safety measures, some complained of unnecessary hassles just before the exam, which added to their anxiety. A city-based school which was allotted as an exam centre found out about it only today and ended up starting the pre-exam process a little late. “The centre displayed its seating arrangement list only by 11.45am and started allowing students to enter the campus post 12 noon. The exam then started at 2.30pm, which is half-an-hour late, but students were given extra time to finish their paper,” said one of the parents, on condition of anonymity. Some parents also complained of crowding outside the exam centres, flouting all social distancing norms. “The exam centre was not equipped with enough manpower to handle the crowd of parents and students. However, a large number of exam centres managed to conduct the pre-exam session very well and ensured staggered entry and exit for students to avoid crowding,” said Ruiee Kapoor, an activist and parent of a medical student. As per the final registration figures revealed by the National Testing Agency (NTA) in January, over 15.93 lakh students registered for the NEET; the number stood at 15.19 lakh in 2019. Maharashtra had topped the registrations for the second consecutive year, followed by Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, with 1.54 lakh and 1.38 lakh students, respectively. A total of 1.19 lakh students registered for the exam from Karnataka and another 1.16 lakh students from Kerala, among other states. Keeping the current situation in mind, NTA had announced that all safety precautions will be undertaken at every exam centre to ensure maximum safety of all stakeholders – staff and students. To implement appropriate distancing during exams, the total number of exam centres was increased from 2,546 last year to 3,843 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/neet-ug-exams-in-maharashtra-very-easy-say-students-at-mumbai-centres/story-Rwfq1J89McYebFvuHeet3H.html
14-09-2020||Gurugram||GMDA to upgrade 30-year-old drains along Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will complete the upgrade of the sewerage lines along the Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road by December this year — almost 30 years after they were first laid down, said officials on Sunday.GMDA officials said that the sewerage line along the stretch was laid down in the early 1990s and currently lies in a state of neglect. Also stormwater from nearby drains gets mixed up with sewage, leading to waterlogging on the stretch. GMDA officials said that to resolve the issue, the master sewerage line is being reinforced using the Cured In Place Pipe (CIPP) method, which will increase its life span by another 50 years.“In the CIPP method, a resin tube primarily made of polyester, is inserted from the surface into the damaged pipe. Over time, this new tube starts taking the shape of the existing one. Further, to increase its curing rate, water measuring above 80 degrees Celsius is added. In simple words, a new pipe is added within the existing one to give it more strength and resilience, and to fill up the possible gaps and cracks to stop leakage. The biggest advantage of this method is that little to no excavation is required. As such, the work can be completed much faster,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA.Kumar said that once the tube is cured, it stretches from one manhole to the other, and hence, work is only done in small patches. Otherwise, a significant amount of excavation would be required.He said that the CIPP method is currently being used on a 1.4-kilometre stretch of the Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road for a cost of ₹7 crore and that the GMDA is hoping to complete the project by December.GMDA officials said that this stretch is one among the many other master roads in the city, where drainage lines will be upgraded or replaced. The decision has been taken in the wake of the severe waterlogging that the city experienced last month on August 19 and 20. Kumar further said that a significant number of drains across the city are 30-35 years old, and are in the dire need of upgrade.“We have started making plans for enhancing the next leg of sewerage drains, between IFFCO Chowk-Signature Towers-Rajiv Chowk along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. This is a key stretch as lakh of heavy vehicles cross the stretch on a daily basis. If we don’t strengthen the existing drains than they can easily collapse under the weight of heavy vehicles, and may develop leakages, which can subsequently affect the road surface as well. Work on this will start shortly,” said Kumar.Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road, a 7.5km-long stretch between Dundahera border and Mahavir Chowk, is one of the oldest roads in the city that provides a direct link between Delhi and Gurugram. More than one lakh vehicles ply over on the stretch on a daily basis, as per GMDA officials.Along with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), GMDA is also looking to widen the stretch from four to six lanes, build pedestrian bridges, cycle tracks and pavements at four junctions — Hanuman Chowk, Jwala Mill T-point, Sector 18 T-point and Sector 21 T-point. This project is expected to cost ₹55 crore, a large portion of which will be spent in building new or fixing old stormwater and sewerage lines, said GMDA officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gmda-to-upgrade-30-year-old-drains-along-old-delhi-gurgaon-road/story-PcT2z1QxBF7sBf5UwDf4GP.html
14-09-2020||City||Security guard arrested for raping woman at Covid care centre in Mira Road||A 27-year-old security guard has been arrested by Navghar police on Saturday for allegedly raping a 20-year-old woman at a Covid care centre in Mira Road.While the incident took place in June, it came to light on Saturday when the survivor lodged a police complaint.According to the complaint, the survivor, her 11-year-old nephew and her 10-month-old daughter were isolated in the facility on May 24. The accused allegedly entered the room under the pretext of giving hot water and milk to the patient. After seeing that both the nephew and the daughter were asleep, the accused locked the room and allegedly raped the victim. He also threatened to kill her daughter, the victim said in her complaint. The accused allegedly raped her thrice between June 2 and 5 as per the complaint, said senior inspector Sampatrao Patil of Navghar police station.The survivor did not tell anyone about the incident while she was in the facility for fear of her daughter’s life. After she returned home, she told her husband, who then divorced her and took away their daughter, said Patil.After this, the survivor’s family approached local social worker l Ramzan Khatri, who in turn informed Mira Bhayandar mayor Jyotsana Hasnale and civic commissioner Dr Vijay Rathod about the incident. Khatri along with the survivor then approached Navghar police, following which a case was registered under section 376 (sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code. Subsequently, the guard was arrested on Saturday and produced before the Thane court on Sunday. He has been remanded in police custody. “We have demanded to the civic body to increase the security in the quarantine centre,” said Khatri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guard-arrested-for-raping-woman-at-covid-care-centre-in-mira-road/story-vvZzJVXpVDOy4wjb04tgWL.html
14-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram man duped of ₹78K by a fake customer care executive||A man was allegedly duped of ₹78, 000 after an unidentified caller, claiming to be a customer care executive of an e-commerce firm, asked him to download an application on his phone to claim a refund. The police said an FIR was registered on Saturday. The suspect is yet to be identified. According to the police, Rajesh Kumar, a Begumpur Khatola resident, had contacted the customer care service of an e-commerce chain to claim refund for a failed recharge. The police said the customer care executive asked the victim to share the details of his bank account for refund. “The victim shared the bank details and an OTP. The executive then told him to download an Android application on his phone and disconnected the call. A day after downloading the app, the money was deducted from his account in six transactions,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. Police said a total of ₹78, 200 was deducted from his bank account. The incident took place on June 25, but an FIR was registered on Saturday following a probe after the victim had filed a complaint with the Cyber Cell. The police said in such cases, the con men usually ask potential victims to download an application to gain access to a person’s phone screen through a remote desktop software tool. Then, they use the bank details and OTP to conduct transactions. A case was registered against unidentified suspects under sections 379 (theft) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code at Badshahpur police station on Saturday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-man-duped-of-78k-by-a-fake-customer-care-executive/story-RARfJ1VS3WNQc5n6DlJfgP.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for smashing paver block on wife’s head||A 43-year-old man was arrested by Vakola police for attempting to kill his wife by smashing her head with a paver block on Friday after he saw her with another man in an autorickshaw. The arrested accused, Laxman alias Lakshya Arjun, is a resident of Vakola, Santacruz (East). According to police, “On September 9 around 6am Laxman spotted his wife Bhupati with an unknown man in autorickshaw on Vakola Pipeline road. The accused then asked the autorickshaw driver to stop and took her out by pulling her by her hair.” “The accused then pushed her on the ground, picked up a paver block and struck it on her head twice in a bid to kill her,” officer said. The accused then fled from the spot and the woman was taken to Sion hospital where she is undergoing treatment. A case has been registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code and the accused was arrested on Saturday. According to the police, the accused during interrogation said since that her behaviour towards him had changed for a while, which led him to suspect that she was having an affair. They allegedly also used to fight over this topic frequently. He said he couldn’t hold his anger when he saw her with another man and tried to kill her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-smashing-paver-block-on-wife-s-head/story-v3vCOgic2jgwt7GE7gaV3I.html
14-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Vehicle thefts surge post lockdown as police launch crackdown||The number of snatching cases in the city may have put Gurugram Police on its toes , but it is the surge in vehicle thefts in the past few months that is giving the force headaches.The city police has decided to crack the whip on vehicle thieves after data available with it suggested that the vehicle thefts have shot up considerable ever since the 68 day lockdown was lifted. Gurugram police have so far has arrested more than 50 people from Nuh, Faridabad, Delhi and Rajasthan, who they said were involved in stealing vehicles. Last year, between January and September 10, around 2,804 vehicle theft cases were reported from the city. This year, at least 1,742 cases have been reported, a dip of 37.9%, with the police saying that the lockdown having played an important role, with a three layer security ring and heavy deployment of personnel during night time also helping. However, despite all the measures in place, the city witnessed 54 cases of vehicle theft in May, 115 in June, 210 in July and 289 in August. In comparison, number of vehicle theft cases registered in April this year was just 34.The city now witnesses at least seven cases of vehicle theft, on an average, daily. The gangs involved in the crimes often are from nearby districts and the vehicles are mostly sold in Northeast India and Uttar Pradesh at half the price, said police. lice commissioner K K Rao said that a crime mapping exercise — which identified areas from where maximum cases of vehicle thefts were reported — has helped them to keep a check on such vehicle thefts. “Since we have identified all the vulnerable spots, teams have been assigned duties accordingly and are coordinating with police control room, so that they know identity of suspects and the roads that they take to flee. We have provided the latest technology — GPS and wireless communication devices — to officials deployed at 147 crime spots, 79 police control room vans and 123 patrol bikes,” he said. Police said they have started analysing the spots through Crime Mapping Analytics and Predictive System, which accesses real-time data from the police control room. Rao said that they have continued deployment of force in three cordons, covering all roads connecting it to neighbouring districts, including Nuh. “The outer cordon has around 540 cops deployed at the borders connecting to other districts and state. Barricading is done and nakas have ben set up at 147 spots to avoid unwanted entry and to check all suspicious vehicles. The inner cordon is deployed at the vulnerable spots from where most of the street crimes, such as snatching, robbery, and vehicle thefts, have been reported. The last cordon is keeping vigil of dark spots and our focus is on crimes against women ,” he said. As many as 2,500 cops are deployed in the three layers to maintain law and order across the city with all wings of the Police Control Room (PCR), traffic, Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) having been roped in Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that as a result of the lockdown, there has been a marked change in the crime pattern across the city. But that’s not the only reason as to why the number of vehicle thefts had gone up. “The gangs from different areas conduct reconnaissance of the residential areas and target luxury cars and SUVs which are then sold at better prices as compared to others. The gangs are also involved in forging documents to sell these vehicles and these days they are using latest technology to break locks and to start ignition,” he said. Sangwan said that they have intensified night patrolling, increased deployment on roads and added more checkpoints along borders with Delhi and Rajasthan where chances of fleeing with stolen vehicles are high. About 5,800 police personnel are deployed across the city and 1,780 of them are on night duty. Last month, the city police got 59 probationary sub-inspectors, who will also be given the responsibility to tackle crime and to come up with new ideas. “One of the other reasons for the increase in vehicle theft was due to the absence of modes of transport. Last month, most of the motorbikes that were stolen were from parking areas outside hospitals and vacant plots ion residential areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-vehicle-thefts-surge-post-lockdown-as-police-launch-crackdown/story-lTjbJGvvhSmIWU1rUlKOaO.html
14-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Four men rob father-son duo of ₹47,000 after offering them a lift||Gurugram: Four unidentified men allegedly robbed a 60-year-old man and his son of ₹47,000 cash after offering them a lift in a cab from Rajiv Chowk on Saturday evening. According to the police, the incident took place at 6pm when the victims, Qayamuddin Khan and his son Shahrukh, natives of Sikar in Rajasthan, who have a cosmetics business in Delhi, were waiting for a shared cab to Delhi at Rajiv Chowk. The police said a car, in which four men were seated, stopped and offered them a lift to Sadar Bazar in Delhi. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that when the cab reached near Iffco Chowk flyover, the suspects started assaulting the victims and snatched their mobile phones and a packet containing ₹47,000 cash. “The suspects put their phones in a packet and threw them out of the car, possibly to avoid being traced. After driving for a few metres, they let off the father-son from the cab and escaped towards Delhi. We are checking CCTVs in the area to identify the suspects,” said the police official. The police said the modus operandi suggests that the suspects are from some ‘lift and loot’ gangs that target commuters at Subhash Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and Iffco Chowk on the highway and loot them on the pretext of offering them a lift. A case was registered against the unidentified men under sections 379 A (snatching), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code at Shivaji Nagar police station on Saturday, said the police. According to the police, at least 126 cases of snatching have been reported in the city till August 31 this year as compared to 308 in the last year. The period includes 68 days of the lockdown, when only three such cases were reported. , they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-four-men-rob-father-son-duo-of-47-000-after-offering-them-a-lift/story-Z91Q1mpVthiidq7LSBybyM.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||18-year-old booked for sexually assaulting minor in Mumbai||Jogeshwari police booked an 18-year-old for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old. The incident came to light on Friday when the minor was admitted at a nursing home at Sanatacruz for postnatal treatment after she gave birth to a boy at home. According to the police, the survivor and the accused became friends through Facebook two years ago and later got into a relationship. In January this year, the accused called her to his place saying no one was home. An officer from Jogeshwari police station said, “The survivor went to the accused’s home where he allegedly sexually assaulted her. Two to three months later she realised she was pregnant. On September 11, she delivered a boy at her home after which she was admitted to a nursing home in Santacruz.” After the incident came to light, the police reached the nursing home to record the minor’s statement and later registered a first Information report (FIR) against the accused. The accused was booked under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 4 (penetrative sexual assault), 8 (sexual assault) and 12 (sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The police are further probing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/18-year-old-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-in-mumbai/story-taDDIBtzyU2lqWtsTPZS8I.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||78-year-old Mumbai businessman dies by suicide||A 78-year-old businessman from Vinoba Bhave Nagar, Kurla died by suicide on Sunday. “The businessman had prostate disease and used to face difficulties while urinating. He had been suffering since around a year and was frustrated with his health condition,” said Ravindra Patil, assistant commissioner of police, Kurla.The deceased used to live with one of his two sons, his son’s wife and two children.All family members were at home when the incident took place around 2pm. His son noticed him bleeding and called the police control room. No suicide note was found.The body was later sent for post-mortem at Rajawadi hospital. “Prima facie there seems to be no foul play. The family, too, did not raise any suspicion,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/78-year-old-mumbai-businessman-dies-by-suicide/story-l0ClvoWv4AYfmlksIxDzLM.html
14-09-2020||City||Four murdered in three Haryana districts||Four persons were murdered in three separate cases in Haryana’s Sonepat, Dadri and Rohtak districts, police said on Sunday.In the first case, two persons were stabbed to death while three were injured by a group of men at Sonepat’s Ram Nagar village on Saturday night. The deceased have been identified as Narshi (60) and his nephew Jagmohan. The injured ones are Narshi’s sons Pawan, Navratan and nephew Anil Kumar of the same village.Bari industrial area police station in-charge Sumit Kumar said the incident took place when Anil, who worked at a factory in Ram Nagar, was attacked by his friends over an argument. “He called his uncle and others there. Anil’s four friends and their accomplices stabbed his uncle and cousin when they came to the former’s rescue. Anil and his two cousins are undergoing treatment at the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak,” he added.The police have registered a case under sections 302, 307, 34 and other relevant sections of the IPC against Kuldeep, Bittu, Sonu, Sanjay and others.In the second murder, Rajbir (55) alias Raja was stabbed to death by unidentified assailants in Rohtak’s Mohkra village on Saturday night. A police spokesperson said, “Rajbir was killed in his sleep and was found lying in a pool of blood on Sunday morning by his family members. We have registered a murder case against unknown persons.”In the third case, a 70-year-old tea seller, identified as Rishal Singh, was strangulated to death by unknown persons when he was sleeping at his shop in Lamba village in Dadri on Saturday night. The victim’s body was spotted on Sunday by passersby who informed the police. A manhunt has been launched to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-murdered-in-three-haryana-districts/story-vsVtaJBSEatsOZDtXuzjDL.html
14-09-2020||City||Thane man jumps off building, dies||A 35-year-old man died by suicide in Thane’s Wagle estate area on Sunday after he jumped off the residential building, where he lived, and into a brook. Police said the man allegedly lost his job four months ago due to lockdown and has been in depression. Shrinagar police registered a case of accidental death and are investigating the matter. The incident was reported to the Thane Municipal Corporation’s regional disaster management cell, which in turn alerted the police. The body has been recovered from the brook. “The man died on the spot as he suffered major injuries,” said Santosh Kadam, chief of the disaster management cell.Senior inspector VA Shinde said, “The man lost his job four months ago during lockdown and was in depression. He was also an alcoholic. On Sunday, he told his wife that he is going to the terrace and jumped off the building, which is a five-storey structure. Eye witnesses confirmed that he jumped on his own.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-man-jumps-off-building-dies/story-TrM2xcyjXeeH3rlNn1GxLN.html
14-09-2020||Noida||Noida authority to resume public meetings in its offices from September 16||After a hiatus of more than five months, the Noida authority will soon open its doors to the public with visitors to be allowed to enter the authority’s main administrative building in Sector 6 from Wednesday.Senior officials of the Noida authority said they will now hold meeting with members of the public every Wednesday and Friday (from 10am to 2 pm), however, all visitors need to strictly adhere to physical distancing norms.“Officials on the OSD(officer on special duty)-level officials who are senior to them will resume meetings with general public on Wednesday and Friday every week,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.On March 20, 2020, the Uttar Pradesh government had directed the Noida authority to restrict entry of visitors to contain the spread of Covid-19. After the nationwide lockdown had been was imposed, the restrictions were further extended. The Noida authority had stopped entry of visitors to the main administrative building without appointment. The UP government had asked the authority to execute work online.The authority said it will only allow entry of visitors only after they are screened by thermal scanners.The authority has also launched a new portal— pis.mynoida.in— wherein property allottees can fill up the know your customer (KYC) details and generate a registration number and password. With the help of the registration number and a password, the allottee can get executed most of their property-related works such as map approval, mortgage permission, time extension and transfer of property online. The move is aimed at ensuring that most allottees do not visited the authority office.“We request all the allottees to follow all precautions for their own safety and their safety of others,” said Maheshwari.From June 1, the authority had started meeting its officers on special duty (OSD)-level officials only after appointments, provided the work was important and not addressed without a meeting. Before June 1, meeting with all junior or senior officials, including their entry, was banned inside the authority office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-to-resume-public-meetings-in-its-offices-from-september-16/story-1rfr6TYv8kUAZtYqlrnZlM.html
14-09-2020||Noida||Three-year-old murdered in Noida, parents detained||The Noida police on Sunday detained the parents of a three-year-old girl child who was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her home in Barola village.According to the police officers, the incident came to the fore around 9.30 am on Sunday when the girl’s maternal uncle informed the police about the murder following which the girl’s body was sent for an autopsy.“A team from the Sector 49 police station was rushed to the spot where the girl’s body was found. Her mother had a head injury and when questioned about the whereabouts of her husband she claimed that the latter had murdered the child and assaulted her before fleeing,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), zone 1.The ADCP said the 28-year-old woman was sent for treatment to the district hospital. The girl’s eight-year-old brother was also present at the spot, but was asleep at the time of the incident, the police said. However, after he was woken up by his mother, he had called up their uncle telling him about his sister’s death.Initially, the police said, that when police officers had tried to reach the girl’s father, his phone was switched off and they suspected him to be on the run. However, on Sunday afternoon, the father, who worked as an electrician, turned up at the Sector 49 police station. He claimed that he had been out of town in Mathura since Saturday for a religious ceremony and had nothing to do with his daughter’s death, the police said. “We are verifying his claims. He has also alleged that his wife killed their daughter” said ADCP Singh.The police said they also questioned the couple’s neighbours who told them that domestic flights were common between the two. The family is from Bulandshahr and live in a rented house in Noida.The police said they suspect that the mother could be behind her daughter’s murder.They further said that when they questioned the mother again, they found many inconsistencies in her statement. Her head injury also seems to be self-inflicted, the police said. A police officer, who did not wish to be identified, said it appears that the girl died on Saturday night, but the mother’s injury seems fresh. He added that the autopsy will confirm the time of death.“We are questioning both the husband and wife, though it increasingly seems that the mother is responsible for the murder. Due action will be taken soon in the matter. We are waiting for the family to file a formal complaint, but in case they don’t file one, we will take suo motu cognisance of the matter,” the ADCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-year-old-murdered-in-noida-parents-detained/story-xBb97HhvbjVMK86keyvkOM.html
14-09-2020||Noida||Seven inspectors, nine sub-inspectors transferred in Gautam Budh Nagar||In a major reshuffle, the Gautam Budh Nagar police on Sunday transferred seven inspectors and nine sub-inspectors including in-charges or station house officers(SHOs) of 11 police stations in the district.The police said that the reshuffling will aide better policing in the district. Alok Singh, police commissioner Gautam Budh Nagar, said the shakeup is part of administrative reshuffling taken up for various reasons. “The reshuffle has been made for a more responsive team. This is also to ensure accountability for non-performance by some police person,” he said.The police station in-charges or SHOs of Sector 24, Ecotech 3, Dadri, Phase2, Jarcha, Kasna, Ecotech 1, Rabupura, Badalpur, Sector 58, and Sector 49 have been transferred.In the last two weeks, some severe crimes were reported from the jurisdictions of some of the police stations where the restructuring kicks in immediately.The Badalpur police have so far failed to make any arrests in the murder of a 45-year-old Delhi-based cab driver Aftab Alam. On the night of September 6, Alam was attacked allegedly by three unidentified passengers following which he succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Greater Noida.In the jurisdiction of Sector 58 police station area, a 24-year-old B.Tech student Akshay Kalra was severely assaulted when he tried to resist a car robbery outside his house in Noida Sector 62 on September 2. Kalra succumbed to his injuries two days later in a private hospital. The Noida police is yet to make a headway in the case.In Dadri police station area, on Monday, three suspects—Jamshed, Shoeb and Waseem— had allegedly stabbed a local resident, one Sheru Bhati, to death in Chithera village. Local residents had later held a panchayat demanding arrests and compensation to the deceased’s kin. Two suspects, Jamshed, Shoeb were arrested Friday and Waseem on Saturday.As part of the reorganisation, seven inspectors have been transferred: Rameshwar Kumar, SHO, Sector 24 police station is the new SHO of Ecotech 1 police station; Anita Chauhan, SHO, Ecotech 3 police station has been transferred as SHO Noida Phase 2 police station; Dinesh Kumar Yadav, SHO, Dadri is now SHO, Rabupura; Farmood Ali Pundir, SHO Phase 2 has been posted at the police commissioner’s office; Vivek Trivedi, public relations offcer (PRO) Noida police is now SHO, Kasna police station; Bhuvnesh Kumar Sharma, inspector, police headquarters has been transferred as SHO, Ecotech 3; Rajveer Singh Chauhan, inspector, IT Cell is now SHO Dadri police station.Nine sub-inspectors now have new roles: Anil Kumar, in-charge, Jarcha police station is now in-charge Sector 58 police station; Prabhat Dixit, in-charge, Kasna police station is now in-charge, Sector 24 police station; Arun Kumar, in-charge Ecotech 1 has been transferred to the crime branch; Vineet Kumar, in-charge Rabupura police station has been sent to crime branch; Patneesh Kumar, in-charge, Badalpur has been transferred to the crime branch; Shahvez Khan, in-charge, Sector 58 has been made in-charge star 2 team; Dharmendra Sharma, in-charge Sector 49 is now in-charge Badalpur; Sudhir Kumar, who worked at the police commissioner’s office is now in-charge Sector 49, and Shyam Sunder, police check post-in-charge, Mamoora is now in-charge Jarcha police station.Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police (law and order) Gautam Budh Nagar, maintained the transfers are part of routine reshuffling. “Some of these policemen had been serving at one place for over a year, and hence they were deployed elsewhere. We have worked out some serious cases including the murder in Dadri among others in the last week. We are also working on other cases including the taxi driver’s murder in Badalpur, and Akshay Kalra’s murder in Sector 62. These cases would be solved soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/seven-inspectors-nine-sub-inspectors-transferred-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-3EQcoU0ztej4a5tRdTBjEI.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Okhla Bird Sanctuary to reopen for visitors after five months||In what comes as good news for bird watchers and nature lovers, the district forest department is reopening the Okhla bird sanctuary for visitors from September 15, officials said. The sanctuary, spread over 400 hectares, is home to about 350 species of birds and the only declared eco-sensitive zone of the district, was shut for visitors since past five months in the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The sanctuary was closed in late March when the nation-wide lockdown was announced.“We have decided to reopen the Okhla Bird Sanctuary from Tuesday. It was closed in March in wake of the nationwide lockdown. This was the first time the sanctuary had been closed for visitors for such a long time. We hope that nature lovers, especially birders, can enjoy their visits again, with better infrastructure,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest department (DFO), Gautam Budh Nagar. Officials said all precautions will be taken. Some surprises such as a high-resolution 360-degrees camera for real-time monitoring of birds, a new command centre, more shelters and sheds, including sitting areas and new signage highlighting the flora and fauna, also await visitors. “There are some simple protocols, such as visitors will be scanned for temperature at the gates, their hands will be sanitised and there will be no entry without masks. We are also installing new signboards by Monday to remind visitors to keep their masks on and maintain social distancing,” said Arvind Mishra, range forest officer of Okhla Bird Sanctuary.Speaking of the new infrastructure, officials said a new camera has been installed near the lake for monitoring waterbirds in the upcoming birding season of October 2020 to March 2021.“The high-resolution IP speed dome camera, which has a capacity of optical zoom of 45 times and can do a full-sweep, 360 degrees view, has already been installed on a dedicated tower in the lake. This will give a live feed of the birds at the new control centre developed inside the sanctuary. We have completed all the infrastructural works and the display will be made functional from October 1. It was delayed due to the Covid-19,” said Srivastava.The Sanctuary recorded 21,061 water-birds of 115 different species, as per the annual census undertaken by the forest department in February 2020 for the birding year of 2019-20.Migratory birds start arriving in the sanctuary by October, while their strength reaches its peak by December. Their departure begins by March and by April-mid they are all back at their breeding grounds in central and north Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/okhla-bird-sanctuary-to-reopen-for-visitors-after-five-months/story-DUM3pJ7SKJBogPOUzFHVLN.html
14-09-2020||Noida||Over 10,000 students appear in NEET exam at 17 centres in Noida, Ghaziabad||Over 10,000 students appeared in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) in Gautam Budh and Ghaziabad on Sunday as the National Testing Agency (NTA) staff deployed at 17 centres in the two cities ensured that social distancing protocols are followed by the candidates.Jyoti Gupta, principal, Delhi Public School, Sahibabad, and city coordinator for Noida-Greater Noida chapter of NEET said that the examination—a gateway for admissions to MBBS/BDS courses in recognised medical colleges and institutes—went smoothly at all the centers. “We had made an elaborate arrangement so that Covid-19 safety protocols are followed. The applicants also maintained social distancing and reached the exam centres in allotted staggered timings. We also did not find any candidate with fever or high temperature at any of the exam centres,” she said.Gupta said that nearly 5,800 students took the exam in Gautam Budh Nagar centres, while 4,400 students appeared in Ghaziabad. She added that nearly 12% students did not turn up at the allotted centers in Gautam Budh Nagar, and 11% of the students who were supposed to sit in the exam in Ghaziabad were absent on Sunday.The NEET exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, it was first pushed to July 26, and then to September 13.There were two NEET exam centres in Noida – Cambridge School Noida in Sector 27, and Kendriya Vidyalaya in Sector 24, while seven in Greater Noida and eight in Ghaziabad.At Cambridge School, the body temperatures of all candidates was checked first and they were frisked with contactless metal detectors as per the guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. Admit cards with original government ID proof such Aadhaar card was a must for entry as per NTA rules.A number of parents and guardians had come to drop their children at the examination centres where loudspeakers were used to inform students to not bring mobile phones, pen drives earphones, calculator, purse, notebook, watch, jewellery, eatables etc inside the examination hall.Naresh Kumar Gupta, an invigilator at Kendriya Vidyalaya Sector 24, said the NTA had asked candidates to enter the exam centres as per the staggered time slots allotted to them. “We had placed markings on the entry gate to ensure candidates adhere to physical distancing. The entry for the exam, which went on from 2pm to 5pm, started at 11am onwards and there was no crowding at the centre,” he said. The NTA also provided new face mask and pens to all the students who appeared in the examination.Some students said that the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic had disrupted academic studies in the last six months. Shipra Srivastava, a NEET candidate said, “The coronavirus affected the students’ studies to a huge extent. For the last six months almost, (offline) coaching classes have shut down. There was also uncertainty as to whether the exam will be conducted this year or not. The NTA had made elaborate safety arrangements, still, students had apprehensions about appearing in the exam and then reach home safely without carrying the virus with them.”Concerns about contracting the infection was a concern among other students as well. “I came to Moradabad district to Noida to take the exam. It is difficult to drive from my hometown to Noida and appear in the exam amid the pandemic. I was concerned about my health” said Mohammad Lukman, a candidate. Several candidates had come from other districts in western Uttar Pradesh to appear in the NEET exam in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar district.Adhiraj Srivastava, a Gaur City resident and Shilpa’s brother who had come to drop her to the exam centre, said that the government should have postponed the examination till a vaccine against the virus was available in the market.As on Sunday, Gautam Budh Nagar had recorded a total of 10,192 Covid-19 cases, while Ghaziabad’s tally was at 10, 787.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-10-000-students-appear-in-neet-exam-at-17-centres-in-noida-ghaziabad/story-ttRnZFStoaOm6CkecpCsCP.html
14-09-2020||City||Noida: With rising number of cases, Covid-19 control room gets over 400 calls per day||NOIDA: Amid the rising coronavirus cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, the integrated control room set up to attend to Covid-related queries is once again flooded with calls. The control room has received 6,105 calls this month so far. The average daily calls, which was less than 300 in August, is expected to go over 400 this month, officials from the district health department said.With 186 new positives on Sunday, the overall cases in GB Nagar has gone up to 10,192. Out of them, as many as 2,447 cases (over 24%) have been detected in September only. GB Nagar district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that as many as 30 telephone lines have been set up at the integrated control room in Sector 59. “Set up by the district administration and the police commissionerate on April 4, this ‘all-in-one’ control room has received over three lakh calls on its toll-free number – 1800-419-2211 – till date. However, maximum calls were received during the lockdown, when the average daily calls were around 1,000,” he said. The district surveillance officer (DSO), Dr Manoj Kumar Kushwaha, said the telephone lines at the control room are nowadays manned by 27 personnel from different departments who then forward the calls depending on the kind of query to one of seven different units established in the control room. “The seven units — home isolation, containment zone, sampling and surveillance, facility allocation and self-declaration, contact tracing, rapid response, and ambulance and sanitization — have nearly 200 officials and workers,” he said. District magistrate Suhas LY said that the number of calls has increased these days after the sudden surge in new cases. “A detailed online and offline database of all the patients is maintained here. A team of doctors, paramedics and teachers monitor the patients round-the-clock. We are tracking their progress through the UP Covid-19 app. The control room also keeps a close tab on the patients asking about their oxygen levels, temperature, and any other complaints,” he said. The DM further said that if the number of recovered patients and low fatality rate are any indication, the district has tackled the pandemic in a better manner. “The district has so far recorded 48 deaths linked to the pandemic, with one of the lowest mortality rates – 0.47% -- in the state. Also, our recovery rate is 79.82%, which is better than other districts in the state having over 3,000 cases,” he said. The GB Nagar district currently stands seventh among the 75 districts in the state in terms of number of active cases as well as recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-with-rising-number-of-cases-covid-19-control-room-gets-over-400-calls-per-day/story-99OziQdRoQ381KuWOcyI7N.html
14-09-2020||City||UP promises memorial, library in memory of Sudeeksha Bhati||Lucknow/Noida: The Uttar Pradesh government will build a ‘Prerna Sthal’ (memorial) and set up a library in the name of Greater Noida student Sudeeksha Bhati, the scholarship holder from Bulandshahr who had died in an accident late August, to inspire children. The announcement was made by state chief minister Yogi Adityanath when he met Sudeeksha’s parents at his residence in Lucknow.On August 10, Sudeeksha, who lived in Deri Skaner village in Greater Noida, had gone to Bulandshahr with her uncle Satyendra and a cousin on a motorcycle to meet her relatives, when the vehicle met with an accident at Chirora village, Syana Road in Bulandshahr, and she lost her life. The police had later arrested two suspects for allegedly rash driving and seized the Royal Enfield motorcycle the suspects were riding.A statement issued by the chief minister’s office said the CM told the victim’s family the government would extend all possible help to them. “The government would give ₹15 lakh while the BJP Rajya Sabha member Surendra Nagar from the state would give ₹5 lakh to the victim’s kin,” it said.Surendra Nagar and Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar were also present at the meeting. Adityanath called Sudeeksha “the daughter of the country and society.” He urged the family to be courageous in this time of grief.Sudeeksha’s father Jitendra Bhati informed the CM that his daughter was very studious and talented, and had studied well despite poverty and lack of resources. The family lived in a single room house yet she never compromised with her studies.“The chief minister met us at 10am and interacted for half an hour. He has assured us the state will construct a memorial and a library in Sudeeksha’s memory in Greater Noida. He has also promised a compensation of ₹20 lakh to us. We are satisfied with the government’s action in this case,” he said. Bulandshahr district administration on Saturday had presented a cheque worth ₹1.5 lakh to Sudeeksha’s kin.A tea seller’s daughter, she was the district topper in Bulandshahr in 2018 when she scored 98% in her Class 12 examinations. She was awarded a scholarship worth ₹3.80 crore to pursue an undergraduate course in entrepreneurship at Babson College in Wellesley, Massachusetts. Jitendra said he will soon send Sudeeksha’s younger sisters and brothers to study in a boarding school so that they follow the footprints of their sibling and achieve great heights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-promises-memorial-library-in-memory-of-sudeeksha-bhati/story-PynjW8WQ6PvN3WLQBagwOO.html
14-09-2020||City||Abhay slam BJP for ‘anti-farmer’ policies||Addressing a state executive meeting at Kurukshetra on Sunday, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala said the Centre had brought the three farm ordinances to end the MSP regime, which had caused a furore among farmers. Referring to the police lathicharge during the Kurukshetra protest on September 9, Abhay said, “The farmers had to face police fury when they were going to express their resentment against the ordinances peacefully.” Abhay demanded withdrawal of the FIRs registered against the famers. He also attacked former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda for not opposing the three ordinances. During the meeting, Abhay asked the party workers to take farmers along and hold protests at all district headquarters beginning from Ambala on September 23. He said that he will also invite Congress leaders to join the protest in support of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abhay-slam-bjp-for-anti-farmer-policies/story-rub5jHnLuHCE9txPKhK5EM.html
14-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Cab driver found murdered in car was assaulted by passengers, say cops||Ghaziabad: The post mortem report of a 30-year-old cab driver from Delhi has indicated that he died of head injuries which he sustained after allegedly being assaulted by unidentified passengers, the police said on Sunday. The driver’s body was found in his Swift Dzire car at Mohan Nagar in Ghaziabad on Saturday morning. The victim was identified as Sikandar Paswan, a resident of Sriniwaspuri in Delhi and native of Jharkhand. The man worked as a driver with a cab aggregator and picked up some passengers for a drop to Ghaziabad on Friday night, the police said. “The post mortem report of the victim indicates that he died of severe head inquiries. It seems that it was inflicted by the suspects. We have registered an FIR for murder in connection with the incident. It is still not clear about the suspects as it was not an official booking but a private one. Our teams are trying to trace the suspects,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). According to the police, Paswan had called up his family members at around 9pm on Friday night and told that he was going to Ghaziabad for a drop. His phone, however, was found switched off by 11.30pm and his body was found in his car the next day at Mohan Nagar. The police said that both of his legs were in between the two front seats while the rest of the body was on the rear seat. They added that the keys of the car were missing and the suspects fled after locking his car. The car belongs to his brother-in-law and was driven by the victim. The police, on the basis of a complaint given by his family, registered an FIR under IPC Section 302 (murder) at Sahibabad police station. The police added that they are investigating all angles, including any personal enmity, which could have led to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-cab-driver-found-murdered-in-car-was-assaulted-by-passengers-say-cops/story-38XriNJspND3ECvHGbBYeO.html
14-09-2020||City||Noida: Six vehicle thieves, active since a decade in NCR, nabbed; 13 cars recovered||Noida: The police on Sunday morning nabbed six vehicle thieves who had allegedly been active in the National Capital Region since almost a decade. At least 13 stolen vehicles were recovered. Two of the suspects have also tested positive for Covid-19, officers said.The suspects were identified as Manoj Nehra, Firoz, Afzal Rajput, Lavpreet Singh and Rahat, who are all from Uttar Pradesh, and Subhash Saini, who is from Haryana. All of them are in their late twenties and early thirties do not have day jobs, said the police.Police said they have traced the suspects’ involvement in cases going back as far as 2009. “The gang has been active for a very long time and must have stolen more than 100 vehicles over the years. We have already connected them to a few cases across NCR. Their modus operandi is such that they don’t break into vehicles manually but use technology, taking the take help of Bluetooth devices, to gain control of them,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.He said the gang was allegedly selling the stolen vehicles to two primary suspects, one of whom is from Meerut and the other from Kashmir, where the cars were allegedly being sold. Police are on the lookout for these two absconding suspects. The DCP said that the 13 cars were recovered by the Sector 58 police from various hiding places across Delhi and Noida based on the information revealed by the suspects.“Six of these cars have already been traced to thefts in Delhi. The suspects mostly destroyed the engine and chassis numbers on the vehicles. We are working on placing all stolen cars and looking for other vehicles as well,” said Rajesh.Police said the ground work to arrest the suspects had been going on for nearly a month. The arrests were made Sunday morning from near Sector 62 following tip-offs.The two suspects who were found positive for Covid-19 have been isolated at the district hospital while the others were produced before a magistrate and sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-six-vehicle-thieves-active-since-a-decade-in-ncr-nabbed-13-cars-recovered/story-hVhFb8HQmtkwuKZcuSxXwO.html
14-09-2020||Noida||COVID patient molested: Private hospital in Noida sent show cause notice||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration issued a show cause notice against a Jayepee Hospital in sector 128 after a doctor there allegedly molested a 20-year-old Covid-19 patient on July 27. The doctor was also recovering from Covid-19 there at the time.The hospital said it was co-operating with the police.The woman was scheduled to be discharged when another patient, the doctor, was also moved into her room. The second patient had been working at the hospital as a part-time consultant. According to the woman’s complaint, he molested her on the pretext of informing her about post-discharge care. A probe had been ordered in the matter after a case of molestation (section 354 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered at the Expressway police station on July 27. Once the doctor recovered, Noida police arrested him. Officials of the Noida health department, who are leading the investigation committee, have now sent a show cause notice to the hospital on September 3 after the family approached the administration for action in the matter on July 28. “Why and under what circumstances and on whose authority were a male and female patient kept in one room. Provide a specific name,” said the notice that was sent to the hospital. It also questioned the hospital whether they had taken any action against the nodal officer in charge of bed availability and provide details, if any. Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer Dr. Deepak Ohri did not respond to calls from HT for comment. Meanwhile, a spokesperson for the hospital said that they have responded to the notice that was sent by the administration. “We are co-operating with the investigation and have already provided the necessary answers to the CMO office,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-patient-molested-private-hospital-in-noida-sent-show-cause-notice/story-JNtMskp3yZt6v21ZzyyyMM.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Sion hospital accused of misplacing body of accident victim||Family members of 28-year-old Ankush Sarvade, who succumbed to injuries from a road accident while undergoing treatment at Sion hospital on Sunday, have accused the hospital of erroneously handing over his body to the family of another person who died of suicide. The Sarvade family also claimed that the other family, that has not yet been identified, carried out the last rites. Sameer Siddiqui, a friend of the Sarvade family, on Sunday told Hindustan Times, “Ankush died due to his injuries in the wee hours of Sunday, and the family was informed by the hospital of his death. When they came to claim the body, they requested the hospital to give them 15 minutes as more family members were arriving. After a while, when they returned to claim Ankush’s body, they found it was missing. Later, they got to know the body was handed over to another family by mistake.” Siddiqui said the family would approach Sion police to file a complaint of negligence against the hospital. Two employees of the mortuary were suspended and an inquiry will be initiated against them, said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital, in an official report on the incident late on Sunday night. The report stated orders for the suspension and subsequent inquiry were given over the telephone by additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani who is also in-charge of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) public health department.The deceased’s sister, Jayashree Sarvade, took to social media to highlight the issue in a video. She said, “He met with an accident and had an injury on his head. We took him to Sion hospital. On Sunday at 2.30am, the hospital called us to inform that the patient, my brother, has died. After everything, the hospital told us the body had been handed over to someone else. That family even completed the last rites. We want my brother’s body back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sion-hospital-accused-of-misplacing-body-of-accident-victim/story-XxiMhjRvMeWxLVhA5EZRZL.html
14-09-2020||City||Testing takes a hit in Ghaziabad as TrueNat kits exhausted, new RT-PCR lab accepting only 250 samples per day||Ghaziabad: The testing capabilities of the district have taken a hit as the only TrueNat machine, which is used for testing for the Sars-CoV-2 virus, at MMG District Hospital in Ghaziabad has exhausted all its kits. Also, the newly inaugurated lab for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing has not been testing samples sent by the district health department. Doctors at the District Women’s Hospital, which is located in the same complex as the MMG District Hospital, said samples of their patients have not been tested through the TrueNat machine since September 10. About 15 deliveries, including caesareans (c-sections), take place at the hospital every day, on an average.“Earlier, we were using a mix of TrueNat and rapid antigen testing for our patients to acertain whether they have Covid-19. However, since September 10, MMG Hospital has stopped accepting samples from us as they say they do not have testing kits. In such a case, we are testing our patients with rapid antigen kits only,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, chief medical superintendent of the District Women’s Hospital, which is a non-Covid government facility.The TrueNat machine was provided to Ghaziabad district by the state government and its negative result for a sample is considered confirmatory.A positive result via the rapid antigen kits, meanwhile, indicates a true positive but needs a subsequent RT-PCR test to confirm, in case the test comes out negative.The lab was inaugurated on August 15. Initially it accepted about 300 samples from the district health department. As per rules, the facility can cater to the health services run by the district administration only.“Our patients, who undergo C-sections, are at major risk as they have to stay in the hospital for at least five days, during which their relatives and other family members also come for visits. So, without any confirmation of their Covid-19 status, there is a risk of exposure. Women undergoing normal deliveries are less at risk as they stay in the hospital for only 24 hours after which they are discharged,” she added.She added that the hospital authorities are, however, taking all precautions to prevent any spread of Covid-19 from any suspected patient.Further, the new RT-PCR testing laboratory, which was inaugurated by Atul Garg, Uttar Pradesh’s minister of state for health, on August 15, is yet to be fully utilised for the purpose of testing of Covid-19 samples taken by the district health department.“The new laboratory has not been accepting samples sent by us, which are collected by our teams from different locations across the district. We take up about 3,000-3,500 samples, which includes about 900-1,000 RT-PCR samples. In such a case, we have had to send our samples for testing to laboratories in other districts, including those in Noida,” Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said. Ghaziabad MLA and minister of state for health Atul Garg did not respond to calls. The new lab, according to officials of MMG Hospital, is currently testing about 200-250 samples per day.“We are still waiting for an RNA extractor machine, for which we have already written to state officials. This will help us reduce the time taken for testing. We have been given a target of 200 tests per day. Once we receive the RNA extractor machine, we can increase this to about 1,000 a day and will also be able to increase the number of shifts to three as against two at present,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital who is also in-charge of the new laboratory.He said that samples of only those patients who are themselves coming to MMG Hospital are being taken up by the lab, He added that a new RNA extractor machine costs about Rs 30 lakhs. “The trueNat machine has not been functional since September 10 as the testing kits are exhausted. We have informed the concerned authorities about the issue,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/testing-takes-a-hit-in-ghaziabad-as-truenat-kits-exhausted-new-rt-pcr-lab-accepting-only-250-samples-per-day/story-lBdNSIOMd2RzrBoUm8IpKI.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Complete FYJC process soon, parents, colleges urge Maharashtra government||Nearly six months after the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams were held in the state, parents of students who passed the exams have urged the education department to complete the admission process for first-year junior college (FYJC) soon. In line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on Maratha quota in jobs and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. The second merit list, which was supposed to be declared on September 10, has been postponed as a result of this. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), nearly 3.1 lakh seats are up for grabs this year for which more than 2.12 lakh students have applied. With the delay owing to the procedure, parents, students and colleges have requested the education department to release a revised academic schedule. “Even as the government has reduced the syllabus by 25%, it is going to be challenging for the students to study the remaining in the very little time that is left. An alternate academic schedule should be declared for this year,” said the principal of a suburban college. An official from the education department said a revised schedule had not been made yet, adding, “Government instructions are awaited in the matter.” Uday Nare, teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public school in Andheri who has written to the government in this regard, said, “Teachers and parents are worried that these students would have to face an academic loss due to the delay in the procedure. Some solution needs to be arrived at by the government with the state education department to make the year less stressful for the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/complete-fyjc-process-soon-parents-colleges-urge-maharashtra-government/story-354J3wiSWe3cFHdX7FzQSK.html
14-09-2020||City||Delhi govt allows gyms, yoga centres to reopen||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Sunday allowed gyms and yoga centres to reopen that have stayed shut for more than five months under the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued the order Sunday night. The trial period of weekly markets has also been extended to September 30. All these activities, including opening of gyms, are not allowed in containment zones, the order said. Delhi had 1,488 containment zones as on Sunday. There are over 6,000 gyms and fitness centres across Delhi employing over 100,000 people.The Central government under its unlock-3 guidelines issued on July 29 had allowed gymnasiums and yoga centres to open across the country from August 5. But the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) headed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal did not allow resumption of these services owing to the rising Covid-19 cases in the city. On August 6, the Delhi government had sent a file to open hotels, weekly markets, gyms and yoga centres in the city to L-G office. Following this, the DDMA on August 19 had allowed opening of hotels and weekly markets, but gyms and yoga centres continued to be prohibited.Sunday’s order stated that gyms and yoga centres will be allowed to operate with immediate effect only if they strictly follow the standard operating procedures (SOP) laid down by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. “In case of any violation, owner and manger of the premises shall be liable for persecution under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides sealing of such premises forthwith,” the order, seen by HT, read. It also directed all district disaster management authorities to ensure that gyms and yoga centres comply strictly the SOPs to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The SOPs for gyms issued by the Centre on August 3 restricted yoga and workout sessions to only such activities that do not require trainers to touch members and not more than 10 persons per 1,000 sq feet space.Facilities like sauna, shower, body massage and spas will also not be available until further orders. All other social distancing and preventive measures, like hand hygiene and thermal screening at the entrance, are to be strictly followed by members and gym/yoga organisers.Face masks will be mandatory at all times within gym/yoga centre premises. Gyms and yoga institutes must ensure a minimum distance of 6 feet between individuals and plan floor area based on 4 metre square per person. They should try and utilise outdoor space by relocating or offering online training classes wherever possible. Specific entry and exit pathways to be created by floor and/or wall markings and precautionary instructions on posters to be placed within closed spaces are some of the rules issued by the Centre under the SOPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-allows-gyms-yoga-centres-to-reopen/story-xK6DeSoRNuACyTOZ7u7sXN.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Monday challenge: DMRC to make 4500 trips to meet rush||After seven days of trials and errors and staggered reopening of its entire system, Delhi Metro is keenly forward to Monday — the first full working weekday when the entire network will become operational after nearly six months and the first acid test of all the safety and social distancing norms that have been put in place. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation plans to make 4,500 train trips from Monday , as it expects a surge in ridership. Nearly 1.5 lakh people had taken a ride on the Metro on Saturday, when the entire network spread over 389kms was made operational for the first time after nearly six months.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials expressed confidence that even if the crowd increases, they are ready to deal with the increase in ridership, while ensuring all safety norms to contain the spread of Covid-19. Going by the gradual increase in ridership between September 7 and September 12, when the entire network was thrown open to the public, DMRC officials are expecting a dramatic increase in ridership from Monday.The DMRC switched back to its pre-lockdown schedule on September 12, with trains operating between 6am and 11am on all 10 corridors, at a gap of 2.5 minutes to 6 minutes, on an average. With the number of commuters gradually increasing, the challenge before the Metro is to run its services at pre-lockdown speed while following all the Covid protocol, which involves social distancing and sanitisation of the trains.Anuj Dayal, executive director, DMRC, said, “Over 4,500 trips will be made with 294 trains across the network, including Airport Express Line. A team of around 8,000 housekeeping staff will look after the overall sanitisation work across the network. Around 1,500 Delhi Metro officers and staff along with civil defence volunteers are being specially deployed at the stations to facilitate commuter movement, in addition to the regular staff.”DMRC officials say that the new system has been carefully worked out. While all measures are in place, DMRC officials have urged commuters to avoid unnecessary travel, especially during peak hours. “We would also request the commuters to stagger the timing of their journeys, so that we can all avoid the peak hour rush,” Dayal said.Dayal added, “Delhi Metro officers and staff along with civil defence volunteers will be deputed at the stations to facilitate commuters. Adequate availability of sanitisers as well as thermal scanners has already been ensured. Flying squads have been deputed to ensure adherence to Covid 19 related norms inside the system.”Due to low turnout, as compared to the pre-lockdown period, DMRC’s train operations have been affected in the first week of its opening.While DMRC’s managing director Mangu Singh had urged commuters to “break the peak”, the Metro has put in place a mechanism to avoid crowding at stations. A DMRC official said that from Monday, the DMRC might start empty trains or short loop some trains to manage crowded zones. “We have worked out a clear strategy to manage crowding at stations. We may opt for starting certain empty trains from terminal stations or short loop some trains to manage the crowded zones on a particular route/sections, if need be,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monday-challenge-dmrc-to-make-4500-trips-to-meet-rush/story-DP4HWVyccnhBUUn9E4804N.html
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s tally cross 93K, 77% patients have recovered||Haryana recorded 2, 526 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the tally of positive cases past 93,000. The infection also claimed 19 lives, taking the death toll to 975, as per the health bulletin. Of the 19 fatalities, four were recorded in Karnal, three each in Faridabad and Ambala, two each in Gurugram, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Yamunanagar and one in Kurukshetra. As per Karnal district health department, the four deceased included a 65-year-old woman of Sector 13, a 77-year-old man from Sadar Bazar, an 81-year-old man from Sector 14 of Karnal and a 72-year-old man from Khora Kheri village of the district. The deceased were also suffering from other age-related ailments such as high blood pressure and diabetes, an official said. The health officials said as many as 56 workers of a paper factory in Fatehabad’s Ratia tested positive on Sunday evening. With the continuous spike in the Covid-19 cases, the infection doubling rate has come down to 28 days.As many as 1, 874 patients were discharged on Sunday and the tally of recovered patients stood at 72,587. The cumulative number of people found Covid-19 positive so far has risen to 93, 641, while there were 20, 079 active patients in the state until Sunday evening. As per the bulletin, Gurugram recorded the highest number of new cases (339), followed by Faridabad 298, Karnal 255, Ambala 182, Sonepat 167, Panipat 155, Rohtak 142, Panchkula 120, Hisar 126, Kurukshetra 130, Rewari 81, Palwal 30, Mahendergarh 64, Jhajjar 28, Bhiwani 76, Nuh 10, Sirsa 50, Fatehabad 35, Kaithal 44, Jind 50, and Charkhi Dadri 25. The number of critically ill patients also rose to 319, which included 43 patients on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-tally-cross-93k-77-patients-have-recovered/story-vo1EDgFNtrr367MCmnLRZJ.html
14-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 surge to stabilise in 2 weeks: Govt||The Delhi government said on Sunday it expected the fresh surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital to stabilise in 10-15 days, even as it announced measures to augment health care infrastructure in the city to tackle growing active cases and boost the critical care system at hospitals.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain ruled out further lockdown restrictions in Delhi, arguing that they were no longer a solution to the pandemic and implored the public to wear masks and maintain hygiene. “It [the surge] is very much on expected lines, and will stabilise in 10-15 days,” he said at a digital news conference.Jain attributed the spike to aggressive testing undertaken by the Delhi government in recent days, as well as the easing of restrictions in a bid to revive the economy, which was hit severely by the pandemic.All private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in Delhi have been allowed to increase their bed capacity by up to 30% and 33 major private hospitals have been asked to reserve 80% of their intensive care unit (ICU) beds for patients suffering from the viral infection.The move to augment hospital bed capacity comes at a time when Delhi is seeing a record surge in Covid-19 cases. The Capital on Saturday added 4,321 new cases of Covid-19 — the highest single-day spike in the city so far. Another 4,235 new cases of the infection were added on Sunday.He said that although around 50% Covid-19 beds in the city were vacant, ICU beds at a few major private hospitals were running out, with patients preferring private health care facilities to government-run ones.“I held a meeting through a video conference with all private hospitals on Saturday. They have agreed to our plan. Orders have been issued to allow all Covid-19 hospitals in the city to increase their bed capacity by 30%, if required, while 33 major private hospitals have been asked to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. These are hospitals that have 50 beds or more. If some of these ICU beds are currently occupied with non-Covid patients, then they must be included for Covid-19 patients after the existing ones are discharged,” Jain said.The minister explained that if a Covid-19 hospital has 100 beds, it would be allowed to increase its capacity to 130 beds, according to the latest order.At present, Delhi has 14,372 hospital beds, of which 7,924 are lying vacant. Of these, 489 ICU beds with ventilators and 277 ICU beds without ventilators are unoccupied.The Delhi government’s decision came after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on September 9 asked officials to draft a plan to increase Covid-19 bed capacity in Delhi, especially ICU beds.As HT first reported on September 9, the situation is worse in multi-speciality private hospitals in the national capital. Over 89% of ICU beds with ventilators in 11 private hospitals were occupied until Friday, while 82% of ICU beds without ventilators in eight private hospitals were also filled on that day.Delhi recorded the highest-ever total hospitalisation due to the contagion in a single day on Friday after 6,294 people were admitted. The previous record was 6,264 during the Covid-19 surge in the city in June-July.“Wearing masks reduces the chances of spreading and contracting Covid-19 significantly. The public should wear masks. The government is also running an intensive awareness campaign on the importance of masks. Everyone should wear a mask and follow strict social distancing norms. We have moved far away from the times of lockdown. That (lockdown) is not going to happen again,” Jain added.Hospitals and mohalla clinics are also testing asymptomatic people amid a boost in testing in the Capital.However, the count of the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered to be the most accurate to diagnose Covid-19, continued to remain low in comparison with the less accurate rapid antigen detection (RAD) test.Data showed 9,182 swab samples — 15% of all the tests — were tested on Friday using the RT-PCR method, according to Saturday’s health bulletin.Jain said the results of the third serological survey, which was conducted in Delhi between September 1 and 5, would be announced in a few more days as the study of the samples is still in progress.He added that the test positivity ratio of Delhi of a single day is 7.19%, whereas the national test positivity rate is about 8.8%. “Delhi recorded 28 deaths as per Saturday’s bulletin which brings down the mortality rate of the last 10 days in Delhi to about 0.68%, which is much lower when compared to the national average of 2.23%,” Jain said.The Delhi government’s decision to reinforce hospital bed capacity is on the right track, said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“It is good that the government has finally done something about the low availability of ICU beds in major private hospitals. The government, however, should also simultaneously improve its contact-tracing exercise. Also, surveillance should be strengthened further and suspected [Covid-19-positive] persons outside containment zones need to be checked for Covid-19 with an RT-PCR test,” he said. Private health care providers cautioned that the move could endanger the lives of non-Covid patients in need of emergency or other life-saving care. Some associations plan to make a representation to the Delhi government on Monday and take legal recourse, if necessary.“The patients who had been delaying their surgeries and other planned procedures have started coming into the hospitals in the last one month, with most of the big private hospitals running at least 90% of their total ICU capacity. If you look at the statistics from these bigger hospitals in the last three months, they received about 2.5 times non-Covid-19 patients than Covid-19 patients. This means the government would be jeopardising the lives of these non-Covid-19 patients,” said Girdhar Gyani, director general of the Association of Healthcare Providers (India).“Apart from that, this move is also penalising the private hospitals economically. When they say 80% of the ICU beds have to be reserved, it means the beds have to be reserved even if there aren’t any Covid-19 patients. But, the government would not be paying the hospitals. It is one thing to say ‘reserve 500 beds and we will pay for it’. Besides, why should ICU beds be kept vacant when someone else might need it,” said Gyani.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, one of the 28 that has been directed to reserve beds, already has a high percentage of beds set apart for Covid-19 patients and the problem is one of sufficient staff, according to hospital authorities.“We had been asked to create a 100-bed ICU initially when we had met the health minister even before the June surge. So, we have been slowly able to ramp up our capacity. Now, we have 117 of 167 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, but with almost all big hospitals doing so there will be a problem for non-Covid-19 patients. For us, the challenge will be manpower, more staff is needed for Covid-19 ICUs so we are in the process of hiring more nurses. Our doctors are also exhausted now,” said Dr DS Rana, chairperson of the board of governors at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-surge-to-stabilise-in-2-weeks-govt/story-jzsKNDZGSCIp9z0fNBl65K.html
14-09-2020||Mumbai||Navy veteran assaulted by Shiv Sena workers in Mumbai: Congress claims BJP MP orchestrated attack on ex-Army man, slams party’s ‘double standards’||Amid criticism over the attack on a retired naval officer in Mumbai by six Shiv Sena party workers, the Congress, which is one of Sena’s ruling partners, claimed a Member of Parliament (MP) from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had orchestrated an attack on an army veteran four years ago and questioned BJP’s “double standards” on the issue. BJP leaders had criticised the Maharashtra government for the attack on the navy veteran, with former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis appealing to CM Uddhav Thackeray to end the ‘goonda raj’ in the state. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant has claimed that in 2016, an army veteran, Sonu Mahajan, was attacked at the behest of BJP MP Unmesh Patil in Chalisgaon area in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district. “The then BJP government did not register an FIR (first information report) and in fact hounded him. Mahajan had to approach the high court to get the case registered. The BJP has not taken any action against Patil. In contrast to that, our government (Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi) booked the accused and arrested them in the present case,” said Sawant. Mahajan in a recorded message spoke of harassment by the BJP MP. “Despite being attacked by Unmesh Patil’s men, I was locked up in prison. It was finally in 2019 that I was able to get the case registered on the orders of the high court. However till date, no action has been taken against Patil or his men who attacked me,” said Mahajan. The BJP was quick to rebuff the allegations as baseless. “Why didn’t the Congress raise this issue all these years? Even the FIR filed in the Madan Sharma (the retired naval officer) case was an eye-wash as all the accused got bail within no time,” said BJP legislator Atul Bhatalkar. On Friday, Sharma was attacked by six Shiv Sena workers in Kandivli after he allegedly shared a cartoon mocking Thackeray. The BJP led the onslaught calling the incident “state-sponsored terrorism”. On Saturday, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh had a telephonic conversation with Sharma and later tweeted that “attacks on servicemen were deplorable and unacceptable”. The Sena, however, said it was not right to drag the party into this issue. “The workers did not take permission from us. However at the same time, it was wrong to provoke people as they have high respect for their leaders,” said Sena MP Sanjay Raut. ​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navy-veteran-assaulted-by-shiv-sena-workers-in-mumbai-congress-claims-bjp-mp-orchestrated-attack-on-ex-army-man-4-years-ago-in-maharashtra-slams-party-s-double-standards/story-talEygYL91zsW4pvsKtqtJ.html
14-09-2020||City||Stay away from politics or face consequences: Hizbul to J-K leaders||The Hizbul Mujahideen has allegedly threatened leaders in the Jammu region, including Union minister Jitendra Singh, to “get ready to face dire consequences” if they did not stay away from political activities, according to police.The threat has been issued through a letter written in Urdu on the proscribed terror group’s letterhead, officials said. HT has seen a copy of the letter.Police said the letter was addressed to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s Congress vice-president and former minister, Raman Bhalla. “It was delivered at the Congress office in Shahidi Chowk via post on Saturday afternoon,” said Anayat Ali, station house officer (SHO), Pir Mitha police station, Jammu.The two-page letter was signed by a self-styled divisional commander of the Hizbul. Apart from Singh, minister of state in the Prime Minister’s Office, it mentioned 17 senior politicians of national and regional parties, including J&K Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ravinder Raina, National Conference provincial president Devender Singh Rana, Dogra Swabhiman Sangathan leader Choudhary Lal Singh, and other former ministers, legislators as well as Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionaries.“We warn you to renounce politics and support our cause for freedom otherwise death warrants have been issued against you. No security cover will safeguard you from us,” the letter read.A case under sections 121-A (waging war against the government of India) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and sections 13 (unlawful activity), 16 and 18 (terrorist act) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPAA), 2019, has been registered, Ali said.The Hizbul also referred to the killing of public representatives in the letter. “Anyone who is on our target will be gunned down in their homes. This work has already been started. The people who can attack Parliament or Red Fort, can’t they kill you?” the letter read.Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita and BJP leader Waseem Bari were gunned down in the Kashmir Valley in June and July, respectively.Ravinder Sharma, a Congress spokesperson and a former member of J&K legislative council, said the letter was delivered at the party office by post on Saturday afternoon.However, a BJP leader, who did not want to be named, said the letter could be a prank, but he admitted that leaders from his party face threat from terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stay-away-from-politics-or-face-consequences-hizbul-to-j-k-leaders/story-DuzaSOiDzuA6Srb6jZo6mN.html
