15-09-2020||Noida||High-rise staff go on strike over non-payment of salary in Greater Noida West||The maintenance staff in a high-rise in Greater Noida west went on a four-hour-long strike on Monday morning alleging that they have not been paid their dues for the past four months.The incident was reported from La Residentia society where the staff refused to work in the morning hours on Monday. “We have not been paid our salaries for the past four months. Every time we ask from the management about our due salaries, they come up with excuses. We have been working non-stop without any monetary compensation for months now. We have various responsibilities but without being paid, we suffer daily. Some of us have to send money to our families in our home towns as well,” said, requesting anonymity, a plumber who works in the society.The maintenance staff, comprising at least 15 members, resumed work in the afternoon after the agency responsible for the management of the society assured them about being paid soon. “However, if we don’t get at least a part of the due amount within 24 hours, we will go on strike again. We will have no other option left,” the plumber said.The builder has, however, alleged that the issue regarding non-payment of salaries dates back to only two months, and will be resolved soon. “Residents of the society owe more than ₹2 crore in maintenance costs. We co-operated with them during the lockdown and but they are also required to pay the money to us,” said Kulbhushan Bajaj, director, la Residentia.Residents said they were concerned with the state of affairs in the society. “During the lockdown, our security and housekeeping staff had also gone on strike over non-payment of wages. Today(Tuesday) all our electricians, plumbers, gardeners, and other maintenance staff refused to work. It was after a lot of requests and assurances that they resumed work. Because of reduced activities amid the pandemic, most residents are dependent on the maintenance staff for help, and if they go on a longer strike, we can face a lot of problems. If there are issues regarding maintenance dues, notices should be sent to those who have not paid them, but all of us should not be made to suffer,” said Sumit Basoiya, a resident of the society..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/high-rise-staff-go-on-strike-over-non-payment-of-salary-in-greater-noida-west/story-SBuwbYtZsHgTNy1czQjDfL.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll goes past 30,000 with 515 new deaths; tally 1,097,856||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 515 Covid-19 deaths, most in a day as well as first in excess of 500, as the toll went past 30,000 to 30,409. State officials said 302 deaths were from the past 48 hours, 116 were from last week and 97 were from before that period.A day after a relative drop in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra posted 20,482 infections on Tuesday, taking its case count to 1,097,856. Except on Monday, the state has recorded over 20,000 new cases on each day of the past week, which has led to a rise in active cases — 291,797 — accounting for 26.57% of the total. In 15 days of this month, the state has recorded over 3 lakh cases (3,05,243 cases) and average number of daily cases comes to 20,349.The high number of casualties continues to be a concern for state authorities as it is still the highest in the country. Figures show that the state’s contribution in total Covid-19 casualties is around 37.64%, with 80,776 deaths reported across the country.In the past fifteen days, average number of deaths a day of the state went up to 371. The situation appears to be getting difficult with every passing month as the average is constantly on the rise. In August, average number of deaths a day was 309, while in July, June, May and April, they were 282, 187, 59 and 14, revealed statistics.In August, the state reported a total 9,589 deaths, the highest in a month. The state has recorded 5,569 deaths in 15 days of this month, indicating that maximum Covid casualties are going to be reported in September.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 2.77% on Tuesday and comes at third position after Punjab and Gujarat. The CFR of Punjab and Gujarat were 2.95% (with 2,424 deaths) and 2.81% (with 3,227 deaths) on Monday, according to statistics shared by the state medical education departmentPublic health expert Sanjay Pattiwar said the state seems to be moving towards herd immunity, but at a big price in terms of large number of deaths. Besides, the health infrastructure in rural areas, where Covid-19 is spreading rapidly, is still too weak to deal with the situation. “We seem to be looking at herd immunity by way of natural infection and not through vaccination. In such a case it is going to be difficult to control the situation and have to pay a heavy price by losing the lives of a large number of people to Covid-19,” Pattiwar said.There is also no guarantee that vaccines that are being developed will give life-long immunity from virus as against polio vaccine, he said. “Polio vaccine gives us life-long protection whereas in this case there is no such guarantee. We even don’t know the level of protection coronavirus vaccine is going to give and for how many days. The reason is that the polio vaccine was evolved over a period of 30-40 years. In contrast, this vaccine has not been tested for more than three-four months. Thus, the coronavirus vaccine is going to be a temporary phenomena and all stress needs to be given on following social distancing norms,” he said.Pune city continues to contribute the highest number of infections to the daily caseload as it recorded 1,889 cases on Tuesday. Its tally stood at 131,983 cases.Mumbai recorded 1,586 cases as the second highest contributor, taking its tally to 173,596. Of them, active cases were 30,938. The city’s recovery rate is 77.33% and fatality rate is of 4.74%. Nagpur city has occupied third position in the list with 1,422 cases and its tally went up to 41,405.The surge in infections is a result of easing restrictions and the festival season that saw a large number of people getting out of their houses. Besides, with removal of restrictions on inter-district and inter-state travel, new hotspots with a significant number of cases are being reported in semi-urban and rural areas. Currently, the major hotspots in the state are Pune district, Satara district, Nashik city, Pimpri-Chinchwad city, Sangli district, Solapur district, Ahmednagar district and Jalgaon district, where fresh cases recorded were 1,302, 1,117, 1,029, 871, 618, 557, 536 and 504 respectively.In a bid to tackle the surge in Covid -19 cases and deaths, the state government launched its door-to-door survey ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ on Tuesday. The state-wide programme aims to check 2.25 crore families for symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and co-morbidities. The idea is to effectively curtail the spread with necessary care and also reduce the number of Covid-19 casualties.While launching the campaign, the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray virtually interacted with 28,000 village sarpanchs and asked for their active participation in the campaign. He requested them to monitor the campaign and ensure it is done as expected.Under the campaign, health workers will conduct door-to-door surveys during which they will check residents’ body temperature and oxygen levels, besides other symptoms, including tiredness, throat pain, dry cough, diarrhoea, and loss of smell and taste, officials said.“Those with Covid-19 symptoms will be recommended a swab test. People with ailments such as diabetes, heart and kidney disease as well as obesity will be referred for treatment. Besides, health workers will also impart health education to people, especially on Covid-19,” said a health official.Each team comprising a health worker and two volunteers will survey each and every family of the state twice in over a month. The state is also assigning one doctor to five teams. The first phase of the survey is starting Tuesday. The volunteers are expected to complete it by October 10. The second phase will be conducted between October 12 and 24.On Tuesday, the state has conducted 87,944 tests and the total number of tests conducted till date are 5,409,060.On the other side, the state has also recorded 19,423 recoveries, highest in a day so far and total number of recovered patients reached 775,273.The recovery rate recorded was 72.62%, against the national average of 78.28%, with 80,775 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-toll-goes-past-30-000-with-515-new-deaths-tally-1-097-856/story-jC7td98W5OHwvK0DNLAHWN.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||3-judge HC bench to decide on bail for prisoners found with phone in jail||A three judge bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court will now decide whether a prisoner found using phone inside the jail will be disentitled for parole or bail only upon conviction by a court. The reference in this regard has been sent by high court bench of justice S Muralidhar and justice Avneesh Jhingan as it came across conflicting judgments of different division benches.“While a decision rendered by the coordinate benches will be binding on the subsequent benches of equal strength and if there is a conflict, the only way in which such conflict can be resolved is to refer the issue of the correctness of contrary views of coordinate benches to a larger bench,” the division bench recorded, while referring the matter to the chief justice to constitute a full bench comprising three judges. The reference has been raised in a plea filed by one Kulwant Singh from Haryana, who had sought three weeks parole. The bail/ parole are granted under Haryana Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act, 1988. While one view was that a prisoner found to have either used or be in possession of a mobile phone/SIM card is enough to disqualify for parole or furlough. While the other view was that unless such a prisoner is convicted by a court for such offence, which is punishable under the Prisons Act, 1894, the prisoner will not be disentitled to consideration for temporary release on parole or furlough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-judge-hc-bench-to-decide-on-bail-for-prisoners-found-with-phone-in-jail/story-0k9nFafj3jwTCT8KCEm4bO.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||DDA to auction 25 sites for weddings and other functions||With the festive and wedding seasons set to start from October onwards, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), for the first time, has decided to auction 25 of its sites for holding weddings and other functions. DDA officials said this move is aimed at protecting DDA land from encroachments, especially during the festive season.The 25 sites, each measuring more than an acre, are located in Rohini, Dwarka, Shahdara, Kalkaji and Saket, among others. Until recently, anyone could book these sites online by paying the booking amount, which varies as per the location of the site. But DDA officials say there were several problems with that. Often times, tent owners misused the online booking option and kept these spaces booked for a long period of time and also erected illegal semi-permanent tents on DDA lands.To combat this, last year, the DDA decided to auction its sites in order to regulate the use of its site and also earn revenue. With no bookings happening due to the Covid-19 pandemic, auctioning will help the land owning agency earn revenue.There are over 100 to 125 such sites of which DDA will only auction 25. The other sites can be booked online by residents. R Subu, commissioner (land disposal), DDA, said, “This decision was taken before the pandemic, but we couldn’t implement it until now. It is aimed at streamlining the process so that common man can benefit from it. The site will be auctioned for a period of 10 months. When the site is auctioned, the cost of constructing temporary structures will get divided (between the wedding parties). This will benefit people.”The festive season will start from October (Dussehra and Diwai being the main ones) followed by the wedding season of November and December. Although there are restrictions on the number of people at a gathering, banquet hall owners and tent houses are optimistic that the government will allow at least 50% of the venue capacity.Tent house owners say DDA should auction the site for a longer period, but with restrictions and riders so that no other event can be held there. “Auctioning is a good move, as there are several problems with the DDA’s current policy allowing booking of open spaces. But the duration of the lease period should be at least three years. Also, the DDA must restrict the use of the site to wedding functions only; else any event management firm can book the site and block it for an entire year,” Pankaj Shokeen, general secretary, Delhi Tent Federations, said.Purshotam Kalra, a resident of Paschim Vihar, who has been complaining against illegal tents being erected on government land, said, “Auctioning is not a good idea, as this will only lead to more harassment of the public by tent house owners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-to-auction-25-sites-for-weddings-and-other-functions/story-82UVub3ow5HBdHuo5Dpb3N.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram land release probe: CBI seeks sanction to prosecute three former town and country planning officials||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sought sanction from the Haryana government to prosecute three former officials of the town and country planning (TCP) department for their alleged role in facilitating grant of real estate development licenses on land released from the acquisition process in Gurugram. The officials are former chief town planner JS Redhu, former assistant town planner Satish Arora and former deputy superintendent Rajbir Singh. The CBI, which is investigating the case pertaining to release of about 95% of 1,407 acre under acquisition land in Gurugram during the Congress rule in 2009, had in January 2019 registered a case against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, an official and 15 real estate developers in the matter. The probe was ordered on directions of the Supreme Court. ‘TCP officials made back references to builders’ The three TCP officials have been accused by the CBI of making “back references” to real estate developers who had submitted applications for grant of licenses. The “back references”, sources said, allowed the developers to rectify the deficiencies in the applications. Haryana advocate general BR Mahajan, from whom the department had sought advice on the issue of grant of sanction, said he has told the department that sanction to prosecute should be granted. “If the CBI has found something tangible against these officials during its probe, then there is no reason why the department should not go ahead with the sanction to prosecute. Eventually, it is for the trial court to decide the merits of the findings,” he said. Though these officials have retired from the service, as per the amended Prevention of Corruption Act, previous sanction of the state government is required for prosecuting even a retired public servant. CBI’s status report found satisfactory by apex court While it is not clear which way the CBI probe has gone so far, the central agency had on August 25 submitted a status report pertaining to the investigations in the Supreme Court. After perusing the status report, the apex court had said no further monitoring (by the SC) is required in this case since the bench is satisfied that substantial investigation has been done. “We have perused the report filed by the CBI. We are satisfied that the substantial investigation has been done. Let CBI take appropriate steps which may be required in accordance with law in view of its final conclusion. No further monitoring is required in this case,” said a three-member apex court bench. The apex court on December 2, 2019 had expressed its displeasure over the manner in which the central agency had investigated the case. Ordering a CBI probe in November 2017, the SC had said the entire purpose of acquisition stood defeated due to illegal release of 95% land. BOXUNDER PROBE:The Congress government in June 2009 issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act to acquire 1,407 acres for developing residential sectors 58-63 and commercial sectors 65-67 in Gurugram by HUDA. While issuing the declaration under Section 6 on June 2, 2010, the total area was reduced to about 800 acres. Finally, the award dated May 29, 2012 was passed for 87 acres only. The SC had said about 1,300 acres was released in favour of private builders. The CBI in its preliminary enquiry had prima facie established irregularities in the release of land from acquisition process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurugram-land-release-probe-cbi-seeks-sanction-to-prosecute-three-former-town-and-country-planning-officials/story-y1Q41LovtoLPxFUf0Ns36J.html
15-09-2020||City||Forest department serves notice to hospital for illegal felling, pruning of trees||New Delhi: The Delhi forest department has issued a show-cause to Escorts Hospital in south-east Delhi’s Okhla for ‘illegal felling, heavy pruning and heading back’ (removing of terminal branches) of at least 15 full-grown trees in its compound without any permission. According to forest officials, a tree officer from the department inspected the hospital compound on Friday after a Delhi-based environment activist filed a complaint. Some of the trees at the entrance of the hospital have been left with either a sparse canopy and just stumps of removed branches while a few others have their trunks exposed, the officials said, adding the act violates sections of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act (DPTA), 1994. The hospital denied any illegal felling. “No notice has been received yet...no illegal felling/pruning of trees has been done...Only some pruning work was undertaken as part of routine maintenance of green belt and driveway area of hospital for safe and clear movement of ambulances in emergent situations,” Fortis Escorts Heart Institute said in statement. “We will submit all required details to the forest department whenever called upon to do so....”Deputy conservator of forest (South) Amit Anand said the notice was served on Monday. “Officials from the hospital management have been summoned to appear for a hearing in the matter on September 24. As per an initial assessment, around 15 trees have been damaged within the compound.” “Heavy pruning, ‘heading back’ and felling of trees without permission is an offence under the DPTA. Appropriate action will be taken after necessary proceedings,” Anand said. Verhaen Khanna, the activist on whose complaint the inspection was carried out, said even for light pruning, any agency, public or private, has to seek the forest department’s permission . The compound mostly has ficus species such as peepal, about 20-30 feet tall, which have been heavily pruned with heavy green branches being cut. There are some jamun and neem trees as well. “A tree cover is most essential for a hospital, which helps to cut down on air pollution levels. Besides, reducing the foliage will affect the birds and insects that live on the trees. The trees have been damaged and no permission was sought from the relevant authorities,” said Khanna.Any public or private entity wanting to get trees pruned in its premises has to seek permission from the forest department. After getting the nod, the task is carried out by the horticulture department of the land-owning agency such as the municipal corporation or any other department. C R Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at Delhi University, said, “Heading back is taken up only when a tree has grown too large and can cause damage by falling on the immediate surroundings. Besides, ficus species can survive heavy pruning and pollarding, as new shoots grow into it.” “However, it is done only when the crown of the tree becomes too heavy and there is a fear of it being uprooted at any time, for which a prior assessment has to be done by a tree officer. In case of native trees such as jamun, the tree may get damaged in this process,” said Babu. This the third such instance of trees being damaged in the capital in the last two months. In August, the forest department issued several orders to the Station Area, Indian Army, at Delhi Cantonment for damaging over 40 trees along Ring Road while constructing a boundary wall. Earlier this month, the department issued ‘stop work’ order to the public works department for concretising around 30 trees at Meera Marg, Lodhi Colony, while constructing a drain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forest-department-serves-notice-to-hospital-for-illegal-felling-pruning-of-trees/story-eJpdtROuMTWjF0qyERcVjK.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Stir against Centre’s agriculture ordinances: Haryana farmers’ unions to protest in Delhi today||Irked over the Centre’s refusal to withdraw the three farm sector Bills introduced in the Lok Sabha, Haryana farmers’ unions on forefront of the agitation have decided to protest in New Delhi on Wednesday.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni has refuted reports about cracks in 17 farmers’ unions protesting under the BKU umbrella in Haryana. He claimed that not only farmers in Haryana but also various farmers’ unions of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan will descend on the national capital to hold a day-long protest near the Parliament on Wednesday. To break the logjam, the farmers leaders, including Charuni, were invited to meet BJP MP Dharambir Singh and then Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday. “The objective of inviting us for talks was to hoodwink the farmers. We boycotted the talks after we were told that the government will not withdraw the ordinances,” Charuni said.Meanwhile, Haryana BJP chief Dhankar led a delegation of “farmers” along with state agriculture minister JP Dalal and three MPs to meet Tomar. Dhankar said they submitted a memorandum to Tomar which includes eight demands/suggestions regarding the agriculture ordinances. Dhankar had deputed three party MPs— Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh—to meet farm union leaders to allay their fears on the ordinances.“The procurement of produce under MSP will continue. There will be no change whatsoever about the MSP and the grain markets. The ordinances have been drafted to protect the interests of the farmers,” Dhankar said. However, Charuni said: “The farmers union leaders who met Dhankar and then Tomar are not participating in the current agitation in Haryana. How can they speak on behalf of agitating peasants? Hours before meeting Tomar in Delhi on Tuesday, Charuni had said that farmers of the state want the Centre to give an undertaking that foodgrain procurement will continue under the minimum support price (MSP). “We want the Centre to give an undertaking that foodgrain procurement will continue under the MSP. Let private players buy foodgrains from farmers, but it must be guaranteed that they will not be allowed to procure the produce below the MSP decided by the Centre,” Charuni said. He, however, dismissed as an eyewash the efforts of a panel of three BJP MPs to reach out to the state’s farmers over the weekend. “The primary objective behind setting up the three MPs’ committee was to throw dust into the eyes of agitating farmers. This panel was set up to mislead the farmers and defuse the crisis,” he said. Farmers protest in various parts of state Meanwhile, farmers staged protests at various places in the state on Tuesday, demanding withdrawal of the three agriculture ordinances. Farmers associated with BKU reached the district headquarters in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Karnal and Kaithal districts and staged the Kisan Bachao-Mandi Bachao protest from 10:00am to 4:00pm. Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja, who was in Karnal on Tuesday, has accused the BJP government of turning a blind eye to the problems faced by farmers. Selja said the anti-farmer laws framed by the government have forced the farmers to take to the streets. Farmers in Jind, Hisar, Bhiwani and other districts also held protests and shouted slogans against the government.Bablu Shehrawat, Hisar district president of Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said, “The government has brought these ordinances to bring corporate dominance in agriculture. The farmers will be dependent on the big corporates if these bills are passed in the Parliament. If the ordinances are not revoked, we will ban the entry of BJP-JJP leaders in villages,” he added.Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu also addressed a press conference in Rohtak, where he trained guns at chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for ‘not raising’ farmers’ issues before agriculture minister Narendra Tomar.“The CM had also taken part in a meeting during which the plan on the three ordinances was discussed. However, he did not raise any objection to it. He has failed to save farmers,” Kundu said.In Ambala, several farmers gathered outside the deputy commissioner’s office to stage a protest against the recent police action against farmers at Kurukshetra’s Pipli rally and also the farm ordinances. Similar protests were also held outside the mini secretariat in Yamunanagar. With inputs from Sunil Rahar, Neeraj Mohan and Bhavey Nagpal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stir-against-centre-s-agriculture-ordinances-haryana-farmers-unions-to-protest-in-delhi-today/story-Cdsgm9CO64E84TIp5miRXK.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Sero survey 2.0: 30% of Covid positive patients in August did not have antibodies||A little over 30% of the recovered patients of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), whose samples had been included in the serological surveillance conducted in August, did not have antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the disease. The survey included 257 people who had tested positive for the viral infection with an RT-PCR test and 79 of them did not have the antibodies in their blood samples. This finding has been reported in a technical report on the serological surveillance by researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College. “This was an incidental finding. We have reported this in the technical report that was submitted to the Delhi government about 10 days back. One of questions in the survey questionnaire was whether any of the people had tested positive for Covid-19 using RT-PCR and we found that some of them did not have the antibodies. However, there is not time frame for when they had tested positive for the infection. Studies from some other countries have shown that there has been a decline in the level of antibodies after a few months,” said one of the researchers working on the serological survey. “There is a need for a longitudinal study to find out the variation in the antibody levels over time in the population. The current tests that are done for the serological survey does not measure the level of antibodies, it just says whether one has the antibody or not,” the researcher said. The second round of serological surveillance in Delhi was conducted between August 1 and 7 whne 15,000 blood samples from a population representative of Delhi was collected. It had sound that an estimated 29.1% of the population had developed an antibody response to the virus. The prevalence of antibodies was higher among women – with 32.2% of women and only 28.3% of the men having the antibodies. The third round of sero-survey was conducted in Delhi between September 1 and 5 where 17,000 samples had been collected ward-wise. The results are likely to come in this week. “The result of the third sero surveillance will likely be released within this week,” said a Delhi government official. The first round of sero-survey had been conducted in Delhi between June 17 and July 10 with help from the National Centre for Disease Control, when 20,000 samples were tested. The study had estimated 22.6% of the population had antibodies to the infection. “The antibodies for Covid-19 disappears over time. Even at our hospital, a couple of the doctors who had tested positive, even donated plasma, did not show any antibodies after a month. This means, the prevalence of antibody in the city might go down and we might not be able to say that herd immunity could be protective,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital. Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences said, “In case of any infection, some people do not develop antibodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sero-survey-2-0-30-of-covid-positive-patients-in-august-did-not-have-antibodies/story-6TFKUpeUEoyhsRSamTKktL.html
15-09-2020||City||HC asks DU to fast-track results||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed Delhi University (DU) to send letters to the principals of all its affiliated colleges, asking them to fast-track the evaluation of answer sheets of final-year undergraduate students so that the results can be declared by the first week of October.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad also asked the university to give a firm deadline to the court by which the results can be declared, and posted the matter till September 23.Delhi University had conducted the final-year examinations for undergraduate students from August 1 to 31 in the online open-book mode and later in the blended method (online+physical examinations) from September 14.The court, which was hearing an application for the early declaration of results, was informed by DU’s standing counsel MS Rupal that the answer sheets had been mailed to the examiners who teach in different colleges.Rupal said the procedure requires teachers to e-mail the results to the examination branch, where they will be moderated stream-wise. The application was filed in a petition filed by law student Prateek Sharma, who wanted better facilities for physically disabled students during examinations.Prof Sanjeev Singh, head of the DU’s computer branch, informed the bench that since the students had the double option of emailing the answer sheets and uploading them on the portal, there had been a lot of duplication. The computer cell has engaged 40 people on contract to integrate the answer sheets of all students.“By now, about 30% integration has taken place. About 50% of the answer sheets sent on the OB portal have been evaluated,” he said.The court said the varsity should take all steps to expedite the results as many students have to secure admissions in universities in India and abroad.During the hearing, the varsity also undertook to declare the results of final-year postgraduate students, who had requested their outcome on or before September 28 as they are seeking admission in foreign universities.The court said the results will be uploaded on Delhi University’s portal by September 28 morning on the university letterhead and will be digitally signed by an authorised official, without any riders that the results are provisional.“The students will be at liberty to download the results from the web portal of Delhi University,” the bench said.Prof DS Rawat, acting dean (examination), assured the court that the letter with regard to final-year UG students, containing their provisional results, will be sent directly to the foreign universities concerned , depending on the cut-off date for compliance as mentioned by students in their e-mails.He said an e-mail will also be sent to students, informing them about it so that they apply for a visa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-asks-du-to-fast-track-results/story-WhVi4lEoB9GDlZvXYy8cbK.html
15-09-2020||City||Homebuyers raise questions over Rera’s ‘progress report’ on projects||The Real Estate Regulatory Authority of Uttar Pradesh (UP-Rera) on Monday has come out with ‘Progress Report 2020’ that contains details of new initiatives, its achievements and the status of ongoing housing projects. The regulatory authority has put up the progress report on its website so that homebuyers both existing and new can use the report to make informed choices. However, homebuyers were sceptical and said the UP-Rera has not gotten the status of ongoing housing projects verified by an independent agency before publishing the details in the 60-page progress report. In the progress report, UP-Rera also claimed as its achievements in past one year the introduction of e-courts in the wake of Covid 19 pandemic; development of a mobile application for site inspections of housing projects; virtual workshops’ dispute resolution via conciliatory forums’ and awareness workshops on buyers’ rights. But not all buyers are happy with the report. “If the information provided by the promoter is not factually correct, then how can it benefit existing or new homebuyer? We have observed that many promoters give wrong information about the status of the project thereby misleading buyers. We are writing to UP-Rera to remove the unverified housing project details immediately as these will only confuse buyers,” Manish Kumar, vice-president, Noida Extension Flat Owners’ Welfare Association, said. The UP-Rera said there are a total of 2,800 housing projects registered across Uttar Pradesh of which at least 50% belong to the eight districts of the National Capital Region, falling in Western UP. The UP-Rera publishes this progress report annually to spread awareness about its initiatives so that buyers can be empowered and use the law if and when the need arises, said UP-Rera officials. The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, had come into force on May 1, 2016 putting in place institutional infrastructure to protect consumers’ interests and promote the growth of the realty sector in India. “The UP-Rera is trying to protect the interests of buyers and are taking decisions on cases in relatively lesser time as compared to other courts. But the problem is that action on UP-Rera’s orders, particularly with regard to recovery of refunds from developers, are not happening as they should,” said Sachin Sharma, a homebuyer. The UP-Rera chairman Rajive Kumar said they will take action against promoters if they are found to have given wrong information about the status of projects. “We have had many achievements in past one year when it comes to addressing homebuyers’ grievances and helping the sector grow. We conduct inspections on site and verify the information given by a promoter. But we have not inspected all sites of all projects. We believe that the promoters give correct information about their projects so that homebuyers can make use of the same. But if any promoter gives wrong information, then there are provisions to act against them as per the law. As far as the issue of compliance is concerned, particularly on the matter of refunds, we are working on that and it will be dealt with,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/homebuyers-raise-questions-over-rera-s-progress-report-on-projects/story-5TYeBkcbqphUZflWe4sLCP.html
15-09-2020||City||Teachers in Delhi govt-funded DU colleges plan strike over salaries||New DelhiDelhi University teachers will on Wednesday begin a three-day strike over the non-payment of salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff in Delhi government-funded colleges. The strike call has been given by the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), which has been raising the issue of delay in grants to 12 Delhi government-funded colleges.Mahaveer Genwa, who teaches Chemistry at Deen Dayal Upadhyay College, said he last received his salary in April. “All our backup and savings have been exhausted. Teachers have used their fixed deposits or taken personal loans for their everyday expenses,” he said, adding he will participate in the strike from Wednesday.Eight DU teachers have also approached the Delhi High Court, seeking directions to the authorities to pay pending salaries to around 1,500 teaching and non-teaching staff in these colleges. The petition is likely to come up for hearing on September 17.“Funds have been released to six (out of the 12) colleges that are fully funded by the Delhi government. However, there have been complaints of financial irregularities in the remaining six, because of which their accounts are currently being audited. Serious financial irregularities have surfaced in the audit process. Without the completion of the audit, more funds from the public exchequer cannot be released to these colleges,” the Delhi government said in response to queries sent by HT.Jaskaran Bindra, a second-year undergraduate student at the college, said, they are supporting the teachers in the strike. “They deserve their salaries for working so hard during a pandemic. Even our online learning gets affected since many teachers do not have high-speed internet,” he said.Genwa, president of the staff association at the college, said, “Expenses have been piling up with no relief in sight. Many of us have school-going children who haven’t been able to pay their fee or our rent. Our landlords have threatened to evict us. We don’t have any hope from the strike but there is nothing else we can do,” he said.DUTA treasurer Abha Dev Habib said around 2,000 such employees and their families “are suffering for no fault of theirs”.In August, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said around 23% of the funds allocated for 2020-21 had been released. He said the “inability of Delhi government-funded DU colleges to pay staff salaries despite a 70% increase in budget allocation in the last five years indicated corruption” – a claim denied by the DU administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teachers-in-delhi-govt-funded-du-colleges-plan-strike-over-salaries/story-4MMz0M3EFfBhbS6NDW6WaI.html
15-09-2020||City||New law and order zones created, reshuffle in top ranks of Delhi Police||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Tuesday effected a reshuffle among its top-level officers and created three law and order zones in place of the existing two. Central and Western are new zones. Delhi will now have South, Central and Western law and order zones, replacing the earlier North and South . Each of them has two police ranges each, an order issued by the Delhi Police on Tuesday read. Delhi has six police ranges each led by a joint commissioner of police (IG rank officer).A 1989-batch IPS officer Ranvir Singh Krishnia, who to date was heading the South law and order zone as a special commissioner, has retained his post as the zone’s name has not changed. The only change in the new order is that he will be the in charge of only southern and new Delhi ranges,, which is now under South zone. Earlier South zone included southern range, New Delhi range, and western range, as per Tuesday’s order.Satish Golcha of the 1992 batch will now be the head of the Central law and order zone, which comprises central and eastern ranges. Till Tuesday, Golcha was the chief of North Zone as a special commissioner and this zone had eastern, central and northern ranges.The newly created Western zone will be led by Sanjay Singh, a 1990-batch IPS officer. Western zone comprises of western and northern ranges. Singh was holding the post of special commissioner of police (transport and licensing), since November last year, when he was shifted from the North zone law and order, following the Delhi High Court’s direction in the aftermath of the Tis Hazari Court Complex clashes between lawyers and police. According to Delhi Police’s Tuesday order, special commissioner of police (operations) Muktesh Chander has been given the additional charge of licensing while Anand Mohan, who is holding the charge of special CP (training) will also be looking after the transport wing. Similarly, special CP Robin Hindu, a 1993-batch IPS officer, has got the added responsibility of planning and implementation, provision and logistics, and welfare, apart from his existing charge of the training wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-law-and-order-zones-created-reshuffle-in-top-ranks-of-delhi-police/story-MMvreUWouo743LnOXEzE7J.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Moga man held for robbing pick-up auto driver in Ludhiana||Ramgarh police on Tuesday arrested a man for allegedly robbing a pick-up auto driver of his vehicle and cash. The accused has been identified as Sunil Kumar Bedi of Moga. Police have recovered the vehicle from his possession. Bedi’s accomplices, Baljit Singh, 36, of Mamdot, Ferozepur, and Baljit’s wife Kirna, 32, were arrested on August 20.Assistant sub-inspector Surjit Singh, in-charge at Ramgarh police post, said the accused was arrested on the basis of a tip-off.He added that during questioning, Bedi confessed to hatching a conspiracy to loot Dalbir Singh alias Ravi of Lalru, Mohali. They hired Ravi’s pick-up auto for ₹3,000 to shift goods to Ludhiana on August 16. Near Jandiali village, they injured the victim and escaped with his pick-up auto and Rs. 17,500.Dalbir Singh lodged a complaint following which the case was registered at Jamalpur police station under sections 379 B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code. After the vehicle was recovered, police have added Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) to the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/moga-man-held-for-robbing-pick-up-auto-driver/story-uj2JSHb44RLJP2p0hNWRQK.html
15-09-2020||City||2 groups of MC workers clash outside councillor’s office in Ludhiana||Two groups of municipal corporation (MC) workers clashed outside the office of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) councillor Harvinder Kaler (ward number 36) at Chimney road in Shimlapuri area on Tuesday evening . A sanitary supervisor, Pawandeep, suffered serious injuries on the head and has been admitted to the hospital.Following this, Pawandeep’s group staged a protest against the councillor for allegedly planning an attack on them. Police reached the spot and tried to pacify the protesters. Pawandeep’s younger brother, Dharminder said,”Pawandeep has been the sanitary supervisor (lambardar) of the ward for around 12 years and 40 sweepers work under him. The councillor wants to divide the work between two sanitary supervisors even after the residents have supported Pawandeep. Kaler asked us to visit his office on Tuesday evening to resolve the matter and when we moved out of the office, the other group attacked us due to which Pawandeep suffered serious injury on head and has been admitted to a hospital.”Kaler however denied the allegations and said he has nothing to do with it. “I was inside my office and had called up both parties so that a consensus can be reached. Another sanitary supervisor is required in the area so that work could be done properly. However, Pawandeep left the meeting in between and moved out. He and other employees of his group started raising slogans against me and the other group. When the other group moved out of the office, both the groups entered into a clash,” Kaler said. Station House Officer, Shimlapuri police station, Varunjit Singh said,”Two groups had clashed following which police was deployed at the spot. We have not yet received any formal complaint from either side.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-groups-of-mc-workers-clash-outside-councillor-s-office-in-ludhiana/story-sKIyvVfutLvGJwHgnPuIDI.html
15-09-2020||City||NHAI putting up ‘Danger’ signboards on Eastern Peripheral Expressway||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have started putting up warning boards to curb trespassing on the 135-km Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) from villages on either side of the access-controlled highway. The EPE connects Kundli with Palwal, both places in Haryana, via Baghpat, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts in Uttar Pradesh. The expressway helps long-distance travellers between the two states to bypass Delhi, thereby reducing their travel time.“The outer side of the EPE is bound by iron railings, which is about 30-40 metres away from the main carriageway. There are instances of people cutting off the grilles so that their vehicles can access the expressway from the nearby villages. Such vehicles include tractor-trolleys and two-wheelers -- two categories that are not allowed on the EPE,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. “This has resulted in several accidents. We have also deployed guards but still people drive two-wheelers and tractor-trolleys forcibly on the expressway,” he said.Apart from accidents, thieves flee with the iron installations, solar panels, streetlights and even damage installations on the expressway. The “short-cuts” are also used to avoid toll booths.To discourage all this, the authority has launched a the pilot project near the Dasna interchange danger signboards will be put up.“We are putting up red danger signboards every 100 metres for a distance of 10km,” he said. “We are hopeful we will be able to secure the iron barricades and also prevent unauthorised entry to the expressway.” If the project is successful, the NHAI will expand it over the entire 135km stretch. “The boards will be put up at places where there are more chances of trespassing. Such boards imply that the intruder is being monitored and there could be repercussions for him/her,” said colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, who was part of the army’s engineering corp, said.As per norms, the speed limit for cars/jeeps on the expressway is 120kmph while that for commercial vehicles is 100kmph. According to records, there were 74 accidents in 2018 on the EPE, while there were 144 in 2019 and 83 accidents till date in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhai-putting-up-danger-signboards-on-eastern-peripheral-expressway/story-TEI3muTPJsqZrDAvhqXiMM.html
15-09-2020||City||PSPCL expands its call centre for lodging complaints||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), on Tuesday, expanded its call centre, 1912, by increasing total channels to 120. A newly constructed call centre building at 66 KV GIS substation in Chaura Bazar was inaugurated by DPS Grewal, director distribution.A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL said that it is a major expansion of the already 24x7 running electricity call centre at Janta Nagar, Ludhiana, which has been in operation since 2009. He added that with this expansion as many as 180 persons have got employment.He said that due to heavy rain/storm, especially during paddy season, manual lines become faulty because of which consumer complaints increase, leading to heavy load on lines of the existing call centre. “Most of the lines become busy and it becomes difficult to cater to the demand of consumers to register their complaints. Therefore, 60 additional lines are added to the system”, he added.While inaugurating the new building, Grewal said, “This facility at Chaura Bazar will now double the existing electricity call centre capacity from 60 to 120. Now, 120 incoming call channels shall be available to customers for registration of complaint through ‘1912’ in place of the existing 60 channels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-expands-its-call-centre-for-lodging-complaints/story-yDjGDWMXuSoAwcyWaGghlO.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Tent dealers up in arms against Punjab govt’s curbs on gatherings||The Punjab Tent Dealers Welfare Association started a two-day protest on Tuesday against the state government’s decision to restrict gathering limit at events to 30 people despite the Union government allowing 100 people from September 21. In Ludhiana, protest marches were organised in different parts of the city on cars. Protesters displayed posters slamming the state government’s decision and raised slogans. They also got into a heated argument with the police at Samrala chowk. The members rued that over 10 lakh people, who are involved in the business directly and indirectly, are struggling to make ends meet due to the pandemic, but the government is not paying heed to the problem. The members said they will hand over a memorandum of their demands to MLAs of their respective constituencies.Punjab general secretary Shiv Shanker Rai, said, “Apart from 8,000 tent dealers across the state, caterers, decorators and Djs have also extended their support to the protest and kept their shops closed. If the Union government has allowed 100 people to gather from September 21, why can’t the state government do so?”Raj Aggarwal, president of the Ludhiana Tent Dealers Welfare Association, said, “Tent owners have made no money in the last over five months and are struggling to make ends meet. A large number of employees have lost their jobs as owners are not able to bear fixed charges. The government should take note of the problem and gathering limit should be increased to 100 people to bring some relief.” Surinder Singh, owner of Bagga tent house in Dugri, said, “Tent dealers have been forced to change their vocation. I have started working as a property dealer to make ends meet. While some are selling vegetables, few have become drivers. The residents are not booking tents and caterers due to restrictions on gathering and the future seems dark if the government fails to announce some relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tent-dealers-move-on-roads-seeking-extension-in-gathering-limit-protest-marches-organised-in-city-on-cars/story-CdqlP6mTes1AHH0A4W4rdK.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana vet varsity appoints deans of 4 colleges||The board of management, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), appointed the deans of four colleges on Tuesday.Sarvpreet Singh Ghuman has been appointed dean, college of veterinary science, Manish Kumar Chatli, dean, college of veterinary science, Rampur Phul (Bathinda); Meera D Ansal, dean, college of fisheries and YPS Malik, dean, college of animal biotechnology.Sarvpreet Singh Ghuman recently completed his four-year tenure as head of University Hospital Complex, GADVASU. He has 25 years of experience in teaching, research and extension since he joined as assistant professor at the department of veterinary gynaecology and obstetrics, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and subsequently, GADVASU. He earned PhD degree in animal reproduction from University of Liverpool, UK, under Commonwealth Scholarship. He has been associated with 21 research projects. Manish Kumar Chatli is a veterinary graduate of CCS from Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar. He did his PhD from Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, and has undergone advanced training in meat proteomics at University of Kentucky, Lexington. He was head of the department of livestock products technology for the last eight years. Chatli has delivered more than 50 invited lectures and published two patents, eight books and more than 158 research publications. Meera D Ansal completed her MSc and PhD from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) where she also joined as assistant professor (fisheries) in 1999 and has made significant contributions in teaching, research, extension and institutional development.She has guided 10 MFSC/PhD students and taught more than 20 UG/PG courses. Under ICAR’s Niche Area of Excellence Project, she played an instrumental role in development of aquaculture in salt affected waste lands of south west districts of the state and was conferred with ‘Best Success Story’ award by the Indian Ecological Society. Yashpal Singh Malik is serving as ICAR national fellow at Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Izatnagar, India. A CCS graduate from Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, he has rich experience in veterinary microbiology and biotechnology. He did his post doctorate in molecular virology at University of Minnesota, USA, and acquired advanced training in virology at University of Ottawa, Canada, and Wuhan Institute of Virology, China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gadvasu-appoints-deans-of-4-colleges/story-2P6ffSdD55bYuzDq4TmYDN.html
15-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC begins survey to check illegal water connections at labour quarters||After increasing the property tax for labour quarters, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has commenced a drive to check illegal water connections in the city. As per MC officials, there are approximately 50,000 buildings in the city that house labour quarters and out of these, at least 80% have illegal water connections. The field staff has started its survey and recovery notices would be served to the owners soon. Most of labour quarters are situated in Giaspura, Haibowal, Barewal road and adjoining areas. The officials said that a penalty of at least Rs 20,000 will be imposed on the owner, if illegal water connections are caught by the MC team. The penalty will include regularisation charges, a fine and fixed amount of monthly bill for the last three years.Additional commissioner, Rishipal Singh said, “The MC has already begun a survey after property tax for residential rental properties, including labour quarters was increased to 7.5% of the annual rent. Now the teams will also inspect the water connection of the building. A survey has been initiated in the city, following which notices would be served to the erring owners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-begins-survey-to-check-illegal-water-connections-at-labour-quarters/story-oCdCdJdGcV80mcMYCvrMpJ.html
15-09-2020||City||Industrial waste continues to be dumped, burnt in Greater Noida’s green belts||Industries set up in Ecotech 1 in Greater Noida continue to dump waste in green areas in the city unchecked in the absence of a policy aimed at collection of such waste, environment activists and residents have alleged.According to the residents of villages around Ecotech-1 industrial area, factories often dump and burn waste along various green belts in the city creating problems for common people. “Dumping of industrial waste is so unabated and unchecked that a number of green belts have been completely like a dhalao (dumping site). We often see cables, tyres and other waste dumped by the industries on the roadside being burnt. Last year, such burning lead to a mass fire and the smoke filled our village and people were forced to flee out of their houses,” said Rohit Adhana, a resident of Kasna village that is situated near the industrial area.Local residents asserted that while they had been filing complaints with the Greater Noida authority, the pollution control board and even the chief minister’s integrated system for grievance portal—Jansunwai Samadhan since last year, waste dumping is a perennial issue with only small pauses in between.Seeking a permanent solution to the issue, Adhana added that complaints only provide a temporary solution and in many cases no even that. “We often see smoke rising from green belts in Ecotech 1 where garbage from nearby factories including some liquor factory is dumped At times, the smoke enters the villages along this industrial area. We have been raised complaints multiple times, but the issue persists,” said Ramveer Tanwar, a social and environmental activist and resident of Dadha village (which is near the industrial area).Villagers said a number of rag pickers and scrap dealers can be often seen burning cables dumped by industries for extracting copper.According to city environmentalists, while residential waste gets attention from authorities, collection of industrial waste, which can be far more dangerous, is pushed to the back burner. “The issue of industrial waste is old and least addressed often leading to contentions between authorities, industrial bodies and residents. It’s the responsibility of the development authorities to either collect the industrial waste or continuously monitor how industries are handling it. It’s strange that when development authorities allot land to industries, they are not concerned about the waste generated. Imposing penalties alone can’t resolve the issue of industrial waste, and we need a comprehensive policy on collecting such waste from factories,” said Vikrant Tongad, a city-based environmentalist.The industrial area falls under Greater Noida authority. While it’s illegal for industries or scrap dealers to dump garbage in green belts, the authority is not responsible for collecting waste from factories, senior officials of the authority said.Meanwhile, the state pollution watchdog inspected the area on Tuesday and found various violations.“A team was dispatched to inspect the area and found that the garbage was being dumped and burnt openly along the roadside as well as the green belts. Since the area falls under Greater Noida authority, we are sending a letter to them to act against the violators and impose penalties,” said Archna Dwivedi, regional head, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Greater Noida.Washing off hands from the responsibility of collecting the waste, Greater Noida authority said it will issue fines to the violators. “It’s not our responsibility to manage the bulk industrial waste generated, and it’s rather the industries which are supposed to manage their waste themselves. However, it’s illegal to dump waste in green areas, and we have slapped penalties on the industries for such violations in the past. Even in this case (for areas around Ecotech 1) , we will act against the violators. The scrap dealers have been impanelled by the authority to retrieve the waste and sell it further, but even they are not supposed to throw it on the roadside,” said Deep Chandra, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-waste-continues-to-be-dumped-burnt-in-greater-noida-s-green-belts/story-RRH11VOv2TXK0jqDnri7DJ.html
15-09-2020||City||Man held for raping neighbour, blackmailing her with objectionable pictures||An Abdullapur Basti resident has been booked for raping a 27-year-old woman multiple times during the lockdown after threatening to leak some objectionable pictures of her on social media.The woman said that she had moved back to her parents’ house about a year ago after her relationship with her husband turned sour. The accused, who is a neighbour of her parents, befriended her and even introduced her to his mother. In March when the lockdown started, he invited her to his house. On reaching there, she found that he was alone at home. He offered her a cold drink. After drinking it, she fell unconscious following which the accused raped her and even clicked objectionable pictures of her.The woman said that the accused then used these pictures to blackmail her and forced her to establish physical relations with him. He even told her that he had links with some drug peddlers and would get them to murder her family if she revealed the incident to anyone. She finally confided in her mother, who then took her to the police station to lodge a complaint. Assistant sub-inspector Daljit Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case has been registered under Sections 376 (rape) and 417 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.Neighbour rapes seven-year-old girlIn another case, the Moti Nagar police arrested a labourer for raping the seven-year-old daughter of his neighbour in Ranjit Nagar of Sherpur Khurd.The girl’s father said that the accused lured the girl into his room when her mother was sleeping and then raped her. On hearing the child’s screams, the mother woke and rushed into the accused’s room and found the accused raping her. She raised an alarm following which the accused fled the spot. But the police managed to arrest him hours after the FIR was lodged. Sub-inspector Sunita Kaur, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-raping-neighbour-blackmailing-her-with-objectionable-pictures/story-0OsQ7GZS98koJFPsZ4eO8N.html
15-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Anti-corruption team investigates irregularities in issuance of fire safety approvals||A team from the Bareilly anticorruption unit of the state police arrived in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday to investigate alleged irregularities pertaining to the issuance of no-objection certificates (NOC) from the fire department in 2019. The matter came to light in September 2019, when a fire station officer was arrested by the Noida Police for allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹80,000 for issuing an NOC to a private hospital in Sector 48. A probe in the matter revealed that a number vendors supplying fire safety equipment to commercial and residential establishments in the district were obtaining fire NOCs on behalf of applicants. After this information came to light, the Noida fire department filed as many as seven FIRs against at least 13 fire safety equipment vendors for using their personal contact information to obtain NOCs on behalf of their clients.While the matter was being initially investigated by the Noida police department under the tenure of the last district SSP, Vaibhav Krishna, it was later handed over to the anticorruption unit of the state police.A team from the Bareilly anti-corruption unit, led by deputy SP, Abdul Razzaq, visited the Sector 2 Harola fire station on Tuesday morning, before meeting the district fire chief.“The investigation has been going on for a while. We filed complaints after irregularities were found in the process of NOC issuance. The vendors would use their personal contact information to obtain these certificates on behalf of applicants. The team today visited a few spots and spoke to fire personnel and others as a part of the ongoing probe,” said Arun Kumar Singh, the district’s chief fire officer.Statements were taken and inquiries were made, while documents related to the alleged irregularities were also seized, said officials. Singh added that the investigating officials also visited the spots, whose NOCs were found to be questionable in the initial probe. The team spent over five hours in Noida, carrying out their investigation. Fire department officials said that the probe will continue and action will be taken against all those who are found to be involved in the irregularities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-anti-corruption-team-investigates-irregularities-in-issuance-of-fire-safety-approvals/story-neY5vFazHQ31QRfgVELckN.html
15-09-2020||Noida||Okhla Bird Sanctuary reopens with social distancing measures in place for visitors||The Okhla Bird Sanctuary — home to 350 species of birds — reopened on Tuesday, after being shut for five months. The forest department installed new signboards, urging visitors to maintain social distancing.The sanctuary was closed in March, in the wake of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic when a nationwide lockdown was announced to stop the spread of the virus.“We are only letting visitors in with masks and thermal screening. There was a total of 14 visitors on the first day. This is not surprising because it is presently the off-season. The period from November to March usually receives the highest number of visitors. As a precautionary measure, we have installed signboards, along the trails, urging people not to take off their masks and to maintain social distancing,” said Arvind Mishra, range forest officer of Okhla Bird Sanctuary.The sanctuary is spread over an area of 400 hectares, of which about 60% is covered by a water body. The sanctuary recorded 21,061 water birds belonging to 115 species, as per the annual census conducted by the forest department in February 2020 for the birding year, 2019-20.According to the officials of the sanctuary, the migratory birds usually start arriving by October, while their strength reaches the peak by December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/okhla-bird-sanctuary-reopens-with-social-distancing-measures-in-place-for-visitors/story-nEFci5ezDSlm4DXVw1C2SK.html
15-09-2020||Noida||Noida district hospital’s out-patient dept teeming with Covid patients||The out-patient department (OPD) of the Noida sector 30 district hospital is serving almost 1,200 patients a day, growing from the 200 to 400 patients per day figure during the lockdown.In the last three days, the number of patients almost reached and even crossed the average of 1,500 patients per day that the hospital’s OPD served before the pandemic forced the lockdown in the country.According to officials Sunday had around 1,200 patients, nearly 2,000 on Monday and Tuesday had around 1,750 patients till 6pm. Dr. VB Dhaka, the hospital’s chief medical superintendent, said that the relaxation of curbs saw many patients reporting feverthe . “The figures may rise in the coming week as patients come in to be tested for Covid-19 (the UP government had recently relaxed rules on testing allowing some people to be tested without the need for a prescription). We tested 400 people on Monday and 375 on Tuesday,” he said. Due to the influx, the hospital has deployed additional staff. “Since the heavy rush may cause further spread of Covid-19 cases, the additional staff are ensuring proper social distancing between the patients who are waiting,” he said. Dr. Dhaka also said that the number of patients admitted in the hospital also increased after the Unlock process. “At present as many as 150 patients, including 14 pregnant women, are admitted. This year, there have been no case of dengue so far here. We detected five cases of malaria and the patients are being treated,” he said. Meanwhile, the district hospital will soon have an exclusive ward to treat the elderly patients. “It will have 10 beds and two assistants will be deployed there. All the beds here will be have modern technological apparatus, including ventilators and pulse oximeters, which will help in speedy recovery of elderly patients from cardiac problems, paralysis, diabetes and rheumatic problems,” said Dr. Dhaka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-district-hospital-s-out-patient-dept-teeming-with-covid-patients/story-0Y9u5T2M67xlDvP9eGAECL.html
15-09-2020||City||Neighbour thrashes woman in public view, after video of incident goes viral, he’s arrested||A 47-year-old woman was brutally thrashed by her male neighbour in public view on a road in Razapur locality of Ghaziabad on Saturday evening after she allegedly objected to his offensive and abusive remarks about her. The incident was caught on CCTV cameras and several people had also made videos that were widely shared on social media, prompting the police to arrest the man on Tuesday. Police said the arrested man has been identified as Sunil Chaudhary, the neighbour of the victim woman. The woman’s family gave a complaint at the Kavi Nagar police station on the basis of which the police booked Chaudhary under the IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation). “The man has been arrested. The family in their complaint said Chaudhary often harassed them and beat the woman up on Saturday when she objected to his behaviour. The incident was also captured by CCTV cameras in the area,” Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city), said. Police said the incident took place around 5.15pm Saturday when the woman was on her way to the local market and Chaudhary made some offensive comments about her. When she objected to this, videos on social media purportedly show Chaudhary landing multiple punches and kicks on the woman and beating her up mercilessly even as the public remained mute spectators. The videos also show him picking up a metal chair and hitting the woman with it till she fell unconscious. Chaudhary then leaves the spot and another man helps the woman up. He make her sit at a nearby shop before leaving. Police said the initial medical examination of the woman indicated six different injuries to her chest, head and the upper portion of her body. In his complaint, the woman’s husband mentioned that the suspect would often abuse his wife and their 26-year-old daughter. He said this has been going on for a year and a half and the family had once complained to Kavi Nagar police and twice to the local police post. The woman’s son said, “The man made abusive comments about my mother, and when she objected, he severely beat her up. The police have not levied appropriate sections in the FIR as my mother has injuries to her head and chest.” Verma said the police have sent the woman for further medical examination and have for now levied the IPC sections on the basis of complaint given by family and the initial medical report. “Further medical examination will be taken up and appropriate sections will be added to the FIR if reports indicate other injuries. The FIR is lodged as per the complaint given by her family. In case the family wants to add more charges, these will be made part of the ongoing investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/neighbour-thrashes-woman-in-public-view-after-video-of-incident-goes-viral-he-s-arrested/story-KB6pfJk9FvkeLxNrAvMZlK.html
15-09-2020||City||Graft-accused patvari attempts suicide in VB custody||Hours after Anil Narula, a patwari posted in Ayali Village was arrested on the charge of accepting Rs 4,000 bribe in lieu of helping a villager correct her name in the revenue records, he tried to end his life with an ice pick on Monday while in vigilance bureau custody. The accused also tried to snatch documents of the case from a vigilance inspector.Inspector Ranjit Singh of the Ludhiana vigilance bureau has lodged a complaint and a case has been registered against Narula at division number 8 police station.In his complaint, Ranjit Singh said the accused took the ice pick kept in the office for official work and tried to stab himself. They snatched the ice pick from him and foiled the bid, he added.The inspector added that the accused also tried to snatch documents of the case from his possession.Assistant sub-inspector Shingara Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR has been registered under Sections 309 (attempt to commit suicide) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of Indian Penal Code against the accused, who is still in custody of vigilance bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/graft-accused-patvari-attempts-suicide-in-vb-custody/story-ssPF7NJ8sJS0TqpbZAVIIJ.html
15-09-2020||City||Uttar Pradesh increases TrueNat testing charges to ₹2,000||Three days after the state government had revised the Covid-19 testing rates for private labs, the rate for testing through TrueNat machines was increased to ₹2,000 from ₹1,600 on Sunday.The state government on September 13 had first slashed the rate of RT-PCR and TrueNat tests from ₹2,500 to ₹1,600 at private laboratories, but as per a fresh order issued by UP’s additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad on Sunday, the rate for testing through TrueNat machines is now ₹2,000 even as the rate for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) have been kept the same as per the Septemebr 13 order.The district health department has received the new order.“After the recent revision of testing rates (on September 13) to ₹1,600, there is a new direction in which the rate for TrueNat testing is further revised to ₹2,000. The rate for RT-PCR test will however remain at ₹1,600,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “The rates for the RT-PCR test was dropped as there were some reagents whose costs had also dropped. So, it is possible that the drop in rates for the reagents used for TrueNat may not have come down, hence the state officials decided to give increase the rate slightly,” he added.TrueNat testing is used for speedy confirmation of true negative status of patients who arrive for non-Covid medical interventions like in case of trauma, surgeries or in case of pregnant women among others.Apart from three machines in private labs in the district only one government-run facility (MMG District Hospital ) in Ghaziabad the facility for testing throughTrueNat machines. The TrueNat machine available at the district hospital is not operational these days, added the CMO.The TrueNat testing, was largely used for pregnant women who needed to be tested for Covid-19 before their deliveries, had stopped since September 10 at the district hospital.“We have informed the concerned authorities about the requirement for TrueNat kits and the officials have told us that the kits are on their way. We are expecting the delivery of kits in the next three days,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of MMG District Hospital.Till September 14, Ghaziabad district had tested about 245,132 samples, including 8500 through TrueNat machines. Of the total TrueNat samples, 6,100 were collected by private labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttar-pradesh-increases-truenat-testing-charges-to-2-000/story-YG15WeIIpoT0eUCPu8b25M.html
15-09-2020||City||With spike in Covid-19 cases, most private hospitals in Ghaziabad report 100% occupancy||With a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the first two weeks of September, most of the 10 Covid-designated private hospitals in the district are filled to capacity, said officials of the health department, adding that to deal with the surge in cases, beds in private hospitals have been increased from 598 to 663 by Monday.According to official records from August 1 to August 15, the district had recorded 1,561 Covid-19 cases. But the recent spike has led the tally to reach 3,027 cases during the first 15 days of September. According to the state control room records of September 15, the district currently has 1,858 active cases, taking the overall tally of Covid-19 cases to 11,335.“We have 100% occupancy in our Covid-19 department, which has a total of 105 beds. All of them are occupied. We have been observing an increase in the number of patients over the past 10-12 days,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital, Nehru Nagar. The other branch of the hospital at Kaushambi has 45 beds — all of which were found to be occupied on Tuesday. “The occupancy is 100% and the number of patients has increased drastically in September. Apart from a steep hike in occupancy we have also observed the severity of Covid-19 cases has also increased. Earlier, we were receiving patients with very mild symptoms but now patients, who require L2 or L3 categories of treatment,are being admitted” said an officer from Kaushambi branch of the hospital. Representatives of Max Hospital in Vaishali had the same story to share. The hospital has 49 Covid-19 beds- all of which were occupied till Tuesday. “All of our 55 functional Covid-19 beds are full and even the ventilators are occupied. There are number of enquiries which are coming in for admission, but we have no other option but to deny,” said Dr Mahesh Chaudhary, director (operations), Navin Hospital at Vaishali. The health department officials said that the overall occupancy in private hospitals is about 75-80%. A total of 2,676 cases were allowed home isolation, of whom 843 patients are still recuperating.A total of 833 cases have been discharged so far. “The occupancy in private hospitals is high and many of them have 100% occupancy. As a result, more beds were added to private hospitals, taking the total number of beds in such hospitals to 663. We are also planning to rope in more hospitals in cases more beds are needed. On the other hand, beds in our L1, L2 and L3 are lying vacant. We have a total of 200 patients, as against an availability of 1,466 beds,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “A facility allocation for about 200 patients is pending and will be completed. We are expecting more hospitals to join the paid Covid treatment facility that will take the total number of beds in private hospitals to 750 this week,” he added. However, despite the drastic rise in the number of fresh cases, the district has also reported a high recovery rate. Of the 11,335 total cases till September 15, the total number of discharges stood at 9,404 — which roughly corresponds to 82.96% of overall cases In order to effectively deal with the surge in cases, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari on Tuesday issued directions to state officials to ensure that order for medicine supplies, manpower and oxygen is placed, keeping in mind the requirement for the coming weeks. “Patients must be randomly checked over the phone and their feedback must be taken. For this, the district control rooms will be required to send reports to the state level control room, which will keep a check on contact tracing and testing,” Tiwari said in his directions. He also stated that a comprehensive health status of very mild and asymptomatic patients in home isolation should be taken and, if required, they should be referred to Covid hospitals. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-spike-in-covid-19-cases-most-private-hospitals-in-ghaziabad-report-100-occupancy/story-P62i9xNjoL1SDjrBnXIAvL.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||MHA officials want UT admin to focus on critically ill Covid patients||The Central government on Tuesday reiterated that the UT administration had to renew focus on care of critically ill Covid-19 patients as well as those suffering from other ailments.Appreciating the administration’s efforts to step up Covid-19 testing in the city since their last meeting on September 4, ministry of home affairs (MHA) officials, including the Union home secretary, said in a virtual meeting on Tuesday that while the UT had been successful in keeping mortality rates down, it had to ensure that the toll did not go up even as positive cases increased.According to UT adviser Manoj Parida, “We have increased testing and expanded the bed capacity in the city. We have been asked to strengthen the contact tracing mechanism and monitoring of home quarantined (patients).”FOCUS ON NON-COVID PATIENTSWith public health care facilities largely closed for non-Covid patients, the MHA asked UT officials to ensure timely treatment for them even while managing the Covid pandemic. The outpatient departments of all Chandigarh hospitals were shut down after the first Covid case was detected in March. Now, however, even as tele-consultation is being provided to patients, emergencies are open only to those requiring immediate intervention.RE-VALIDATE ANTIGEN TESTS IF NEEDEDWith doubts being raised over antigen testing results, the MHA officials directed the UT officials to revalidate the results of the antigen test with RT-PCR tests if required.“For the first contact family members of Covid patients we are already conducting RT-PCR (Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, considered the gold standard in Covid-19 testing) tests. In other cases too we will follow up the antigen tests with RT-PCR tests on a random basis to check their efficacy. Also, if some patient raises questions about the antigen tests we will conduct RT-PCR tests,” said Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mha-officials-want-ut-admin-to-focus-on-critically-ill-covid-patients/story-ab56i7344IhYnnOu6TxYzI.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Focus on contact tracing, testing: Central team to Chandigarh admn||The two-member medical experts’ team constituted by the Centre to help the Chandigarh administration in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic is learnt to have suggested better contact tracing, more testing capacity and preparations to increase hospital beds amid a surge in cases. The team that was deputed here on September 4 has also asked the UT administration to improve its real-time data management while appreciating coordination between field teams and use of geographic information system (GIS) mapping for identifying clusters and demarcating containment zones.Better contact tracingThe UT has been told to include more staff from the health department in contact tracing exercise, with one team catering to a maximum of 25 active cases. The contact tracing team, in turn, should coordinate with its corresponding zonal testing team in a streamlined manner and ensure that no family member or contact of positive cases is missed out. Currently, there is a duplication of work, as the health department carries out contact tracing for testing and the municipal corporation teams for quarantining. Increase testingThe administration has been told to increase testing capacity at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, as maximum number of cases are surfacing in southern sectors, which also have more containment zones.Also, there is recommendation to start antigen testing at the emergency ward of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research to ensure those diagnosed with Covid can be immediately isolated from other patients admitted there. At present, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method is used, which takes time to provide test results, leading to chances of spread of infection.Clear testing data on timeIt was noted that the number of Covid-19 tests increased manifold due to the inclusion of negative samples that were not counted on day of testing and are now being updated in bulk. The team said that real-time data entry should be facilitated to address this backlog at the PGIMER level. It was suggested that test results should be communicated to people on priority.Be prepared to increase bedsThe expert team has also called for better coordination between all three government hospitals in the city to streamline referrals, besides asking PGIMER and GMCH to be prepared to increase the number of beds in case of a further surge.The team has recommended that the staff from all specialties should be trained for managing at least moderate Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, it has been suggested that all family members of those testing positive should be contacted by doctors within 24 hours to take a call on whom to be home isolated or shifted to Covid care centre or hospital, and for quarantining high-risk contacts with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/focus-on-contact-tracing-testing-central-team-to-chandigarh-admn/story-KfjixL0PWewGkDrsFTZx6N.html
15-09-2020||City||With 90 new deaths, toll crosses 2,500 in Punjab||Chandigarh/Amritsar/Jalandhar/Patiala: The Covid-19 death toll rose to 2,514 with 90 more fatalities in Punjab on Tuesday while the patient tally climbed to 84,482 with 2,481 fresh infections in the state, according to the daily medical bulletin of the state government. Nineteen fatalities were reported from Ludhiana, 12 from Jalandhar, 10 from Amritsar, eight each from Gurdaspur and Kapurthala, six from Hoshiarpur and five from Ferozepur, it said. Four deaths each were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala, three from Muktsar, two each from SBS Nagar, Pathankot and Rupnagar, and one each from Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur and Tarn Taran, as per the bulletin. Among places which reported high number of cases were Ludhiana with 409 new patients, Jalandhar (261), Amritsar (214), Patiala (204), Gurdaspur (197), Pathankot (189), Mohali (188), Hoshiarpur (154) and Bathinda (120). There are 21,154 active Covid-19 cases in the state, as of now, according to the bulletin. A total of 1,815 coronavirus patients were discharged on Tuesday after recovering from the infection. So far, 60,814 people have been cured of the contagion. Eighty-eight critical patients are on ventilator support while 481 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 14,39,583 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-90-new-deaths-toll-crosses-2-500-in-punjab/story-YCjxW4tAotldpvcs2JTswM.html
15-09-2020||City||2,239 appear for PAU’s entrance exams for admission to undergraduate courses||As many as 2,239 students, out of 3,007, appeared for Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU) common entrance test (CET) for admission to undergraduate programmes for the academic session 2020-21. Sharing details, NK Khullar, controller of examinations, PAU, said that over 74% of students appeared for the examination at different centres across the state on Tuesday. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the university had set up eight examination centres across the state comprising districts Amritsar, Abohar, Bathinda, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Ludhiana, Sangrur and Sri Muktsar Sahib for the convenience of the students and smooth conduct of the exam. It is for the first time that the university had set up examination centres outside PAU,” he said. “At Ludhiana, four centres were set up at PAU and one each at RS Model School and KVM School,” he added. “All precautionary measures such as maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks were adopted and each candidate had to undergo thermal screening at entry points. All the examination centres were sanitised,” said Khullar.The entrance examination was held for admission to various undergraduate programmes, including BSc (Hons) (agriculture), BSc (Hons) (horticulture), BTech (biotechnology), BTech (food technology), BSc (Hons) (community science), BSc (Hons) nutrition and dietetics, and five-year integrated MSc (Hons) in biochemistry, botany, chemistry, microbiology and zoology, he said. As many as students 90 appeared for the examination at the university’s Pal auditorium.While the exam was scheduled at 11 am, some students were seen wearing surgical gloves an hour before the exam. “We were told that the examination will be conducted with certain protocols in view of Covid-19 and were asked to wear surgical gloves,” said a candidate Arish Kumar from Kapurthala. Students found the mathematics portion to be the toughest. “Though it was an option-based examination, the logical reasoning and calculation part was difficult,” said Paramjot Kaur from Sahnewal. While Snehdeep Singh from Kapurthala and Pankaj Kumar from Ludhiana said that the physics and chemistry section was relatively easy, mathematics was tough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-239-appear-for-pau-s-entrance-exams-for-admission-to-undergraduate-courses/story-Stowu41Yo6BV5dkIBXV6sI.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Plastic waste management bylaws: Chandigarh MC seeks suggestions from public||The municipal corporation has sought suggestions and objections from the general public and other stakeholders on draft Chandigarh plastic waste management bylaws 2020.The UT administration had notified the draft in July this year. People can submit their suggestions/ objections in the MC commissioner’s office from September 16 to September 25.The MC will implement the rules after the approval of the administrator. Some of the elements have already been incorporated in the MC waste segregation process, others will be implemented with this notification.As per the draft rules, “Every plastic waste generator will have to segregate the waste at the source and plastic wastes shall be stored separately from other kinds of wastes within the premises of the waste generator. This responsibility shall fall upon the occupier or manager of the premises. The aforementioned entities shall hand over such segregated plastic waste to the collection agency designated/authorised by the MC.”Every person responsible for organising an event in open space, which involves service of foodstuff in plastic or multi-layered packaging, will have to segregate and manage the waste generated during such events following the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, or the amendments from time to time.Waste generators will even have to pay plastic waste management user fees as stipulated by the MC from time to time.Special drives will be conducted by the MC for bulk generators of solid waste such as cinema halls, hotels, educational institutions, shopping halls, hostels, and schools.The door-to-door segregation started by the MC last year in October had come to a grinding halt after the Covid pandemic spread in March this year. Even before that, the civic body was faltering to achieve waste segregation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plastic-waste-management-bylaws-chandigarh-mc-seeks-suggestions-from-public/story-IEG2V01Z2Czad6kqiUC4BK.html
15-09-2020||City||Farmers protesting agri ordinances lay siege to NH-44 in Khanna||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of the Bharti Kisan Union (BKU), Rajewal, blocked traffic on National Highway-44 in Khanna for two hours against the three agriculture ordinances introduced by the Centre.BKU Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal said that as per the prior announcement, farmers from across the state blocked the National Highway-44 to register their protest against the draconian farm ordinance tabled in the Lok Sabha. The farmers first blocked the Doraha Neelo Road thereafter marched towards Khanna where they were joined by arhtiyas and other labour organisations. The farmers blocked the NH-44 for two hours, allowing only emergency vehicles to pass. However, the police swung into action and eased traffic jam on NH-44. Cars and other LMVs were diverted towards slip roads and other alternate passages. Congress MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli also joined the protesting farmers and extended his party’s support. Addressing the gathering, Rajewal said, “While the entire sector has witnessed a decline, it is the farming sector which is a saving grace. Punjab had initiated a green revolution in the country and the state’s water and soil were abused for filling the grain godowns of the country. Now, the ruling BJP has backstabbed the farmers and planning to sell the farming sector to the big cooperates by establishing parallel markets (open market).” “Sadly, there will be no check on these markets, and taking legal action too would be a tough task. Small farmers will be reduced to slavery if this ordinance comes into effect,” said Rajewal. He said that representatives of 11 farmers’ unions from Punjab and 31 from Haryana will visit Delhi to register their protest against the ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protesting-agri-ordinances-lay-siege-to-nh-44-in-khanna/story-edZSyLsHMzooR6T5fDazfK.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Offline exams: PU directs rural, border area colleges to get students’ consent||Panjab University (PU) has asked rural and border area colleges to get consent of the students who want to appear for the examinations through offline mode so that necessary arrangements can be made. PU will be conducting the final semester exam of undergraduate and postgraduate students online from September 17. However, it has been anticipated that students in rural or border areas may face difficulties in appearing for the exams online. The direction came a day after a varsity panel on Sunday recommended that arrangements be made for offline exams in rural colleges for students who face internet connectivity issues or do not have computers or mobile phones for appearing in online exams. “Keeping in consideration the anticipated difficulties of students of rural/border areas to take online exams commencing from September 17, the colleges may take their consent to appear offline to make necessary arrangements following Covid-19 norms and protocols” reads a varsity notice. It further states that the hard copy of the question paper etc will be issued after the question paper is made available on the PU website and emailed to all colleges. The answer sheets will be collected and placed in a sealed envelope after the exam. 16 PAGES ANSWER SHEET FOR PG STUDENTS Also, in the revised instructions for the students, the varsity has clarified that maximum pages for the answer sheet of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students will be 12 and 16 pages, respectively. Earlier, both UG and PG students appearing through the online mode were directed to write a maximum of 12 pages. Moreover, all private and USOL students have been asked to send answer sheets to deputy registrar (secrecy) by registered or speed post immediately after the examination. In case the paper is on Sunday or a holiday when the post offices are closed, the hard copy has to be sent on the next working day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/offline-exams-pu-directs-rural-border-area-colleges-to-get-students-consent/story-m1Z79jsINRp0ybpwk14I0L.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||After Punjab, Chandigarh may do away with quarantine posters as well||Following Punjab’s lead, the UT Administration is mulling to discontinue the practice of putting up posters outside the houses of Covid patients under home isolation or quarantine.Of the 2,991 active cases in Chandigarh as of Tuesday, more than 1,000 patients are in home isolation.Currently, the administration follows the policy of affixing posters outside the houses of Covid-19 patients to make locals aware of infected people in their surroundings.But, the administration has been flooded with requests by the patients to discontinue the practice. “Patients are calling up or texting officials that they should not be made to suffer the fear and stigma of social isolation resulting from the posters affixed at the entrance of their residences. There is a social stigma attached to pasting of posters and patients feel psychologically traumatised because of it,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t want to be named.Notably, Punjab government had recently revoked its earlier decision regarding similar posters.CONTAINMENT ZONES SET TO CROSS 50 MARKThe number of micro-containment zones in the city is set to cross the 50 mark with the Area Affected Committee recommending that 29 more areas be given the tag.It was on September 8 last when UT had notified 24 micro-containment zones in the city.Chandigarh was declared containment-zone free in June with perimeter controls being removed from the Bapu Dham Colony. But, after sharp increase in the Covid-19 cases thereafter, the UT administration formulated the micro-containment policy for demarcating even three to four houses as containment zones.However, the policy was not employed on a large-scale. This changed with the central government officials on September 4 asking the administration to step up creation of the containment zones to restrict the spread of the virus in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-punjab-chandigarh-may-do-away-with-quarantine-posters-as-well/story-ACjmQblRYTRsuFvWuZ7OzI.html
15-09-2020||City||Kharar: BKU protesters booked for obstructing public way||The police on Tuesday booked around 150 workers of the Bharti Kisan Union (BKU), Lakhowal, and the BKU, Sidhupur, for violating social distancing norms and obstructing the National Highway 21 in Kharar during a protestThe farmers who are agitating against agriculture amendment ordinances and the Power Amendment Bill promulgated by the Central government, blocked the highway with tractor trolleys for nearly two hours.The protestors said that if any member of Parliament from Punjab supported the bill they will not allow him/her to enter their village. They also alleged that the agriculture amendment ordinances and the Power Amendment Bill were anti-farmer. Ravjot Kaur, superintendent of police, rural, said, “We have registered an FIR against the protesters for flouting social distancing norms and obstructing the public way. No statement has been registered as yet.” A case has been registered against the unidentified protesters under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) at the Kharar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-bku-protesters-booked-for-obstructing-public-way/story-upZTVSAWldNmC7EJcIsKOM.html
15-09-2020||City||Ludhiana records highest single-day spike of 438 Covid cases; 19 more die||The city on Tuesday reported the highest single-day spike of 438 new coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 1,4622.The city also reported 19 Covid-19 deaths, the highest in a single day so far. With this, the district’s death toll currently stands at 607, of which 100 have been recorded in just eight days. It was on August 31 that the city had witnessed 18 casualties in a single day. While 2,022 cases are still active, 11,993 people have been cured or discharged.On Friday, the district recorded 256 cases, while 435 persons tested positive on Saturday, 415 on Sunday and 324 cases were reported on Monday. The positive cases reported on Tuesday include 120 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness, 145 were referred by the out-patient departments and 27 are contacts of positive patients. Among them, 12 were health workers, two police personnel, and five pregnant women. Those who succumbed to the virus on Tuesday include a 90-year-old woman from Rishi Nagar, a 15-year-old from Prem Nagar, Lohara, a 75-year-old woman from Chander Nagar, a 60-year-old man from Rishi Nagar, a 78-year-old man from Aggar Nagar, a 56-year-old man from Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, a 67-year-old man from Janta Colony, a 44-year-old man from Mullanpur, a 55-year-old man from Samrala Road, Khanna, a 64-year-old woman from Khanna, a 65-year-old man from Kalgidhar, a 35-year-old man from Shimlapuri, a 53-year-old man from Amargarh, an 82-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal, a 53-year-old woman from Valmiki Nagar, a 67-year-old man from Adarsh Nagar, a 60-year-old man from BoparaiKhurd, a 77-year-old man from Doraha, an 80-year-old man from Jalandhar Bypass. When asked about the sudden spike in positive cases and casualties, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the efforts are on to stop the further spread of the infection. “The infection should reach a plateau and after that, there will be a decline in the Covid-19 cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-435-covid-cases-19-more-die/story-qVKgvJW10WtivpxKSrqcgL.html
15-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Three, including woman, killed in separate hit-and-run accidents||Three persons, including a woman, were killed in separate hit-and-run accidents in the city, police said on Tuesday.Rakesh Kumar, 28, of Gurnam Nagar was hit by a car while he was going to Amritsar with his wife on a motorcycle. His wife, Poonam told the police that when they reached near Hardy’s World Amusement Park, an unidentified vehicle hit their motorcycle from the rear leaving them severely injured. The erring driver fled the spot. Passersby informed the police who took the duo to a hospital. While Poonam suffered severe injuries, Rakesh was declared brought dead by doctors. Rakesh works at a salon in the city. ASI Jatinder Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 279, 337, 338, 427 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the unidentified driver. He added that despite wearing a helmet, Rakesh could not survive.In another case, a 30-year-old woman died in a hit-and-run incident after an unidentified vehicle hit her near Pipal Chowk in the Focal Point area on Monday afternoon. The woman was sitting under a tree when the vehicle crushed her to death.The victim, identified as Gudia of Durga Colony, worked as a labourer.The Focal Point police have registered a case against an unidentified driver on charges of causing death due to negligence.In the third incident, a 70-year-old man died after an overspeeding motorcycle hit his bicycle near Machhiwara road on Monday. The victim has been identified as Charan Singh of Neechi Mangli village.A case was registered based on the statement of the victim’s cousin Jasmel Singh who said that they were returning home from work on separate bicycles when an overspeeding motorcycle hit Charan Singh from the rear and sped away. Jasmel took Charan Singh to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.ASI Harmesh Singh, who is investigating the case said that an FIR under Sections 279, 338, 427 and 304-A of the IPC has been lodged against an unidentified person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-three-including-woman-killed-in-separate-hit-and-run-accidents/story-44oAv1Unl7EWvlAkf7xV5N.html
15-09-2020||City||Central team arrives in Ludhiana to review Covid management||In order to review the Covid situation in the city, a five-member team sent by the Union ministry of health and family welfare arrived here on Tuesday. The team comprising a senior doctor of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) visited various parts of the city to analyse the cause behind the spreading of the virus and the high mortality rates.The Union health ministry had decided to deploy central teams in Punjab and Chandigarh to assist them in strengthening public health measures for containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of Covid patients with an aim to reduce the mortality rate. It was earlier this month that a report of the Union ministry had featured Ludhiana in the top 15 districts of the country with high Covid caseload and fatality rate. Sharing details on the team’s visit, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the team had visited containment zones including Durgapuri and micro-containment zones. The team’s visit had triggered panic in the Durgapuri area after 17 streets of the locality were sealed and a heavy police force was deployed in the area. “Besides, the team members also checked the testing facilities and conducted a meeting with deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma,” said Dr Bagga. “I have apprised the team members that the health department is witnessing resistance in certain areas due to the misinformation being spread on social media. However, we have roped in NGOs and politicians to help us in speeding up the testing process,” said Dr Bagga. 115 teams formed to speed up testing processDr Bagga said that 115 teams have been formed to fast track the testing process. Of the 115 teams, 64 will be covering Ludhiana city and towns of Khanna and Jagraon, while 35 teams equipped with mobile testing vans and buses have been deployed in several villages across the city. The remaining teams have been kept on standby. He said that the central team will submit its observation and suggestions to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-team-arrives-in-ludhiana-to-review-covid-management/story-atm86xiPr7w0XicFLvVa8I.html
15-09-2020||City||70-year-old duped of gold necklace by trickster woman in Pune||PUNE: A 70-year-old woman was tricked into handing over her gold necklace worth Rs 9,000 to a woman who later made off with it in Sadashiv Peth area on Saturday. A similar incident was reported on September 8 in Pulgate area where a 65-year-old was duped by two women who tricked her into believing that they can multiply her gold. In the case of the 70-year-old woman, a betel leaf seller, she was approached by a woman in her 30s around 6:30pm to come with her to a ritualistic meal at her house, as it is the month in the Hindu calendar when the faithful pay tribute to ancestors by offering meals to people, according to her complaint. The elderly accompanied the younger woman to a lane near Mahalaxmi temple on Phadke road in Sadashiv peth area. “She told us that the woman told her that the road they were walking on was not safe and took the necklace for safe-keeping. The complainant was wearing a 3-gramme necklace worth Rs 9,000. She offered the old woman a meal, grains, a sari and a better necklace in exchange of the one which she was wearing,” said sub-inspector VV Jadhav of Vishrambaug police station who is investigating the case. As they were walking on a footpath after the older woman handed over the necklace, the younger woman crossed the street and disappeared into the alley, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vishrambaug police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-year-old-duped-of-gold-necklace-by-trickster-woman-in-pune/story-kkBlkss7v5soOb22xSH1EN.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Electricity dept gets nodal officer to oversee privatisation||For meeting its December-end deadline to complete the privatisation of the electricity department, the UT administration on Tuesday appointed executive engineer (XEN) Pawan Kumar Sharma as nodal officer to oversee the process.The Union power ministry has asked the UT administration to privatise power distribution in the city, and has also sought a report on its progress.With privatisation, the department will become an autonomous body which will be divided into the state transmission utility (STU) and the state load dispatch centre (SLDC). The STU will be responsible for smooth transmission of power and the SLDC will be the main body to ensure integrated operation of the power system.The Power Finance Corporation (PFC) had recently appointed Deloitte, a private firm, as consultant to prepare a comprehensive report on “unbundling” of the department.The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had earlier issued directions to the UT administration to restructure the department, which is mandatory as per the Electricity Act, 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/electricity-dept-gets-nodal-officer-to-oversee-privatisation/story-XmAHutWXauGamFEDZZM1NI.html
15-09-2020||City||Teenager, woman killed in separate road accidents in Pune||PUNE: A 17-year-old boy was killed in a road accident in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Tuesday, a day after a 24-year-old woman was crushed by a dumper on Pune-Solapur road in Pune. The teenager was identified as Karan Sandeep Nakhate, a resident of Lande Vasti in Tathawade, where the accident happened at 9:30am, according to the police. “We got the information from the hospital and the mishap victim’s brother after he was admitted to the hospital. The hospital informed us through a Member of Legislative Council (MLC) that he had succumbed before he was brought to the hospital,” said an official at Wakad police station. The teenager was a victim of a hit-and-run by a car, according to the information given to the police by Karan’s brother. A case was registered at Wakad police station under relevant sections. The woman killed in the accident on Pune-Solapur road at 1:30pm on Monday was identified as Neerja Sanjay Janrao (24) of Wagholi area. She was riding pillion on a Bullet with a friend identified as Shubham Khemkar (24) who has also sustained a fractured arm, according to the police. “They were headed towards Golibar Maidan area when a dumper came speeding from their right side and made a sudden left turn. They did not get the opportunity to react,” said assistant inspector Vishwajeet Jagtap of Wanowrie police station who is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teenager-woman-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-pune/story-smCQp6pzofUWVNHdNgL8qL.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Members skip online PU syndicate meeting second time in a row||After majority of the Panjab University syndicate members refused to attend the online meeting on Monday, they again did not attend the emergent online meeting scheduled on Tuesday.The online syndicate meeting, which was to start at 5.15pm, was called off as the quorum was not met for the second time in two days – with only two members showing up on Tuesday.At least five members are required to hold a meeting of the syndicate, the highest executive body of the university.PU’s officiating registrar Vikram Nayyar said, “The syndicate meeting was not held due to lack of quorum.” A major concern for members, most of whom are from the Goyal group, is holding the meeting online instead of in person. Syndicate member Ashok Goyal said, “It seems that the vice-chancellor is only posing to be inclined to holding the meeting. Majority of the syndicate members have already informed in writing that it will not be possible for them to attend any online meeting and have requested for a physical meeting.”“Instead of appreciating the concerns of the syndicate members, the vice-chancellor preferred to be adamant in calling an online meeting again on Tuesday,” Goyal said.The agendas of the meeting included ratifying the decisions of the coordination committee regarding the conduct of final semester examinations and other exam-related issues.The Goyal group has been at loggerheads with vice-chancellor Raj Kumar ever since the senate polls were postponed on August 15 in view of the pandemic. Another syndicate member, Rajinder Bhandari said, “There is confusion among members with regards to the online meeting, so we did not attend it. We did not find it appropriate to take part in the meeting in such an atmosphere.”V-C Raj Kumar was not immediately available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/members-skip-online-pu-syndicate-meeting-second-time-in-a-row/story-AGtuavjK0pRQLAtTJb0wwM.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle movement restricted in Morni on weekends, holidays||Restrictions have been imposed from Tuesday on vehicles in Morni on weekends and other public holidays to prevent ‘obstruction, injury and annoyance’ to local residents due to regular traffic congestion there of late.The orders shall remain in force for three months.The Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) issued the orders following regular traffic jams in the area.After Himachal Pradesh restricted entry through its borders, most tourists have been flocking to Morni, popularly known as the ‘hill station of Haryana.’The tourist spot has also seen a fourfold increase in tourist visits amid the Covid-19 outbreak.“Earlier there were hardly any vehicles on the roads but now the situation gets so bad that one finds it difficult to cross a road. Traffic jams occur frequently,” says a local police official.Many tourists also throw safety norms to the winds, posing health risks for residents.About 1,100 challans have been issued to people not wearing masks, most of them tourists, the official said.Exercising powers under section 71 and 73 of Haryana Police Act, DCP Mohit Handa said restrictions had been imposed ‘temporarily’ on the movement of motor vehicles every Saturday/Sunday and public holidays. This is applicable to Morni T Point, Thapli Road and Trilokpur Morni road towards Morni / Tikkar taal. However, the new rules do not apply to emergency vehicles, including those used by the police, fire brigades and ambulances. Military and paramilitary forces are exempt too, as are permanent residents of Morni showing bona fide residence proof.The DC mentions that in case of any other expedient requirement, specific permission for exemption may be obtained as per procedure.Three SHOs have been given the responsibility to implement the orders in their respective areas: Morni T-point, Thapli Road and at Trilokpur Morni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicle-movement-restricted-in-morni-on-weekends-holidays/story-RBJ46yTxAw6B9nzEdxBToM.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||715 test +ve, 8 succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity||The tricity recorded 715 fresh Covid-19 cases while eight people succumbed to it on Tuesday. A 45-year-old man from Burail was tested positive after his death in Chandigarh while 347 new cases surfaced, taking the number of cases and deaths to 8,592 and 96, respectively.With 202 people being discharged, the number of those cured reached 5,502 while 2,991 cases remain active. In Mohali, three more patients lost battle against the virus, with which the toll has gone up to 145 in the district. Also, 188 fresh cases were reported, taking the count to 7,125.Those who died have been identified as men, aged 28, 47 and 62, from Phase 9, Sohana and Kurali, respectively. Among the fresh cases, 76 surfaced in Mohali city, 45 in Dhakoli, 22 in Kharar, 21 in Gharuan and 17 in Dera Bassi. With 154 patients being discharged, the number of those cured and active cases stands at 4,660 and 2,320 respectively.Four people succumbed while 180 tested positive in Panchkula, in what was the district’s steepest single-day spike in infections.All the deceased were men. Two of them, aged 74, belonged to Sector 8 and Nanakpur, while the other two, aged 52 and 62, were from Sector 20 and Dharampur, respectively. While the death toll has reached 51, the number of infections stands at 4,386, with 1,371 still active. As many as 2,964 patients have been discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/715-test-ve-8-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-02SdLJ4ObuPSz0vVrpxMvO.html
15-09-2020||Lucknow||Varanasi boy, 12, abducted outside home jumps out of SUV in Ballia, gets help||A 12-year-old kidnapped outside his house in Varanasi on Monday managed to free himself from his abductors a few hours later and has returned home, the police said on Tuesday. The boy, a Class 4 student, jumped out of the sports utility vehicle (SUV) at a railway crossing 200 km away and raised an alarm. His abductors fled.“Safi Ahmad, a native of Udpur in Jaunpur, lives along with his family in Pandeypur area of Varanasi. His son Azam Khan aka Salman was playing outside his house on Monday morning when a SUV suddenly stopped in front of his house. Before Salman could understand anything, his kidnappers had shoved him inside the vehicle and escaped,” said a Varanasi police officer.“Salman told us that one of the kidnappers tightly covered his mouth with his hand so that he couldn’t scream,” he said. After a few hours, they had to stop near a railway crossing that had its gates closed to let a train pass. Salman told the police that he mustered courage and jumped out of the SUV and started shouting for help. “He told us that his kidnappers fled as soon as he raised an alarm,” the police said.Salman walked to the nearby Srinagar village with some people where the boy was reportedly told that he was at the Suraimanpur railway crossing in Ballia district’s Bairia area.Salman narrated his story to the villagers who reached out to the police.Station officer Revati police station, inspector Pravin Singh reached the village and helped Salman reach his parents with assistance from the police in Jaunpur, Salman’s native place. Salman was handed over to the family after completing the formalities under operation Muskan, a nationwide project to locate missing children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/varanasi-boy-12-abducted-outside-home-jumps-out-of-suv-in-ballia-gets-help/story-m9TWFzYRO9CLbIbbCEgKpI.html
15-09-2020||City||Maratha organisations agitate in front of residences of MP, MLAs||Pune: Members of Maratha Kranti Morcha, Maratha Seva Sangh, Sambhaji Brigade and Chava Maratha Yuva Mahasangh staged protests in front of the houses of MP and MLAs in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Tuesday over the issue of Maratha reservation. On September 9, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the 2018 Maratha quota law of the state providing reservation to the Maratha community in education and public employment. The court referred the petitions challenging the law to a larger constitution bench. “The decision of the apex court will badly affect the future of Maratha youth. We want MLAs and MPs to take forward our demands and reinstate the Maratha reservation law,” said Maruti Bhapkar, social activist. The protest started from the residence of Member of Parliament Shrirang Barne, Thergaon and halted at the residences of BJP Member of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly (MLA) Laxman Jagtap at Pimple Gurav and BJP MLA Mahesh Landge at Bhosari before concluding in front of the office of NCP MLA Anna Bansode at Chinchwad. In the absence of Barne, his office-bearers received the memorandum from protestors, while Jagtap, Landge and Bansode accepted it in person. “We will stage a protest in front of the collectorate on September 17 at 11 am. We also plan to cover the residences of MPs and MLAs in Pune in the coming days and then across Maharashtra,” said Satish Kale, Sambhaji Brigade vice-president, Pune district .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-organisations-agitate-in-front-of-residences-of-mp-mlas/story-UQd4ntUFmBMMXp30mYJ9HJ.html
15-09-2020||City||HC Bar assn asks poll panel members appointed by council to quit||Chandigarh The standoff between Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) and Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) escalated on Tuesday with the latter asking the election committee members constituted by BCPH to oversee Bar body polls to tender resignations or face disciplinary action.It was on September 12 that BCPH had changed election committee constituted for the High Court Bar body polls slated for September 30. It was changed in the wake of earlier committee headed by senior advocate KS Sidhu, chairman election committee, refusing to hold election as per BCPH directive, citing Covid-19 outbreak. However, PHHCBA general house which met on Tuesday resolved that the new election committee constituted by BCPH should resign otherwise members appointed by BCPH would face disciplinary action from the association. The house also resolved that any member participating in election process would face disciplinary action. It also extended the term of present executive committee, headed by Bar president DPS Randhawa till the situation normalises. There are no provisions in the Advocates Act or the rules which authorised BCPH to suo motu conduct the elections of any Bar association, says PHHCBA. High court Bar has nearly 4,000 registered voters. As of BCPH, it has over 1 lakh advocates as members in two states and Chandigarh and regulates entry into legal profession and oversee functioning of Bar associations, including that of high court. It was on September 9 that Bar Council had announced polls on September 30 and October 1 in high court and district courts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Wednesday is the last day to accept nominations for different posts. Meanwhile, a petition has been filed in high court, challenging powers of the Bar Council to hold online elections of high court Bar. It will be taken up on Wednesday. A high court bench also issued a notice on Tuesday in a plea by a member of District Bar Association, Jalandhar, Navneet Kumar Dhall, who has argued that BCPH has no jurisdiction to restrict the election to the post of certain office-bearers of the Bar association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-bar-assn-asks-poll-panel-members-appointed-by-council-to-quit/story-SnhcpmtQ2aYi9Ga443BpoN.html
15-09-2020||Patna||PM lauds Bihar govt, launches projects worth ₹ 541 crore||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the NDA government in Bihar was striving to usher in inclusive growth in the state by ensuring basic amenities to its people and setting the stage for a self-reliant Bihar (Atmanirbar Bihar). “Bihar suffered a lot in the past due to misplaced priorities, vested interest and scams of the past governments. As a result, rural areas were put on backward trend, while urban infrastructure became irrelevant for want of upgrade as per the growing population,” Modi said in an apparent swipe at the RJD-led dispensation. The PM was speaking after inaugurating and launching work infra projects worth ₹ 541 crore, which included operationalisation of two sewerage treatment plants (STPs) along with network at Beur and Karmalichal in Patna, costing Rs 152 crore, through video conferencing. He also laid the foundation stone of river front development in Muzaffarpur and unveiled water supply schemes at Chapra and Siwan. He said that the joint efforts of the Centre and the state government had resulted in qualitative change in urban infrastructure to ensure basic amenities to all. The PM said that about two crore houses were to be connected with tap water supply under the Centre’s Jal Jivan mission in last one year. “In Bihar, about 12 lakh households would get supply water once the undergoing schemes are complete. Currently, 6 lakh families have tap water supply in their houses under AMRUT scheme. Unlike the previous government, the Nitish Kumar government worked with commitment and finished the projects on time,” said Modi, adding that the dolphin conservation project being developed from Patna to Bhagalpur stretch of Ganga would benefit the state in many ways. During his address, Modi sought to connect the people by invoking the most popular Chhath puja saying that renovated Ghat at Muzaffapur would let women celebrate the festival in its traditional spirit. He also lauded role of migrant workers, who returned to Bihar due to Covid outbreak, saying they contributed a lot for timely completion of water supply schemes in Bihar. This is third time in the last one week that the Prime Minister laid foundation stones of or inaugurated various schemes in the state in the run-up to the elections. On Sunday, he launched three petroleum projects in Bihar, costing Rs 900 crore. He had on Thursday unveiled projects worth ₹294.53 crores related to agriculture and animal husbandry in the poll-bound state. Chief minister Nitish Kumar said the water resources department was devising plans to use treated water from the SPTs for agriculture purposes, instead of releasing it in Punpun river. While welcoming the Centre’s gesture to help the state government achieve a holistic growth, Kumar urged the people to abstain from misusing supply water and put avoidable strain on ecology. Earlier, deputy CM Sushil Modi said the operation of STPs under Namami Gange project would help the government’s drive to stop discharge of untreated wasted in Ganga, which is currently highly polluted. “Efforts are on to check flow of waste water, chemical and industrial affluent in the river to make it pure,” said the Dy CM. Reacting to the string of launching events lined up for the PM in Bihar, Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra said Modi had stepped in steer the poll campaign after he realised that Nitish Kumar alone would not be able to counter the burgeoning anti-incumbency against the ruling dispensation. “BJP’s internal survey also hints at serious depletion of credibility of Nitish Kumar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/pm-lauds-bihar-govt-launches-projects-worth-541-crore/story-3oRD0iDBGeb47klm8QuJuI.html
15-09-2020||Pune||Man, accomplice arrested for killing his wife’s online chat friend in Pune||PUNE: A man and his friend were arrested for killing a 28-year-old man with whom he had found his wife chatting over Facebook and WhatsApp. The murder took place on Aundh hospital premises at 12:30pm on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Saurabh Vyankat Jadhav (28), a resident of Sanjaynagar in Aundh. He was a delivery executive at a private automobile spare parts dealership shop. The accused were identified as Ayaj Shaikh and his friend Sonya Barathe. The duo is 23-25 years old. Barathe has a history of assault case against him, according to Sangvi police station officials. A complaint was lodged by the deceased’s younger brother Sushant Vyankat Jadhav (24). He told the police that the deceased knew the woman who later married Shaikh. The two were arrested by Unit 4 of Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch on Monday. “One of them was arrested from Pune and another from Pimpri- Chinchwad area,” said senior police inspector Mohan Shinde of Unit 4. “The deceased’s brother said that the woman and his brother knew each other before she got married two years ago. However, it is yet to be confirmed. The woman said that she used to chat with Saurabh over Facebook, but has never met him,” said inspector Ranganath Unde who is investigating the case. Saurabh was taken to the premises of Aundh hospital where he was attacked with sharp weapons on his neck, hands and near the right ear, according to the complaint in the matter. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sangvi police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-accomplice-arrested-for-killing-his-wife-s-online-chat-friend-in-pune/story-Crv4TTQY8BySLKCQTFCmWL.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dhaba owner commits suicide in Chandigarh||A 22-year-old dhaba owner committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling at his shop in Sector 45, Chandigarh, on Tuesday. A resident of Dhanas, he is survived by his sister, who is married. Their parents had died earlier.An employee was the first to spot his body, following which it was rushed to hospital. No suicide note was found, said police, adding that the family claimed he had been keeping unwell for some time.The body has been kept at the mortuary, as the postmortem will be conducted after receiving Covid-19 test report. Ruling out foul play, police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dhaba-owner-commits-suicide-in-chandigarh/story-8E1ERQpwBq8iES9LvDQM6N.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Member of car-lifting gang nabbed in Chandigarh, four cars recovered||Police have arrested a member of a car-lifting gang, involved in stealing vehicles from the city and selling them in Uttar Pradesh. The accused has been identified as Saleem, 38, a resident of Baltana, Zirakpur. His three accomplices are at large. Saleem was arrested at a naka set up near GMCH, Sector 32, in the wake of spurt in snatching and vehicle theft cases. Following his interrogation, police recovered four Honda City cars stolen from different areas under the jurisdiction of the Sector 34 police station. With this, three cases of car theft registered at the station were solved. The accused was produced before a court on Tuesday and remanded in three-day police custody. “Saleem is part of a four-member gang that stole vehicles from the city and sold them in Uttar Pradesh,” said Baldev Kumar, station house officer, Sector 34.Police are investigating whether the gang is also involved in theft of car batteries, as some men moving around in Honda City cars have been captured in CCTV cameras stealing batteries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/member-of-car-lifting-gang-nabbed-in-chandigarh-four-cars-recovered/story-s66L3OHK3y2e98A0d8JpUO.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nine two-wheelers recovered with arrest of four in Chandigarh||Police claim to have busted a gang of vehicle lifters with the arrest of four men, including two garbage collectors, a marketing executive and a driver.A total of seven motorcycles and two scooters have been recovered from the accused – Ashok, 26, of Gwala Colony, Maloya; Ajay Kumar, 25, of Dadumajra; Sachin, 20, of Khuda Jassu; and Jatinder of EWS Colony, Dhanas. Police said Ashok and Ajay were garbage collectors, while Sachin was a driver and Jatinder worked as a marketing executive. While lifting garbage from door-to-door, Ashok and Ajay would identify vehicles that can be lifted. With their arrest, police have solved nine cases, including theft of the battery of a car belonging to SPS Grewal, assistant commissioner, excise and taxation, Punjab.The battery was stolen while it was parked in front of Grewal’s house in Sector 37 in August. Of the nine cases solved, four were registered at the Sector 39 police station, while the others were lodged in different police stations of the city. Ashok and Ajay were arrested while riding a stolen Honda Activa near the Sector 37/38 small roundabout. The Activa belongs to one Abhishek of Mauli Jagran, who had filed a theft complaint on September 12. The vehicle was stolen from the booth market in Sector 40. On the duo’s disclosure, their accomplices, Sachin and Jatinder, were also nabbed. Sachin was arrested with a stolen motorcycle from near the Community Centre in Sector 40, while Jatinder was nabbed from near the Sector 38- 38 (W) light point while driving a stolen motorcycle.All accused were produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-two-wheelers-recovered-with-arrest-of-four-in-chandigarh/story-Wt5HvZZjFV1LP0au3pJ6JO.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Five-year law course: PU not to conduct entrance exam this year||Panjab University has decided against conducting an entrance exam for the five-year integrated law course run by its University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS) in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier, the Punjab and Haryana high court had asked the varsity to reconsider its decision to scrap the exam for the 2020-21 session and take a decision by September 15.In line with the court’s directions, PU on Tuesday uploaded the compliance report, along with the proceedings of the panel, which was constituted after the HC order, on its website. According to the report, the panel, comprising UILS director and three other members, in its meeting on September 9 resolved that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, PU will not be able to conduct the entrance test for over 7,000 candidates.Varsity’s August 11 decision to scrap the law entrance in view of Covid-19 outbreak was challenged by two aspirants Navya Raj and Saurav Rao. They had argued that the premise not to hold the entrance was not valid when PU was conducting exams for other courses. Class 12 marks as a sole criterion for determining the suitability of a candidate for admission to the course will neither be reasonable nor reliable, they had contended.Panel’s observationsThe panel observed that there were approximately 7,000 applications for admission to the BA/BCom-LL.B (Hons) 5-year integrated course. Therefore, it will be difficult for the university to find an agency in a short span of time to conduct the entrance test with social distancing and precautionary measures as prescribed by the Government of India.As such, the panel members unanimously resolved against holding the exam in the interest of the students.Besides, the members also concurred that holding the exam online was not technically feasible due to unavailability of technologies and solutions that can ensure transparency and fairness in the examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-year-law-course-pu-not-to-conduct-entrance-exam-this-year/story-4Wvk7DZR6JIYhuQlRvyKQN.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended Manimajra SHO Jaswinder Kaur gets bail after 53 days||The Central Bureau of Investigation special court on Tuesday granted bail to suspended Manimajra station house officer (SHO) Jaswinder Kaur, now in judicial custody for alleged corruption charges.Asked to submit her passport to the CBI within 15 days, Kaur will have to appear before the investigation agency’s office in Sector 30 at 11am from September 21 on alternate Mondays and before the trial court daily.Kaur had moved a bail petition saying she had been falsely implicated in the case by a man called Gurdeep Singh.Claiming that she had cooperated with the investigating agency after surrendering before the CBI court on July 25, Kaur pleaded for bail citing ill health, saying she feared the trial would take a long time.Opposing Kaur’s pleas, however, KP Singh, the public prosecutor for CBI, said serious allegations had been levelled at her. Kaur’s conduct during the investigation too was non-cooperative, he argued, adding that she could hamper investigations.There were chances of her trying to influence the material witnesses, he said.After hearing both parties, the court observed that Kaur, who had been in custody for 53 days, deserved the concession of regular bail.She was ordered to furnish a bail bond of Rs 1 lakh with one surety in the shape of immovable property.Kaur was also asked to not leave the country without prior permission of the court or try to influence the prosecution witnesses.In case of non-compliance of any of the imposed conditions, the CBI can move an application for cancellation of bail.On June 29, the CBI booked Kaur, then SHO of Manimajra and middleman Bhagwan Singh, on the complaint of Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh that she had asked him for a bribe in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suspended-manimajra-sho-jaswinder-kaur-gets-bail/story-XSyVYYhGo5N0v1wB5CDXbM.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid patient dies by suicide in Faridkot hospital||A 38-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Mudki in Ferozepur district died after jumping from a window on the second floor of the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) at Faridkot on Tuesday morning.Admitted on September 12 with breathing problems, he tested positive on Monday, officials said.“At around 4 am on Tuesday, (the patient’s) condition deteriorated after he complained of breathing problems. As doctors contacted his family members for their consent to put him on ventilator, the patient jumped from the second floor of the hospital and died on the spot. We have initiated proceedings under section 174 of CrPC,” said Satwinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police.The patient’s family, however, alleged he died because of negligence of the medical staff and that the suicide theory was a cover-up attempt. “My husband was fine last night when I met him, later hospital authorities informed us that he tested positive for Covid-19,” said his wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-patient-dies-by-suicide-in-faridkot-hospital/story-vUR5d2nGmD6v4sQpwIkEyL.html
15-09-2020||City||Man, friend beaten up, robbed of car in Dehlon||Late night driving lessons cost a 28-year-old man his new car as over five miscreants waylaid him and his friend and robbed them of the vehicle after beating them up.The victims have been identified as Rohit Kumar, 28, a factory worker and the car’s owner, and his friend Harpreet Singh, 29, of Ishar Nagar.Harpreet, who is the complainant in the case, said that they had ventured out on the Bulara-Lohara Road on Sunday night as Rohit wanted to practise driving in his new car. As they were driving along, a commuter asked them to stop and asked if there had been any crime in their locality. Before they could answer, the unidentified man tried to snatch their car keys. Harpreet and Rohit tried to resist but they were overpowered by five other men who turned up at the spot and started thrashing them. The miscreants allegedly also assaulted them with sharp-edged weapons and iron rods before fleeing the spot with the car. The victims also lost their mobile phones and wallets as they had left it in their car.They managed to contact their family members after borrowing a passerby’s phone.Harpreet said that though the miscreants were not wearing masks, they were unable to see their faces as it was dark. Based on their complaint, a case under Sections 379-B (snatching using force), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed for prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. Assistant sub-inspector Jeevan Singh said police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras installed in the area to gather more clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-friend-beaten-up-robbed-of-car-in-dehlon/story-Sh03ZonF1QZqgXXiM8ZOqJ.html
15-09-2020||City||Chhattisgarh police’s mobile app to provide online services||Police have launched a mobile application (app) in Chhattisgarh in a bid to provide their services online to the people, who do not need to visit police stations amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.The app, CG-COP, was launched by Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday through which the public will have access to at least 14 types of online services without visiting police stations. “The app developed by Chhattisgarh Police will bring the public closer and will also instil a faith in the law enforcing authority,” the CM said. Also read: Chhattisgarh to set up specialised police unit to counter Maoists in BastarThe police seek to bridge the gap between them and the public through the user-friendly app.“Anyone can register an online complaint by using this app, report missing people, vehicles, share information and also check the status of a case,” said RK Vij, special director-general (planning and technical services), Chhattisgarh Police. Vij said people could also locate their nearest police stations, seized vehicles, arrested and missing persons by the use of this app. “The phone numbers of all the officers of a district in the state is also available in the app, which will come in handy for the public,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-police-s-mobile-app-to-provide-online-services/story-3ycwvtDkoceSoW5vFGk6UN.html
15-09-2020||City||Three feared dead in Latehar, one body recovered||Strong currents at the confluence of two rivers at Kechki Sangam swept away three men near a famous tourist spot in Jharkhand’s Daltonganj on Tuesday. Local residents managed to fish out dead body of one of the men, Niraja Prasad, near Bakhari village a couple of hours later.Prasad was a resident of Redma locality in Daltonganj town. Two other missing men were identified as Abhinav and Sonu. Sub divisional police officer Amarnath said, “A party of seven boys had come from Daltonganj. When one of them started drowning, two others rushed to help him. But they too were swept away in the strong currents. Others raised an alarm. Locals present nearby rushed to help but they were all gone.” He added later one dead body was retrieved. “The search operation is in full swing to find out the remaining two bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-feared-dead-in-latehar-one-body-recovered/story-ryDkIZXC3JwYr6afNe3WaP.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut seeks Rs 2 crore from BMC for damaging her bungalow||Mumbai: Actor Kangana Ranaut has amended her petition pending before the Bombay high court and sought compensation of Rs 2 crore for “nearly 40% damage” to her office in Mumbai during the demolition undertaken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on September 9.She alleged the action was initiated for her stand against a leader of Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena. As the same party is also heading the civic body, it was misused to carry out the demolition, she added.Ranaut has been at loggerheads with the state government since she criticised Mumbai police’s handling of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death investigation. She referred to Mumbai as “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” and “Pakistan” and triggered a political controversy. The state’s ruling alliance has accused her of carrying forward the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s political agenda. Ranaut got security from the BJP-ruled Centre amid her spat with Sena leaders.Also Read: ‘Out of control’: Kangana Ranaut, slammed by Jaya Bachchan, gets it from Sena againThe petition said the presence of BMC staff and police officials outside the premises on September 9 even before civic authorities rejected her response to the stop-work notice showed the action was premeditated and taken with “malafide intentions”.The actor said the BMC’s claim, in reply to her petition challenging the demolition, was without proper evidence and arbitrary. She added the civic body’s claim that it found 14 alterations and additions to the property during the inspection on September 7 was not substantiated by proper evidence. Ranaut dismissed the notice as “illegal” and “wrongful” and added it deserved to be set aside.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut hits back at Jaya Bachchan, asks if her stance would change if Shweta, Abhishek were targeted insteadThe petition said her lawyer, Rizwan Siddiquee, visited the premises on September 9 to give the officer present there a copy of her petition and to inform him that it was to be heard. It added the officer locked the gate from inside and continued with the demolition.Ranaut said valuable property like chandeliers and rare artworks were damaged. She sought interim relief to take steps to make the property “capable of use” after the demolition.The Bombay high court on September 9 stayed further demolition of the actor’s alleged unauthorised structures hours after the BMC started the exercise. It said the BMC’s action “prima facie did not appear to be bonafide and smacked of malafide”. The court directed the civic body to file an affidavit in response to Ranaut’s plea seeking interim relief of stay on the demolition work.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut says women, if pushed to breaking point, can be ‘dangerous and lethal’The BMC issued the stop-work notice to Ranaut on September 8 over the renovation and finishing work at her office.The court will hear the petition and BMC’s response on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-seeks-rs-2-crore-from-bmc-for-damaging-her-bungalow/story-nwX4xlQ7p1zvFgEI6mgOtO.html
15-09-2020||Bhopal||MP assembly session truncated to one day; minimum number of MLAs to attend||The Madhya Pradesh assembly’s three-day monsoon session, scheduled to begin from September 21, will now be truncated to a day and there will be minimum number of MLAs required for the quorum in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decisions regarding the session were taken in all-party meeting held on the state assembly premises on Tuesday. It was also decided that since all the members of the House will not take part in the proceedings, election to the posts of speaker and deputy speaker be deferred till the next session of the House, as per state assembly secretariat. The all-party meeting was attended by protem speaker Rameshwar Sharma, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and leader of opposition in the state assembly Kamal Nath and parliamentary affairs minister Narottam Mishra among others. The meeting took a serious note of Congress MLA Govardhan Dangi’s death due to Covid and a good number of lawmakers, including ministers, being infected by the virus in the state, as per the state assembly secretariat. “In view of the Covid situation, the state assembly’s session will now be held just for one day on September 21. Since it will be difficult to maintain social distancing among legislators during the proceedings, it was also decided that the ruling party and the Opposition both will select a minimum number of legislators to attend the proceedings in view of quorum of the House,” said protem speaker Rameshwar Sharma. As per the decisions taken in the meeting, there will be no Question Hour, calling attention motion or zero hour during the one-day proceedings. Written answers will be sent to the MLAs to their questions and calling attention motions. Only financial and legislative business, like bills, budgets and ordinances will be taken up, as per the protem speaker. State assembly principal secretary AP Singh said, “The MLAs who attend the proceedings have been requested to come with their drivers only. All the arrangements for sanitisation have been made on the assembly premises. Health department teams will assist the legislators in conducting Covid tests, if required, while the state assembly secretariat staff is already undergoing Covid-19 tests as just five days are left for the session.” Another official of the state secretariat who didn’t wish to be named said, “The health department teams will ask the legislators to declare in a form before they attend the House proceedings whether they or any member of their families came in contact with any Covid patient and if any of them had any symptom of Covid in the past 7 days. Rapid antigen tests too will be conducted. Any MLA who replies in the affirmative and if he tests positive for coronavirus will not be allowed to attend the proceedings. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-assembly-session-truncated-to-one-day-minimum-number-of-mlas-to-attend/story-nmWSPeguqnF9apHcbbwPWI.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers’ leader wants Centre’s undertaking on MSP for foodgrains||Hours before meeting Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Delhi on Tuesday, Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said that farmers of the state want the Centre to give an undertaking that foodgrain procurement will continue under the minimum support price (MSP). “We want the Centre to give an undertaking that foodgrain procurement will continue under the MSP. Let private players buy foodgrains from farmers, but it must be guaranteed that they will not be allowed to procure the produce below the MSP decided by the Centre,” Charuni said. He, however, dismissed as an eyewash the efforts of a panel of three BJP MPs to reach out to the state’s farmers over the weekend. Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar had deputed three party MPs to meet farm union leaders to allay the fears of agitating farmers on the agriculture ordinances. Dhankar, state agriculture minister JP Dalal, the three MPs, namely Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, and farmer representatives are calling on Tomar on Tuesday. “We will hand over a report based on the feedback and suggestions given by the farmers to the Union agriculture minister,” Dhankar said. Charuni, who has been invited for the talks, said, “The primary objective behind setting up the three MPs’ committee was to throw dust into the eyes of agitating farmers. This panel was set up to mislead the farmers and defuse the crisis,” said Charuni, who hails from a village near Shahbad. “What is the locus standi of this committee? This is an eyewash. Is this MSP issue only confined to Haryana? It pertains to farmers of the entire country,” he said. FARMERS IN PROTEST MODE Farmers, who have been in protest mode and were prevented from holding a rally at Pipli grain market in Kurukshetra against the Centre’s recent agriculture ordinances, were lathicharged last week, putting the government on the backfoot. On Monday, the three MPs’ panel handed over is report to Dhankar in Delhi. By evening, Charuni, who has been leading the farmers stir in Haryana, was invited to hold talks first with BJP MP Dharambir Singh and then Union agriculture minister Tomar on Tuesday. While the ruling BJP in Haryana has accused the opposition, particularly the Congress, of trying to politicise the issue and creating a doubt in the minds of farmers about the three agriculture ordinances. Dalal clarified that the ordinances introduced by the Centre has only given an option to farmers that if a private agency wants to buy grains from outside government mandis at a price higher than the MSP then farmers can sell their crop at a higher price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-farmers-leader-wants-centre-s-undertaking-on-msp-for-foodgrains/story-oaj3ptcGtjrNjlLlOQgaTI.html
15-09-2020||Pune||City hospital treats 10-year-old with paediatric co-infection of dengue and Covid-19||A city hospital treated a paediatric co-infection, where a 10-year-old was treated of dengue and Covid-19 infection. The child was brought to Aditya Birla Hospital’s flu clinic with complaints of high grade fever (more than 102F every 8-12 hours) along with sore throat, malaise and nausea since the past five days with positive Covid-19 RT-PCR report. There were no complaints of cough and breathlessness, as per the hospital authorities. Her course of treatment was planned in a way that both her medical conditions of dengue and Covid-19 could be treated. Dr Vrushali Bichkar, a consultant at the hospital, said, “She was examined on an immediate basis. Her initial physical examination revealed a temperature of 103 F with tachycardia, a condition that makes one’s heart beat more than 100 times per minute. There was no respiratory distress with her oxygen saturation (spO2) levels being 98% on room air, but she had comorbid condition of overweight (BMI – 25.6). Her outside reports suggested leucopoenia, a condition where the number of white cells reduce in the blood and her chest X-ray report showed bilateral infiltrates.”She was immediately admitted to the isolation ward. Her laboratory tests were conducted and initial screening reported worsening of leucopoenia, with normal platelets, deranged liver enzyme and raised inflammatory markers, according to hospital authorities. On the second day of her admission, the child developed erythematous maculopapular rash (abnormal redness and rash of both flat and raised lesion) on trunk (torso) and extremities. Her lab tests revealed that the WBC count had further reduced along with her platelets count.“We conducted tests for NS1 and anti-IgM dengue, the results of which came positive. The patient was admitted on August 12 and we followed her up till two weeks to make sure that it was a primary dengue infection in a Covid-19 patient,” added Bichkar.“It is important for paediatricians and physicians to be increasingly aware of the phenomena of co-infection,” added Dr Rahul Kallianpur, associate director, department of Neonatology and Paediatrics.Repeat Covid RT-PCR test results turned out to be negative. The WBC and platelet count had normalised. Patient was discharged on oral vitamins in healthy condition.However, Dr Pradeep Suryavashi, working with Bharati hospital, paediatric ward, said, “This is not a rare case because we have reported two such infections in children too. The viral antigens of both Covid-19 and dengue are similar and so they may test positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-hospital-treats-10-year-old-with-paediatric-co-infection-of-dengue-and-covid-19/story-YSbfNqbmiKVPxysXgWVaBM.html
15-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Rajasthan slashes rate of RT-PCR test at private labs||The Rajasthan health department slashed the rate of RT-PCR (reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction) test at private labs by Rs 1,000 on Tuesday. RT-PCR is the confirmatory test for Covid-19. According to a notification by department’s principal secretary Akhil Arora, the government decided to slash the rate from Rs 2,200 to Rs 1,200 in view of drop in prices of testing kit, reagents, VTM kits and other consumables. The state also considered the rates of the test in other states.Also read: 50% staff at police headquarters in Jaipur to work from home for two weeksHealth minister Raghu Sharma said the decision was taken after consultation with senior doctors of SMS Medical College and other experts. RT-PCR tests are done at 35 labs in Rajasthan, including those at government facilities. The test is done free of cost at government labs. “Exercising powers under section 4 of the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, the rate of RT-PCR tests is fixed at Rs 1,200, including all taxes, at NABL accredited and ICMR approved labs,” the notification said. It said any violation of this notification shall be punishable under section 5 of the ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-rajasthan-slashes-rate-of-rt-pcr-test-at-private-labs/story-fIt4lUc3W5dV87BQjYR8SM.html
15-09-2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 50% staff at police headquarters to work from home for two weeks||Half the staff at the police headquarters (PHQ) will work from home for two weeks to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), DGP Bhupendra Singh said on Tuesday. The decision comes in the wake of 20 police personnel, including an additional director general (ADG), testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday.The PHQ was closed on Friday afternoon and was sanitised over Saturday and Sunday. On Monday, samples of 100 police personnel were taken for testing. The DGP said he had asked all chiefs of police wings at the PHQ to ask half the staff to come to work on a rotation basis. Also Read: Covid-19: As numbers rise, Rajasthan to conduct sero survey“Staggering and rotation policy of 50% of the staff of all the wings of PHQ should be implemented for two weeks, after which it will be reviewed and a decision on renewing it will be taken,” he said.The DGP has also directed all officials to ensure that they allow only the complainant to meet police officers, as several people often accompany a complainant to the PHQ.“It should be strictly ensured that people enter the premises only after the permission of the police officer concerned,” Singh said in his orders. Also, the DGP has asked for a mechanism wherein a complainant can share their problem with the officer concerned through an intercom or video conference and drop his/her complaints in the message box. Also Read: With 1,669 fresh Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan’s tally goes past 1 lakh“The police modernisation and welfare wing should identify places where such a mechanism could be developed. Also, they should ensure that the temperature of every visitor is checked and their hands are sanitised before they enter the main building of PHQ,” the orders added. The police chief added that visitors’ passes should be checked at every floor to ensure that people don’t trespass.Singh has also directed every wing in-charge to appoint a nodal officer who would supervise the sanitisation of their floor. The central store and modernisation wing will ensure that the central air-cooling system is cleaned at regular intervals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jaipur-50-staff-at-police-headquarters-to-work-from-home-for-two-weeks/story-HQ36WW3UzWlUwJTXIUGHtN.html
15-09-2020||City||Faridkot court accepts SIT’s plea, accused cop turns approver in Behbal Kalan firing case||Faridkot A policeman, who is one of the prime accused in the 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing incident, has turned an approver in the case. On Tuesday, the court of district and sessions judge Summeet Malhotra in Faridkot allowed the special investigation team’s (SIT) application seeking pardon to inspector Pardeep, the then reader to former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma, to make him approver. Last week, SIT member IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had told the court that the then DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal were main conspirators in the Behbal Kalan firing episode.District attorney Rajnish Goyal said the court had allowed the application moved by SIT under Section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). “On August 25, Pardeep requested to be made an approver, as he is willing to disclose full and true facts. We argued that the disclosure by the Pardeep would unfold the genesis of the crime, which would be helpful in the success of the case against the main accused,” Goyal said.The court order states that Pardeep had recorded a statement before the duty magistrate on September 3. “The sealed envelope was opened in court on September 10 and a copy was supplied to the SIT to seek assistance, so as to find out whether the accused is disclosing full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances...as envisaged under Section 306 of the CrPC, one of the SIT members, IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, have expressed satisfaction regarding the disclosure,” the court stated.“Such kind of offence is generally committed in complete secrecy and as such it is very hard to prove the offence, especially due to lack of appropriate evidence. In these circumstances, that the grant of pardon to an accused, who participated in the crime and also privy to all necessary information and evidence becomes necessary to bring home the guilt of the main accused,” the court added.“The request of the prosecution is accepted and the accused inspector is granted pardon, subject to the condition that he will disclose true and correct facts in the court, while deposing as prosecution witness. If at any subsequent stage, it is found that Pardeep has not deposed about true and correct facts and violated the conditions of grant of pardon, he shall be tried again as an accused,” the order added.Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala village were killed in police firing on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib. Many were seriously injured.Besides Pardeep, the SIT had named former Moga SSP Sharma, SP Bikramjit Singh, former Bajakhana SHO Amarjit Singh Kular, Faridkot-based lawyer Sohail Singh Brar and Moga-based car dealer Pankal Bansal as accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/accused-cop-turns-approver-in-behbal-kalan-firing-case/story-QCxL6bS3NIp1JHeC8SO6nI.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||2 Mumbai plots shortlisted for 5,000-bed hospital for infectious diseases||With the Covid-19 pandemic bringing to light the inadequate health facilities in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has shortlisted two land parcels in Mulund and Bhandup to set up a 5,000-bed hospital for infectious diseases. Civic officials are now making field visits to finalise one of these two land parcels that are spread across 20 acres each. Even though Mumbai currently has jumbo Covid facilities, the proposed hospital will cater to the city as well as areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Thane, Palghar and Raigad. Currently, the city has Kasturba Hospital at Chinchpokli, the only dedicated infectious diseases hospital, which has just 125 beds. During the initial phase of the pandemic, there was a huge crisis of Covid beds in the city, which left patients struggling to find a bed and led to loss of lives. Following this, BMC involved private hospitals to reserve beds for Covid patients and constructed make-shift jumbo facilities dedicated for Covid treatment. Currently, BMC has a bed capacity of 16,063 in dedicated Covid hospitals and jumbo hospitals, and 23,673 beds in Covid Care Centre-2 (for patients with mild symptoms). Also, there are 46,589 beds in CCC-1 facilities where high-risk contacts are quarantined. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (health), told HT on Saturday, “We have shortlisted two places in Mulund and Bhandup. The land will be acquired through the acquisition process. I am awaiting reports on the basis of field visits that are to be submitted.” In a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in July, it was decided to construct a new dedicated hospital for infectious diseases and locate it centrally. In the last week of July, the civic body had invited expression of interest (EOI) from landowners and developers for acquisition of the land parcel for construction of the hospital. As per the EOI conditions, the land parcel to be acquired should be around 20 acres which should be close to the Western Express Highway and Eastern Express Highway, and should have a 90-foot wide accessible road development plan for direct access to the hospital. The EOI also stated that the land should have a clear title and be free of any disputes. A senior civic official said, “It is imperative for the city to have a large hospital which is well-equipped and can also cater to patients from the MMR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-mumbai-plots-shortlisted-for-5-000-bed-hospital-for-infectious-diseases/story-6Dj3BXf1ZPRmg6zYDro2zJ.html
15-09-2020||Pune||Keep testing facilities open on Sunday, public holidays: NCP’s Tambe||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member and former standing committee chairman Vishal Tambe wrote a letter to the municipal administration seeking 24x7 operations of Covid-19 testing centres.“With the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) started 19 RT-PCR and 21 rapid antigen testing facilities in various ward offices. Each testing facility has a huge rush daily and with the facility being closed on Sundays and public holidays, it adds to the burden the next day,” the letter read.Tambe said, “The existing health staff at the testing facilities are overburdened because of the massive rush. The administration must depute additional manpower and keep testing facilities open on all days of the week so that employees get weekly offs, but at the same time, PMC is able to test many people. Even though private labs are conducting tests, citizens believe that PMC testing facilities give accurate results.”Meanwhile, the NCP on Monday started a Covid-19 help desk in all the assembly constituencies. The Covid brigade of the NCP will work as a helpline and inform citizens about testing facilities, bed situation in the hospitals and also counsel patients.Minister of state for forest Dattatray Bharne inaugurated the Covid-19 help desk at Parvati assembly constituency on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/keep-testing-facilities-open-on-sunday-public-holidays-ncp-s-tambe/story-wkYm6UebK8Ct5N9GZy41RO.html
15-09-2020||Pune||Bajirao road residents see footpath dwellers as potential super spreaders; police promise action||The lockdown had been implemented to ensure that the chain of the virus spread is broken, however, there were many whose lives had been uprooted because of the pandemic. Among them were 50 homeless individuals who moved to the footpaths near Maharana Pratap Garden to get daily supply of ration from the food packets distributed there during the lockdown. Now, they call it their permanent home as they get daily meal packets and it is source of constant fear for residents of Bajirao road who believe that without masks, proper hygiene and social distancing, these homeless individuals living off the footpath may become super spreaders of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. (Super spreaders are potential carriers of the viral infection who could infect a large number of people coming in their contact.) Residents have raised the issue with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and also the police department, but no action has been taken so far. Ashish Mahadalkar, PMC assistant municipal commissioner and Kasba Vishrambaugwada ward officer accepted the possible threat of the virus spread among the locals due to the homeless individuals. “I have personally written twice to the local police station to take action against them. We have also received complaints from citizens and as a precautionary measure we sanitise the footpath and nearby areas regularly, but these homeless individuals need to be shifted. There is a risk of spreading the infection,” said Mahadalkar. As on September 13, Kasba peth ward, which covers Bajirao road, had 96 active Covid cases. According to Mahadalkar, these 96 cases were spread across the ward with some cases reported from the area around Maharana Pratap garden. The area has a garden, a bus stop, a telephone office, a small snack centre, one restaurant and several other shops, which makes it crowded throughout the day. “I board the bus for my office from the bus stop near Maharana Pratap Garden daily and see these homeless individuals on the footpath with their belongings. They eat and sleep here and the entire footpath lacks hygiene. Police should immediately take action and PMC should clean the footpaths,” said Archana Pathak, a resident. Kalpana B, president of Subhashnagar senior citizens group, which is close to this spot, said, “Citizens living in the area are afraid of crossing the road because of the fear of virus spread. The Covid cases are rising here, the civic administration needs to take action against them. We have filed a complaint with the local police station and are awaiting their action.” Bharat Jadhav, senior police inspector at Khadak police station, under whose jurisdiction this area comes, said, “These homeless individuals came here from different parts of the city during the lockdown to get food. NGOs still continue to give them food packets daily, so they made the footpath their home. We have received complaints from residents and this week, we will take necessary action. All of them will be taken to government shelter homes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bajirao-road-residents-see-footpath-dwellers-as-potential-super-spreaders-police-promise-action/story-O1pO2qWFKTrdASXIeRWEjP.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Tension outside Golden Temple after SGPC uses force to disperse Sikhs protesting against missing Guru Granth Sahib saroops||A nihang was injured when the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee used force to disperse Sikh activists from outside the Golden Temple complex as they were demanding criminal cases against SGPC functionaries responsible for the missing Guru Granth Granth Sahib saroops. The Sikh activists started an indefinite protest on Monday at the main gate of the Teja Singh Samundri Hall, the headquarters of the apex gurdwara body that is facing flak from the community over the missing saroops. Besides criminal cases against the negligent SGPC functionaries, the activists want the saroops located. Overnight, SGPC employees raised iron barricades at three points to isolate the activists on protest and blocked the entry to the Golden Temple from Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib and Manji Sahib Diwan Hall. Due to the blockade, the activists, including the injured nihang, could not join the agitating activists outside Sri Guru Ram Das Serai. “They were sitting peacefully when the SGPC task force planned to disperse them. They snatched their lathis and started hitting the protesters with them to disperse them. The turbans of two activists fell down and a nihang was injured,” an eyewitness said. After an hour, more activists gathered at the spot and the situation became tense. Visitors to the holiest shrine of the Sikhs were facing inconvenience due to the blockades put up by the SGPC. Mediapersons covering the incident also came under attack by SGPC employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tension-outside-golden-temple-after-sgpc-uses-force-to-disperse-sikhs-protesting-against-missing-guru-granth-sahib-saroops/story-YuDakkoeT3HqDkGl3ynTgO.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Two more arrests by NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested a childhood friend of Showik Chakraborty, the brother of actor Rhea Chakraborty, following raids at his residence while probing the alleged drug angle related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14.NCB authorities on Tuesday also brought to Mumbai Chris Costa, a suspected drug dealer from Goa. His role is being probed with the arrested accused Anuj Keshwani.Also read: Sushant viscera report to be ready after September 17, will be tested for drugsAltogether, 18 people have been arrested so far in the drug trail connected to Rajput’s death, including his girlfriend Rhea and her brother Showik. Their bail pleas were rejected by a special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on September 11.NCB also conducted searches on Tuesday and seized a Mercedes Benz car from Karamjeet Singh Anand alias KJ, an alleged drug supplier.KJ along with five other people -- Dwayne Fernandes, Sanket Patel, Ankush Arneja, Sandeep Gupta, and Aftab Fateh Ansari -- was arrested on September 13. NCB has claimed that all six are drug peddlers and distributors.Fernandes, a Mumbai-based alleged drug dealer, was an associate of Showik and had purportedly supplied curated marijuana to Rajput.NCB officials also claimed that Fernandes used to deal in curated marijuana and hashish and supplied banned narcotic substances to peddlers in western and central Mumbai.NCB, which had conducted searches on September 11 and 12, had seized fours grams of hashish and 17 grams of marijuana and Rs 5.50 lakh in cash from KJ, who is known by this name in the drug syndicate.NCB officials said KJ had a network of peddlers supplying contraband substances in Mumbai’s film industry. Patel was one of the peddlers, who used to deliver narcotic substances to celebrities in Bollywood.Though Gupta is an auto driver by profession, his primary job was to distribute marijuana in bulk to retail dealers such as Fernandes. Ansari allegedly operated as a distributor of marijuana for Gupta.KJ also revealed the name of Powai-based hotelier Arneja from whom NCB officials have recovered 42 grams of hashish and Rs 112,000 in cash.Arneja allegedly used to sell marijuana, hashish and Mephedrone to his high-profile clients. He allegedly used to buy drugs from Patel and was connected with the network of arrested accused Keshwani. Arneja allegedly used to receive the drugs from KJ and supply them to Keshwani, said an official.The other arrested in the case are Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, his domestic help Dipesh Sawant, drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar; Kaizan Ebrahim, Karna Arora, Abbas Lakhani and Keshwani.The NCB had seized 590 grams of hashish, 0.64 gram of Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) sheets, 304 grams of marijuana, including imported marijuana joints and capsules, and Rs 185,200 and 5,000 Indonesian Rupiah in cash from Keshwani’s residence in Khar in suburban Mumbai on September 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-two-more-arrests-by-ncb/story-3wDy2F501rEvKne82IQAIP.html
15-09-2020||City||Farmers block highway in Phagwaraagainst Centre’s agri-ordinances||Phagwara Opposing the three agri-ordinances that the Centre has brought in, farmers blocked the national highway-44 near the Sugar Mill Chowk on Tuesday. At 11am, over 2,000 farmers started a protest leading up to the march, before blocking both sides of the highway to mark their protest.They raised anti-government slogans, with the BJP-led government being branded as anti-poor and anti-farmer. In addition to farmers, farm labourers, arhtiyas and others connected with agricultural activities also participated in the protest. Traffic movement was hit, with police diverting commuters to other routes. There were long queues in the service lane.Farmers claim the ordinances will hit the mandi system, which has been the best for the purchase and procurement of foodgrains. The community also fears that these ordinances might end the regime of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and assured procurement. Phagwara sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Pavitar Singh said they were trying their best to get farmers to lift the dharnas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-block-highway-in-phagwaraagainst-centre-s-agri-ordinances/story-aNgrJOW71mDmw2NwyG6XVO.html
15-09-2020||City||Covid-19: As numbers rise, Rajasthan to conduct sero survey||The Rajasthan government will conduct sero survey to ascertain the extent of coronavirus infection. The decision came amid the admission that the state had entered the mild community spread stage. Serological survey helps the government in estimating the proportion of the population that might have been exposed to the virus. This is done by checking for antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 in blood samplesConducting sero survey in the state was one of the suggestions by country’s top doctors in an open dialogue with state’s political and bureaucratic leadership on Tuesday. Three of country’s top doctors – Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman and managing director of Medanta-The Medicity; Dr Devi Shetty, chairman of Narayana group of hospitals; and Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences – spoke about the current Covid scenario, lauding Rajasthan government’s proactive approach in checking the spread and urging people to use mask. The experts recalled the Bhilwara model of containment as an effective early stage management protocol and use of 80,000 ‘swasthya mitras’ as effective corona warriors. MPs, MLAs, panchayat elected representatives and common people connected themselves with this dialogue through online platforms like Facebook and YouTube. Officials said around 200,000 people were logged in to the dialogue. The doctors stressed the need to follow health protocols to fight the pandemic and said the Covid-19 graph will start declining in four weeks if people wore masks properly. “Pandemic is fought on the ground, by people, not in hospitals. If the state government can strictly implement ‘no mask, no entry’ policy at all public places, the rate of infection will drop significantly,” said Dr Sarin. He said Covid-19 was a type of SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) and he had expanded it to S for samaj (society), A for aap (you) and RS for Rajasthan Sarkar. “These are three pillars of fighting Covid,” he said, “and the most important pillar is you, the people. The more careful we are with using masks, the earlier it will go.” “Covid is out of control not because of inactivity of government, but because of indifference of people,” said Dr Shetty, adding that mask use can bring down Covid spread significantly. “The country must go back to work but with protection. Remember, every asymptomatic carrier can infect at least three people,” he added. Dr Trehan said the fight against coronavirus had to be fought by three components – government, doctors and health workers, and people. “Governments have been proactive in checking the spread and doctors are fighting the pandemic in hospitals but people have become careless,” he said. Earlier, state’s principal secretary of medical and health Akhil Arora gave an overview of the infection in Rajasthan and said the state had entered the stage of mild community spread. He said the state’s efforts had led to lower infection and death rate than the national average. “Recovery rate in Rajasthan is 82.16%, higher than the national average of 78.29%; and the death rate in state was 1.2% against the national average of 1.64%,” he said. Minister of state for health Subhash Garg said the state government will follow suggestions of doctors of conducting antibody survey and following the ‘no mask, no entry’ policy. Earlier, chief minister Ashok Gehlot welcomed the three doctors and health minister Raghu Sharma spoke about the state government’s efforts towards fighting the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-as-numbers-rise-rajasthan-to-conduct-sero-survey/story-pTa5JBOgxvGCLYOmpUHuvM.html
15-09-2020||City||Missing saroops: Sikh outfits launch stir outside SGPC office; SAD (Democratic) protests in Sangrur||Members of Sikh organisations, owing allegiance to the Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee, launched an indefinite morcha (agitation) outside the Teja Singh Samundri Hall, headquarters of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), on Monday. They say that they are seeking justice in the case of missing saroops of the Guru Granth Sahib and want a criminal case registered against dismissed SGPC staffers. On August 27, the SGPC executive had resolved to file criminal cases against its staffers dismissed for their role in the misappropriation of saroops. A week later, it had taken a U-turn. Monday’s development came after members of Sikh organisations were denied entry to the Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex for conducting a meeting on the issue of the saroops. Sikh activists had reached the premises of the Golden Temple about 9.30am. The SGPC, however, had locked its doors. On its outer gate, cops were deployed in civvies. After being denied entry, they sat in the front of the hall. Later, the SGPC sent its officials, including Sukhdev Singh Bhoora and Mahinder Singh Ahli, requesting the protesters to vacate the space, citing the maryada of the shrine. They, then, shifted to the main gate of the Teja Singh Samundri Hall to launch an indefinite morcha, which was continuing till the time of filing of this report. A meeting between representatives of the Sikh bodies and the SGPC remained inconclusive. Senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, Ahli, Bhoora represented the SGPC in the meeting. Protesters said they want the culprits in the missing saroops case to be booked under a criminal case, and the whereabouts of the missing saroops to be ascertained, but the SGPC did not give an assurance. Source said the SGPC may convene an executive committee meeting on September 18 to review its decisions. In a late evening statement, the SGPC said the agitation had hurt the sentiments of devotees visiting the shrine. “We heard the Satkar Committee respectfully, but its act has hurt the sangat’s sentiments. This kind of attitude suggests that these protesters want to defame the SGPC deliberately by cornering it on this issue. They don’t want to resolve this issue with talks,” added Mehta.DELEGATION MEETS LONGOWALMembers of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) on Monday held a protest at Longowal village in Sangrur district over the saroops (copies) of Guru Granth Sahib that went missing from the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) printing house in Amritsar. A party delegation led by former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, ex-deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh and former MP Paramjit Kaur Gulshan met SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal at his residence and demanded that the findings of the panel constituted to look into the matter should be made public. Bir Devinder said Longowal was responsible being the head of the gurdwara body. He said that the case should be sent to an independent investigation agency instead of the Akal Takht. Longowal said the protest by SAD (Democratic) was held with a political motive. “The SGPC has taken action against the guilty. It was a religious issue and after taking the opinion of various scholars, we decided not to hand it over to the police,”he added. “The panj pyare (the five beloved ones), who were asked by the protesters to lead the delegation, told me that the SAD (Democratic) members violated the Sikh ‘maryada’ and ignored them. The outfit should apologise for this,” added the SGPC chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-sikh-outfits-launch-stir-outside-sgpc-office-sad-democratic-protests-in-sangrur/story-SDXMtlZG4cJ6bkc7rlaYwK.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for molesting minor at quarantine centre in Mumbai||Mumbai police have arrested a disinfectant spraying worker (20) at a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) quarantine centre in Mankhurd for allegedly molesting a minor (17), who is suffering from the contagion. The girl has been lodged at the quarantine facility in Mankhurd after she tested Covid-19 positive on September 9.The accused, Dipesh Salvi, visited the centre on Monday morning. “Salvi allegedly tried to molest her and after she resisted he slapped her,” said a police officer.Soon, the minor informed her family members, who lodged a complaint at Mankhurd police station.Prakash Chowgule, a senior inspector at Mankhurd police station, said there were two eyewitnesses to Salvi’s alleged crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-molesting-minor-at-quarantine-centre-in-mumbai/story-VTvpbQKGwupEcTwPUaGaxJ.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to educate citizens on how to stay safe from Covid-19||With no let-up in the coronavirus situation, the Mumbai civic body has planned to educate the citizens on how to live with the virus by taking various precautions in everyday life and making some lifestyle changes. As part of the Maharashtra government’s ‘my family, my responsibility’ programme to tackle the spread of Covid-19, the civic body will educate the citizens about safety and precautionary measures to be taken to protect themselves and their families from the epidemic.It will include a set of instructions/advisories to be followed by individuals and families at home as well as in the housing societies or colonies, at shopping malls and markets at workplaces and while travelling in public transport.Some of these instructions are:* Members of a family should use different masks.* Mark your reusable masks to avoid the use of the same by other families members.* Two persons should avoid talking face to face* Speak less or maintain silence while eating your meals* Wear your masks even while driving your car* Check temperature of family members every day. If possible even check oxygen level on daily basis* Non perishable goods that are ordered through online should be kept outside for at least a day before using them.* Common areas of the building/house such as handles, knobs should be sanitised regularly. Citizens should use piece of paper to press the buttons of lifts and dispose them off properly after use* Social distancing should be strictly maintained in housing societies/colonies* If possible, a face shield should be used in public transport. Hands should be sanitised immediately after leaving the public transport vehicleMumbai Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “In order to effectively curtail the spread of coronavirus, it is imperative that all members of the family take necessary care and are vigilant to avoid even inadvertent mistakes. Citizens will be informed about the important steps that should be taken to achieve positive results against Covid-19.”The drive begins on Tuesday and will continue till October 25.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has initiated a door to door survey to screen over 1.24 crore population of the city.Under this, several teams of around three people in each for the next 40 days will conduct screening of citizens for Covid-19 symptoms.Vishwas Shankarwar, Deputy Municipal Commissioner of BMC, said, “We will undertake my family, my responsibility for the next forty days and will cover the maximum population under the same. We have already undertaken screening for senior citizens earlier, and this will be similar to that.”Till now, the BMC has screened around 10 lakh citizens in the city of which around 3,100 citizens have been referred for oxygen therapy.Shankarwar added, “The focus is also on areas where the cases are high, and this drive will be more aggressive in areas like Dahisar, Borivali and Kandivali. There will be more surveillance and testing from these areas.”Several areas of western suburbs including the above mentioned locations along with Jogeshwari, Andheri and Vile Parle also have the highest number of active cases in the city. The city has around 31,123 active cases, as of Monday, according to data from the state health department.The campaign will also provide referral treatment to people with co-morbidities such as diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease, obesity.Meanwhile, as of Monday, Mumbai reported over 1.72 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 1.32 lakh have recovered followed by over 8,100 losing their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-educate-citizens-on-how-to-stay-safe-from-covid-19/story-OnsNvYSKncFgUBqTmXawZN.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Facebook gets Delhi Assembly panel’s warning as official fails to appear before it||The Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee on Tuesday issued a warning to Facebook India after its vice-president (V-P) and managing director (MD) Ajay Mohan did not appear before the panel’s third hearing, despite being summoned.Raghav Chadha, the chairperson of the committee and an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) lawmaker from Rajendra Nagar, said Mohan’s refusal to appear before the panel was contempt of the Delhi legislative assembly. During the hearing, which was live streamed for the media, Chadha said, “Facebook India’s refusal to appear before the committee is an attempt to conceal crucial facts regarding the social media firm’s role in the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February. This non-cooperation shows that Facebook India wants to hide its role in the riots,” Chadha said.Also read: ‘Politically-sophisticated’ attempt to influence Delhi elections on Facebook before it was taken down, says ex-employeeHe said that instead of appearing before the committee, the company sent a letter to the panel. In its reply to the committee’s notice, Facebook said Parliament, which has exclusive rights, is looking into the issue and the Union government has the law and order rights over the national capital.Chadha cited the response as contempt of Delhi’s two crore residents because legislators are elected representatives.“State legislative functions are independent of the parliamentary functions. Facebook India has said the issue is under the jurisdiction of Parliament. This is totally wrong,” he said. “Since this issue is sensitive in nature and is related to Delhi’s peace and harmony, we have decided to issue a last warning to Facebook India under the principle of natural justice. We want to give the opportunity to every accused to be heard. We are giving a last chance to appear before the committee.The panel will send another notice to Facebook India. It will also explain to the company about the privileges of the Delhi assembly panel,” he added.A reaction from Facebook India was not immediately available.The Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee had on September 12 issued a notice to Mohan in connection with complaints about the social media company’s alleged “deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content” in the country.The notice was issued after the committee, in its second hearing on August 31, had said prima facie it had found that Facebook India was allegedly complicit in aggravating the north-east Delhi riots in February, which had left 53 people dead and over 400 injured.The committee is investigating the matter after it took cognisance of “several complaints” received from the public based on an article published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14.The report titled, ‘Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics’, had stated that the company’s officials, especially Ankhi Das, the public policy director for India, south and central Asia, allegedly cited business imperatives while choosing not to apply hate-speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the country.The bid to invoke hate-speech rules were allegedly glossed over, despite concerns were flagged internally.India is the biggest market for the social media company, which is headquartered in Menlo Park, California, United States of America (USA). There are over 290 million Facebook users in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/facebook-gets-delhi-assembly-panel-s-warning-as-official-fails-to-appear-before-it/story-5jijlxuddz7zvE8dGsoJcL.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra police force cross 200-mark||Eight policemen died of coronavirus in the last 48 hours across Maharashtra, taking the death toll in the state police past the 200-mark. The number of stand in the forces stands at 202.Some 371 fresh cases of infection have been reported in the Maharashtra police in the last 24 hours.The policemen who died in the last two days were from Thane, Jalgaon, Ratnagiri and Nagpur districts.As per the details shared by Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (Law and Order), total cases of Covid-19 infection in the state police force is now at 19,756. Out of these, 15,830 policemen have recovered. Some 3,724 policemen are active patients and are undergoing treatment at various public, private hospitals and Covid care facilities.Out of the 202 policemen deaths reported, 20 were of the officer rank.“Most of the policemen who lost battle with Coronavirus had co-morbidities such as diabetes, blood pressure. Covid mortality is seen higher in policemen in age group 48-58,” said a senior police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-deaths-in-maharashtra-police-force-cross-200-mark/story-CnvNdPim4c7LblvfIVtmIM.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Supreme Court grants former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini interim protection from arrest in 1991 case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted interim protection from arrest to former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in the 1991 alleged murder case of a junior engineer, Balwant Singh Multani. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah sought response from the Punjab government on Saini’s plea challenging the Punjab and Haryana high court order refusing to grant him anticipatory bail in the case. During the hearing, the bench questioned senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for the Punjab government, that what is the hurry in arresting Saini after 29 years of the case. Luthra replied that the former DGP having Z-plus security is absconding. The bench posted the matter for hearing after four weeks and said that Saini is not to be arrested till further orders and he shall cooperate in the investigation. On September 8, the high court had dismissed Saini’s two pleas, including the one on anticipatory bail, observing that the same cannot be allowed as there is every likelihood of him stifling fair investigation and trial. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi represented Saini, a 1982-batch Indian Police Service officer, who was booked along with six others on May 6 at Mataur police station in Mohali for the alleged kidnapping of Multani. The murder charge was invoked in August after two of the accused policemen turned approvers. Multani worked with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco) and was picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was then Chandigarh senior superintendent of police. Saini was injured in the attack and three policemen were killed. Saini retired in 2018 after 36 years of service. ‘POLITICALLY MOTIVATED CONSPIRACY’ Saini claims that the case against him is an example of “politically motivated conspiracy” by the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab. He says he was granted bail by the trial court after the registration of the FIR, hence, it should continue. In 2008, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also registered a case against him that was later quashed by the Supreme Court. This is another argument put forward by Saini who added that when Covid-19 was at a peak, under “a politically motivated conspiracy, an FIR was registered against him on the same facts by the state machinery”. Saini was part of the then director general of police KPS Gill’s team that helped eliminate terrorism in the state. His bail petition mentioned his outstanding service record. The petition also said that after abatement of terrorism in Punjab, the applicant has been involved in unearthing scams and scandals. He served as head of the state Vigilance Bureau from 2007 to 2012 and during his tenure “a number of criminal cases were registered against members of the political party, which is now in power in the state of Punjab”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/supreme-court-grants-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-interim-protection-from-arrest-in-1991-case/story-0kVpksWcxa6BX1AspRALeO.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Navy veteran, who was assaulted by Shiv Sena workers, meets governor Koshiyari||Madan Sharma, the retired Naval officer who was attacked by Shiv Sena workers last week for sharing a cartoon mocking Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari at Raj Bhavan on Tuesday.Sharma, accompanied by some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and ex-servicemen, complained to Koshiyari that the Uddhav Thackeray government was treating the suspects with kid gloves. After the meeting, Sharma said, “The law should treat everyone the same way. Instead of cracking down on such elements, they (Sena workers) are being favoured.”He also demanded President’s rule in the state and the dissolution of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Also Read: Navy veteran assaulted by Shiv Sena workers in Mumbai: Congress claims BJP MP orchestrated attack on ex-Army man, slams party’s ‘double standards’BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar accompanied Sharma and said they wanted a public apology from Thackeray for the incident. “Uddhav Thackeray, as a chief of the Shiv Sena, should apologise for the attack carried out by his party workers,” said Bhatkhalkar.The BJP had led the attack on the government over the issue, calling it state-sponsored terrorism. In an unusual move, Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh even spoke with Sharma over the telephone.The Sena, however, defended itself on Sunday saying it was not right to drag the party into this issue. “The workers did not take permission from us and we condemn all such incidents. The police have already taken action. However at the same time, it was wrong to provoke people as they have high respect for their leaders,” said Sena MP Sanjay Raut.Also Read: ‘Was sharing CM’s cartoon national work?’: Sena on attack on ex-navy manOn Sunday, actor Kangana Ranaut who has been engaged in a bitter war of words with Shiv Sena had also met Koshiyari. Ranaut cried foul over the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s move to demolish part of her office, saying it was illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navy-veteran-who-was-assaulted-by-shiv-sena-workers-meets-governor-koshiyari/story-r65B4qkYjgmTRKzVey5FXO.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Khalistan terror module busted with arrest of two men from Punjab’s Tarn Taran||Averting a major terror incident in the state, Punjab Police have busted yet another pro-Khalistan terrorist module with the arrest of two persons allegedly operating in connivance with five criminals, including a KZF operative in Amritsar jail. “The Pakistan-backed module was busted on the basis of inputs about the nefarious designs of pro-Khalistan elements trying to disturb peace in the state by launching terror attacks,” director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said on Tuesday. Gupta said following the inputs, the police launched a drive to ensure thorough checking of all those entering the state from various parts of the country, thus leading to the arrest of Harjeet Singh, alias Raju, and Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, both residents of Mianpur village in Tarn Taran district. Six sophisticated weapons (a 9mm pistol, four .32-calibre pistols and one .32 revolver), eight rounds of ammunition, mobile phones and an internet dongle were recovered from the duo, who were arrested at the checkpost near Hotel Jashan on the Rajpura-Sirhind road by a police team, comprising ASI Gurdarshan Singh, head constable Jora Singh and Punjab Home Guard Pritpal Singh. A case was registered under Sections 212, 216, 120-Bof the IPC besides Sections 25/ 54/ 59 of the Arms Act, r/w Sections 13, 16, 18, 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act. GOT WEAPONS FROM MP, HARYANA The accused admitted that they received four weapons from Burhanpur, Madhya Pradesh, and two arms from Safidon in Jind district of Haryana, the DGP said. Gupta said that the duo is also wanted in an attempt to murder and Arms Act case registered at Sarai Amanat Khan police station in Tarn Taran district. The two men were planning a terror attack in Punjab in connivance with five criminals, namely Shubhdeep Singh of Cheecha in Amritsar, now lodged in Amritsar jail; Amritpal Singh Baath of Mianpur in Tarn Taran district, wanted in 12 cases of murder, attempt to murder, Arms Act in Tarn Taran and Amritsar Rural districts; Randeep Singh of Chheharta, Amritsar, wanted in drug cases in Amritsar, along with Goldy and Ashu, both from Karnal district in Haryana. WERE IN TOUCH WITH JAILED KZF MILITANT Sharing details about Shubhdeep Singh, the DGP said he was an active militant of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF), who was arrested by Punjab Police in September 2019 with the recovery of a China-made drone from Mahawa village in Amritsar district. In April last year, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had filed a chargesheet against him along with eight others, including Akashdeep Singh, Balwant Singh, Harbhajan Singh, Balbir Singh, Maan Singh, Gurdev Singh, Sajanpreet Singh and Romandeep Singh before the special NIA court in Mohali. This case is related to information that Pakistan-based KZF chief Ranjeet Singh, alias Neeta, in connivance with Gurmeet Singh, alias Bagga, a Germany-based KZF operative, had smuggled arms, ammunition, explosives and fake indian currency notes (FICN) into India via drones from Pakistan. Randeep Singh is wanted in a case of attempt to murder, drug smuggling and Arms Act since 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khalistan-terror-module-busted-with-arrest-of-two-men-from-punjab-s-tarn-taran/story-uLSdEmiIAQ4mG4KSPEqo0J.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra orders probe into 2016 attack by BJP MP on ex-army man||The Maharashtra government has ordered a police probe against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Parliament member Unmesh Patil for allegedly assaulting a retired army man in 2016.“In 2016, the then BJP legislator and his accomplices had attacked former army man Sonu Mahajan. The then BJP Government did not give him justice. Since I have received various petitions in this regard, I have asked the Police officials to investigate this matter,” tweeted Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.The move came after the Congress, which is a part of the Maharashtra government, on Sunday raised the issue as the BJP hit out at ruling Shiv Sena workers for allegedly assaulting former navy officer Madan Sharma last week for forwarding a social media post mocking chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Mahajan was assaulted in Maharashtra’s Chalisgaon when Patil was an assembly member.The BJP called the probe against Patil an act of revenge. “They can open any case and get it investigated as this is their right. But then, why were these people silent from 2016 when this incident occurred,” said BJP spokesman Madhav Bhandari. “The problem is that the state government has failed on all fronts and hence is indulging in the politics of vengeance.”The BJP last week called the attack on Sharma “state-sponsored terrorism” and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh even spoke to him.The Shiv Sena has distanced itself from the attack saying it is not right to drag the party into this issue. “The workers did not take permission from us. However, at the same time, it was wrong to provoke people as they have high respect for their leaders,” said Shiv Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-orders-probe-into-2016-attack-by-bjp-mp-on-ex-army-man/story-Zxf84AFCm9EehBKDArp8MI.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Social media being used to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday claimed social media platforms are being used systematically to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra.Since the last five to six years, disparaging comments are being made on social media in the name of gossiping and there is no restriction on it, the Shiv Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece ‘Saamana’.Maharashtra and the Marathis are experiencing such a situation for the past some days, it said.“Social media is being used systematically to defame Mumbai and Maharashtra. But if anyone retorts to such gossiping in their own style, then concerns are raised about one’s (the users) freedom of speech,” the Marathi daily said without mentioning any incident.It also referred to Supreme Court judge N V Ramanas recent comment where he said “judges are now becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media postings as they restrain themselves from speaking in their own defence”.The Uddhav Thackeray-led party said what Justice Ramana said is true and applies to almost all sectors with its degree varying.The Shiv Sena’s remarks came against the backdrop of its workers recently roughing up a retired Navy officer in Mumbai for circulating on social media a cartoon lampooning Maharashtra Chief Minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray.The party was also recently engaged in a war of words with Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, who in a Twitter post likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).The Shiv Sena, which is in power in Maharashtra along with the NCP and Congress, also said some machineries have to face “false criticism” helplessly due to government obligation, but that does not mean social media users take disadvantage of it.The party also wondered if social media users will show the maturity of understanding what Justice Ramana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-media-being-used-to-defame-mumbai-and-maharashtra-shiv-sena/story-HCY4ht369rw4rJixO2n40N.html
15-09-2020||Bhopal||Congress MLA Govardhan Dangi dies of Covid-19 in Gurugram hospital||Congress lawmaker Govardhan Dangi died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a private hospital in Gurugram on Tuesday morning, as per the party’s Madhya Pradesh (MP) unit.MP Congress Committee (MPCC) tweeted that the legislator from Biaora constituency of the state’s Rajgarh district passed away because of the viral infection. MPCC spokesperson Saed Jafar said Dangi had tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago. “He was admitted to Bhopal’s Chirayu Medical College, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, after he was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the viral disease. He was shifted to a hospital in Gurugram after his health worsened. He passed away on Tuesday morning,” said Jafar. Leaders from the Congress and the ruling Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) in MP paid their tributes to Dangi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/congress-mla-govardhan-dangi-dies-of-covid-19-in-gurugram-hospital/story-ZTMIPQxR02vE2b4KSc1VJO.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra to survey 2.25 crore families door-to-door from today||In a bid to tackle the surge in Covid -19 cases, the Maharashtra government will kickstart its house-to-house survey ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ from Tuesday. The statewide programme aims to check 2.25 crore families for symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and co-morbidities. The idea is to effectively curtail the spread with necessary care and also reduce the number of Covid-19 casualties.Under the campaign, health workers will conduct door-to-door surveys during which they will check residents’ body temperature and oxygen levels, besides other symptoms, including tiredness, throat pain, dry cough, diarrhoea, and loss of smell and taste, officials said.Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally closer to 5 million, but daily case count drops to 83,809“Those with Covid-19 symptoms will be recommended a swab test. People with ailments such as diabetes, heart and kidney disease as well as obesity will be referred for treatment. Besides, health workers will also impart health education to people, especially on Covid-19,” said a health official.Each team comprising a health worker and two volunteers will survey each and every family of the state twice in over a month. The state is also assigning one doctor to five teams.The first phase of the survey is starting Tuesday. The volunteers are expected to complete it by October 10. The second phase will be conducted between October 12 and 24. Also Read: Coronavirus pandemic: When will there be a Covid-19 cure? The body is still the best virus-killer“Maharashtra is the first state across the country to undertake such an extensive survey in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a senior official from the state health department, requesting anonymity. “The first phase will get us the health status of each and every family in the state that will help in early detection and treatment of the infectious disease, whereas the second phase will be a follow-up to check if other members of the families have developed symptoms. This will enable us to break the chain and reduce its spread. It will further help us bring down the number of Covid-19 deaths,” he added.In his address to the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked citizens to participate in the survey. “I want citizens who love Maharashtra to share responsibility and participate in the campaign,” Thackeray said on Sunday.In a meeting called to review the health crisis on Monday, Thackeray emphasised that all elected representatives from the gram panchayat to members of parliament irrespective of their political affiliations must participate to make the campaign successful. “The positivity rate in the districts is now going up. We have erected all facilities, in the last five to six months we have worked day and night, but our challenge is not over yet. We were able to control this (Covid-19) wave during the lockdown. But now we are gradually restarting activities. Looking at the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, we will have to impart education on how to live with the virus through this campaign. The mantra for people will remain to not get infected with the disease,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-to-survey-2-25-crore-families-door-to-door-from-today/story-53Efd79YSNMo9MwbCNeIvM.html
15-09-2020||City||Ayodhya saints at loggerheads with Champat Rai for comment on Shiv Sena chief||Ayodhya’s saints and Hanuman Garhi temple’s Naga sadhus are up in arms over Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai purported comments saying “it remains to be seen who has the guts to stop” Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray from visiting the holy town.Rai, who is also the vice president of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), is heard making the comments in a video clip circulated via WhatsApp on Monday.Also red: Days after cheque fraud, SBI returns Rs 6 lakh to Ram Janmabhoomi TrustMahant Kanahiya Das, head of the Ayodhya Sant Samaj, said Rai should not have issued such a statement. He must think twice before saying anything,” said Kanahiya Das. “Uddhav Thackeray and Shiv Sena are no more welcome in Ayodhya. Why is the Shiv Sena attacking [actor Kangana] Ranaut? The Shiv Sena is not the same what it used to be under Balasaheb Thackeray, the founder of the party.”The saints are angry over the face-off between Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena and Ranaut. The Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation last week demolished parts of Ranaut’s office. Ranaut has hit out at Thackeray and the face-off has triggered demonstrations and a legal battle.“Champat Rai’s statement cannot be accepted. Ayodhya has given too much respect to Rai and he must not take this for granted,” said Raju Das, a priest at Hanuman Garhi. “Champat Rai is not VHP. We are not opposing the VHP. But we are opposing Rai.”Das said Rai must confine himself to activities of the Trust, which has been formed to oversee the construction of the Ram Temple. “He is not a saint. Now, he has started playing divisive politics by dividing saints of Ayodhya like what Britishers did in India.”Das said Thackeray and Shiv Sena are no more welcome in Ayodhya. “Now, the Maharashtra chief minister will face stiff opposition from seers of Ayodhya if he comes here.”Mahant Dharamdas of Nirvani Akhara also condemned Rai’s statement. “Saints of Ayodhya will not be intimidated by Champat Rai. We will continue to oppose Uddhav Thackeray,” said Dharamdas.Rai did not immediately respond to a request for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ayodhya-saints-at-loggerheads-with-champat-rai-for-comment-on-shiv-sena-chief/story-HY3s2dxSSWsAmmKBrbrwRO.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Using demonetisation ruse, man, 55, cheats Delhi trader of Rs 2 lakh||A 55-year-old man was arrested for allegedly cheating a food grain merchant of Rs 2 lakh after tricking him into believing that the government is demonetising Rs 2,000 currency notes and has already launched new Rs 1,000 notes. The alleged cheat offered to exchange Rs 2,000 notes with the Rs 1,000 notes by claiming that he has managed to procure bundles of the new Rs 1,000 notes, the police said on Tuesday.The conman, identified as Ajay Sharma, was arrested from his home at Sahibabad in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad on Sunday, a day after the food grain merchant from north Delhi’s Lahori Gate Naya Bazar filed a cheating complaint at the local police station, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.“Sharma committed the cheating because he had lost several lakhs of rupees in gambling and was in need of money. We have recovered the complainant’s Rs 2 lakh from Sharma and a scooter he used in the crime,” said Alphonse.On September 11, the police said the complainant was at his shop when around 3 pm an unknown man came there and was talking to someone on his cellphone regarding discontinuation of Rs 2,000 notes by the government of India. The man further claimed that he had bundles of newly published currency notes of Rs 1,000. He asked the person on the other side whether he wanted to buy new Rs 1,000 notes.The complainant, who was listening to the conversation, asked the man if the new Rs 1,000 note had been launched by the government. The man confidently confirmed it and tricked the businessman into believing that the Rs 2,000 notes would soon be demonetised.The businessman showed interest in exchanging Rs 2,000 notes worth Rs 2 lakh. He gave the amount in a bag to his staff member Vishnu Dutt, who left with the man on his scooty. After covering some distance, the man took the bag from Dutt and asked him to go inside a building and collect new Rs 1,000 notes of the same value from his associate, Sunil, the police said.Dutt did not find anyone inside. When he got out, he found the man was missing too. Dutt informed his employer, who filed a case the next day. During the probe, the police found CCTV footage in which the suspect’s scooter registration number was visible, said DCP Alphonse.“We found that the scooter’s owner was Ajay Sharma. His house in Sahibabad was raided. He was arrested along with the money,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/using-demonetisation-ruse-man-55-cheats-delhi-trader-of-rs-2-lakh/story-KVmy79KFNPtkKwJqGwXMBK.html
15-09-2020||City||CBI raids former J&K minister Lal Singh’s premises in Rajbagh, Kathua||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday morning raided the residential premises of the former Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) minister and the founder of Dogra Swabhimaan Sanghthan (DSS), Choudhary Lal Singh, in Rajbagh and Kathua in Jammu, officials said. “Two CBI teams launched searches on the premises of Choudhary Lal Singh in ward number 2 of Kathua town and in Rajbagh around 7 am,” said an official. CBI has registered a case against RB Educational Trust, by an educational trust run by Singh, , who had quit the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) in 2018, and others including the then DC Kathua (J&K), the then Tehsildar, then Naib Tehsildar, the then Girdawar, the then Patwari and other unknown persons on the allegations of having facilitated the trust to possess land much beyond the ceiling limit, and submitting false affidavits in support of the trust, causing losses to the State exchequer.Singh had resigned from the party following a row over the rape and murder of an eight-year-old nomadic girl at Rasana in Jammu’s Kathua district in 2018.Searches at nine locations ( three in Jammu and six at Kathua) including at RB Education Trust, the residence of its chairperson and other accused persons are underway.On June 25, CBI had registered a preliminary enquiry (PE) against RB Educational Trust to probe into the allegations of illegal gratification and extraneous consideration by the revenue and forest officials of Kathua district in allowing the sale and purchase of forest land. The PE alleged that false certificates of the land, which comes under exempted category of Jammu &Kashmir Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976 were used by the educational trust in its alleged land-grabbing activities. The PE claimed that the trust, a beneficiary of such alleged illegal acts, has in its possession huge tracts of land in gross violation of the ceiling prescribed under the Act.It also alleged that erroneous information was submitted in the Jammu & Kashmir high court (HC) on June 9, 2015 as public interest litigation (PIL) in a bid to favour the trust, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbi-raids-former-j-k-minister-lal-singh-s-premises-in-rajbagh-kathua/story-9tmBe81shumTnpXQ5Z99PJ.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Sushant case: Viscera report to be ready after September 17, will be tested for drugs||The analysis report of Sushant Singh Rajput’s viscera sample at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is likely to be ready on September 17 or 20. The samples had been analysed in Mumbai once after the autopsy and were sent to AIIMS for a second analysis. “We have just received some of the materials from Maharashtra and will take some time to give out a report. Some of the papers are in Marathi and need to be translated. A medical board is likely to be convened on September 17 and the report should be out thereafter. There is also likely to be a meeting with all the agencies involved so that there is a conclusive opinion by September 20,” said one of the doctors analysing the viscera samples. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: Showik Chakraborty’s bail plea rejected as he may alert others involved, says NDPS courtThe samples will be tested for amphetamines, cannabis, opiods, cocaine, heroin, etc. to ascertain whether the actor actually consumed any of the drugs. Viscera samples comprise the internal organs of a body that are preserved to ascertain the cause of death in cases where autopsies are inconclusive. They can be tested for various drugs and poisons. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB gets custody of three of the six arrested accusedRajput was found hanging at his Mumbai apartment on June 14 in what police said appeared to be an open-and-shut case of suicide. The post-mortem report ruled out any foul play. After a two-week quiet, a political controversy erupted over the death, as a Bihar police team constituted to probe the case on a complaint by the actor’s family alleged it got no cooperation from its Mumbai counterpart.“There should be no mystery around the death and a clear finding will be presented after the meetings with all investigating agencies,” the doctor quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-viscera-report-to-be-ready-after-september-17-will-be-tested-for-drugs/story-ZZxv8pzPyOgOrK0s6qZ2YK.html
15-09-2020||Environment||Covid-19 waste: Maharashtra pollution body asks BMC to enhance abatement measures||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has issued a notice to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) private contractor treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and associated biomedical waste to enhance air pollution abatement measures.SMS Envoclean Private Limited, which is located at Govandi (East), is Mumbai’s only biomedical waste treatment facility appointed by the BMC to deal with the city’s Covid-19 waste.The contractor was told by MPCB to boost their scrubber technology to reduce black smoke emitted from its chimney after burning the biomedical waste.Also Read: 70% rise in Mumbai’s pollution levels during first week of SeptemberMPCB said black smoke was being generated from burning a voluminous amount of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits daily but the unit was not violating emission norms for nitrogen dioxide (NO2). “Plastic contents in the PPE kit when burnt release the black smoke in the vicinity of the unit. As per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) norms, these PPE kits have to be incinerated on the same day they are collected,” said Anant Harshvardhan, regional officer, (Mumbai), MPCB. “Emission levels of SMS Envoclean are being monitored by MPCB and CPCB daily through an online mechanism. The unit has not violated the 80 microgram per cubic metre (μg/m³) 24-hour safe limit for NO2, the major pollutant after the burning of waste. However, based on complaints, we have directed the unit to increase its air pollution control scrubbers to further curb the emission of black smoke.”Also Read: Environment ministry allows virtual public hearings, email submissionsAn air quality researcher, requesting anonymity, pointed out that MPCB was not measuring volatile organic compounds (VOCs) such as benzene, xylene, toluene, and styrene that are all hazardous to health and are a major by-product from the burning of waste materials. “Besides benzene, CPCB has no standards for other VOCs. Industries measure their own VOCs. But there is no such measure undertaken by MPCB for smaller industrial units,” the researcher said.MPCB authorities confirmed that they do not measure VOCs.MPCB’s direction is based on a September 11 legal notice signed by 100 residents from Govandi, Mankhurd, Deonar and surrounding areas. The notice, issued by advocate Saif Alam to MPCB, cited repeated complaints sent between July and September went unnoticed, nor was there any investigation by the authorities concerned. The notice alleged ignorance by the pollution regulator that residential and slum areas in the vicinity of SMS Envoclean were allegedly breathing poisonous air that are leading to skin ailments. One of the adjoining slums to SMS Envoclean had reported 8.9% Covid-19-related deaths, the notice pointed out. “There has to be a stringent action against this unit. Ignoring such complainants or delaying action will only create more damage to the residents, who are suffering from tuberculosis (TB) and asthma,” said Alam, a local resident and a patient of allergic bronchitis. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, the risk factor has doubled,” he said.In 2018, MPCB had issued a closure notice to SMS Envoclean after it had failed to meet safety standards under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.However, the unit managed to obtain a stay on the order from the Bombay high court (HC). “Later, they refurbished their air pollution control system in full compliance as per the norms,” said Harshvardhan.HT had reported on August 29 that Mumbai’s Covid-19 waste had reported a 104% rise over three months, and the waste incineration unit had run out of storage space at its one-acre plant. SMS Envoclean said biomedical waste quantity rose from an average of 12,200 kilograms (kg) per day in June to 24,880 kg per day on average since August.“Our capacity for incineration is 24,000 kg per day across four chambers that can withstand a maximum temperature of 1,200 degrees Celsius (C). Each unit is lined with bricks to control temperature. However, burning PPE kits is raising the temperature significantly by melting the lining of bricks. As a result, we had to function on either two or three incinerators per day, sparing time for maintenance of overused chambers,” said Amit Nilawar, director, SMS Envoclean. “However, as far as air pollution control is concerned, we have a detailed procedure (see box) for abatement, and every incineration chamber is fitted with scrubbers working to their optimal capacity. Safety limits have never been violated,” he added.In August, MPCB had granted permission to SMS Envoclean for sending excess biomedical waste weighing up to 5,000 kg per day to another unit in Taloja in Navi Mumbai called Mumbai Waste Management Limited on the condition that the contractor would bear the cost at Rs 97 per kg. “So far, we have received a bill in excess of Rs 1 crore for outsourcing excess incinerated waste,” said Nilawar. Harshvardhan said this mechanism would also help curb any excess emission from the plant’s Govandi (East) unit.Contrary to MPCB’s claim, Alam has called for shutting down the unit as it violates safe air quality standards. “Since this matter concerns the health of citizens, we will move the Supreme Court (SC) if necessary, to ensure this unit is dismantled,” he said.However, BMC said they did not have an alternate option for Covid-19 waste incineration in Mumbai yet. “We have asked the local ward office (M East) to check with SMS Envoclean about pollution- related concerns raised by the local residents. Parallel talks are in progress with MPCB to ascertain these allegations,” said a BMC official.HOW MUMBAI’S WASTE INCINERATOR SAYS IT IS CONTROLLING AIR POLLUTIONSMS Envoclean said they had built a mechanism to ensure minimal emission, as around 25,000 kg of Covid-19 and associated biomedical waste are being incinerated daily at the private waste treatment centre.“We follow a process of second combustion through scrubbing and water sprinkling to remove hazardous pollutants. Initially, the waste is incinerated in a chamber and the resultant hazardous smoke is transferred to another chamber, where it is burnt for the second time ridding the air of harmful pollutants. Later, it is sent to a third chamber, where the air is filtered using a scrubber. Finally, it is sent to a fourth chamber, where a water sprinkler using chemicals further purifies the air before residual steam is released from the chimney. The chimney is located at a height much above the peripheral residential area and the almost colourless steam disperses quickly into the air. No black soot or smoke is visible,” said Amit Nilawar, director, SMS Envoclean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/covid-19-waste-maharashtra-pollution-body-asks-bmc-to-enhance-abatement-measures/story-lzr9LvpSqnFJV1dLaeKlvJ.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi sero survey: Results of third round expected this week||The results of the third round of the serological surveillance in Delhi is likely to be released within the week, with the team of researchers having analysed all the 17,000 samples that had been collected during the first five days of the month. Also read: India’s Covid-19 recoveries highest in the world, data shows“The result of the third round of sero survey will likely be out within this week,” said one of the researchers. The serological survey helps the government in estimating the proportion of the population that might have been exposed to the virus causing coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and developed immunity to it. This is done by checking for antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 in blood samples. After the first round of the serological survey was conducted from June 27 to July 10 with assistance from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the Delhi government decided to conduct the surveys at the beginning of every month to map the actual spread of the infection. The first round of sero survey in Delhi had revealed that an estimated 22.6% had antibodies against Covid-19, which translates into about 4.5 million people in Delhi having had the infection. At the time, Delhi had reported just over 100,000 positive cases through testing. A representative sample of 20,000 people had been tested by the government for the study. The second round of sero surveillance, headed by the Maulana Azad Medical College, was conducted between August 1 and 7 when 15,000 samples were collected district-wise to check the burden of disease. For this survey, 29% of the total samples had antibodies against Covid-19, which translates to about 5.8 million of Delhi’s 20 million population. Through testing for the infection using nasal swabs, just over 142,000 positive cases had been detected. The results for the third round of sero survey, for which 17,000 samples had been collected ward-wise – will show whether Delhi is close to achieving herd immunity. “Many people with Covid-19 are asymptomatic and hence do not go to a healthcare facility or get tested. Sero survey helps to estimate the true burden of disease and what percentage of the cases were asymptomatic. There are some studies which show with 40 to 60% of the population being infected, the transmission goes down,” Amit Singh, associate professor at the Centre for Infectious Diseases in Indian Institute of Science had told HT earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sero-survey-results-of-third-round-expected-this-week/story-9LLeFJU0skRYi0G4EP7QoL.html
15-09-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow to record highest power demand growth in UP in next decade||Lucknow is expected to record the highest growth in electricity consumption among the mega cities in Uttar Pradesh during the next decade, according to a recent report on the 19th Electric Power Survey (EPS) of mega cities. The city’s peak demand was likely to soar to 2579 MW (megawatt) from the current 1450 MW by 2029-30, the report said.Varanasi is likely to be next to Lucknow in the Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of electricity, to be followed by Kanpur and Agra. The four UP towns are among the country’s 45 mega cities covered in the EPS. Also read: STF, UPPCL experts still clueless on Janmasthami blackout in UPDuring the last five years (2013-14 to 2018-19), Lucknow has logged CAGR of 6.59% & 5.82% in electricity energy requirement and peak demand respectively, according to the report available on Central Electricity Authority’s website. The peak demand in Lucknow is expected to see a CAGR of 6.15% up to 2024-25 and will reach 1955 MW in comparison to 1450 MW in 2019-20. It is expected to reach 2579 MW in 2029-30 with a CAGR of 5.70% after 2024-25.“Lucknow has witnessed good growth in power demand in the recent past and the city is expected to follow a similar growth pattern in the future also,” says the report.It says the peak demand of Varanasi is expected to see 4.85% compound annual growth rate up to 2024-25 and will reach 776 MW in comparison to 613 MW in 2019-20. It is expected to reach 976 MW in 2029-30 with a CAGR of 4.69% after 2024-25.EPS noted that Varanasi had witnessed moderate peak demand growth in comparison to its energy requirement growth that is in contrast to most of the other mega cities. “This could be explained on account of higher increase in industrial consumption in recent years in the city,” it pointed out.Peak demand of Kanpur is expected to see a CAGR of 5.32% up to 2024-25 and will reach 949 MW in comparison to 732 MW in 2019-20. It is expected to reach 1180 MW in 2029-30 with a CAGR of 4.47% after 2024- 25The survey found that the energy requirement CAGR of Kanpur city for the past five years (2013-14 to 2018-19) showed negative growth and the peak demand growth was also moderate. It was mainly because energy consumption in 2013-14 was unusually high and energy consumption in 2018-19 was unusually low.An official of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) said an effective curb on power pilferage in Kanpur was responsible for negative or slow growth in power demand in the city during the last decade. “The power consumption in the city dropped after a check was put on pilferage,” the official said.The report said the energy requirement in Kanpur may grow at a faster pace as there may not be further sharp reduction in line losses that had already dropped.In Agra, the peak demand, as per the report, is expected to see CAGR of 4.49% up to 2024-25 and will reach 929 MW in comparison to 746 MW in 2019-20. It is expected to reach 1122 MW in year 2029-30 with a CAGR of 3.85% after 2024-25.In Agra also, the energy requirement growth in the recent past was found negligible and the city observed CAGR of 0.38% during the period from 2013-14 to 2018-19.“The decline in energy requirement growth was primarily on account of reduction in T&D losses that fell from around 47% to 20.78% during the same period,” the report pointed out. Industry load low in UP’s mega citiesIn what is indicative of low industrialisation, it is not the industry but the domestic sector that was the biggest user of electricity in UP’s mega cities in 2018-19.As per the EPS, domestic sector or residential consumers alone had as high as 58% share in the total power consumed in Lucknow followed by commercial users (markets, malls etc) with 15% share while industry’s share was a mere 9% which was the lowest of all the four mega cities.Once known for its industries, Kanpur also had the domestic sector as the biggest consumer of electricity (49%) followed by industrial (32%) and commercial (13%).In Agra, domestic sector was the biggest consumer of electricity (39%) followed by industrial and irrigation at 20% each.Similarly, the domestic sector was the biggest consumer of electricity (35%) in Varanasi too followed by industrial (27%) and commercial (25%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-to-record-highest-power-demand-growth-in-up-in-next-decade/story-DSdceKjC6zgieHaCWtuuzO.html
15-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Hospitals to get oxygen generators||The health department in Uttar Pradesh (UP) has planned to install oxygen generators at hospitals, especially those treating coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, to make them self-sufficient in the availability of oxygen. “Initially, 10 hospitals will get oxygen generators,” said Dr DS Negi, director-general, medical health, UP. A technical committee will take a call on the tender for the oxygen generators and finalise their purchase. Oxygen generators are equipment that is capable of extracting oxygen from air. Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayUP hospitals are stocking oxygen with the help of liquid oxygen cylinders, which can store the gas sufficient for up to 14 days for a 150-bed hospital. Many hospitals in the state are keeping a stock of 100 oxygen cylinders and maintaining their regular supply. “The generators can provide oxygen that can take care over 95% of a patient’s needs,” said Professor Sandip Tiwari, spokesperson, King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow. An oxygen generator is functional at the KGMU’s Queen Mary’s hospital ,which is capable of filling over 80 cylinders in 24 hours. The 4,500-bed KGMU also has liquid oxygen tanks on its campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-hospitals-to-get-oxygen-generators/story-notpt66Mo4xlMTPMiCoDII.html
15-09-2020||City||Punjab farmers protesting Centre’s agri ordinances lay siege to 3 bridges for hours||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee blocked traffic on three major bridges on the Beas in the Majha region for hours against the three agriculture ordinances introduced by the Central government. The farmers started laying siege to the Harike bridge connecting Majha and Malwa, the Beas bridge on Amritsar-Delhi highway and the Hargobindpur bridge in Gurdaspur around 12:30pm. Though the police in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts had already diverted the traffic in the morning, hundreds of commuters were left stranded for several hours. The protest continued till filing of the report in the evening. Addressing the protesters at Beas bridge, Kisan Sangharash Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “The Centre should immediately revoke the three agriculture ordinances, which are anti-farmer as well as anti-people. Similarly, the Electricity Amendment Bill should also not be passed in Parliament.” He said, “Our protest is not only to awaken the Central government, but also to the opposition parties which should strongly oppose the three ordinances. There are more than 200 MPs from the farming communities. They should also support the farmers’ concerns. If these ordinances are not revoked, we will not allow any MP or leader to enter the villages.”He said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) should take a tough stand on the issue. “Also, the Punjab government should also exert pressure on the Centre to revoke the ordinances. People are coming out on the roads and the situation will worsen if the Union government does not roll back its decision,” he said.At the Harike bridge, Sangharsh Committee’s Punjab president Satnam Singh Pannu said they were appealing to the people of various communities to support the farmers’ concern.At Hargobindpur bridge, farmer leader Kuldeep Singh said, “Despite our repeated protests against the ordinances, the government didn’t pay heed to our concerns and now we are forced to block the roads. The protests will be intensified in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-farmers-protesting-centre-s-agri-ordinances-lay-siege-to-3-bridges-for-hours/story-UqmivWsqv1ayC5PbjXAKzJ.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Never backed Centre’s agri ordinances, says Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday rejected the Centre’s claim that the state was taken on board before the promulgation of farm-related ordinances presented in Parliament and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to go ahead with the legislation. Amarinder was reacting to a statement of Union minister of state for consumer affairs, food and public distribution Raosaheb Patil Danve in Parliament. Danve had said a high-powered committee on agriculture had decided on the ordinances after due consideration by all member states. The CM said at no point did Punjab endorse any such move. Pointing out that Punjab was initially excluded from the committee set up by the Centre in July 2019, Captain said it was only after his government’s protest the state was included in the panel in August 2019. By that time, the committee had already held its first meeting, he said. In the second meeting, on August 16, 2019, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal represented Punjab, and only certain fiscal issues related to agriculture were discussed, he said. Subsequently, the draft report of the committee was circulated for comments and Punjab had again made its stand clear, strongly opposing any move to dilute the farmer-friendly laws, the CM said. “The central government did not address Punjab’s comments and, in fact, there was no meeting or discussion at all thereafter. Instead, the Centre chose to promulgate the ordinances in June 2020,” he added. Amarinder also announced that he will lead an 11-member Congress delegation on Wednesday to submit a memorandum against the ordinances to the governor. Besides the chief minister, the delegation will comprise Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, ministers and MLAs, an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/never-backed-centre-s-agri-ordinances-says-punjab-cm/story-ke4kHHEpkIcyRUdswC1WNK.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Borivli GRP arrests 24-year-old for molesting nurse on Mumbai’s local train||Borivli government railway police (GRP) officers arrested a 24-year-old man on Saturday for allegedly touching a nurse inappropriately on a train. The police suspect that the accused, Rameshwar Harijan, has committed similar offences earlier, too. According to senior police inspector Bhardak Pawar of Borivali GRP, Harijan boarded the train without a valid permit. Local train services in Mumbai are suspended for common citizens and only essential service workers are allowed to travel after showing a valid permit. The incident occurred on Friday around 10.30pm between Borivli and Kandivli stations when the 22-year-old nurse was on her way for night shift at a government hospital from Goregaon. Harijan boarded the train when it halted between Kandivli and Borivli stations. He allegedly molested the nurse and continued his journey, said the police. The nurse got off at Borivli station and approached the GRP. The officers said Harijan was caught on CCTV while alighting the train at Dahisar. Based on a tip-off, GRP officers laid a trap at Dahisar station and arrested Harijan. Officers said that Harijan was seen on CCTVs at several other stations on all the three suburban railway lines in the city and is suspected to have committed similar crimes. “We are now verifying the complaints and trying to cross-check Harijan’s face with the CCTV recordings that we have in the other molestation cases” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/borivli-grp-arrests-24-year-old-for-molesting-nurse-on-mumbai-s-local-train/story-i7TcmeZfXwj2qmKe9Ve6oI.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Notice for fashion designer Manish Malhotra is ready, not issued yet: Mumbai municipal corporation clarifies after action against actor Kangana Ranaut||A week after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) inspected the bungalow of fashion designer Manish Malhotra – actor Kangana Ranaut’s neighbour at Bandra’s Pali Hill – over alleged structural violations, the civic body on Monday clarified that while it has prepared a notice related to the alterations, it has not served it yet.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) called BMC’s “approach towards illegal structures selective ”, stating that structural violations at Ranaut’s office were demolished within 24 hours.The notice generated by BMC (a copy of which is with HT), names Malhotra under section 351 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act. The notice states illegal construction/commencement of work and mentions four violations – contrary to the section 342 and 346 of the MMC Act. It mentions that there is unauthorised change of user from residential to commercial office and addition and alteration by way of constructing partitions/cabins on the first floor; unauthorised construction of structure with brick wall and shed with sheet roof on the second floor terrace. The notice asks Malhotra to show sufficient evidence for the construction and alterations, failing which, the said work will be pulled down and BMC could take action against him under section 475A of the MMC Act, which includes punishment of imprisonment and fine. Vinayak Vispute, additional municipal commissioner, H-West ward, which covers Bandra, said, “We have not issued any notice to Malhotra yet. There is no question of demolition of any illegal construction at his house yet. There is some construction adjoining bungalows of both Ranaut and Malhotra. However, Ranaut’s matter is in court, and we do not want to exercise any contempt of court.”Malhotra’s spokesperson was not available for a comment. Ranaut was issued a notice under section 354 (A) of the MMC Act by BMC on September 8, giving her 24 hours to explain the alleged illegal construction or face action. The next day, BMC went ahead with the demolition, citing that her explanation was not satisfactory. Ranaut then approached the court, which put a stay on the matter till further hearing. The actor has been involved in a bitter war of words with Maharashtra’s ruling party Shiv Sena, which also controls BMC, after she compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). BJP corporator Vinod Mishra said, “Why has the BMC not served the notice for illegalities despite generating it? It is clear that the notice and the subsequent demolition at Ranaut’s house was an act of revenge by singling her out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/notice-for-fashion-designer-manish-malhotra-is-ready-not-issued-yet-mumbai-municipal-corporation-clarifies-after-action-against-actor-kangana-ranaut/story-8ayNfT7IXPJXREoPnCM1lK.html
15-09-2020||City||Actor Kangana Ranaut leaves Mumbai; political parties in Maharashtra slug it out||As actor Kangana Ranaut left Mumbai for her hometown in Manali on Monday, political parties in Maharashtra continued to fight it out. While the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) criticised her, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) questioned the state government for allowing her to leave. Ranaut, in her tweet while leaving Mumbai, said that she was leaving the city “with a heavy heart”. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant questioned why Ranaut was still not revealing the Bollywood drug mafia nexus. “When she says she has the information on Bollywood drug mafia, she should have ideally gone to the Mumbai Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office and recorded her statement. Instead, she is going back to Manali,” rued Sawant. Sawant says there are just two inferences that can be drawn from her departure. “One, she is not disclosing the nexus which is a crime or she just made up a story,” he said. The Shiv Sena was caustic in their remark saying some external forces were behind the scene. “That’s alright. She has only this work now [to make statements against Mumbai]. People can clearly see her love for Mumbai through these statements. Mumbaikars will now decide whether she can live in Mumbai or not after she equated Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. She has got a dual personality. She’s an actor too. Whatever script she’s given, she will say those lines... journalists should investigate who is giving her the script,” Sena minister Anil Parab said. The NCP criticised Ranaut on the grounds that she was driving her personal agenda. “As far as Kangana is concerned, she is defaming Mumbai for her personal agenda of joining politics. However, it is sad that she is defaming the city which has given her everything,” said NCP minister Nawab Malik. The BJP however blamed the state government. “Home minister Anil Deshmukh had said the state police will investigate the allegations that Ranaut used to consume drugs. Was she investigated? How come the state government allowed her to leave Mumbai without questioning her,” asked BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/actor-kangana-ranaut-leaves-mumbai-political-parties-slug-it-out/story-q16ghsP4QEgbFDG32uhEnJ.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai puts out second circular to solve doubts on MCQ format for final-year exams||After releasing a circular with details of this year’s end-of-term final year examinations, the University of Mumbai (MU) released another circular on Monday to clarify the multiple choice question (MCQ) format and the role of lead colleges. In Monday’s circular, MU stated, “The concept of a lead or cluster college is to bring together a group of affiliated colleges in a given geographical region offering similar programs and facilitate the synchronisation and coordination with respect to execution of various academic and examination work.” The circular, signed by controller of examination Vinod Patil, reiterated that MCQs will be based only on what was taught in colleges until March 13 this year. For those appearing as repeater candidates, the exam will be on the complete portion. Lead colleges have the responsibilities of coordinating with affiliate colleges and encouraging involvement of teachers of all colleges of a particular subject to formulate a comprehensive bank of questions for MCQs. “Inter-cluster support in order to facilitate preparation of a large base of MCQs will also be encouraged,” says the circular. MCQs will make comprise 25-40 questions, depending upon the requirement of the subject, and the one-hour paper will be of maximum 50 marks. Some teachers complained the question bank drastically increases their workload. “We have been asked to put together a question bank of 250 questions for every subject, and I alone teach four subjects across two departments. So the total workload is immense for the time we have in hand before exams for repeater candidates begins,” said a professor of a suburban college on condition of anonymity. Some teachers have suggested colleges in each cluster should divide work on every subject and pile the MCQ question bank together to avoid repetition of questions. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges, representing non-government colleges, has approached MU vice chancellor Suhas Pednekar on Monday requesting that autonomous colleges and cluster universities form one particular cluster and then follow MU guidelines as mentioned in the two circulars. “Autonomous institutes can work in tandem,” said T Shiware, chairman of the association.As per MU’s schedule, practical exams for repeater candidates will begin on September 15 and theory exams will start from September 25. Exams for new candidates will take place between October 1 and 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-puts-out-second-circular-to-solve-doubts-on-mcq-format-for-final-year-exams/story-wM2tH2EOKn3WOKeNkRRJuN.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government approaches UGC, seeks extension to complete final-year exams by October 31||The Maharashtra government has approached the University Grants Commission (UGC), seeking extension till October 31 to complete final-year exams for professional and non-professional courses. Most of the universities have preferred multiple-choice question (MCQ) format for holding the exams and students will also be given a question bank, two days prior to the exams, the officials said. Following the Supreme Court (SC) ruling that the students cannot be promoted without giving exams and can seek extension the September-end deadline set by UGC to complete the process, the state had decided to seek an extension. “After taking approval from the state disaster management authority, an official request has been sent to UGC, requesting UGC to provide an extension till October 31 to complete the exam process,” said a senior official from the state higher and technical education department. He said that they are expecting to get the permission soon. The extension was sought following the recommendations made by the vice-chancellors’ (V-C) committee – headed by Suhas Pednekar, who is the V-C of the University of Mumbai (MU) – formed to suggest the state on conducting the final-year exams, keeping the safety of students in mind. The official said that there will be no universal format for conducting exams in the universities. “In its guidelines issued on July 6, UGC has clearly stated that the universities can choose the exam format of their own choice and thus varsities were given the freedom to decide the format. Majority of them preferred the MCQ format but some have also opted for optical mark recognition (OMR),” he added. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said that most of the universities, including MU, have decided to hold exams in MCQ format. “The V-C’s committee has suggested four options — OMR, MCQ, offline or assignment-based exams — in their report, following the state’s request that students should not be forced to step out of their homes, considering the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Most of the universities have chosen MCQ over the other options. Considering the concerns raised by the students, it has also been decided that they will be provided a proper question bank two days prior to exams by their respective universities,” Samant had said on Sunday. “We have also directed the local authorities such as district collectors to provide all the necessary help to universities so that exams are conducted smoothly,” said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-approaches-ugc-seeks-extension-to-complete-final-year-exams-by-october-31/story-KRkqL15FQe51PEd2sYaXKL.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Peeved over ‘indiscipline’, Jammu GMCH principal opts for VRS||Even as the Covid-19 pandemic rages in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), internal conflicts among senior doctors and with the administrative staff at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Jammu - the major referral hospital in the region - has caused patient care to be relegated to the sidelines. Peeved over the ‘indiscipline and chaos’, principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra has sought early retirement under the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) on Sunday evening. In a two-page letter to lieutenant governor (LG) Manoj Sinha, Digra said he was choosing to opt for VRS because of interference of ‘extra-institutional officials’ in the working of the hospital. Saying the chair of the principal was being demeaned, Digra alleged, “A few extra-institutional officers, one or two heads of departments and few faculty members are bypassing departmental hierarchy and approaching the administrative department in technical, professional and administrative matters.”  On being contacted, he refused to name the officials in question but hinted that he might disclose the names in the near future. “Let us wait and watch,” he said. Digra said interferences in the internal working of the principal’s office will cause anarchy, indiscipline and demean of the office. “It will also allow GMC employees to create nuisance and go scot free with the help of the administrative department,” he wrote, adding that the work culture and inter-personal relationships in the hospital had deteriorated. Patient care compromised Amid the internal conflicts, patient care at the hospital has suffered. Since Friday, two patients - a four-year-old boy from Janipur and a 24-year-old woman from Karan Bagh, have died due to the alleged negligence of the doctors. The minor succumbed to a head injury while doctors allegedly insisted on shifting the boy to an isolation ward while the woman died 10 minutes after she was administered an injection. Jammu district commissioner Sushma Chauhan has ordered a magisterial probe, to be conducted by a three-member panel within seven days, into the woman’s death. Hospital on verge of bursting at the seamsDespite the administrations’ tall claims regarding arrangement made to combat the novel coronavirus, six months on GMCH seems to be ready to burst at the seams. Reports of shortage of oxygen cylinders at the hospital have sparked panic among patients and their family members. “Due to spike in Covid patients, the demand for oxygen has increased manifold and the oxygen plant at GMCH is not enough to meet the requirement,” a doctor requesting anonymity. To cater to the increasing demand, GMCH authorities were compelled to purchase nearly 500 cylinders. Senior doctors of the hospital said community spread of the deadly virus had started peaking in Jammu. Reacting to Digra’s letter, JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma questioned the circumstances that forced a senior and committed doctor to opt for VRS and asked the L-G to immediately intervene as the issues raised by the head of the institution need to be taken seriously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/peeved-over-indiscipline-jammu-gmch-principal-opts-for-vrs/story-6nN1m3I7Bi7KK53UjohzVN.html
15-09-2020||City||UP man among two held for theft, eight batteries reported stolen in Chandigarh and nearby areas||A Dhanas man was held for stealing a motorcycle, an Uttar Pradesh man was held for theft, and eight batteries were reported stolen in tricity, the police said on Monday.In the first case, the accused was identified as Jatinder, 23, of EWS Colony, Dhanas, held in a vehicle theft case registered on the complaint of Vishal Mishra of Buterla village. Vishal said his Discover motorcycle was parked near Buterla gate, Sector 41, on the intervening night of September 12/13. A case was registered.UP man held for theftMeanwhile, a man hailing from Uttar Pradesh was arrested for theft. The accused was identified as Amarpal hailing from Rampur in UP.The accused was produced before the court and sent to three-day police remand. Police said the accused was arrested in connection to a theft case registered by Rajesh Kumar of Sector 2, Panchkula, on June 20, 2019.He had told the police that on June 21 morning, he had gone to Pinjore along with the family and when he returned, found his entire house ransacked and wardrobes open. He had said that ₹20,000 case and jewellery were reported stolen. A case was registered.8 vehicle batteries stolen Some miscreants stole eight batteries of vehicles parked in Khudda Jassu village. In his complaint, one Suraj Arya of Khudda Jassu said that unknown persons stole the battery from his Mahindra pick-up, four Maruti cars, Tavera, Maruti Zen and Mahindra pick-up parked near his house on the intervening night of September 12/13. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-man-among-two-held-for-theft-eight-batteries-reported-stolen-in-chandigarh-and-nearby-areas/story-uZTMLPIG4mOUgTyhT35EyK.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||2 booked for illegally trading baby orangutan in Mumbai||Nagpada police on Sunday booked two suspects for their alleged involvement in the illegal trade and custody of a baby orangutan, which is missing at the moment.Police acted on a complaint by the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India. “We have booked two persons from Madanpura who may be involved in the illegal trade of the baby orangutan. We had also detained a few persons who have indicated the involvement of the two Mandapura residents. Both persons are likely to be arrested soon and following their interrogation, we will close in on other suspects and the likely location of the exotic species,” said D Chavan, inspector (crime), Nagpada police station.Chavan added that a first information report (FIR) was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.Orangutans —a species of the great ape — are native to Indonesia and Malaysia. They are listed under Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), wherein international trade of any kind is forbidden. In July, the forest department and PETA India had inspected a suspect’s house in Agripada and confirmed the orangutan’s presence before it was moved. The suspect had fled before he could be apprehended. PETA India later received a complaint about a family from Bandra that had posted pictures of the orangutan on social media. In August, PETA India had offered a reward of up to ₹1 lakh for any information regarding the animal. At the time, the group received a tip about one of the suspects who had posted videos and photos of various exotic species, including the orangutan, on social media. The suspect was interrogated by the forest department and Bandra police, and a video of some people surrounding and abusing the orangutan was recovered from the suspect’s phone. However, no action was taken against the person. Last month, the case was transferred to Nagpada police station.“This highly intelligent ape needs to be urgently taken back to his/her native country, and not held captive and exploited,” said Dr Rashmi Gokhale, manager, veterinary services, PETA India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-booked-for-illegally-trading-baby-orangutan-in-mumbai/story-02W7ZfHio9Ez8cxraoHS0N.html
15-09-2020||City||Senior citizens with comorbidities made 50% of all Covid deaths in Mohali||Of all the people who died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the district in the last five months, nearly 50% of them were senior citizens.As per data available, of total 142 fatalities, 70 were people above the age of 60 years with multiple comorbidities. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said 85% of the deaths took place due to acute diabetes and hypertension, and the patients developed respiratory problems after contracting Covid-19. The other ailments include lever infections, kidney failures, cancer, cardiac arrest, bypass surgery and asthmatic and respiratory problems.Dr Singh further said that as far as diabetes and hypertension were concerned, it was not only the senior citizens, but also people from other age groups. “Apart from this, a 96-year-old male is the oldest person to have succumbed to coronavirus in Mohali and an 8-month-old baby girl was the youngest.”Nodal officer-cum-district epidemiologist Dr Harman Brar said, “The 96-year-old had diabetes and could not withstand the virus. The case study for the 8-month-old baby is yet to be made, but we believe that infants do not have proper lung functioning and once infected with the virus, it worsens leading to death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizens-with-comorbidities-made-50-of-all-covid-deaths-in-mohali/story-4qZSWP3JbXjpBycMJl1t4N.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||17 deaths, 1,229 new cases in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 17 deaths and 1,229 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union territory to 55,325.As many as 837 people tested positive in Jammu division, including 68 travellers while 392 cases were reported from Kashmir, of which 16 were travellers. The region had recorded the highest single-day spike of 1,698 cases on Saturday. On Friday, the total cases crossed 50,000-mark, more than six months after first cases were reported on March 09.Also, 644 more people have been cured and discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 36,381, which accounts for a recovery rate of 65.7 %. There has been a consistent decrease in the recovery rate from a high of 77.3% on September 2. Active cases steadily increased to 18,049 on Monday from 7,980 on August 31. A total 12.48 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far.A government spokesperson said 231 people were discharged in Jammu division and 413 in Kashmir. Of the total, 28,211 were cured in Kashmir and 8,170 in Jammu division.The spokesperson said 17 more people succumbed to the disease in the UT—nine in Jammu division and eight in Kashmir. The death toll has risen to 895.In Jammu division, the highest jump of fresh cases was witnessed in Jammu district with 392 cases while 113 people tested positive in Doda district. In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was recorded in Srinagar where 119 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 78.Srinagar is the worst affected district as the number of total cases in the district have reached 11,797 with 252 deaths. Till date, 5.25 lakh people have been enlisted for observation—42,090 in home quarantine, 18,049 in isolation, and 55,018 under home surveillance. Besides, 4.09 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-deaths-1-229-new-cases-in-j-k/story-WND2Ef1ayO6f4ZVJYo2MwJ.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government must extend insurance cover to private doctors: Raj Thackeray||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has asked his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to extend insurance cover to private doctors as they are also helping the government in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic.He said that as the state government has been enlisting the support of the private practitioners, it is fair that they also be covered under the insurance scheme.On Friday, a delegation of private doctors had met Raj at his residence and complained to him about the deprival of facilities. Their concern was they also should be extended social security as their services are being enlisted by the government to fight Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-must-extend-insurance-cover-to-private-doctors-raj-thackeray/story-L0KHq15FWZ6aJAq1iTKMeM.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Whale carcass at Alibag: Tissue samples collected for DNA analysis||A day after the decomposed carcass of a whale washed ashore at Alibag, the forest department reached the spot and collected tissue samples for further identification of the species. Forest officers said the carcass was split into three to four parts. “The remains were pulled back into the sea during high tide and then washed ashore again during low tide. We will be burying it on Tuesday,” said Karishma Kawade, range forest officer (Alibag), mangrove cell. She added that the whale had washed ashore at an isolated beach in Theronda. “There are no residential areas within a five-kilometre radius so nobody is affected by the carcass’ stench,” she said. Marine biologist Harshal Karve said tissue samples collected will help identify the species, probable length and time of death. “Based on photographs we think it’s a Bryde’s whale but there will be more clarity after scientific analysis,” he said. This is the sixth whale to have washed ashore a Maharashtra beach since November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/whale-carcass-at-alibag-tissue-samples-collected-for-dna-analysis/story-XuEXunZJS71dTkKghnvTcP.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA elections: Stage set for a two-cornered contest||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections are set to witness a two-cornered contest with two groups fielding members against each other.The Sidhu-Khalid group will be contesting against the Mritunjay-Naura group which is backed by the syndicate’s Goyal group. The stage is set for both the groups as the final list of candidates was released on Monday after scrutiny of the nominations.As per the final list, Mohammed Khalid of the department of evening studies will be contesting for the post of president against Mritunjay Kumar, who was the vice-president of PUTA for 2019-2020.For the post of vice-president, Amit Chauhan of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) has been fielded by the Khalid group against Supinder Kaur of the Mritunjay group.Mritunjay said, “I have been in PUTA for the last three years and we have carried out many pending works for our teacher community. Be it the 7the Pay Commission or the streamlining of house allotment, we have always been at the forefront for teachers. I would like to extend my efforts in the future as well.”On the other hand, Khalid said, “Many teacher issues are yet to be addressed properly. I would like to address them now. Filling vacant posts and implementing the 7th Pay Commission will be our key agendas.”From the Khalid Group, MC Sidhu of the botany department, is contesting for the post of secretary against Amarjit Singh Naura of the biochemistry department. For the joint secretary post, Mritunjay group has fielded Sarvnarinder Kaur and the Khalid group has fielded Anupam Bahri.Nitin Arora of economics is contesting for the post of treasurer from the Mritunjay group against Samarjit Sihotra from the rival camp.Khalid-Sidhu group has three members contesting from the arts department, four from the sciences departments and three from professional courses. Meanwhile, the Mritunjay-Naura group has four members from the arts department, four from the sciences departments, four from professional courses and one from the department of evening studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/puta-elections-stage-set-for-a-two-cornered-contest/story-6PVZz35O2f31U3NFzoyMbI.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court rejects bail plea of Pune man accused of raping business partner’s 17-year-old daughter||Observing that “rape is just not a forcible intercourse, it means to inhabit and destroy everything,” the Bombay high court (HC) last week refused bail to a 34-year-old man from Pune who was booked for raping the 17-year-old daughter of his business partner. The court held that the man had taken advantage of the “fiduciary relationship” shared with the survivor and put her in a “vulnerable situation” and hence did not deserve bail. The bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing the bail application of the Pune resident, was informed by advocate Venkatesh Shastry that the survivor and his client were in love and though she was only 17 years old, she was mature enough to know what she was getting into. Shastry, however, denied that his client had raped the girl on three occasions, as alleged by her in her police complaint. The survivor’s complaint stated that the man, who was a family friend and business partner of her father, had started contacting her through WhatsApp since October 2019. He sought sexual favours from her through the messages, which she refused, stated the police complaint. On December 6, 2019, the accused asked the survivor to meet her alone as he wanted to discuss an important family issue. The next day when they met, the man took her to a farm house. There, he threatened to end his life, if the minor did not give in to his sexual overtures, stated the girl’s complaint. The survivor submitted to him but not disclose about the incident to her family, as she was threatened by the man that it would have an adverse effect on the business if she did so. However, the man again blackmailed the girl for sexual favours at his home on January 1, she revealed everything to her parents, following which a complaint was lodged against him on January 30. Shastry opposed the claims on the grounds that the survivor went through the incident thrice and the complaint was lodged belatedly, hence, it could be because the survivor’s father wanted to take advantage of his business partner. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “The applicant has taken advantage of the fiduciary relationship, which he shared with the victim girl and put her in a vulnerable situation. Assuming but not accepting that the victim girl consented for maintaining the physical relationship, her consent is not a free consent. The penal code does not recognise the consent by a minor girl to be consent in the eyes of law and in the present case, in the backdrop of narration by the victim, her consent can naturally be said to be induced by fiduciary relationship which she shared and on that count also, it is not a free consent.” The court further added that considering the gravity of the accusation levelled against him and the testimony of the victim, it was not inclined grant the accused bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consent-for-sex-by-minor-in-fiduciary-relationship-can-t-be-considered-free-will-bombay-high-court/story-CtgwVW5Jxk339U5OpMLsVL.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||LG says J&K to get economic package soon||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) will soon get an ‘outstanding’ package to tide over the economic crisis, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said on Monday.Sinha said that he was aware of the way business and trade had been affected in the UT not just recently but also over the past two decades.“The industry and trade here has been affected not only over the past 15-16 months but also over the past 15-20 years,” he said. Sinha said a committee had been formed to assess trade in the region and they had come out with a report, which is under the government of India’s consideration. “It will be revealed in a week’s time. I can say that such a package has never been received by J&K,” he said, adding that not just the business community but everybody will be covered in the package.The Jammu and Kashmir administration last month had constituted a five-member committee to work out modalities for the economic revival in the Union territory in the backdrop of the incessant restrictions and lockdowns since August 5 last year. The committee, headed by his advisor Kewal Kumar Sharma, was framed after representatives of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) had met the LG Sinha at Raj Bhawan. The committee was tasked to work out modalities for economic revival and propose measures for extending support to the business community.He said experts will frame an integrated programme for the development of Srinagar and Jammu cities along with its water bodies. “Experts all over the country are working to develop an integrated programme not only for Jammu and Srinagar but also for Dal Lake and Wular; on how to revive them,” he said.Sinha said the administration has zero-tolerance towards corruption and discrimination between Jammu and Kashmir divisions. Asked about the innumerable barricades that were hampering vehicular movement, Sinha said the issue will be evaluated.On the alleged Shopian fake encounters, Sinha said a probe was being held on two levels and the families will get justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lg-says-j-k-to-get-economic-package-soon/story-K7vnohMylfOwH9t8oihyYN.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for raping, abetting the suicide of 18-year-old in Mumbai||Pant Nagar police on Sunday arrested a 20-year-old for allegedly raping and abetting the suicide of his 18-year-old friend, who was found dead at the seashore, near RCF in Chembur.According to the police, the accused allegedly raped the victim on the pretext of marriage. In March 2020, she got pregnant.“The girl later aborted as advised by the accused, who then refused to marry her. She later died by suicide,” said an officer from Pant Nagar police station.On September 9, the girl had left her home without informing anyone. The next day her father filed a missing complaint at Pant Nagar police station. Police later found her body at a seashore near RCF, Chembur.“The father of deceased later filed a case against the accused,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-raping-abetting-the-suicide-of-18-year-old-in-mumbai/story-fSKOMxOwRSVCBETCSQOp9M.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for molesting minor nieces in Mumbai||Pydhonie police on Sunday arrested two men for allegedly molesting their three minor nieces. Police are also looking for the stepmother of the girls in connection with the crime. Father of the girls, a Jogeshwari resident who runs a cloth shop in Pydhonie area, told police that his third wife and her two brothers molested his three minor daughters.One of the accused, a 46-year-old took one of the girls to Nariman Point where he showed her obscene photographs and molested other two at home. Second accused who is 45-year-old molested them at home. Their stepmother allegedly beat and threatened the girls with dire consequences, if they revealed these incidents to anyone. The incidents took place between November 2019 to March 2020. Their father came to know about this only on September 12, 2020, after which he approached police and lodged a complaint.An officer from Pydhonie police station said following his complaint they registered an offence under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354d (stalking), 506 (2) (punishment for criminal intimidation), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 8 (punishment for sexual assault), 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault),12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-molesting-minor-nieces-in-mumbai/story-1blaZG25AVQVOSnjZXJqYO.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Current and former TISS students sign petition to revoke registrar’s appointment in Mumbai over social media posts||More than 1,500 current and former students of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, have signed a petition asking the institute to revoke the appointment of Col. Rakesh Mohan Joshi as the registrar in view of his opinions posted on social media.The petition, signed by students, alumni and faculty of TISS, expressed concern over the appointment owing to ‘problematic and Islamophobic’ social media posts by Joshi. They have demanded an immediate rollback of the appointment and an inquiry into the appointment.“We demand that the decision to appoint Col RM Joshi as the Registrar at TISS must be immediately rolled back, and the governing board and administration at TISS must give due space to concerns of the students and initiate inquiry into the same,” said the petition.“Since the appointment of Joshi, many students and faculty have been holding discussions regarding the problematic opinions that have been shared by the newly-appointed official on various social media accounts like Facebook and Twitter. The posts clearly point at Islamophobic tendencies and a complete contempt for affirmative action implemented for marginalised sections. His posts also indicate his aversive views against social activism, protests and social movements of the oppressed sections. It is shocking to find that the governing board has agreed for such an appointment without (or after) checking into the background of such an official,” it added.The petition, started on September 1, was sent to the governing board of the institute on Monday. HT reached out to Joshi, director Shalini Bharat, dean of student affairs, Asha Banu, and dean of academic affairs, PK Shajahan, but none responded to calls or messages. Emails, too, remained unanswered.In August, the institute appointed Joshi to the post of registrar, which was held by CP Mohankumar until then. The decision immediately drew flak from students, alumni as well as faculty members. On August 31, a student group — the Progressive Students’ Forum (PSF) — wrote to the chairperson of the governing board expressing concerns over the appointment.In the letter, PSF president Asika VM and general secretary Ramadas KS referred to some posts allegedly shared by Joshi that vilified the Muslim minority community in the wake of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation as well as posts against anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protestors.Rishabh Anjankar, a 2020 graduate of TISS, said, “A person having extremely bigoted and hateful views towards critical democratic students has been appointed as registrar of a social science institute known for engaging and promoting critical thinking and intellectualism. This appointment is severely going to impact the nature of discussions, debates and dissent in the institute.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/current-and-former-tiss-students-sign-petition-to-revoke-registrar-s-appointment-in-mumbai-over-social-media-posts/story-XKaz2fENXl9DDKlTSSyFTP.html
15-09-2020||City||Body of 8-year-old who fell in open chamber in Nerul found in creek||The body of an eight-year-old boy from Shirawane in Nerul, who fell into an open manhole along a footpath on Friday, was finally found on Sunday evening at a creek in Sarsole, along Palm Beach Road.The victim, Aniket Diliprao Singh, originally from Uttar Pradesh, had lost his mother at birth and stayed with his uncle in Shirawane, while his elder brother and father, who is a farmer, reside in their native village.On Friday, September 11, while it was raining heavily, Singh had left home to buy milk. Rajendra Jadhav, a senior inspector from Nerul police station, said, “Locals informed that he was seen playing in the water. After climbing the footpath, he started walking backwards and suddenly fell into the manhole. The locals tried pulling him out, but due to water pressure, they failed to do so. The fire brigade team searched for him for two days. On Sunday evening, fishermen at Sarsole jetty finally located the body.”Assistant police inspector Swapnil Ijjapawar said, “Residents told us that the drainage was always covered. On Friday, the incessant rainfall had led to heavy currents in the water, following which the lid came off.”However, the boy’s family has alleged negligence by the civic body. Shalu Singh, the victim’s cousin, said, “The corporation is responsible for Aniket’s death. We are yet to decide on our course of action.”Former mayor Jaywant Sutar from Shirawane said, “The drainage lid may have come off due to heavy water currents. There were some wooden logs blocking the drainage, which probably fell during the rain itself.” Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) chief Abhijit Bangar said, “On the day of the incident, I had sent my team there. Unfortunately, the boy couldn’t be found then. As per the investigations and panchnama report, the lid was always there, but it came off due to the strong currents of stormwater. The lid is made of fibre-reinforced plastic. I have asked for a detailed report. We will then decide if we should use concrete lids.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-of-8-year-old-who-fell-in-open-chamber-in-nerul-found-in-creek/story-PeIcQC0K8CXpF4GyqWpshJ.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndics refuse to attend online meeting, V-C calls it off||Days after the members of the Panjab University (PU) syndicate wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to convene an emergency meeting, some syndics refused to attend the online meeting scheduled on Monday, demanding that it be held physically.At least five members are required to complete the quorum, but the members of the Goyal group who hold the majority with 11 of the 15-member syndicate refused to participate. A senior varsity official said, “The meeting could not be held due to the lack of quorum.”Senate poll controversyThe Goyal group has been at loggerheads with the V-C ever since the senate polls were postponed for two months on August 15, asking him to convene a syndicate meeting at the earliest. The opposite group, too, has met the V-C several times asking him the same.On Monday, the syndics said it was an important meeting and it should be held physically instead of online.‘Hold physical meeting’Syndicate member Rabinder Nath Sharma said, “To uphold the sanctity of the syndicate, the executive body of the university, the meeting should be held physically. When the Parliament can hold sessions physically, the syndicate can too.”Another syndicate member, HS Dua, said, “It is not like we do not want the syndicate to meet. The stakes of students, teachers, and public are involved and we want full deliberations on them, which is only possible through a physical meeting. The V-C should convene a physical meeting.” Other members have also expressed apprehensions regarding the meeting being held online.What was on the agenda?The decisions taken by the coordination committee regarding the conduct of the final-semester examinations and other examination-related issues were to be ratified by the syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndics-refuse-to-attend-online-meeting-v-c-calls-it-off/story-m7mora3WXgrdsKknhotDtO.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB gets custody of three of the six arrested accused||A metropolitan magistrate court on Monday remanded two days custody to three of the six accused arrested on Sunday by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput drug case.The agency has arrested six accused - Karamjeet Singh, Dwayne Fernandes, Sanket Patel, Ankush Anreja, Sandeep Gupta and Aftab Ansari. Out of the six, NCB had sought custody of Patel, Arneja and Singh. Other three have been remanded to judicial custody till September 23. The agency claimed, Patel was directly connected to Sushant Singh Rajput’s manager Samuel Miranda. Agency claimed that in his statement Patel admitted to having supplied contraband several times to Miranda, also an accused in the case. “He also contacted Rajput, accused (actor) Rhea Chakraborty, (her brother) accused Showik Chakraborty in connection with the supply of contraband and sometimes received payment from Showik in cash / Google Pay,” the remand report filed by NCB stated.Patel had also admitted to having supplied contraband to Arenja, who also named Singh, after which, Singh was arrested. The agency has alleged that Singh has a local drug distribution channel in cine world.The agency in its remand plea further claimed that on the instruction of Singh, Patel purchased charas/ganja and further delivered to Singh’s prospective consumer and collected money from them. Meanwhile, Arenja is one of the customers of Patel. It is alleged that Arenja is ‘running a kitchen in a plush area of Mumbai and selling narcotics substances like weed, hash and mephedrone or MD to high profile individuals. He bought these from Patel and was connected with the network of Anuj Keshwani, one of the arrested accused and Singh’.The agency stated that Fernandes is a drug supplier and curated marijuana and hash. He is allegedly close to Showik and supplied drugs meant for Sushant.According to the agency, Gupta doubles up as an autorickshaw driver, but his main job was to supply bulk quantities of weed to retail dealers like Fernandes. Ansari is an associate of Sandeep Gupta operating wholesale procurement channel of weed for Sandeep and further distribution, NCB claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-gets-custody-of-three-of-the-six-arrested-accused/story-3YzaJEFqsVqyldH0iYn2TL.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 5 deaths, 364 fresh coronavirus cases||Himachal on Monday recorded five deaths and 364 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state tally to 9,923. Of the new cases, 106 were reported in Solan—the highest ever single-day spike in any district, 101 in Mandi, 51 in Kangra, 30 in Una, 28 in Shimla, 12 Bilaspur, 10 each in Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur, 7 in Chamba, five in Kullu and four in Hamirpur. Three people died in Kangra and one fatality each was reported in Shimla and Sirmaur district, taking the death toll to 80. One of the deceased, a 32-year-old youth, was admitted at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) two days ago for stomachache. His sample came out positive and he died on Monday. A 72-year-old man from Paonta Sahib was the second fatality. He had tested positive and was shifted to IGMC, Shimla, on Sunday. The patient was diabetic and also suffered from respiratory distress. In Kangra, a 62-year-old man, who was diabetic and suffering from hypertension, was initially admitted at zonal hospital in Dharamsala on Sunday. He was shifted to Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda on Monday where he succumbed to the contagin. Another patient, a 72-year-old man, suffering from hypertension, died in Palampur. Third fatality was 95-year-old from Nurpur who was brought to RPGMC, Tanda critical condition passed away in the evening, As many as 44 people have died due to the contagion this year alone. The death rate has reached 0.8% against 0.5% in August. Active cases climbed up to 3,666 and 6,167 people have recovered. The state has a confirmation rate of over 1300 cases per million while the recovery rate was down to 63.2%. New infections have grown at a rate of 3.7% in the last one week. With 2,275 cases, Solan is the worst-hit district in the state followed by Kangra where 1,535 cases have been reported. Sirmaur has 1,259 cases, Mandi 909, Una 871, Hamirpur 738, Chamba 639, Shimla 632, Bilaspur 527, Kullu 388 and Kinnaur has 121 cases. Lahaul-Spiti is the least-hit district with only 29 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-logs-5-deaths-364-fresh-coronavirus-cases/story-UqSyAQdKodn5n1UMbg8SAP.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Showik Chakraborty’s bail plea rejected as he may alert others involved, says NDPS court||The special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, while rejecting bail plea of Showik Chakraborty, brother of actor Rhea Chakraborty, observed that he has revealed names of several other people, and if released on bail, the accused may alert them.The special court on Monday released the detailed order on bail plea of Showik. While rejecting the plea, the court observed, “According to the prosecution, the accused have taken the names of other persons. The investigation in respect of those persons is in progress. If the accused is released on bail then he will alert those persons and they will destroy the evidence. There is a possibility of tampering of the evidence.”The siblings have reportedly mentioned names of several Bollywood celebrities who either have worked with Sushant Singh Rajput or were involved in consuming narcotic substances. The agency has also claimed that the siblings might have had arranged drugs for them too along with Rajput.The agency has booked the two under section 27A of the NDPS Act which provides for punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders. Their lawyer had claimed that the charges are not applicable on the two and at the most, they can be booked for the consumption of narcotic substances. Further, the two had alleged that no narcotic substance was recovered from them.The court, however, rejected their contentions and observed, “From the record, it is seen that the accused Rhea and late Sushant Singh Rajput were in a live-in relationship. Showik allegedly procured drugs from accused Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit, for Sushant Singh Rajput on the instructions of accused Rhea. NCB has recovered WhatsApp chats and other electronic evidence.Further in the present case commercial quantity of contraband i.e LSD is recovered from accused Anuj Keshwani. Hence, at this stage from the available record, it cannot be said that there are no reasonable grounds to connect the accused with the alleged crime.Further the court while rejecting the bail pleas referred the provisions of Section 37 of the NDPS Act which provides for the conditions for granting bail to an accused booked under section 19 (Punishment for embezzlement of opium by cultivator) or Section 24 (Punishment for external dealings in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in contravention of section 12) or section 27A of NDPS Act.While citing the provisions of Section 37, the court noted that ‘there are stringent provisions of bail under section 37 of the NDPS Act. As per subsection (2) of section 37 of the NDPS Act, no person accused of an offence punishable for an offence under section 19, 24, or 27A and also for an offence involving commercial quantity shall be released on bail or on his personal bond unless the public prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release and where the public prosecutor opposed the application, the court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail.’Further, the court said, “In all these sections legislature has not described any specific quantity of the drug. In view of rigour (SIC) of section 37 of NDPS Act, the court has to record the finding that there are reasonable grounds to believe that accused is not guilty of an offence. It is also to be kept in mind that the court has not to consider the material as if it is pronounced that the judgment of acquittal or recording finding of not guilty.”The court further held that “as discussed above considering the allegations against the accused there is a bar to release the accused on bail under section 37 of NDPS Act. The investigation is at a preliminary stage and if the accused is released on bail then he will tamper the prosecution evidence.”Meanwhile, the special court in its order refused to consider the allegations of Rhea’s lawyer claiming that her statement was recorded forcibly and no lady officer was present at the time when she was being interrogated. “Admittedly, the statement of the accused was recorded on September 6, 7 and 8, 2020. The prosecution revealed the role of the accused based on said statement, and thereafter she was arrested in the crime. Therefore, at this stage, when the investigation is at a preliminary stage, it cannot be said that statement of accused was forcefully recorded and inadmissible in evidence,” reads the order of the special court rejecting bail plea of Rhea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-showik-chakraborty-s-bail-plea-rejected-as-he-may-alert-others-involved-says-ndps-court/story-v2in6LQvrzaRFF9fitjITK.html
15-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to get second biodiversity park in Sikanderpur||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) are jointly working on setting up a second biodiversity park in the city, in Sikanderpur, said officials privy to the matter on Monday.GMDA officials said that the establishment of the park is part of a larger project of restoring a natural pond in the Sikanderpur area that used to exist till 1976. The new park, once constructed, will act as a catchment area for rainwater and will prevent south Gurugram from floods every monsoon season.As per MCG officials, around 3,500 illegal shanties have been removed from Sikanderpur during multiple demolition drives in July and August this year. Around 300 acres of encroached MCG land has also reclaimed in the process. The new biodiversity park would come up on 150-200 acres of this reclaimed land, said GMDA officials.The MCG has already started fencing the reclaimed land to prevent future encroachment. “Following multiple demolition drives over the last two months, encroachments on the MCG land in Sikanderpur have been largely removed. The reclaimed land has been handed over to the GMDA, while the MCG is also fencing the area to prevent future encroachment,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCG.MD Sinha, additional chief executive officer of GMDA, highlighted the importance of the new biodiversity park, which would have trees, plants, and shrubs native to the Aravallis and would act as a catchment area for accumulating rainwater and channelising it towards the pond. He further said that the new park will come up right opposite the existing biodiversity park, with the Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road dividing them.In December 2018, the GMDA had released a concept paper titled “Revival and Habitat Eco-restoration of Sikanderpur Ghosi Waterbody.” The concept paper stated that, based on the 1976 survey of India’s topographic maps, a deep gorge could be seen between Nathupur Bundh and Chakkarpur-Wazirabad Bundh that used to carry run-off rainwater from the Aravallis to the Najafgarh lake. A large pond in the foothills of the Aravallis in Sikanderpur, which the GMDA is currently reviving, used to form the convergence point of the three streams.The paper further highlighted the importance of this pond, which used to accumulate run-off rainwater flowing from the foothills of Aravallis and prevented areas in south Gurugram from flooding while also simultaneously recharging the underground water table.As per the concept paper the “habitat restoration of the watershed would determine the success or failure of the entire project.”Sinha said increasing the green cover, in the form of a park, is vital as it will act as a watershed area of 150-200 acres for augmenting the flow of rainwater.“The objective is to restore the Aravallis to its pristine state and also restore the lake. We are also proposing the construction of a pipeline along with a treated water tank. When rainfall ends, we can fill up the pond with treated water. Once the pipeline is constructed, we will have to create an artificial wetland for treating this recycled water by introducing specially cultured bacteria and enzymes,” said Sinha.Sinha added that the revival of the pond and the park is a long-term project. “This is not an engineering project and, hence, no specific timeline can be projected for it. It will take several years of continuous work for the restoration work to be completed. Currently, a large part of encroachment has been removed and fencing has been carried out by the MCG. After the end of monsoon season, we will start identifying patches of land where in-situ moisture conservation work can be done to improve the moisture retention of soil. Simultaneously, we will also be planting native vegetation,” said Sinha.GMDA officials said that construction of natural embankments and check dams will help in moisture retention and reduction of soil erosion while planting natural vegetation would help in recharging groundwater.Sinha said that the work of establishing a new park and restoring pond are being done separately, in two different parts.“In the first part, which involves the restoration of the pond, work has started with the help of corporate social responsibility(CSR) funds with IamGurgaon. In part two, which involves the establishment of a new park, removal of encroachments is largely over and now landscape designing work would start in consultation with the MCG,” said Sinha, adding that until earlier this year, the GMDA was singularly involved in this project. However, now the MCG has also been roped in.Sinha said that IamGurgaon, a non-profit organisation, has been roped in to work for part one of the project. He, however, said that a final decision on whether the GMDA and MCG themselves would handle part two of the project or whether the work would also be handed over to a third-party is yet to be decided.Both the MCG and IamGurgaon have been jointly maintaining the original 370-acre Aravalli biodiversity park ever since it opened in June 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-to-get-second-biodiversity-park-in-sikanderpur/story-EiUpFV37N3ug8xqUjbOkcI.html
15-09-2020||City||Gurugram conducts record 4,016 tests in a day||Gurugram: The district conducted 4,016 tests for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday – the highest in a day so far. The peak in testing comes two days after the health department announced that testing in the district would be scaled up to 5,000 samples a day. For this, the department has intensified the testing through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, while reducing the rapid antigen test.Gurugram beat its previous record of having administered 3,752 tests on September 12. Out of the 4,016 tests on Monday, the health department conducted 1,900 RT-PCR tests, the highest ever till now, while the private labs did 1,064 RT-PCR tests. “Cumulatively, 2,964 RT-PCR tests were administered today, which is the highest single-day RT-PCR testing,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Following the strategy of doing RT-PCR and rapid antigen in 60:40 ratio, Yadav said that samples are now being sent to PGIMS, Rohtak. “The current capacity of RT-PCR lab in Civil Hospital, Sector 10, is 1,200 samples a day. On Monday, remaining 500 samples were sent to PGIMS Rohtak. As the sample collection increases further, samples will be given to private labs too,” said Yadav. As per the district health bulletin, at least 974 antigen tests were done in the government set-up and only 78 in private facilities. On Monday, 336 new cases were reported, taking the total tally to 15,585. Of these, 2,317 are active and 13,119 have recovered. Out of the active patients, 2,080 are in home isolation, 36 in government-paid isolation facility and 201 seriously ill patients in hospitals. Data shows that the daily test positivity rate is fluctuating between 11-12%, while the daily growth rate has reached 2.18%. Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who had been in the city for more than 20 days for Covid-19 treatment, asked citizens on Monday to take precautionary measures. Before leaving for Chandigarh after undergoing treatment at a private hospital, thereafter four-day stay in PWD rest house, Khattar said, “Last month, from August 16 to 18, I met many people which led to exposure to coronavirus. It is difficult to say how and when we can contract the coronavirus. Therefore, it is crucial to follow dos and don’ts.” Citing that in many cases all the family members are turning out to be positive if one gets infected in the family, Khattar asked people to follow the relevant guidelines to keep infection at bay and follow social distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-conducts-record-4-016-tests-in-a-day/story-8YPWYlNtvxdTlAGyc7IDjP.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer protests against agri ordinances politically motivated: Shanta Kumar||Former Union minister and BJP leader Shanta Kumar on Monday termed the protests by farmers in Punjab and Haryana against the Centre’s three agriculture ordinances as politically motivated.The veteran leader said the recommendation made by the high-level committee on Food Corporation of India (FCI) restructuring, which he chaired, had made recommendations to bring radical changes in the system that would have revolutionised the farm sector. “I can say with guarantee that in India there is highest-level of corruption in the FCI,” he said.Shanta Kumar said an expert committee of the then planning commission had also found that the government spends ₹3 crore on transportation, storage and delivery of foodgrains worth ₹1 crore. “Therefore, we had recommended Direct Benefit Transfer to the farmers. The PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojna which has been implemented by the Centre was part of that report,” he said.“Other key finding in the recommendation was that agriculture was not a remunerative profession but no country can do without it. Therefore, almost all countries give direct income support to the farmers. The system we had proposed would help save ₹40,000 crore, which could be given to the farmers as direct income support,” he said.Besides, the committee recommended that the procurement for the buffer stock should be done by the states. “In a way, we intended to provide benefit worth ₹70,000 crore to 9 crore farmers. One recommendation was to restructure the National Food Security Act (NFSA) by providing PDS rations to the needy,” he said.“People have grossly misunderstood the recommendations of the report and there will be no effect on the MSP,” he said, adding that the farmers are being mislead for political interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-protests-against-agri-ordinances-politically-motivated-shanta-kumar/story-gmpipE7NJjPxp5cKOQYIrK.html
15-09-2020||City||Gurugram: District admin asks private hospitals to increase Covid beds from 25% to 35%||Gurugram: With the district recording a spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, the district administration on Monday issued an order directing all private hospitals to raise the Covid bed capacity from the existing 25% to 35%. “The bed capacity is being increased to 35% due to a surge in Covid-19 cases,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner. Under the Epidemic Disease Act and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Khatri issued the order. “There is a surge in Covid-19 cases in the district. Effective health services and ensuring its effective management is of utmost priority for the district administration. Therefore, it has been decided to reserve sufficient number of beds at designated private hospitals for Covid-19 patients,” reads the order. In June this year, the administration had issued an order reserving 25% beds in various private hospitals for patients infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus. Based on that, currently 1,541 beds are reserved across 42 hospitals, including two government facilities (58-bed ESIC Hospital in Sector 31 and 22-bed Polyclinic in Sector 31). Besides, 50 beds are reserved for Gurugram patients at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jhajjar. These reserved beds include 199 ICU beds and 94 with ventilators. At present, 129 ICU beds and 53 ventilator beds are occupied by critical patients.“Data shows that bed occupancy in the hospitals is increasing and we are reaching the limit reserved. Therefore, reserved beds for serious patients have been increased now,” said Vivek Kalia, nodal officer for Covid-19 hospital management, who is also the estate officer of Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). On Monday, Gurugram reported 336 new cases, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 15,585. Now, the district has 2,317 active cases.The city hospitals are catering to seriously ill outstation patients too, occupying more number of beds than Gurugram residents. The officials, however, said there will be no separate reservation of beds for Gurugram or Haryana residents.On Monday, the number of hospitalised Covid patients from Gurugram reached a count of 201. Till August 25, 88 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Besides, Covid patients from other districts of Haryana and other states are also admitted in Gurugram. Currently, the total number of outside patients admitted in the various private hospitals is 372. These patients include 57 from Delhi, 144 from Uttar Pradesh and 96 from other parts of the country. “The increased bed capacity does not reserve beds for Gurugram or Haryana residents especially,” said Khatri. According to the order, the per day occupancy of the bed will be displayed at oneMap Gururgram mobile application, developed by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), which would help in planning and establishing systemic surveillance at the district level. Khatri also emphasized on utilizing isolation facilities set up in hotels since most of the patients are asymptomatic. Presently, there are two government-paid and seven self-paid isolation facilities for people who cannot be isolated at homes due to lack of space. He said that Covid-19 patients staying in these facilities are regularly monitored by the health department. In each of the facilities, a doctor and a paramedical staffer have been deployed. In the self-paid facilities, one can choose rooms from Rs 1,200- Rs 3,500, which include three times meal. Currently, there are 36 patients in government paid facilities. Khatri said that if required, isolation beds can be increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-district-admin-asks-private-hospitals-to-increase-covid-beds-from-25-to-35/story-iTRXbussYvzIt6wHkkr5KO.html
15-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram mall sealed over violation of environmental regulations||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on Monday sealed the premises of a prominent mall on MG Road, which is among the city’s most recognised commercial hubs and retail destinations. Officials said that mall authorities have repeatedly violated anti-pollution norms under the Air Act (1981) and Water Act (1974) that forced the pollution control board to take action. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Gurugram, HSPCB, said, “We had received a tip-off in 2018 that the mall was not adequately treating its sewage before discharge. In November 2018, we took samples from the sewage treatment plant and found that all contaminants were present in excess of the wastewater discharge standards prescribed in the Water Act. Following this, we had sent the mall authorities a notice and slapped a fine of ₹2.5 lakh as well, which has been collected.”Despite this initial word of caution, HSPCB officials said that the mall continued to discharge its wastewater without rectifying the operational deficiencies in the STP. “We then sealed the STP itself, but mall authorities continued to operate it in violation of our notice,” Singh added. In February this year, a second laboratory test using samples from the mall’s STP was conducted at the HSPCB’s laboratory in Gurugram, by a team of HSPCB staffers from other districts, appointed by the headquarters in Panchkula. The results showed, once again, that the proportion of contaminants in the discharged sewage were not adhering to the stipulated limits. “Action would have been taken earlier, but sealing a property requires administrative clearances which could not be processed due to the lockdown,” Singh explained.A team of environmental engineers from the HSPCB’s regional office, including Neha Saharan and Ujjwal Kumar, arrived at the site at 7:30am on Monday and sealed the premises in the presence of duty magistrate Kartar Singh, who was appointed by the district administration. In a statement released on Monday, the HSPCB’s regional office stated, “The violators will be fined again, and prosecuted under relevant provisions of the Air Act and Water Act. A petition will be filed with the district environmental court in Faridabad in the coming days.” Two administrative staffers of the mall, with direct knowledge of the alleged violations, declined to comment on the matter, saying they were not authorised to speak with the press. Despite repeated attempts, the developer of the mall could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mall-sealed-over-violation-of-environmental-regulations/story-w0iRZRqf1zh5TJIySWVSML.html
15-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man accused of stealing mobile phones arrested||The police on Sunday arrested a man accused of stealing several mobile phones from a shop in Nurpur Jharsa and being involved in at least more five cases of theft in the city. At least 12 mobile phones were allegedly recovered from his possession. According to the police, the accused man has been identified as Bablu Nadap, a native of Sahibganj, Jharkhand. For the past several years, he had been working in the city, doing odd jobs. The police said Bablu had allegedly stolen several new mobile phones from a shop in Nurpur Jharsa in Badshahpur area on August 22. The shop owner, Nagendra Yadav, had said in the police complaint that around 9.30am, he was unloading a bag of new mobile phones in his shop and went to an adjacent shop for a few minutes. When he returned, he realised at least 10 mobile phones and ₹20,000 had been stolen and reported the incident to the police. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “An FIR was registered at Badshahpur on August 24 and during the probe, the crime branch of Manesar arrested the accused from Sector 39 on Sunday. During questioning, he confessed that he had stolen several mobile phones from Nurpur Jharsa and that he was involved in at least five more theft cases. We are trying to trace those cases. Twelve mobile phones were recovered from his possession.” The accused was produced in a district court and sent to police custody for a day, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-man-accused-of-stealing-mobile-phones-arrested/story-OzQCED7C5rS9FhCIYFp5RP.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Why no action against ruling party leaders, ask former top cops||Nine retired IPS officers have written an open letter to Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava, saying they were pained at the police implicating those who spoke and joined protests against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) but letting off the hook those who instigated violence and are associated with the ruling party. The letter was shared on social media platforms a day after the Delhi Police arrested former JNU student Umar Khalid in connection with the Delhi riots. Prominent among the nine who have written the letter are AS Dulat, former OSD on Kashmir, Prime Minister’s office; Shafi Alam, former director general of the National Crime Records Bureau; K Saleem Ali, former CBI special director; Amitabh Mathur, former special secretary in the Cabinet Secretariat and PGJ Nampoothiri, former director general of Gujarat Police. Commenting on the investigation, the nine retired officers in their letter wrote, “ ....Such investigation will only make people lose faith in democracy, justice, fairness, and the Constitution. A dangerous thought that may ultimately shake the pillars of an orderly society and lead to breakdown of law and order. We would therefore request you for reinvestigation of all riot cases fairly and without any bias based on sound principals of criminal investigation to provide justice to the victim and their families and for upholding the rule of law.” In their letter to Shrivastava, the nine officers, said they endorsed the recent letter that former Mumbai police commissioner Julio Ribeiro had written, questioning the police investigation into the riots.Though the letter did not mention any names, BJP leaders Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma were criticised at the time for speeches and slogans ahead of the Delhi elections. Verma declined to comment on the allegations of hate speech. Besides the officers, senior advocate and activist Prashant Bhushan also criticised the police. Sharing a video of Khalid, in which he is speaking about peaceful protests, Bhushan tweeted: “This is Umar Khalid who has been arrested for instigating riots in Delhi. People like Kapil Mishra who incited violence have not been arrested.”Mishra, a Delhi BJP leader, has been named by several anti-CAA protesters of orchestrating the riots, a charge he has denied in his previous statements to the press. On the afternoon of February 23, a day before violence erupted in parts of north-east Delhi, Mishra had led a group of CAA supporters near Jafrabad Metro station, and shouted slogans against the anti-CAA group. Standing next to a senior police officer, Mishra had said that he has given the police three days’ ultimatum to clear the road and remove the anti-CAA protesters, failing which they would not even listen to the police. The riots started the following day. Delhi police have not charged Mishra in any riots case. JNU students union president Aishe Ghosh tweeted that people such as Mishra who said “Goli Maaro saalo ko (shoot the traitors)” were spared while anti-CAA protesters were arrested. “Safeguarding Constitution and democracy has officially become a crime in our country,” she tweeted. In response to the growing clamour for his arrest, especially after Khalid’s arrest, Mishra tweeted a video, saying, “People like Umar Khalid, Tahir Hussain, Khalid Saifi, Safoora Zargar, Apoorvanand carried it (riots) out after careful planning. This was a terrorist attack just like 26/11 (in Mumbai). These terrorists, murders should be hanged. I congratulate Delhi Police for nabbing these people.“ The Delhi BJP also defended Mishra. “Those asking for Mishra’s arrest should know that the police didn’t find anything against him. The arrest of people like Umar Khalid and Tahir Hussain is a different matter. Police found proof of their involvement in the riots and this is why they were arrested,” said Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta. Commenting on the letter by the former IPS officers, Delhi police spokesperson, Anil Mittal said, “Delhi police has investigated all riots cases professionally and meticulously. The matter is subjudice. Any grievance in this regard has to be raised at appropriate platform. With regard to the letter, the matter has been adjudicated by Delhi HC and prima facie it found nothing wrong in issuing directions by the senior officer. “ Mittal was referring to the nine officers writing about a media report that one senior Delhi police officer had issued a controversial order to influence the investigation. The high court had ordered that prime facie the top cop’s order did not cause prejudice and cleared the officer of the alleged charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-no-action-against-ruling-party-leaders-ask-former-top-cops/story-bqxtlXjrPtrrz1Qrp4bwbP.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra jump 94% in 1 month||Maharashtra on Monday reported 17,066 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 10,77,374. The state also reported 363 fatalities, including 106 deaths from the previous period, pushing the death toll to 29,894. The active caseload in the state has seen a spike in the last month and stood at 291,256 on Monday. Between August 13 and September 13, the active caseload in the state has gone up from 149,798 to 290,344 — a jump of nearly 94%.Of the fatalities reported on Monday, 185 deaths were from the previous 48 hours, while 65 were from the previous week. The remaining 113 deaths were from over a week ago, the health department stated.The state reported 15,789 more recoveries on Monday, taking the tally of recovered Covid-19 patients to 755,850. The recovery rate in the state is at 70.16%. Mumbai and the neighbouring Thane district, which has six municipal corporation areas, have seen a jump of 56.96% and 50.75%, respectively during the same period. The cases in Mumbai had stabilised till mid-August, but since past three to four weeks, fresh cases are on the increase. On August 13, Mumbai had 19,314 active cases, while Thane district had 19,589 active cases, which climbed to 30,316 and 29,531 respectively.On Monday, Mumbai reported 2,269 fresh infections, taking the city’s tally to 172,010. It also saw 31 fatalities, taking the city’s death toll to 8,181. Of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in the city so far, 31,123 are active cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the city is 4.7%, and the recovery rate stands at 77%. As per Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, of 31 deaths reported on Monday, three deaths were of patients below 40 years of age, four deaths were between 40 and 60 years. 24 deaths were above 60 years of age. The total number of Covid tests done till Sunday was 9.25 lakh and the doubling rate of cases in the city was 56 days. Mumbai’s surrounding municipal areas — Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira-Bhayander, and Kalyan-Dombivli — reported 445, 374, 244, and 508 fresh cases, respectively. Mira-Bhayander reported the third-highest death toll on Monday, after Kolhapur district and Mumbai, with 22 deaths. The active caseload in Thane district crossed over 30,000.Pune district, which is the worst affected with over 2.32 lakh confirmed Covid-19 cases, has seen nearly a 93% jump in active cases in the past month. The active caseload in the district climbed from 40,225 to 77,624 between August 13 and September 13.Pune city, on Monday, reported 1,202 fresh cases and 15 deaths, while its rural areas recorded 706 cases and seven deaths. Pimpri-Chinchwad saw 671 new cases and three deaths. The active caseload in the district rose to 78,284 on Monday.Nagpur district has seen a jump of over 200% in its active caseload, which increased from 6,727 to 21,522 during the same period. On Monday, Nagpur city reported 906 new cases, while its rural areas saw 262 fresh cases. The city and its rural area added one Covid-related death each on Monday.While urban centres in the state have seen this spike in active cases in the past month, a higher degree of the spike has been noted in the semi-urban and rural parts of the state. Bhandara (1025.30%), Sindhudurg (667.56%), Chandrapur (557.11%), Sangli (351.06%), Satara (301.71%), Ratnagiri (227.52%), Amravati (188.51%), Nanded (216.74%) have seen a spike in the number of active cases in these districts.In a bid to tackle the growing Covid-19 cases in the state, the state government’s ‘My family, My responsibility’ campaign, a state-wide programme is set to take off from Tuesday. Under the campaign, volunteers will impart health education to people, besides conducting door-to-door surveys during which they check residents’ body temperature and oxygen levels, besides other symptoms, including tiredness, throat pain/dry cough, diarrhoea, and loss of smell and taste.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with divisional commissioners, district collectors and municipal commissioners on Monday and said that as positivity rate is going up in districts, people have to be educated on how to live with the virus. Thackeray emphasised that all elected representatives from gram panchayat to members of parliament, non-government organisation, etc must participate to make the campaign successful. During the meeting, Thackeray said, “The positivity rate in the districts is now going up. We have erected all facilities, in the last five to six months we have worked day and night, but our challenge is not over yet. We were able to control this (Covid-19) wave during the lockdown. But now we are gradually opening up activities; there is a demand to open up other activities as well. Looking at the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, we will have to impart education on how to live with the virus through this campaign. The mantra for people will remain to not get infected with the disease.” State health minister Rajesh Tope held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in Chandrapur district. The district has seen an over 550% increase in active cases between August 13 and September 13. Outlining the measures adopted to control the transmission in Chandrapur, Tope after the review meeting tweeted: “To contain the spread of Covid-19 in rural parts of Chandrapur, contact tracing has to be aggressive. Asymptomatic patients can be kept in home quarantine. Stress should be given on more [rapid] antigen tests, and oxygenated beds must be increased in the district. A four-digit helpline must be set up by the district. A task force must be constituted.”SPECIAL STATUS FOR OXYGEN VEHICLES Amid a shortage of oxygen, vehicles carrying oxygen for Covid patients will be treated at par with the ambulance service for the next one year, the Maharashtra government said on Monday. State health secretary Pradeep Vyas, according to a statement from CMO, stated that vehicles carrying medical oxygen will have sirens on it thereby treating as an emergency vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-jump-94-in-1-month/story-Z1luah11e2YNC0mLHwE6tK.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Charge sheet in ‘conspiracy’ case in Delhi riots will be filed by Sept 17: Police chief||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava Monday said a charge sheet will be filed by Thursday in connection with a “conspiracy” case in the northeast Delhi riots as the force is approaching towards the final league of investigation.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwaha also said the riots were result of a “planned conspiracy” because during the investigation, the police found a common pattern the anti-CAA protesters followed: block the road traffic. “It was the first indicator that there was a conspiracy due to which it all started,” he said. Also read: Delhi Police get 10-day custody of Umar Khalid after his arrest under anti-terror lawThe two officers spoke at a webinar, where Srivastava also said that some of the people police are probing have a very good social media presence and they are trying to take “away the sheen from the investigation”.  “As we are approaching towards the final end of investigation, Umar Khalid (former JNU student) has also been arrested. So, there is more and more sort of a cry, especially in the social media and also on the TV channels. (They) are trying to take away the sheen from the investigation. “You know that people whom we are investigating, many (of them) have a very good social media presence,” the Commissioner said.Khalid was arrested Sunday under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots.The Commissioner said the Delhi Police has registered altogether 751 cases and conducted its investigation in a very fair and impartial manner.Out of the 751 cases, 340 have been solved, while the police has not got much lead in the remaining cases, he said. Also read: Filmmakers Saba Dewan, Rahul Roy called for questioning in connection with Delhi riots  “Out of 751, one case is basically regarding the conspiracy, and this has been registered by the Crime Branch, but was transferred to the Special Cell because it required detailed investigation. They are required to file the charge sheet by September 17,” Shrivastava said. The webinar was organised by the Delhi Police Retired Gazetted Officers Association where Shrivastava also tried to put to rest all “false accusations” and claims made against his force in connection with the riots and reasserted that all actions taken by the police were in absolute compliance of the law.  “The other 59 important cases were given to the three SITs which were formed under the Crime Branch and out of the 59 cases, 46 were solved and in all these, the charges sheets have been filed and we are still filing the supplementary charge sheets,” he said. Remaining few cases are with the district police and they are also doing a good job to ensure that all the evidences are collected properly and presented in a proper manner, the police commissioner added.On his part, Kushwaha said, “When we started investigating the Delhi riots, we first saw all the sites and found a common pattern that traffic jam was started at all the sites simultaneously. It was the first indicator that there was a conspiracy due to which it all started.” There were 25 protest sites and most of them were formed in trans-Yamuna area, Kushwaha said. It also came in notice that the people who were sitting on protest sites were led by those who came from outside. “They were not locals.” People kept on going to the protest sites again and again and they talked about CAA-NRC so that more and more people would come there and it would look like a CAA-NRC protest was going on, the DCP said. On February 11, when it was announced that US President Donald Trump will visit India, suddenly the tone and tenor of the protest got changed, he said. On February 22, the protesting leaders and women sat on road under Jafrabad metro station and blocked the road, Kushwah said. Following that pattern, the other sites in northeast Delhi were also suddenly traffic-jammed, stone-pelting started at Maujpur where the pro and anti-CAA and NRC protestors were sitting, he said. Suddenly, the stone-pelting turned into a well-planned riots, the DCP said. The protest sites were formed with a planned conspiracy to show that children and locals were agitating, and traffic jam and stone-pelting happened, the DCP said. “Acid bottles and petrol bomb were used. Even firing took place in which one head constable Ratan Lal died. There was a huge slingshot inside the Rajdhani School which was pre-installed. “A narrative is being created that pro-CAA/NRC people were involved in it, but it has not come into the investigation yet,” he said. Besides 11 Special Public Prosecutor that were hired by the force, the Commissioner stated that six more SPPs -- including the solicitor general of India, two additional solicitor of general of India and three more senior lawyers -- have been roped in so that the cases are defended and taken up well in all courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/charge-sheet-in-conspiracy-case-in-delhi-riots-will-be-filed-by-sept-17-police-chief/story-GfcYmn5yfu2UvKx7IXNesK.html
15-09-2020||City||Greater Noida authority sanctions ₹20 crore for upkeep of green areas||The Greater Noida authority has floated 36 tenders worth ₹20 crore for the maintenance of parks, green belts and other services in different sectors in the city.Authority officials said that these jobs could not be awarded to private agencies earlier in May and June in wake of the restriction imposed to contain the Covid 19 pandemic. “We could not use ₹20 crore for developing and maintaining the horticulture-related projects earlier due to the Covid-19 restrictions. But now we have started the process to start work on them,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.The authority said it is likely to finalise the agency for these jobs by October 15.These maintenance works are related with the upkeep of plant on dividers along the city roads and green belts located along city’s key roads and around residential areas. The authority will hire agencies for the maintenance of green spaces along internal roads of sectors Delta 1, 2, 3 and sectors Knowledge Park 4, Zu 2, and Omicron-IA among others across the city.“Some small works related with the issues of maintenance of green areas in some areas , that come under the purview of the authority’s horticulture department, have already been looked into following the complaints from some residents. Once the ₹20 crore tenders are awarded issues in other areas will be taken care of as well,” a Greater Noida authority official, who is not authorised to speak to media, said. The authority has also appealed residents to use the helpline- 120-2336040/ 47,/48 and or send messages on WhatsApp on 8800203912 to get horticulture-related issues in their areas resolved.“We have been urging residents to use these helpline numbers to get their issues related with civic affairs including horticulture addressed,” said Bhooshan.The authority has directed the staff to make sure mobile number of each contractor working in any area are put up on board so that the residents can file complains if any work is not done properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-authority-sanctions-20-crore-for-upkeep-of-green-areas/story-W7W0gtmUw7sUqppSJwaZ8M.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal welcomes Centre’s affidavit on slum eviction||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday welcomed the Centre’s affidavit before the Supreme Court ruling out immediate eviction of residents of 48,000 slums located along Delhi’s railway tracks, and said he is ready to touch anybody’s feet to provide alternative housing to the slum dwellers.Addressing the Delhi Assembly, which held a special one-day session on Monday, Kejriwal said it was not advisable to remove the slums during the pandemic and suggested that the authorities should not proceed in this direction till the time corona crisis subsides to avoid turning them into Covid-19 hot spots. Also read: Slum dwellers reach SC against Railway slum eviction order, 11 dwellers file plea to join as partiesThe House was discussing a resolution moved by Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Rajendra Nagar legislator Raghav Chadha, in support of the more than two lakh people estimated to be living in the 48,000 slums located along railway tracks, which the Supreme Court had last month ordered to be demolished within three months. The Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday that discussions were underway to implement the court’s August 31 order but ruled out the immediate eviction of the residents. “I assure all the slum dwellers that until your son, your brother is alive, your homes will not be demolished. We will ensure pucca houses to all 48,000 slum dwellers before they are moved. Even if I have to touch someone’s feet, even if I have to struggle, I will provide a house to you,” he said. The issue was debated in the House with ruling AAP and opposition BJP legislators hitting out at one another. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri chanted slogans in support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and hailed his ‘housing for all by 2022’ mission.Also read: Delhi slum eviction: 11 slum dwellers file plea to join proceedings in Supreme Court caseThe chief minister said at least four laws -- Central Provisions Act passed by the Centre, DUSIB Act, DUSIB Policy, and DUSIB Protocol -- clearly state that whenever slums are uprooted, the inhabitants have to be given permanent houses. The DUSIB’s slum rehabilitation policy talks abut in-situ rehabilitation of slum dwellers, he said. “I assure you that either the central government will give you a permanent house or else the Delhi government will do that. I am happy with the affidavit filed by the Central Government in the Supreme Court today, where they have said that the Delhi Government, Railways and Urban Development Ministry will jointly find a solution to the problem in the next four weeks. The central and Delhi government will work together so that our 48,000 Delhiites can get their legal rights,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said slum dwellers play a very important role in improving Delhi’s economy and life. “If all the leaders and officers of Delhi stop working for a day, even then Delhi will keep on functioning but even for a day if the people living in slums will stop working, then Delhi will come to standstill,” Kejriwal said.The resolution on slum dwellers, which was passed by the House by voice vote, stated that there should not be any eviction during the pandemic and rehabilitation should precede any such action. It also stated that both the Centre and Delhi government agencies must work together to protect the interests of the slum dwellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-welcomes-centre-s-affidavit-on-slum-eviction/story-uJ7uumLd8WhcGk8AGLYwfL.html
15-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Over 200 CCTV cameras not functioning in residential areas||Gurugram: In their efforts to curb street crimes in Gurugram, the police have decided to identify non-functional closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras across the district and get them fixed at the earliest. The police said on Monday that more than 200 CCTV cameras have not been functional in residential areas across the district for the past three months. The teams from crime investigation agency (CIA) and various police stations submitted the data to the commissioner of police, KK Rao, on Monday, with all the details of the crime prone stretches and the total number of CCTV cameras installed. The police said about 1,900 CCTV cameras will be installed across the district to strengthen the surveillance system. Rao said that they have assigned a task to the police stations to keep a check on all CCTV cameras installed in their respective areas. “We have also asked the 43 station house officers to keep the inventory of CCTV cameras ready and to check them while investigating any street crime which has been untraced in the recent past. We will also request resident welfare associations (RWAs) to install CCTV cameras for their safety and to help the police curb crime,” he said. According to the police, the recent vehicle lifting and snatching cases in Palam Vihar, Sector 5, South City 1 and Sushant Lok 1 brought forth that there were only a few CCTV cameras installed and most of them were found to be non-operational. The police in July had identified 147 spots in the district that reported most street crimes, such as burglary, theft and snatching. Rao said in many cases the police could not get any lead as there was no footage to identify the suspects, which took longer to solve the cases. “It was observed that miscreants are mostly targeting areas without CCTV cameras and even where they were not operational. The gangs conduct reconnaissance and they check the police deployment, distance from the police station and how well the area is covered under surveillance,” he said. The police are using the Integrated Control And Command Centre (I-CCC), developed by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) under the smart cities mission.According to the police, a total of 1,926 CCTV cameras will be installed at 358 places across the district in different phases. The police said their aim is to cover the entire district with CCTV cameras and it will take maximum a year to complete the project which is taken care of by GMDA. Once the project is completed, these devices will help police crack major crime cases, they said. Presently, there are 350 CCTVs which are monitored by the police teams through I-CCC, said the police. Varinder Singh Kundu, chief executive officer of GMDA, said that the process of installation of CCTV cameras is underway. “There are some challenges at a few locations such as power connection and row junction development works. We are working on all the challenges, and the work is being monitored keenly,” he said. Besides, there are nearly 2,000 CCTV cameras installed in residential societies, commercial hubs and in open spaces across the district. The RWAs say they are ready to cooperate with the police to curb the criminal activities. “In DLF II, we have six entry/exit gates, and all the gates are equipped with CCTV cameras. Whenever any incident has been reported, the videos have been shared with the police. However, we feel that we should have CCTVs in all lanes. RWA of DLF II is making constant efforts to get this into a reality,” said Gaurav Wahi, former president, RWA of DLF II.Amit Jindal, owner of a petrol pump in Sector 89, said, “We have installed CCTV not only for our internal operations, but also to track movement of the vehicles on the main road. This not only helps us, but also acts as a great surveillance tool for local administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-over-200-cctv-cameras-not-functioning-in-residential-areas/story-4mvaodAWJDVJ1ZI2w9fTrN.html
15-09-2020||City||Over a month after man ends life, two held for abetment||Gurugram: More than a month after a man allegedly died by suicide, the police on Sunday arrested two people on charges of abetment in the case. The police said a probe had revealed that the suspects held a grudge against the victim after the latter had lodged an FIR against them last year and the matter was sub-judice. According to the police, on the night of August 4, the victim, who worked with a political party, had died by suicide at his neighbour’s plot. Six days later, his wife had filed a police complaint alleging that before his death, her husband had sent his recordings to his colleagues over the phone mentioning that he was under duress and had named six people who were allegedly threatening him. On the statement of his wife, the police had registered an FIR under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Palam Vihar police station. In the complaint, the wife had said, “My husband passed away on the night of August 4. A few days later, his senior colleague told me that my husband had sent him some recordings before his death in which he had named several people. In the clip, he said that the suspects had beaten him up and were conspiring to kill him and his family. In 2019, after a fight, he had lodged an FIR against the suspects at Palam Vihar police station and they held enmity since then. In the clip, he also appealed to his friends to take care of our children after his death.” The police said the crime branch of Sector 31 arrested the two suspects in the case. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The accused duo have said that the deceased and his wife are their relatives. Last year, after a family dispute, a case was registered against them, which is sub judice. There had been enmity and tension within the family regarding the same. We are conducting the probe and trying to trace the other suspects named in the complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-a-month-after-man-ends-life-two-held-for-abetment/story-ihIBwU2MEEmaH9Kd1Uy5gI.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||CM hails Delhi’s Covid-19 model, says it worked due to teamwork||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Monday hailed the Delhi Model of treatment and containment of Covid-19 and said the aggressive testing being done in the national capital is unmatched not just in the country, but also in the world. In a first, Kejriwal also revealed that over 1.15 lakh people have been treated under Delhi’s home isolation programme so far, of whom 30 have died.The chief minister was addressing a special one-day session of the Delhi Assembly. He began by recalling the initial days of the Covid-19 pandemic, after the first case in Delhi was reported on March 2. He said Delhi, like Mumbai, was badly hit as 32,000 people returned to the capital from other countries. Also read: AIIMS doctor succumbs to Covid-19“And you can perceive, most of these people must have already been infected. There were 5,000 to 6000 cases in Delhi when the pandemic started,” he said.Hailing the Delhi Model, Kejriwal said the strategy of ‘test, treat, track and isolate’ worked “because of the two crore people of Delhi”. “Today, the maximum number of tests, across the world, is conducted by Delhi. Around 60,000 tests are conducted daily, which is 3,000 tests per million people...while the national average is 819,” the chief minister said. Kejriwal went on to compare Delhi with other countries and claimed that no other state or city in the world has tested 10% of its total population. “We have tested around 2.1 million people in Delhi until now, which is 11% of Delhi’s two crore population,” he said. He said it was the Delhi government which “introduced” home isolation and also opened the “world’s first plasma bank” at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. Also read: Won’t be enough Covid-19 vaccines till 2024: Serum Institute’s Adar Poonawalla“We have treated around 115,254 people in home isolation until now, of whom 16,568 are still in isolation and 96,288 have recovered. Only 30 people have died (among those in home isolation),” he said. Opposition leader and BJP MLA from Badarpur Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said after Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia made panic inducing statements that Delhi would hit 5 lakh cases by July, Union home minister Amit Shah was forced to take charge of Delhi’s Covid management. “Shah arranged for 20,000 new beds, provided ventilators, oxygen cylinders, oximeter PPE kits etc. to Delhi government hospitals. The Centre provided for door-to door testing, and antigen testing was made available at 169 places. The cost of testing and treatment in private facilities was reduced,” he said.Bidhuri said Prime Minister Narendra Modi provided 72 lakh poor people in Delhi with free food rations for the past three months. “And the Delhi government is pasting Kejriwal’s photo on these kits and distributing them to people calling them ‘CM’s relief package’,” Bidhuri said. Kejriwal responded with, “I always say, the credit is yours and the responsibility mine. Whenever Delhi faces trouble, the responsibility would be mine. Delhi’s Covid story is the result of teamwork. I want to thank the Centre for helping us whenever we needed them. They gave us PPE kits, oxygen cylinders and testing kits. No government can handle it all alone. Society came forward to help us; the two crore people of Delhi; many social organisations and doctors’ associations helped us,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-hails-delhi-s-covid-model-says-it-worked-due-to-teamwork-delhi-s-people/story-reRqxvttILVCpzETAxahQM.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||State, Centre did little to stop SC order on removal of slums along railway tracks: Maken||Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken on Monday slammed the AAP government in Delhi and BJP-led Centre for doing little to stop the Supreme Court’s recent order to remove 48,000 slum dwellings on railway land within 90 days.Maken hit out at both the Central and state governments and asked why they didn’t inform the SC about the protocols laid down for rehabilitation of slums dwellers in Delhi, after a high court judgment in March 2019.Also read: Delhi slum eviction: 11 slum dwellers file plea to join proceedings in Supreme Court case“The state and Central governments are just issuing statements, but none of them have taken steps to address the issue. When the matter was being heard by the SC, why didn’t the Delhi government and the Centre inform the court about the protocol in place for the rehabilitation slum dwellers,” said Maken, who had filed a petition challenging the SC’s August 31 order. The former Delhi Congress chief also said that those impacted by the order, the slum residents, were not even represented when the court had ordered removal of their dwelling units.Maken also hit out at the Delhi government for delay in allotting vacant houses constructed for those belonging to the economically weaker sections. Maken, a former Union urban development minister, said that between February 2007 and June 2013, the Centre had sanctioned funds for the construction of 67,784 flats. “Under JNNURM and Rajiv Awas Yojana, close to R1,300 crore was given to the Delhi government. There are 35,000 flats lying vacant and 16,000 flats are under construction, which should have been ready long back. They (the AAP government) have not been able to allot these flats. It has been seven years, the 16,000 flats should have been ready by now,” said Maken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/state-centre-did-little-to-stop-sc-order-on-removal-of-slums-along-rly-tracks-maken/story-M8ZiLXeQza7NRlef8ay4fO.html
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal monsoon session: Congress walks out of House over police inaction against BJP workers||Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri on Monday raised the issue of police inaction against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, who allegedly barged into the hotel premises of Kullu legislator and Congress’s state general secretary Sunder Singh Thakur.Thakur has been sitting on a dharna at the superintendent of police office in Kullu for the last three days after BJP activists agitated outside his hotel alleging land grab. Thakur alleged that the protest was staged by his political adversary and BJP MLA Maheshwar Singh. Agnihotri said the party was concerned about the security of Sunder Singh Thakur since no action has been taken by the police yet.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the matter of land encroachment was subjudice. He also said that the superintendent of police office in Kullu was sealed after a police officer tested positive for Covid-19. The CM said Sundar Thakur along with 10 other Congress workers went inside the SP office and sat on a dharna demanding the arrest of former MLA Maheshwar Singh. However, he said, after the ASI at the police station tested positive, the legislator was asked to end the dharna. “It is wrong to equate the Kullu episode with what happened to actress Kangna Ranaut in Mumbai,” the CM added. Dissatisfied with the CM’s clarification, the opposition resorted to sloganeering in the assembly, which was countered by the MLAs of the ruling party. Later, members of the opposition walked out of the House amid the pandemonium. While addressing the media, Agnihotri alleged that the government had deliberately sealed the SP office in Kullu. “As per the orders of the chief secretary, the office should not be sealed if only two cases are detected. Instead, the SP office should have been sanitised,” he said, adding that an action should be taken against Kullu SP. CPIM MLA Rakesh Singha also expressed solidarity with Sunder Singh Thakur. He said police inaction is a threat to the representatives of democratic institutions. “Today, it has happened to one MLA, tomorrow it will happen to another,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-monsoon-session-congress-walks-out-of-house-over-police-inaction-against-bjp-workers/story-0cDExo9wcZ0L72I24471WI.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||AIIMS doctor succumbs to Covid-19||A 25-year-old doctor from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday morning. He had been on a ventilator for over a month, according to resident doctors from the hospital. Dr Vikas Solanki was from the 2012 batch of MBBS at AIIMS. “He had completed his internship and gone to his hometown in Haryana where he got the infection. He was brought back to AIIMS for treatment and despite the best efforts of the doctors here, he passed away after being on a ventilator for 1.5 months,” said Dr Amrindeer Singh Malhi, resident doctor at AIIMS. “He was a brilliant student and a topper of his batch,” he said. Another resident doctor Abhinav Singh said, “He is the most talented guy I have ever met.” He said that Dr Solanki had sponsored the education of students from class 6 through 10 in a school in Leh Ladakh for two years. “Dr Vikas always asserted that investment on education can change the face of India.” The funeral will happen at his native village in Haryana, according to the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-doctor-succumbs-to-covid/story-RzMdwvSQ5POkp4lXG13jyJ.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||New cases in Delhi dip below 4k as testing slows over weekend||The number of fresh Covid cases reported in the past 24 hours dropped to below 4,000 for the first time in five days in Delhi on Monday, with the city recording 3,229 new cases.The dip in number of cases, however, was a direct result of fewer tests being conducted in the city over the weekend. On the five days that Delhi reported over 4,000 cases, between 54,000 and 60,000 tests were conducted – the highest being on September 11 when 60,580 samples were tested. On an average, over 51,000 tests were conducted each day during last week. The positivity rate – fraction of people who test positive among those tested – remained almost constant at just over 7%. The seven-day weekly average positivity rate recorded in Delhi is 7.37% during the last week. Also read: Manish Sisodia Covid-19 positive but rapid tests miss 2 MLAs“The number of cases in Delhi is slowly stabilising and the positivity rate is coming down. Even with about 60,000 tests, some 4,000 people turn out to be positive. During the June surge, about 3,900 positive cases were reported with just 15,000 tests. The Delhi model is great because many asymptomatic people are getting tested, especially those coming in to hospitals to seek treatment for other ailments. This helps in identifying and isolating more people, thereby preventing further spread,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) and the head of the first committee set up by the state government to tackle Covid-19. The city reported 26 deaths due to the viral infection on Monday, taking the total death toll of Covid-19 in Delhi to 4,770. The absolute number of deaths have increased over August – on average 15.5 deaths were being recorded each day in August as compared to 23.3 deaths on average being recorded in September. However, the case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of people who die of the infection among those who test positive – has been on a decline, with the seven-day daily average CFR at 2.24%, higher than the national average of 1.6%. The CFR over the last seven day has just been 0.52%, indicating that most of the deaths in the city were recorded during the previous surge in cases in June. With the number of cases on the rise in the city, the number of hospitalisations has also touched a record high of 6,592 cases. With hospitals running out of intensive care unit beds, the Delhi government during the weekend ordered 28 big private hospitals to ramp up capacity by reserving 80% of its total ICU beds for the management of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-cases-dip-below-4k-as-testing-slows-over-weekend/story-zGLWdFKPZTN1bU6CskR4YP.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro: Snag on first weekday but jump in ridership||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday — the first weekday after the entire network was made operational after nearly six months -- reported a 63.48% jump in its ridership compared to last week, but the day began with a technical snag on the Yellow line, affecting services for more than two hours.On Monday, 249,884 people took a ride on the Metro network compared to 152, 845 people last Saturday. Though there was not much rush, people were seen standing in long queues at some places such as Rohini West, Mayur Vihar Phase-I on Monday morning, waiting for their turn to enter the station. At Mayur Vihar, the queue extended till the main road between 8 am and 9 am. “There was no rush, but the queue was till the main road as people were asked to maintain distance,” said a Metro police official at the station.Suman Kumar (30), who works at a government office in Connaught Place, said she has been driving to work for the past three months from Uttam Nagar. “It is a big relief that the metro services resumed. Taking a bus was a lot of hassle. There are no fixed timings and they often don’t stop if they are full. I had no option but to drive. Though it is taking longer than usual, it is very comfortable to travel in the Metro. The train is nearly empty,” Kumar said.Also read:Delhi Metro resumes all services: Monday morning starts with a glitchTo manage the rush, DMRC had to run eight trains from in-between stations on the Blue line (Dwarka sector 21 to Noida Electronic City), which was the busiest corridor on the entire network on Monday.DMRC officials said nearly 76,000 people travelled on the Blue line on Monday.“With a large number of people boarding the train from Dwarka and subsequent stations, it was decided to run trains from Uttam Nagar East to manage the crowd. Seven trains started from Uttam Nagar East towards Noida/ Vaishali. One train started from Anand Vihar instead of Vaishali. All this was done to manage the morning peak hour rush,” said a DMRC official.Though the ridership has increased, stations and trains were relatively empty on Monday. There was not much rush at Rajiv Chowk, Hauz Khas, Kashmere Gate, which are important inter-charge stations.But the day started with a technical snag on the (Samayapur Badli-HUDA City Centre) Yellow line. One track of the corridor between Rajiv Chowk and New Delhi had to be closed for train movement due to urgent track repair. This affected movement between Rajiv Chowk (one of the busiest inter-charge stations) and Vishwavidyalaya for nearly two-and-a-half-hours, causing inconvenience to people.DMRC tweeted, “Delay in services between Rajiv Chowk and Vishwavidyalaya due to track repair work between Rajiv Chowk and New Delhi stations.”According to a DMRC official, train service between Samayapur Badli and Vishwavidyalaya metro stations ran normally. Normal services resumed after nearly two hours.Gearing up for more crowds, especially during peak hours, DMRC has started putting markings inside trains for people to stand while maintaining social distancing. According to DMRC officials, these markings on the train floors have been done in 800 coaches.Nitesh Kapoor, who works with a private firm in Lajpat Nagar, said, “It is good they have put these markings. It will help people maintain distance. This way, more people can travel.”Nearly 2,000 people have been deployed to ensure social distancing norms are followed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. The DMRC penalised 182 people for not following norms til now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-metro-snag-on-first-weekday-but-jump-in-ridership/story-ud7l2nlby2aUKCxArGuxyK.html
15-09-2020||Mumbai||23 residents of Mankhurd children’s home in Mumbai test positive for Covid-19||Around 23 specially-abled residents of the Mankhurd Mentally Deficient Children’s Home (MDCH) and three staff members tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. In July and August, 43 residents and staff members tested positive, were treated at Covid hospitals and discharged. However, according to MDCH officials, of the 43, 13 tested positive again on Monday.Recovered Covid patients can often test positive again due to harmless ‘residual virus’ which remains in the body for a few weeks. Alternatively, the result could be a false positive.An official at MDCH told Hindustan Times that on Saturday, 35 residents and three staff members at the children’s home underwent testing as part of a regular drive.“On Monday, the test results revealed that 23 residents and three staff members, including the only doctor at the facility, Dr Jayesh Vasule, were Covid-positive. They have been shifted to the Covid care centre at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) for treatment. Thirteen of these 23 residents and the doctor had tested positive earlier and had received treatment for the Covid infection,” said the official.Among the infected, 10 specially-abled residents and two staffers tested positive for the first time. One new patient also has tuberculosis and has been admitted at Sion hospital for treatment.“We are not sure if it is just an error of the testing method, as none of the ‘repeat’ Covid patients has any symptoms. All of them are asymptomatic and otherwise completely fine. Doctors and experts would now look into the matter,” said Vijay Kshirsagar, chief officer of Children’s Aid Society that runs the MDCH.All the residents at the children’s home have undergone Covid testing at least twice in two separate phases since July. The institute run by the Children Aid Society and funded by the state, houses 268 specially-abled individuals, ranging from minors to 70-year-olds.HT had first reported the spread of the infection among the MDCH residents in its July 26 edition. It is suspected that the disease spread at the children’s home from one of the staff members who resides at the staff quarters located on-site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/23-residents-of-mankhurd-children-s-home-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-uvIXkmTYzHzXxm1DdcjNfK.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Six months after, patrons return to near-empty gyms in Delhi||Exercising with masks or face shields, stickers cautioning customers to maintain a six feet distance, hand sanitiser dispensers, booking by slots -- it was a completely different experience for people who visited gyms that reopened on Monday after remaining shut for nearly six months due to the coronavirus pandemic.“I am visiting the gym after six months. This is a new experience for me to exercise with a face shield. These are desperate measures we had to take as it is a new normal now. I am happy with the sanitisation and precautions taken by the management,” Ritika Mehndiratta, a psychologist, who is a member of Anytime Fitness Gym in Malviya Nagar said.The reopening came as a sigh of relief for gym owners, who are hoping for a revival of the fitness industry after months of closure. Gyms, fitness and yoga centres, spas were closed in the second week of March. Only a few gymnasiums resumed services on Monday morning because owners either were making sanitisation arrangements or were unaware of the reopening as the order was issued late Sunday night.Facilities such as sauna, shower, body massage and spas, however, will remain shut until further orders. Gymnasiums were seen making arrangements to ensure sanitation, hygiene and social distancing as per reopening norms to prevent any spread of the contagious disease. Chirag Sethi, vice-president of the Delhi Gym Association, said only about 30% gyms and fitness centres resumed services on Monday because the government order came late on Sunday night. Sethi urged the government to waive off fixed electricity fixed charges for at least six months. “Although reopening was delayed by over 45 days, the decision has come as a relief for a workforce of around 1 lakh. We would like to request the Delhi government to waive off fixed charges on electricity for six months instead of just two (April and May). We are in no position to pay these charges,” Sethi said.There are more than 6,000 gyms and fitness centres across Delhi that employ around 100,000 people.In a late-night order on Sunday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed gymnasiums and yoga institutes to reopen with immediate effect on condition that they strictly follow all Covid-19 safety protocols. Sethi said the SOPs issued by the Central and Delhi governments will be strictly followed. The gym association also issued guidelines, which include thermal scanning for all clients and slot-based entry. Only asymptomatic clients will be allowed to enter, he said.“There will be a gap of at least 20 minutes between two batches and sanitisation practices will be carried out every hour. Face mask or face shield will be mandatory for members. They are requested to carry their own water bottles and yoga mats. Social distancing will be maintained. No shower, steam or sauna will be allowed. Gyms will prefer the use of individual AC units over centralised units,” Sethi said.Sunil Kumar Tonk, owner of Black’s Gym, which has 16 fitness centres across Delhi-NCR, said he will need three days to reopen. “The order came late on Sunday night. On Monday and Tuesday, I will hold meetings with heads of my fitness centres to ensure all safety measures are in place. We will reopen after taking all precautions,” he said.Spartan’s Gyms and Aerobics centre at Vikaspuri, which reopened at 5 am, saw at least five members trickle in by 8:30 am. Lucky Wasan, owner of the gymnasium, said, “We have sanitised our premises and equipment. Everyone is wearing a mask while working out. However, our changing rooms are shut for now.”Aditi Rai, a gym enthusiast, said the Delhi government’s decision came as a big relief for her. “Working out is like meditation for me. For all these days, I somehow adjusted with home workouts, but there’s nothing like sweating it out in the gymnasium. However, high-intensity workout gets difficult with wearing masks,” she said.The SOPs for gyms issued by the Centre on August 3 restrict workout sessions to activities that do not require trainers to touch members. Not more than 10 people per 1,000 square feet of space are allowed.Face masks are mandatory at all times within gymnasium and yoga centre premises and these institutes must ensure a minimum distance of six feet between individuals.Nikhil Kakkar, CEO of Gold Gyms India, which has 18 centres in Delhi-NCR, said fitness centres are following guidelines issued by the government. “We are not allowing more than 30 members at a time. Earlier 70-80 members used to work out. Our members can book their slots for a time period between 60 minutes to 75 minutes. We are ensuring a gap of 15-20 minutes between two batches for deep cleaning and sanitisation,” Kakkar said.The Central government under its unlock 3 guidelines issued on July 29 had allowed gymnasiums and yoga centres to reopen across the country from August 5. But the DDMA, headed by lieutenant- governor Anil Baijal, did not allow these services in the national capital due to a spike Covid-19 cases.On August 6, the Delhi government had sent a file to the L-G’s office to reopen hotels, weekly markets, gymnasiums and yoga centres in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-months-after-patrons-return-to-near-empty-gyms-in-delhi/story-IMOqQJQ9e7NBwWh5109OgL.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||Couple sell month-old daughter for Rs 30,000 in Welcome, arrested||A couple in north east Delhi’s Welcome sold their one-month-old daughter to a childless neighbour for R 30,000 on Saturday and filed a complaint with the police alleging that their baby had been stolen during a funeral procession, Mohammad Akhtar Rizvi, additional deputy commissioner of police (north east), said that the incident came to light after investigators found contradictions in the statements of the complainants and the CCTV footage that was scanned. Police said a total of six people — the couple who allegedly sold their baby, the childless couple and two others who facilitated the process — have been arrested in the incident. “Since the child is just one-month-old and needs her mother’s care, she will be staying with her mother in jail,” said the officer. Police said that the baby’s 27-year-old mother is a homemaker and father a tailor and the couple was struggling to make ends meet, said Rizvi. The couple has two other sons. Police said that incident took place after the childless couple, who lived in the same Welcome neighbourhood, got in touch with the 27-year-old woman. “A couple of months ago, the childless couple happened to speak to the 27-year-old woman about wanting a child. They said that they were willing to even spend money if that helped them in ‘procuring a child’,” said a second investigator involved in the probe. At that point, the 27-year-old woman was already eight months pregnant. “She later discussed with her husband and struck a deal with the childless couple. If it was a boy, he would be sold for Rs 2 lakh and if it was a girl, the price was set at Rs30,000,” said Rizvi. Since the expecting couple’s joint family knew about the pregnancy, it wasn’t possible to simply handover the child. So, they allegedly planned to portray the incident as that of kidnapping. “On Saturday, the 27-year-old’s mother-in-law passed away. The same evening, the woman approached us with a complaint that stated that while accompanying the funeral procession, she needed to visit the washroom and handed over her baby to an unknown young woman. When she returned, she found that the child was missing,” said Rizvi. The police registered a kidnapping case and began speaking to the missing child’s family. “There were discrepancies in the statements of the husband and wife. First we were told that it was the mother who was carrying the child, then we heard that it was the father who was carrying the baby,” said Rizvi. When the police checked the CCTV footage of the area, they found that it was the baby’s mother who had casually handed her daughter over to an unknown woman. “The way the child was handed over came across as fishy. When we questioned the couple further, they spilled the beans,” said the officer. The child was later recovered and the police went on to arrest her biological parents and the childless couple. The police also arrested a man who had facilitated the sale and another woman to whom the baby was handed over during the funeral procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/couple-sell-month-old-daughter-for-rs-30-000-in-welcome-arrested/story-mfaJbAJXQLxzKllB0eQZVO.html
15-09-2020||Delhi||3 held for killing cab driver after robbing him of valuables, dumping body in Agra||The Delhi Police have arrested three men for allegedly killing a cab driver after robbing him of his car and valuables nine months ago. Senior officers said the driver had gone missing last December. The three men had hired his cab from Sarai Kale Khan, killed him near Jewar toll plaza and dumped his body in Agra, police said. They were arrested last week and have been identified as Rajender Maajhi, Ashfaq Beg and Ram Dhar, all hailing from Madhya Pradesh.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj said the cab driver Kripa Shankar Tiwari was reported missing on December 2. The investigation was transferred to the crime branch in March and since then the teams had been keeping a tight surveillance on suspects and efforts were on to to track Tiwari’s phone and car, Bhardwaj said.“Earlier this month, we received information that Tiwari’s cellphone was active in Shivpuri, Madhya Pradesh. It was being used by arrested accused Rajender Majhi. On this information, our team searched the identified address and Majhi was arrested. Tiwari’s phone was recovered from him,” the DCP said.She said, during questioning, Majhi told police that the phone was given to him by one Ashfaq Beg. “When we inquired about Beg, we found that he was already in Shivpuri jail in another case of robbery. We got his production warrant and arrested him on September 4. When questioned about the phone and Tiwari, Beg admitted that he, along with Ram Dhar from Gwalior, had hired Tiwari’s cab from Sarai Kale Khan on December 2 and took him toward Agra,” Bhardwaj said. Beg told them that after reaching Jewar, they strangled Tiwari. “He then took his phone, cash and car and dumped his body near Birai chowk in Agra. On Beg’s information, Dhar was arrested on September 6. Further probe revealed that Agra police had conducted inquest proceedings after they recovered his body. Pictures of the body were shown to Tiwari’s family who identified it as Tiwari’s,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-men-held-for-killing-cab-driver-after-robbing-him-of-valuables-dumping-body-in-agra/story-gybgR8ciNDYsdhrXxo8koJ.html
15-09-2020||Pune||Dams filled to capacity, 60 housing societies on Pashan-Baner link road in Pune living on tanker water||Even as the four dams that supply water to the city have almost reached to full capacity, 60 housing societies on Pashan-Baner link road are dependent on water tankers since the last six days as they are not getting the supply from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The issue came to light when Dr Bhooshan Shukla, psychiatrist (child and adolescent) who stays in one of the societies, vented out his anger via tweet which read: “Overflowing dams in the whole district notwithstanding, Housing societies on Baner-Pashan link road in Pune continue to buy tanker water since Thursday. Two consecutive years of good rain must have been a disaster for the tanker mafia.” The residents in this area get civic water supply around 7 pm every day. HT found out that sixty residential societies in the area are not getting civic water supply and one water tanker is costing Rs 1,000. Most of the societies need at least four tankers daily. Residents, who chose to remain anonymous, complained that the water supply department is yet to provide relief. “We can understand that supply can be affected for one day on account of maintenance and other reasons. It is the sixth day (Monday) and we are forced to rely on water tankers even when four dams which provide water to Pune are full,” said one of the society members requesting anonymity. “The response was dull from the water supply department and every day we were hearing the same words from them that it is happening due to low pressure and we are working on it. It has not been resolved till afternoon (Monday),” said another society member. Amol Balwadkar, corporator, Baner-Balewadi-Pashan said, “Water supply in the city was disrupted on September 10 after an air bubble developed in the pipeline. A bridge work going on the Pune-Bengaluru highway near the area was another reason for no water supply. The repairs are completed today and residents will get normal water supply from evening (Monday).” However, residents said that they are yet to receive water supply till 10 pm on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dams-filled-to-capacity-60-housing-societies-on-pashan-baner-link-road-in-pune-living-on-tanker-water-for-six-days/story-8myIyZPTRoQ4ISwrJYz78I.html
15-09-2020||Pune||85 per cent SPPU students choose online mode for final examination||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is all set to conduct the final year exams from September 15 with eighty-five per cent students choosing the online over offline option for writing the papers. Monday was the last day to submit the form detailing the option to sit for exams. According to the data shared by the SPPU examination department, out of the total 223,000 students who filled the form, 187,000 have preferred online mode. Last week, SPPU had declared the exam schedule for the final year students after the Supreme Court ordered to conduct the exams. Written exams will be conducted from October 1 to 30 in both online and offline format. And the practical exam would start from September 15 to 25. “It is a good thing that maximum students have preferred to give examination online and I had earlier also said about sensitising the online mode. If the exams are held in online mode then going ahead with this academic year it will be easy for all of us to conduct lectures online. So, it is an encouraging trend that most of the students are choosing online. For students who have given offline option, we will also consider their opinion and try to work on it,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. “A technical committee has been formed to look after the operations of conducting the online exams. Under this committee a vendor will be appointed. Simultaneously, we are also working on making the question bank for all subjects and question sets will be prepared. These question paper sets will be shared with the vendor and then subject wise question papers will be made. Of the 85 per cent students who have choose the online option, 50 per cent are ready to give the exam on smart mobile phones.” added Karmalkar. The written exams for backlog students will be held from October 1 to 9 and it will held from October 10 to 30 for regulars. Both the exams will be of multiple choice questions (MCQ) with 50 marks and one hour duration. The detailed stream and subject wise schedule of the examination will be declared soon by the SPPU examination department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/85-per-cent-sppu-students-choose-online-mode-for-final-examination/story-QO7Z81gBnkF8QobuXC5hjN.html
15-09-2020||Pune||Eight cars vandalised in Vadgaon Budrukh in Pune: 3 ‘bhai’ held, 3 on the run||PUNE: Three men were arrested and at least three more are on the run for vandalising eight cars in Vadgaon Budrukh area of Pune. The arrested were identified as Omkar Jadhav, Amay Raichurkar and Ajay Sutar, according to assistant inspector (API) CC Thorbole of Sinhgad road police station who is investigating the case. “All the suspects are 19-20 years old. Two of the arrested were named in a case of murder when they were juveniles,” said API Thorbole. A complaint was lodged by Tushar Shelar (30) who lives in Raigadnagar are of Vadgaon Budrukh. His vehicle was among the eight cars vandalised by the men brandishing blades, according to the complaint. He told the police that he watched from his window as the men came on motorbikes and started breaking glasses of random cars while shouting that they were the “bhais” of the area. A case under Sections 143, 147, 149, and 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act, Section 4(25) of Arms Act, and Section 37(1)135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Sinhgad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-cars-vandalised-in-vadgaon-budrukh-in-pune-3-held-3-on-the-run/story-0qCSAPHFcYfq9JktT2zsaI.html
15-09-2020||Pune||Four Bullet stealers held, eight bikes recovered in Pune||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have recovered eight stolen Bullet motorcycles from four men who targeted the specific brand of bike and sold it in far-flung areas for dirt-cheap rates. The arrested were identified as Rohit Suresh Vetal (20), a resident of Lakshmi Chowk in Marunji; Sumit Sunil Sawant (19) of Parkhe vasti in Hinjewadi; Prashant Bhimrao Gaikwad (19) of Lakshmibai colony, Dange Chowk; and Chetain alias Shripati Shivaji Katpure (19) of Thergaon area of Pune. Sawant, one of the four arrested, has five police cases registered against him in the past. “Five bikes from Hinjewadi area, and one each from Chinchwad, Warje Malwadi and another area were stolen and sold to buyers in Bhum and Paranda for Rs 5,000-10,000,” read a statement from Hinjewadi police station. Vetal was the first one to be arrested. He was nabbed at midnight based on information received by the police during night patrol. He was caught while running away after seeing cops outside Kolte Patil gate in Hinjewadi. Upon interrogation, he told the police about a Bullet bike that he had recently stolen from Marunji area. A case was registered at Hinjewadi police station about the stolen bike under Section 379 of Indian Penal Code. Vetal provided information about the others. While three have been arrested, three others are on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-stolen-bullet-bikes-recovered-in-pune-four-arrested-three-at-large/story-Kf5xfBA5jbmNvNLy3FhMYP.html
15-09-2020||Pune||216 IMA emails will ask Maharashtra govt to run pvt hospitals today||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter, will now ask the government to run all private hospitals, in protest against the government’s decision to fix rates at the said hospitals. An indefinite strike is not off the table if the government does not sanction the various demands made by the doctor’s body. In a statement released on Tuesday, IMA said, “The unaffordable rates forced by the government for Covid hospitals has made it increasingly difficult to meet the sky rocketing expenses to run small and medium-sized private hospitals. Around 25,000 mid-sector hospitals are on the verge of closure.” With Pune reporting one of the highest Covid case counts in the country and Mumbai’s case count on the rise again, Maharashtra is now the worst-affected state in the country. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, state president of IMA said, “We will send emails to the CM, HM and chief secretary and appeal to them to take over all the hospitals and see how difficult it is financially, and staff-wise, to run the hospitals. All 216 branches will send the emails at 3pm on Tuesday.” The letter states: “The government had decided to increase the rates for the ICU and give concessions for biomedical waste disposal charges and electricity bills. The government had also agreed to cap the rates of PPE kits and masks for doctors, and the rates for medical oxygen used by the hospitals were also to be reduced as per central government regulations. This was to be finalised in a proposed meeting with the IMA, before September 1, 2020. However, the government unilaterally came out with the new rates on August 31, 2020, and made the previous rates more stringent.” The IMA has alleged that the government is not listening to their issues despite doctors raising their voices against various issues. The association has raised protests in various forms. The IMA protested the notification in an emergency state council meeting on September 4, 2020, and began an agitation on September9. All 216 branches paid tribute to the doctors in Maharashtra who died treating Covid patients on September 10. All branches have also handed over statements to all district and taluka -level administrators on September 11 and medical council registrations were burnt in protest. On September 15, private hospital owners who are IMA Members will submit copies of their hospital registrations to IMA branch offices. These branches will appeal to the government of Maharashtra to have the government itself run the hospitals as they cannot afford to run the hospitals with the rates decided by the state. Next line of treatment? Doctors’ strike A meeting was conducted between 14 different medical organisations, including ayurveda, homeopathy, Unani and dentistry, on September 12, 2020. All these branches of medicine have supported the IMA and decided to form a joint action committee to work together. The consensus was, “If the government does not sanction the demands of doctors in the next seven days, IMA doctors in Maharashtra will stop working indefinitely”, read a statement issued after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/216-ima-emails-will-ask-maharashtra-govt-to-run-pvt-hospitals-today/story-ihcZ7IRrnoqexhyFS7YDEM.html
15-09-2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man surrenders after killing wife, mother-in-law||A 39-year-old man from Jaipur city, Rajasthan, allegedly murdered his wife and mother-in-law by slitting their throat on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Then, he went to the police station with his three children and surrendered to the police. Preliminary probe revealed that the man killed his wife because he doubted her character. The accused has been identified as Ramkishan Saini and the two deceased were Manju Saini (35) and Gaura Devi (57). Also read: Wife of Calcutta High Court lawyer pronounced guilty of murdering him in 2018Saini told the police that the family lived in his in-laws’ house in Shivam Colony on Chandlai Road. Around 1am on Monday, when everyone was asleep, Saini said, he slit the throats of Manju and Devi. “The accused reached Chaksu police station from where he was taken to Shivdaspura police station where he again confessed in front of his children after which a first information report (FIR) under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered. A team from the police station was rushed to the spot to verify the information,” said Manoj Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), South. When the team reached the spot, the two bodies were recovered after which the accused was detained and a team of forensic science laboratory and dog squad were sent to the spot. Later, the accused was arrested. “Saini claims that his wife was having an extra-marital affair and his mother-in-law supported her. He said the two women were conspiring to kill him and would have done so had he not killed them. We are yet to verify his claims,” added Kumar. A police official who didn’t wish to be named said that the accused is a native of Chaksu town and was jobless since lockdown. Before that he used to work at a stone and gems workshop. “He had no guilt about the murders and kept saying he did it to survive. He was upset his wife’s alleged relationship outside the marriage and his mother-in-law’s alleged jibes,” the official said. The family members of both the sides have reached the spot and looking after the three children. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jaipur-man-surrenders-after-killing-wife-mother-in-law/story-xpjbulFubQEYiu9LkubVlN.html
