16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Caution, cameras watching you dump garbage in Buddha Nullah, Sidhwan Canal||In its efforts to rein in litterbugs dumping garbage in Buddha Nullah and Sidhwan Canal, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to upload the violators’ videos or pictures on its Facebook page. The decision was taken during a meeting conducted by MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana with MC’s health branch officials on Tuesday for apprising the officials of the different parameters of Swachh Survekshan 2021.Nodal officer, health branch, Ashwani Sahota said, “MC has conducted awareness drives to stop the residents from dumping waste into these water bodies. Challans have also been issued in the past. Now, MC has decided to upload the videos and pictures of violators to deter the practice.” Sahota said awareness drives were also being conducted to encourage residents to hand over segregated wet and dry waste to the waste collectors. As the local bodies department has notified the Solid Waste Management Bylaws 2020, MC will also commence challan drives soon. Notably, MC has been taking the heat from NGT over its failure to handle solid waste management properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-caution-cameras-watching-you-dump-garbage-in-buddha-nullah-sidhwan-canal/story-os0LFPkDFs6Xa8ZNgWIN1M.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Anti-encroachment drive in Ludhiana: Residents protest after GLADA razes temple||Tension gripped New Vishwakarma Nagar as residents staged a protest after Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) razed a decades-old temple during an anti-encroachment drive in the area on Wednesday. The protesters pelted stones, leaving some GLADA officials injured and damaging a tractor. Following this, police pacified the residents.BJP leaders including Jatinder Goryan and Dharmendra Sharma also protested against the drive and sought an FIR against the GLADA officials for hurting religious sentiments. Police detained the BJP leaders.BJP leader Kantandu Sharma said that the idols kept inside the temple were demolished as no time was given to vacate the premises. He added that GLADA initiated the drive amid pandemic when residents are struggling to put food on the table and have now been left homeless.The district BJP unit, led by president Pushpinder Singal, also staged a protest at Moti Nagar police station seeking FIR against the GLADA officials under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli¬gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli-gious beliefs). The protest was ongoing at the time this report was filed.Station house officer of Moti Nagar police station, Simranjit Kaur, said,”No FIR has yet been registered in the case yet and action will be taken after investigating the case properly.”GLADA officials said the temple building was illegal as it was established on government land and the drive was conducted in presence of a magistrate and heavy police force.As per sources, GLADA had conducted an anti-encroachment drive in the area around eight months back, but few were left behind as the occupants had said they would take them down themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anti-encroachment-drive-in-ludhiana-residents-protest-after-glada-razes-temple/story-qBCjMbMB7pbVfe8pUhY4cL.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Have set up 15 special cells, safe house to help intercaste married couples, govt tells HC||The Delhi government has informed the high court that it has issued an order for setting up 15 special cells to deal with complaints of harassment and threats to couples who marry out of their caste/religion and has also instituted a safe house to accommodate such persons.In the status report filed on Monday by Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, before a bench of justice JR Midha and justice Brijesh Sethi, the state home department said the decision to constitute the special cells was taken on August 28.In its report, the government also said a meeting was held on August 14 and it was decided that a special cell -- comprising the deputy commissioner of police, district social welfare officer and a representative of women and child development department -- shall be set up in each revenue district. However, in the next meeting on August 21, the government decided to set up these cells in each of the 15 police districts of Delhi. The status report was filed in response to a habeas corpus plea by an NGO and a man who claimed that the woman he wanted to marry was being confined against her will by her parents, who were opposed to the union over caste differences.The plea also claimed that the Supreme Court had directed the setting up of special cells to deal with problems faced by intercaste wedded couples and to ensure their protection, but this has not been complied with. The Supreme Court had also directed that the cells be headed by district superintendents of police, the document read. During the earlier hearing, the court had told the Delhi government that if no special cell has been constituted, then they should be set up before August 11 and the man’s complaint must be registered by the special cell and due action taken. Subsequently, on August 11, the Delhi government told the bench that appropriate steps were being taken to comply with the apex court directions.The status report said while initially it was decided that the social welfare department would create and manage a helpline meant solely for couples of intercaste marriages, later it was decided that the Delhi Commission for Women would help such couples through their existing helpline -- 181 -- meant for women safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/have-set-up-15-special-cells-safe-house-to-help-intercaste-married-couples-govt-tells-hc/story-6DhCzDVJHunf9FIvSSvzoO.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Onion export ban: Political parties, farmers organisations in Maharashtra oppose move||The Centre’s decision to ban the export of onions has turned controversial in Maharashtra as many political parties, as well as farmers organisations, have opposed the move.State Congress unit staged a statewide protest against the ban while senior NCP leader and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has criticised the Centre’s decision as “anti-farmer”. A delegation of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by the NCP chief Sharad Pawar is also going to Delhi to request the Centre to withdraw its decision. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has also decided to write a letter to the Centre demanding them to take back the decision.Even, the state BJP unit, opposition in the state, has urged the Centre to reverse it back. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has written a letter to the Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal requesting him to withdraw the decision immediately.On Monday, the Central government issued a notification and prohibited the export of onions. It has clarified that the decision was taken to control the rising prices of the commodity. The move doesn’t go well within the agrarian community especially in Maharashtra.On Wednesday, Congress leaders staged protests across districts and expressed their resentment. Party workers gathered at district headquarters to register their opposition. State Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat termed the move as “injustice to the farmers”. “The decision is an injustice to the farmers. We want the Centre to reverse it immediately and hence decided to mark our protest across the state,” he said.Ajit Pawar said, “The move is no less than enormity with the farmers as they were already in trouble due to Covid-19 pandemic and this will add to their miseries.”The issue was discussed in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday. State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said that the decision has led to a sharp decline in onion prices in markets that will cost huge losses to the farmers. “We have decided that a delegation headed by the NCP chief will meet the concerned central ministers and urge them to withdraw the notification,” the agriculture minister said after the cabinet meeting.Fadnavis in his letter states, “The onions produced in Maharashtra have good demand in the international market which helps them to get proper remuneration against the produce. They are hurt and unhappy with the decision. I request you reconsider it.”On Tuesday, Pawar had opposed the move and met Goyal in this regard. He has said that the ban on the export of onions would immensely benefit the exporters from Pakistan. The sudden decision is a major blow to India’s image as a reliable exporter of onions in the international market, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/onion-export-ban-political-parties-farmers-organisations-in-maharashtra-oppose-move/story-1JgQVNfTdts6fm153Ou00O.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Gang running betting racket attacks cops in Badli, three nabbed||A Delhi Police constable, posted with the special staff team of the outer-north district, was injured when a gang of five-six people allegedly attacked the police team that had gone to arrested people involved in running a betting racket in outer Delhi’s Badli area on Monday. Two more policemen were also manhandled by the alleged attackers, the police said.Three persons have been arrested in connection with the case, while raids are being conducted to nab the absconding attackers, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma said on Wednesday. The police did not disclose the names of the arrested men by saying that their probe is still on.DCP Sharma said that the special staff team had received information that some people were running a betting racket in Badli area. The team members who were not in uniform went to catch the betting operators.“They successfully raided the place where the betting racket was operating. A scuffle broke out when the police personnel tried to arrest the betting operators. They assaulted constable Ravi Kant who suffered injuries and manhandled two other policemen. While others managed to escape, one attacker was caught,” said a police officer from the special staff, requesting anonymity.The injured constable was admitted to a nearby hospital from where he was discharged the next day after treatment. “A case of assaulting and stopping the public servants from performing their duties was registered against the attackers and two more of have been arrested,” said DCP Sharma, adding that constable Ravi Kant was injured while trying to nab a snatcher a few weeks ago in north Delhi’s Burari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gang-running-betting-racket-attacks-cops-in-badli-three-nabbed/story-ESiEbwW0FTiZsIB81qShsK.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||2 govt primary schools in Ludhiana to be made fully air-conditioned||Two government primary schools in the district, GPS Nathowal and GPS Janatpura, will be made centrally air-conditioned to retain new students shifted from private schools.Government primary school, Janatpura, currently has a strength of 56 students compared to 30 in the last academic session. This year, 10 students from private schools have shifted to the school. The school building is under construction and NRI Jagir Singh has donated funds for the construction of the new classrooms. Inderjit Sidhu, an ETT teacher, said, “The youth welfare club, Janatpura, has decided to provide funds to the school to make it fully air-conditioned. Solar panels of five kilowatt will be installed which will generate more energy and save up to 5 lakh units of electricity annually.”At government primary school, Nathowal, 36 new students have enrolled and the strength has reached 106. The new building comprises five classrooms, office, staffroom, high tech library and kitchen. A mid-day meal hall is under construction and expected to be completed in the next few months. The Nathowal Welfare society, which is funded by NRIs, is contributing funds for the construction of the new building and will be providing Rs 25 lakh to make the school building fully air-conditioned. The society has decided to install solar panels which will help school authorities save on electricity bills.District education officer (elementary), Rajinder Kaur, said, “In the new academic session, the enrolment in primary schools have increased by 28.92%. More schools will be made air-conditioned in the future. Presently, both the schools are under construction, and by the next session, these facilities will be provided to the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-govt-primary-schools-in-ludhiana-to-be-made-fully-air-conditioned/story-ihuCVpvd1knQinhvxpr6NO.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Environment minister assess bio-decomposer method as a solution to stubble burning||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday inspected the functioning of a ‘bio-decomposer’ developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, which will help convert crop stubble into manure. The bio-decomposer , if successfully tested, could turn out to be a viable solution for Delhi’s winter pollution problem, which is worsened by crop stubble burning from neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, Rai said. Rai, who met with scientists of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute to understand this method, said he will discuss the technique, which involves spraying the decomposer liquid on crop stubble, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to work out a plan for its implementation. Every year between October 15 and October 30, the national capital faces the threat of plummeting air quality as a result of thick smoke blowing in from neighbouring states, where farmers set fire to their fields to get rid of the crop stubble . “Punjab produces 20 million tonnes of crop stubble, out of which 9 million tonnes was burnt last year. In Haryana, 1.23 million tonnes, out of the 7 million tonnes of crop produce, was burnt,” Rai said, quoting data submitted by the state pollution control boards. Data shows that last year, stubble burning accounted for 44% of Delhi’s air pollution. Rai said the Delhi government will provide the bio-decomposer to farmers free of cost and will also hold meetings with the governments of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh to reach out to farmers in their respective states to adopt this method. Rai said the Delhi government will also write to the Union environment ministry for coordination in implementing the bio-decomposer technique. “The cost of spraying the decomposer in fields will be borne by the Delhi government so that there is no financial burden on the farmers and an effective solution to the problem of stubble burning can be developed,” he said. The minister also said the Central government has devised a scheme, under which subsidy is provided to farmers for using machines to clear crop stubble. “I believe that the money spent on the purchase of machines and the subsidy can be used for the decomposition of stubble in these states. If successful, the technique will reduce smoke and air pollution, which becomes a prominent cause of Delhi’s deteriorating air quality every winter,” he said. An official of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute said it has received an advance order from the Uttar Pradesh government to demonstrate the technique on 25,000 hectares of land. He said around 10 companies are manufacturing the institute’s bio-decomposer on a large scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/environment-minister-assess-bio-decomposer-method-as-a-solution-to-stubble-burning/story-KFe8wbqm8y99bulqyKXvxH.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||RTI activists seek resumption of services of quasi-judicial bodies in Maharashtra||A group of Right to Information (RTI) activists have filed a petition in the Bombay high court seeking resumption of the functioning of quasi-judicial bodies including Central, state information commission, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), railways claim tribunal, income tax appellate tribunal and state electricity regulatory commission.The activists have filed public interest litigation (PIL) asking the court to direct the Maharashtra government to start work via video conferencing platform, as the work had stopped due to the ongoing pandemic situation.“We do not know for how long this situation will last. When other bodies have started functioning, why not the quasi-judicial bodies in Maharashtra resume work using online-mediums. We had approached the chief secretary asking for the same but got no reply. We then approached the Bombay high court. If the bodies are shut and non-functioning, then backlogs will go on piling up,” said Shailesh Gandhi, former, Central information commissioner.The RTI activists have also filed another PIL in the Bombay high court seeking a road map for the Maharashtra information commission to provide replies for the second appeal in RTI within 45 days.Citing second appeal reply in Maharashtra at times gets delayed for up to three years.“The Maharashtra information commission should follow the judgement of high courts in the country. The reply for the second appeal takes a lot of time. It often gets delayed. The citizens should know the truth and the government should speak about it. We have asked that the second appeal should be disposed of within 45 days.” said Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rti-activists-seek-resumption-of-services-of-quasi-judicial-bodies-in-maharashtra/story-jwWHLQnazXTWq2Fzy2EKXI.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University online exams: Exams being taken from cafes a mockery of the system, say academicians||With online examinations for final-semester students of PU-affiliated colleges starting on Thursday, private cafes across the state are offering facilities such as internet, laptops and A4 size sheets so the exam can be taken on their premises. Many academicians have expressed concern over this and said it is a mockery of the system as there will have no check on students. Book depots in Chaura Bazaar, Doraha and Khanna have stocked answer-sheets, each comprising 12 pages, available at a cost of ₹10 to ₹20. Social media sites and online marketplace platforms are flooded with posts from café owners and books depots offering facilities to students. Many students in the district which do not have internet connections, due to which they have to shell out ₹200 per exam to take them from cafes. Harpreet Kaur, a resident of Doraha and student from a PU-affiliated college, said, “I don’t know how to send the answer-sheet in PDF format, so I have decided to visit a cafe near my house. They are offering all necessary facilities and will upload the answer-sheet as well. Two of my friends are also going to the same café for the exam.” Kamalpreet Singh, a BA finalyear student, said, “ This is the first time I am appearing in an online exam and had no idea from where to get the answer-sheets from as they were provided by college authorities earlier. But this time, the situation is different, so I visited the books market and the answer sheets were easily available. I got it for all my five exams for ₹100.” Many academicians have stated that online exams are not the right way of testing, rather an open-book exam without any transparency. A member of the PU syndicate, Harpreet Singh Dua, said, “In a meeting of the coordination committee On September 1, it was decided that the matter should be forwarded to syndicate as there is no such provision in the present PU calendar to hold exams in such a manner. The university should have given sufficient time to colleges to gather data on how many students will appear online or offline. The syndicate should form a rule to conduct the exam.” RS Jhanji, syndicate member and principal, AS Khanna, said, “The varsity should have involved stakeholders to discuss the online examination. They should have opted for only one mode, as now, they have asked the colleges in rural areas to make arrangements for offline exams.”Colleges in rural areas have given student the option to submit answer-sheets to the college within two hours after the examPU-affiliated colleges in rural areas including Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Kottan, GNN College, Doraha and GTB College, Dakha have informed students that if they can’t submit the answer-sheets online, they can submit the same in a sealed envelope physically to the nearest nodal centre or college within two hours after the exam gets over. Officiating principal of GTB College, Dakha, Avtar Singh, said, “Over 20 final-year students have informed us that they will submit the answer-sheet to the college after attempting the exam online as they don’t know how to send it in PDF format.” Despite repeated attempts, Parvinder Singh, PU controller examination, could not be contacted for comments.For the convenience of the students, PU will be uploading the question papers on their website on September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-online-exams-exams-being-taken-from-cafes-a-mockery-of-the-system-say-academicians/story-kQRa2FKjtdtGjZ8fWJOFiJ.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||NCB arrested two persons with charas worth ₹35 lakh in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested two persons at Bhayander and recovered 2.40 kg charas from them. The cost of the recovered contraband in the international market is estimated at ₹35 lakh.The arrested accused Avinash Singh, 24, and Shravan Gupta, 38, are residents of Nallasopara. Acting on a tip-off, the NCB unit laid a trap and intercepted Singh near a sports complex in Bhayander (East). On checking, the officers found drugs which were concealed in his backpack. Eight taped packets of charas were stitched to clothes, said an NCB officer.During the interrogation, Singh revealed that on the instruction of the main supplier Baliram alias Balli, he was going to deliver the drugs to his accomplice Gupta. Singh also revealed that Gupta was in touch with him over the phone and was supposed to collect the backpack containing drugs from him, the officer said.The agency then arrested Gupta from the same locality in Bhayander. According to NCB, both the arrested accused appeared to be working for courier firms.We are now trying to trace the source of the drug and how it landed in Bhayander, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-arrested-two-persons-with-charas-worth-35-lakh-in-mumbai/story-9ZM5s3TI7Sx7SMXbnwlN6K.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case drug probe: Shruti Modi not quizzed as NCB member tests positive for Covid-19||A member of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) probing the alleged drug angle in Sushant Singh Rajput case has tested positive for Covid-19. Following this, Shruti Modi, the former business manager of Rajput, who was summoned by the agency for questioning, was sent back on Wednesday. The test results of the other members of the investigating team have come negative.NCB has so far arrested 18 people, including Rajput’s girlfriend actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and drug peddlers from Mumbai and Goa.NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra said, “One of the team members of the SIT (special investigation team) has tested positive for the coronavirus. We received the antigen test report on Tuesday morning. Other members of the NCB team were also tested and none of them is found to be infected with the virus.”“NCB had summoned Modi and Rhea Chakraborty’s talent manager Jaya Saha to join the investigation. Modi had reached NCB’s guest house in south Mumbai, but she was sent back. Saha was on her way, so she was asked not to come as one member from NCB had tested positive” said Malhotra, adding that both of them will be summoned later.Meanwhile, three drug peddlers Karamjeet Singh Anand, Dwayne Fernandes and Ankush Anreja, who were in NCB custody, were produced in the court on Wednesday. They have been remanded in judicial custody till September 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-drug-probe-shruti-modi-not-quizzed-as-ncb-member-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-BXqNuZrkqrLMtdPeUquybI.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||MbPT to upgrade its oil spill contingency plan for Mumbai and JNPT||Following the devastating oil spill in Mauritius, called the country’s worst ecological disaster, authorities in Mumbai are also looking at preparing and upgrading a comprehensive oil spill contingency plan that can be put into effect, in case of an emergency in the city. The Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT), which owns the eastern waterfront area in Mumbai, has floated a tender to appoint an agency to create a Tier-1 oil spill response facility for Mumbai and the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) harbour. According to the tender details accessed by HT, the consultant will be asked to carry out a quality risk assessment of oil spill, assess the oil spill trajectory in the worst-case scenario given different weather and sea conditions, carry out sensitivity mapping of the areas most likely to be affected, do a gap analysis of the required and available sources among various other parameters. The consultant will also be asked to prepare a contingency plan with the specific role and functions of the agencies involved. Captain Bhabatosh Chand, deputy conservator, head of marine department, MbPT, said, “We have a plan in place in case of an oil spill for the past five years. As the contract is ending, we are looking for a new agency. We are looking to upgrade it [the plan] and looking at new technology. A ready plan will aid us to control the situation in case of an emergency.” Recently, a Japanese bulk carrier ran aground on a reef on the south-east coast of Mauritius. MV Wakashio struck a coral reef on July 25, spilling about 1,000 tonnes of fuel and endangering corals, fish and other marine life in what some scientists have called the country’s worst ecological disaster. India has also sent equipment and personnel to help Mauritius contain the oil spill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mbpt-to-upgrade-its-oil-spill-contingency-plan-for-mumbai-and-jnpt/story-3MdgYyeI9ZqK0e8sDmuY8K.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt plans to introduce app-based bus service, trial runs likely in 2-3 months||With Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and cluster (orange) buses currently running at half capacity owing to Covid-19 restrictions, and in view of the widening demand and supply gap in public transport, the Delhi government is planning to implement a plan, pending for the past four years -- an app-based air-conditioned bus service. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot is likely to hold a meeting in this regard on Thursday. “The trial service may start within the next two or three months,” a senior transport official, privy to the matter, said on condition of anonymity. The project was under active consideration in the months of November and December last year, but it took a back seat owing to the Delhi Assembly elections, the north-east Delhi riots and then the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown. Under the scheme, the service will be similar to how app-based cab services such as Ola and Uber function. The tickets or bookings for these buses will be available only on the phone app or website.As per the draft prepared by the transport department, these buses will be under the premium segment and will have features such as Wi-Fi connectivity, entertainment systems, reclining seats, premium upholstery, GPS, CCTV cameras and panic buttons.This is not the first time that the government has talked about the scheme. The Delhi government had first given its nod for a premium bus service in May 2016. However, the proposal was struck down by then lieutenant-governor Najeeb Jung over the government not taking his approval first. In 2017 and 2018, the government again worked on the plan but it fizzled out because of permit issues.To ensure passengers are not overcharged, the state transport authority will fix the maximum and minimum fares. “Operators will have to fix the rates based on the distance travelled and payment will be accepted only through digital modes. The buses will be divided into clusters and each cluster will have at least 100 buses pressed into service during peak hours,” the draft scheme read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-plans-to-introduce-app-based-bus-service-trial-runs-likely-in-2-3-months/story-yZe0s3IyfRvW2HgSPmhVoO.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi court stays order to unlock residential parts of Nizamuddin Markaz||A Delhi court on Wednesday stayed the order directing the city police to hand over the keys of the residential portion to the Nizamuddin Markaz, which was sealed after numerous cases of Covid-19 were reported from among the people attending a Tablighi Jamaat congregation as well as living there in mid-March.The building was the first major Covid hot spot in the capital. Cases were also registered against Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad and several other attendees of the congregation for violating Covid-19 guidelines.On September 11, a magisterial court had directed the Delhi Police to hand over the keys to the residential portion of the building to Maulana Saad’s family. However, the police challenged the order in the sessions court and additional sessions judge (ASJ) Sandeep Yadav on Wednesday put a stay on the lower court order.The sessions court also issued a notice to Saad’s mother Khalida, on whose application the magisterial court had passed the order, and asked her to respond by October 8.The magisterial court had directed the Delhi Police to inspect the premises within five days and hand over keys to Saad’s family by Wednesday. It had further directed Khalida and her family members to give an undertaking that they would not obstruct the investigation in any manner and the residential portion of the property shall only be used for residing purposes and that they would not enter any other part of the markaz complex. The court had said that every citizen of India is entitled to the right to life and liberty, as guaranteed by the Constitution, and the right to access to residential property came under these sacrosanct rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-court-stays-order-to-unlock-residential-parts-of-nizamuddin-markaz/story-cUZI078iXwRLzXZRPHboDJ.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Woman duped of ₹5.54L in a matrimonial fraud in Mumbai||A 36-year-old telephone operator from Girgaum was duped into sending ₹5.54 lakh to a ‘foreign national’ who had met her through a Marathi matrimony app.According to VP Road police, the complainant approached them on Wednesday after she realised that her ‘fiance’ had cheated her.In her statement, the woman, who works at a builder’s office in Bandra, told police that she had registered on a Marathi matrimony app in June. In September, she received a WhatsApp message by a man named Sandip Raut, in which he said he was interested in marrying her. Raut allegedly told the complainant that he was a resident of California, United States of America, and had got her details from the matrimony site.After chatting for a few hours, Raut told the woman that he was sending some gifts for her worth ₹57,000 through US-based Kings Cargo Courier, and also gave her a link to the courier company.On September 7, the complainant received an email from Kings Cargo Courier, stating that her parcel was ready for shipping and that she would receive it the following day. The company also gave her the name of the delivery agent — Aparna KR and details of her bank account, stating that she would have to pay ₹57,000 before the delivery. The woman was told that the amount would be refunded after delivery of the parcel.The complainant transferred the amount through mobile banking, however, the same day she received another email stating that the parcel contained US dollars, which was illegal to be couriered to India. It further stated that she would have to get permission from the government or pay ₹1.55 lakh and a fine of ₹16,000 as late fees.She was then given the name of Kalikadevi and her bank account. The complainant sent a cheque of ₹1.55 lakh to the woman, but on September 10 she received yet another email stating that she would have to pay ₹3.36 lakh, equivalent to the dollars contained in the parcel. The woman did the needful and got an email confirming that her parcel had reached India.On Tuesday, she received an email stating that an additional amount of ₹9.55 lakh should be paid to get the parcel.Since she did not have that much money, the complainant contacted Raut, who instructed her to delete her matrimony registration immediately. She did as instructed but when she asked for the money, Raut told her that the courier company had duped her and he had nothing to do with. He then stopped answering her calls or replying to her messages.“The woman realised that she was cheated and approached us. We registered an offence based on her complaint,’ said inspector Santosh Kadam of VP Road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-duped-of-5-54l-by-man-whom-she-met-on-matrimony-app/story-tJwtEXD5xksMyMuTqxGTQM.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||RTE admissions: Only 53% students confirm seats in Mumbai||Even as the education department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had given special concessions to students selected under the 25% Right to Education (RTE) quota in city schools, only about 53% students managed to confirm seats in the first round. Till September 15, which was the last day to confirm admissions under the quota, only 2,928 of the 5,371 students who were allotted schools in the first round managed to complete their admission process. This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the education department had allowed parents to send their documents to schools online. They were also given time to report to schools in slots given to them to confirm their admissions later. However, very few parents confirmed admissions. In 2019, almost a similar number of students had confirmed their admissions. Officials at the department said that the low numbers despite the relaxations in the process might be a result of migration of parents due to job losses. “Many children are yet to come back to the city from their hometowns. Some parents who might have applied for a seat might not be able to come back due to financial losses. Schools were asked to follow up with all the selected students and the final number is arrived at after having told them to confirm their seats on many occasions,” said an official from the department. This year, a total of 14,135 applications were received for the 7,069 available seats under the quota in the city. Students whose names have appeared on the waiting list will be eligible to claim seats against vacancies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rte-admissions-only-53-students-confirm-seats-in-mumbai/story-lJCXl7FfkJiStXJ7wEvRlL.html
16-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi constable died of Covid-19||Anamika Gharat A 48-year-old constable from Bhiwandi Bhoiwada police station died due to coronavirus infection on Tuesday evening. He was admitted to the hospital 10 days ago due to severe weakness as he was suffering from jaundice. Later, he tested positive during treatment.“The police constable was on duty till September 1. Later, he suffered from weakness for which he took leave and got admitted at Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital after being diagnosed with jaundice. He tested Covid-19 positive, and due to breathing issues, he died on Tuesday evening. He is survived by his wife and three children. We have provided all support to his family,” said an officer from Bhiwandi Bhoiwada police station.Meanwhile, Thane Police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar was discharged on Wednesday from Fortis Hospital in Mulund, after he recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-constable-died-of-covid-19/story-5n2eg45FlDpbyUF5D4pHvO.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra approves free treatment scheme for road accident victims||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced a road accident insurance scheme under which anyone who gets injured in road mishap is eligible for free treatment in hospitals. The scheme, named after Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray, will cost the state exchequer ₹125 crore annually. The Balasaheb Thackeray Road Accident Insurance Scheme was approved in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday.The government has also decided to fill up more than 12,500 vacant posts for constables in the state police force. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said the move would give job opportunities to youth from both rural and urban areas. At present, there are 12,528 posts of constables vacant in the state, for which a recruitment drive will be held.The road accident scheme will provide free treatment up to ₹30,000 to any person injured in a road accident in the state. “It aims at saving lives by providing immediate treatment in the golden hour,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.He said that anyone who gets injured even if he is not from Maharashtra will be considered to get benefit of the scheme. Around 74 types of treatment that are needed in case of road accidents have been included in the scheme.“The injured person can get treatment at a government or private hospital under the insurance scheme. The insurance company will be determined through a tendering process,” Tope added.The scheme is formulated on the lines of Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana wherein empanelled hospitals treat patients and recover the cost from insurance providers sanctioned by the state government. A dedicated helpline will also be set-up for effectively implementing the road accident scheme, which was first proposed in 2017 by the then health minister Deepak Sawant but wasn’t approved.In Maharashtra, around 13,000 people lose lives in road accidents while around 40,000 get injured every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-approves-free-treatment-scheme-for-road-accident-victims/story-FDPR09XLfM9eym8rDUq9lI.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court rejects bail plea of Iqbal Mirchi’s aide Humayun Merchant||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday rejected the bail application of gangster Iqbal Mirchi’s close aide Humayun Merchant. Merchant, who has been lodged in Taloja jail since his arrest in October 2019, had approached the HC for bail on medical grounds after the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court rejected his bail application twice. Earlier in May, the HC had dismissed a petition by Merchant wherein he had challenged the decision of the high-power committee (HPC) to exclude undertrials and convicts arrested and sentenced for serious economic offences. After his petition was dismissed, Merchant, who is over 70 years of age and suffers from various ailments, moved for bail on medical grounds. The bench of justice Bharati Dangre while hearing Merchant’s bail plea, which was filed immediately after the special PMLA court denied him bail for a second time in February, was informed that his continued detention was against the doctrine ‘bail is rule, jail an exception’, and hence he should be granted bail. While seeking bail in HC, Merchant had submitted that his detention was unsolicited and added that due to his health condition and the rising Covid-19 cases in jails, he should be granted bail. ED, however, opposed the plea alleging that Merchant had “planted” tenants to purportedly usurp three immovable properties — Sea View, Marium Lodge and Rabia Mansion in Worli — belonging to Sir Mohammad Yusuf Trust. It also had also alleged that Merchant then facilitated the deal to develop these buildings. The probing agency had also submitted that as all health-related issues of inmates were being taken care of by jail authorities, he should not be granted bail. The bench accepted the submissions and rejected the bail application.In October 2019, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested Merchant while investigating the property dealings of late gangster Iqbal Mirchi — a close aide of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim — in a money-laundering case. ED termed him a “frontman” who was given the power of attorney by Mirchi after the latter fled the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-iqbal-mirchi-s-aide-humayun-merchant/story-POUQhA4GtLdc1sAEqXpdTJ.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||No Kurla terminus on Mumbai Metro-2B line: MMRDA||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) announced on Wednesday that it has scrapped plans for the Kurla terminus station on the Metro-2B line, which will run from DN Nagar in Andheri to Mandale.In a statement released on Wednesday, the nodal authority for Metro projects in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) said the planned station was in the way of the restricted airport funnel zone. Also, the distance between the proposed terminus and SG Barve Marg station on the same line is only about 474 meters. Finally, MMRDA said that the location for the station would mean it would be “sandwiched” between the current Santacruz Chembur Link Road (SCLR) rail overbridge and another permanent structure.In an email to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and MMRDA’s metropolitan commissioner, right-to-information activist Anil Galgali questioned MMRDA’s decision to scrapping the Kurla terminus on Wednesday. Galgali contended that the station could be an important node for commuters. “Why did MMRDA not call for suggestions/objections from citizens if they are making changes to the plan? The station is very much in the detailed project report of Metro-2B, then why did they delete it?” Galgali wrote in his mail to Thackeray. Previously, MMRDA had scrapped the station that was to be built on Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Road and officials said that this station would overlap with the Kalanagar flyover ramp. They also said shifting the station’s alignment would mean there would be hardly any distance between it and the station near the income tax office. Metro-2B is a 23.64-km long elevated corridor which was supposed to have 22 stations, but with the scrapping of two stations it will have 20 stations. The corridor is expected to reduce travel time between Mumbai’s eastern and western suburbs by 40 to 55 minutes and result in a 30 to 35℅ consequent reduction in vehicular traffic. The cost of the project is ₹10,986 crore and it is expected to be operational around 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-kurla-terminus-on-mumbai-metro-2b-line-mmrda/story-ZtBG0cNR9YdTiIxpAbEjAJ.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||SC stay on Maratha quota: Maharashtra to finalise legal move in two days||The Maharashtra government has decided to finalise its next legal move in two days to vacate the Supreme Court’s (SC) stay on the implementation of Maratha reservation. The decision was taken at the all-party meet convened by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. On September 9, the Apex court stayed the implementation of Maratha quota in jobs and education and referred the case to a to a larger constitution bench. The stay is a political setback to the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state as the move has stalled the ongoing admission process and created discontent in the Maratha community. This, in turn, has given the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) another issue to target the Thackeray-led government.Thackeray, however, seemed confident of the support of the Opposition and even praised BJP after the meeting. “We will approach the Supreme Court to lift the stay. In the next two days, we will consult all legal experts and decide on further course of action,” he said. Opposition parties, which blamed the MVA government for failing to uphold the quota in the Apex court, however said they would cooperate with the government. “We feel the best option is to approach the Chief Justice and request him to constitute a larger bench,” said Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of Opposition. Fadnavis, however, took a dig at the MVA government and said, “During my tenure as chief minister, I was in constant touch with lawyers, and it was like a running commentary even when they were in the SC. The state government should have approached us before. However, we have decided to leave the past behind as our aim is to get reservation for Marathas.” The Supreme Court in its order held that Marathas do not need reservation, saying the state government has not shown any “extraordinary situation” which warrants the reservation. After the verdict, Maratha outfits started protests against MPs and MLAs. Thackeray has once again appealed to protesters to call of their agitation. “The government is committed to give you reservation and we are all one in this fight,” said Thackeray.Vinayak Mete, who represents the Shiv Sangram party, asked the government to rein in the police who are acting against the protesters and withdraw all cases against protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sc-stay-on-maratha-quota-maharashtra-to-finalise-legal-move-in-two-days/story-thcV4X3M4iT81oC3kOJsxN.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cop booked for rape, cheating||VP Road police booked a 51-year-old constable for allegedly sexually assaulting a 44-year-old Girgaum resident.A first information report (FIR) was registered on September 15 after the police received a written complaint that the constable was exploiting the complainant since the past nine months under the pretext of marriage. The constable is yet to be arrested.The accused is attached to Worli unit of the local arms branch. The survivor they became friends in January this year and that the accused had promised to marry her after divorcing his wife. “The accused later sexually assaulted her on multiple occasions. He also took money from her by saying that his salary was not credited due to ongoing pandemic situation,” a police officer said.According to the survivor, the accused took around ₹1,70,000 from her citing various reasons such as purchasing mobile phone, shoes, clothes, fuel, and medicines. The accused allegedly physically assaulted her when she refused to give him money. Following this, the woman lodged the complaint.An officer from VP Road police station said, “We have recorded her statement and registered the FIR against the constable.”The accused has been booked under sections 376 (rape), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-cop-booked-for-rape-cheating/story-J1TbcOIYFVPuh2sHNb6NAM.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Security guard arrested for molesting 8-year-old girl in Mumbai||Kandivli police on Wednesday arrested a 31-year-old security guard for allegedly molesting an eight-year-old girl outside her building lift.The girl’s mother informed police that on Tuesday around 3pm, her daughter was going to the store. When she reached the lift, the security guard allegedly touched her inappropriately.The girl later narrated the incident to her mother, who then filed a police complaint against the guard. An officer from Kandivli police station said the accused has been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/security-guard-arrested-for-molesting-8-year-old-girl-in-mumbai/story-pTeHDhvjfLAL2q4klzk0PP.html
16-09-2020||City||Woman’s body found floating in a Panvel dam||An unidentified body of a woman in her late thirties was found in a dam in Morbe village of Panvel taluka on Wednesday. The body was tied spirally from head to toe, with iron wires and rope. There were cement blocks as well tied on to the body to allegedly immerse the body completely into the dam.According to police, since the body bloated due to retention of water, it came up floating. It took around 45 minutes for the police only to cut the wire tied around the body.“We are yet to get the post mortem report to find the cause and time of death. The body was decomposed and it was suspected that it was at least a 48-hours-old body. We are scrutinising the missing person’s complaint in nearby areas. A case of murder has been registered,” said senior police inspector Ashok Rajput of Panvel taluka police station. The police said that the body was tied up in ‘Mummy’ style.The dam is located in an isolated area and adivasi padas are situated around 3 km away from the dam. On Wednesday morning, when a few boys were going to another village by crossing the dam, they noticed the floating body and alerted the people nearby, who in turn informed the police. Police suspected that the lady could be from one of the nearby villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-s-body-found-floating-in-a-panvel-dam/story-FXnqxhCwYkQwxKRtQIOL3K.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||SDMC to de-seal over 600 properties in residential areas locked over past three years||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to de-seal over 600 properties that were sealed by the monitoring committee in residential areas between 2017 and 2020. Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in the SDMC, said the civic body has started preparing a list of such properties, located in residential areas falling in the four zones of the south civic body.He said nearly 615 properties were sealed over illegal constructions by the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee between 2017 and 2020. On August 14, the Supreme Court had ruled that the monitoring committee was meant to take action against commercial units operating in residential areas and upon encroachments on public land. The apex court had specified that civic bodies will have the authority under law to take action against illegal construction in residences.“We have identified that overall 615 properties can be de-sealed. As many as 194 properties are in the Central zone, 146 in West zone, 13 in Najafgarh zone and the remaining in the South zone. The de-sealing process will start soon. No fee will be charged from owners for the process,” Chawla said.He said many of these properties were sealed because owners made illegal extensions, such as security guard cabins or a similar structure, in the stilt parking area of the property. “In many of these cases, violations were compoundable (settled through fines or similar penalty). The civic body will later figure out whether to impose a fine and regularise the construction or take action against violators. “But for now, we are going to de-seal these properties,” Chawla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-to-de-seal-over-600-properties-in-residential-areas-locked-over-past-three-years/story-OfiIiA8ebLkxMbLaqKo0wN.html
16-09-2020||City||Senior inspector in Maharashtra’s Palghar district donates plasma||A senior inspector who was heading the Covid cell of Palghar police has donated convalescent plasma on Monday at Sathiya Trust blood bank in Nallasopara. Jitendra Vankoti was admitted for Covid-19 on August 14 and discharged on 21 August.“Around 400ml of plasma was donated by Vankoti which could be used to treat two critically-ill Covid-19 patients,” said Vijay Mahajan, director of the Sathiya Trust run blood bank since 2002.Convalescent plasma therapy is extracting plasma from recovered patients 21-28 days after their discharge and injecting it into a critically ill Covid-19 patient, said Mahajan. The antibodies developed in a recovered patient helps fight against the virus in critical patients. A recovered patient can donate once a fortnight up to 4 months after discharge, he added.“However, so far only 25 persons have donated plasma. Another Vasai resident Rajendra Dage has donated plasma three times and saved many lives,” said Mahajan.Vankoti said he will again donate plasma after the specified period and save lives of other infected policemen.Meanwhile, in the Palghar police district, around 529 patients have tested positive with 90 admitted to various Covid care centres in Vasai and Wada. Around 435 patients have been discharged and four deaths of cops have been recorded till Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-inspector-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-district-donates-plasma/story-5dViBUrxE8HJIR1eZXE9XK.html
16-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Four injured in shooting during illegal sand mining||Four members of a family were injured on Tuesday in Yakubpur village after they were allegedly shot at by another family from Dalelpur village who was trying to take sand in an illegal mining operation. One of the suspects was arrested, the police said, adding that a case has been registered at Expressway police station. Police officials said that the clash was the result of an ongoing conflict between two farming families -- Monu’s family from Yakubpur village and Satveer Tyagi’s family from Dalelpur village under Knowledge Park police station.“These are adjoining villages. The two families have had conflicts on earlier occasions too. On Tuesday, members from Satveer’s family came to Yakubpur village to take away sand, but were stopped by Monu who claimed that they were encroaching upon his family’s property. This led to an altercation which soon escalated to physical blows,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.He said that Satveer’s family then started using weapons. Four people from Monu’s side sustained injuries in the incident. According to the police, while Monu’s father Santi had a serious head injury, another family member was injured to his leg with an empty shell after bullets were also fired.The police have recovered a rifle, 18-20 live cartridges, at least two shell casings of different makes, a car and a tractor in which sand was being filled from the spot, the officials said. Satveer, 40, was arrested while the others managed to flee, the police said, adding that they are also working to verify whether the weapons used were licensed or not.“Other villagers informed us about the violence after which a police team was rushed to the spot and the injured were taken to the hospital for treatment. They are out of danger,” said Yogesh Malik, station house officer, Expressway police station.Monu, one of the victims, said that when he went to his fields around 10 am, he saw Satveer and some other people taking the sand from his fields. “When I confronted them, they started threatening me and then left. I immediately informed my father and brother. After a while, they came back to our fields with some other people and were armed with weapons,” he said.Monu said that his family was brutally attacked and it was with the intervention of other people that the situation was brought under control.Based on the Monu’s complaint, a case was registered at the Expressway police station against Satveer, his son, and three other family members under sections of rioting, attempt to murder, attempt to homicide, causing hurt, and criminal intimidation of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Mines Act, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-four-injured-in-shooting-during-illegal-sand-mining/story-KJm7geLIiFvDffB0XzK9LK.html
16-09-2020||Noida||Men suspected of robbing Aligarh jewellery store nabbed in Noida after encounter||Three men in their early twenties, suspected of robbing a jewellery store in Aligarh at gunpoint earlier this month, were nabbed by the Noida police following an encounter on Wednesday afternoon.The suspects were identified as Saurabh, Rohit and Mohit, all are natives of Aligarh. On Wednesday afternoon, extensive checking was going on near the Okhla Barrage area.“During the routine checking, the suspects riding a motorcycle were asked to stop by a police team. However, they didn’t stop and tried to flee. They were chased by our team while information was relayed to other mobile units as well. Finding themselves being cornered, the suspects left their bike and started fleeing on foot. They also fired at the police team chasing them, and in the retaliatory firing, the suspects were injured,” said Luv Kumar, joint commissioner of police (law and order), Gautam Budh Nagar.The injured men were taken to the district hospital for treatment. “During the transport to hospital, they were questioned and it was found that they were involved in the Aligarh robbery that took place a few days back,” said Kumar.On September 11, a jewellery store in Aligarh was allegedly robbed by three men who had decamped with valuables worth ₹35 lakh from there. A CCTV grab of the purported incident had been circulated widely on social media.Police officials said that a bag was recovered from the suspects in which gold jewellery was found. They suspect that the men were probably on their way to Delhi to sell off the jewellery.“We are working on verifying the value of the jewellery recovered from them, and if it is linked to the Aligarh incident. So far, they have denied involvement in any other case and their criminal history is also being checked,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The police have seized their motorcycle and countrymade pistols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/men-suspected-of-robbing-aligarh-jewellery-store-nabbed-in-noida-after-encounter/story-skrdrDwyNRBUvhRwiDBfhJ.html
16-09-2020||City||District Consumer Forum is now District Commission; will hear cases of value up to ₹1 crore||Under the Consumer Protection Act 2019 which came into effect from July 20, the district Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has now become District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. Consumers and advocates welcomed the upgrading of the forum to a commission in the district and said it will be more beneficial for consumers as it will decrease the case load at the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.“The District Commission (earlier referred to as District Forum) can now entertain consumer complaints having value up to ₹1 crore. Earlier the limit was ₹20 lakh,” Gunjan Sharma, advocate and representative of the Consumer Forum Advocates’ Association said Tuesday.“The State Commission can entertain disputes where such value exceeds ₹1 crore but not more than ₹10 crore, while the National Commission can exercise jurisdiction where such value exceeds ₹10 crore,” said Sharma.According to him, earlier the State Commission pecuniary jurisdiction was between ₹20 lakh and ₹1 crore and that of the National Commission above ₹1crore. “The new act will decrease the load on the National Commission,” he added.“The New Act has widened the definition of ‘consumer’. The definition now includes any person who buys any goods, whether through offline or online transactions, electronic means, teleshopping, direct selling or multi-level marketing,” said Sharma.According to District Courts Bar Association president Sanjeev Verma, the New Act will establish a new regulatory authority known as the Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) which will have an investigation wing, headed by a Director-General, which may conduct an inquiry or investigation into violation of consumer rights or unfair trade practices.“The new Act also contains within it enabling provisions for consumers to file complaints electronically and for hearing and/or examining parties through video-conferencing. This will take time as digital infrastructure has to be provided at district commission,” said Verma.He added that the Act has made it a criminal offence to publish false or misleading advertisement for manufacturers and services providers. “If found guilty, they could be sentenced to imprisonment for up to two years, besides fined upto ₹10 lakh,” said Verma.Meanwhile, the District Consumer Commission, which had been non-functional since June 16 as all posts were lying vacant, now has a president and a member. “I and one member have joined and started work from August 21. The Act will be more beneficial for consumers,” said Anil Kumar Pundir president, District Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-consumer-forum-is-now-district-commission-will-hear-cases-of-value-up-to-1-crore/story-13pfET9A7TCnpHPkchnZ1O.html
16-09-2020||City||Two persons arrested for murdering farmer leader in Jewar||Police on Wednesday arrested two suspects for the murder of a farmer leader in Neemka village in Jewar, which took place on September 2. The victim, Pradeep Atri, 26, was allegedly called by the arrested men – Lawrence and his brother Vipin Singh – and some other suspects at a dhaba where he was shot dead. Police said Pradeep was associated with a farmers’ union and was actively involved in social activities. Police said the suspects allegedly had personal enmity with the victim for over a year.Arvind Pradhan, Atri’s uncle and former village head, alleged that the murder was due to personal enmity. “The personal enmity started last year, when a woman from our village was married to someone in Ballabgarh. When the woman visited her hometown on Raksha Bandhan, the suspect Vipin lured the woman and eloped with her,” he alleged.Arvind alleged that Pradeep, as a farmer leader, felt bad over the incident. “He intervened and helped the woman’s family trace and get her back. Since then, Vipin, Lawrence and his family had developed a grudge against Pradeep,” he added.Rampal Singh, Pradeep’s father, filed a complaint at the Jewar police station after the incident. He alleged that on September 2 at 7pm, Lawrence had called Pradeep on his mobile phone and asked him to come to a dhaba on Jewar Khurja road. “There were some people already sitting at the dhaba. They had an argument, following which they shot him in the abdomen,” he alleged. Locals heard the gunshots and informed the victim’s family. The victim was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead, Rampal added.Rampal named ten persons, including the arrested suspects, in the FIR. Locals had also protested in the village and demanding action against the suspects after the incident took place.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said a case was registered against the ten suspects under Section 302 (murder) and Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. “Police investigation revealed that the victim and suspects had personal enmity over a woman in the past. We have arrested the two suspects – Lawrence and Vipin - and launched a search to arrest the absconding persons,” he said. The victim is survived by his wife and three minor daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-persons-arrested-for-murdering-farmer-leader-in-jewar/story-AskWnOEQvP9PyWc3M0q44I.html
16-09-2020||Noida||Noida authority submits action plan to clean Kondli drain, says will 2-3 years||One of the major causes of pollution in the Yamuna, the stinking murky waters of the Kondli drain may take another two to three years to get cleaned as the Noida authority as finally submitted an action plan to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Tuesday. The nine-point action plan includes ensuring high-rise societies and industries don not release untreated sewage into drains; strengthening existing sewage network in the city; more public toilets;constructing more sewage treatment plant (STPs); checking encroachments around the drain; and treating the drain through six constructed wetlands. The 40-years-old and 20km long Kondli drain originates from Kondli village in Delhi and enters Noida (via Ghaziabad) near Hari Darshan police post in Sector 11. After travelling through Noida for about 17km, through Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 22, Sector 50, Sector 92 and Sector 168, it empties into the Yamuna near Chak Mangrola in Sector 168. Various studies, done over the years, have identified the sewage carrying Kondli drain to be the main cause of pollution in the Yamuna. According to a report submitted by the Central Pollution Control Board in the NGT, the estimated sewage generation in Noida is 216 million litres a day (MLD) of which only 152 MLD is being treated while the remaining 64 MLD flows through the Kondli drain into the Yamuna.“Treating Kondli drain is one of our priorities and the work on the action plan submitted by us has already begun. Each plan has been given set target -- checking of all high-rises and industries may take one year; enhancing STPs by 180 MLD would take four years; and upgrading the sewage network will take two years. The constructed wetland over the drain may probably take two years. So, for the overall cleaning of Kondli drain, we may about two or three. But concerned agencies in Delhi also need to work at tandem because the drain is more polluted when it enters Noida from Delhi,” said Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority. It was he who compiled the action plan. He added that the authority has already inspected over 68 high-rise societies to check if they are treating their sewage and action has been initiated against violators. The action plan submitted by the authority also involves tapping and channelising the 30 small floodwater drains that illegally carry sewage into the Kondli drain, as a long term remedial issue. “A third party agency has been hired to study these 30 floodwater drains and check their connectivity to ascertain if they can be intercepted and redirected to the STPs for treatment,” Tripathi said. On the constructed wetlands – an artificial wetland that treats the drain naturally -- that will be built along Kondli to naturally treat the effluents, the action plan stated that the detailed project report was being prepared by the irrigation department. “Six wetlands, each about 500 metres in length, will be constructed over the Noida portion of the Kondli drain. An agreement is to be signed between our department and the Noida authority, after which work will start. Once constructed, it will be a unique project in India -- one where a drain is treated naturally through wetlands on such a large scale,” VK Pandey, assistant engineer, Uttar Pradesh Irrigation Department, said. The legal battle to clean the Kondli drain was initiated by Noida resident and environment activist Abhisht Kusum Gupta in NGT in November 2018. The next date of hearing in the matter is in November 2020. “It had been two years and we are still talking of making plans to clean the drain while residents suffer and the Yamuna continues to be polluted,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-submits-action-plan-to-clean-kondli-drain-says-will-2-3-years/story-h9Tepe5ie2NhMV5PZT3CqO.html
16-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad revives 74MLD sewage treatment plant in Indirapuram||Ghaziabad: At least three major sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the district, facing operational issues and allegedly discharging untreated water into river Hindon, are now in the process of revival. Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) said that one of them -- 74 million litres a day (MLD) capacity STP at Indirapuram -- was made fully functional on Tuesday after it was handed over to a company under ‘one city, one operator’ scheme. The other two STPs -- 56 MLD capacity at Indirapuram and 70MLD at Dundahera which are also facing issues due to old technology -- will be made fully functional soon, the officials said. SK Singh, project manager from VA Tech Wabag, the company which has now taken up STPs, said that the 74 MLD STP at Indirapuram faced operational issues. “It was taking the sewage from the Sahibabad drain, but not properly treating it. We have replaced equipment and made the STP functional. It is likely to achieve the quality benchmark (of biochemical oxygen demand of less than 10 mg/litre) within a week. But it is treating only 32 MLD of sewage as the outlet of the STP campus is small,” he said. To enhance the capacity of the outlet from the STP campus at Indirapuram, the UP Jal Nigam is presently taking up a project which is likely to get complete by end of November against its earlier timeline of July. The delay is due to lockdown, the officials said. Singh said that the other 56 MLD STP at Indirapuram and 70 MLD STP at Dundahera also face similar issues and the company is in the process of upgrading them too. “The two STPs are also facing issues in treating sewage. They were handed over to us in January as part of the project. We are in process of making them fully operational,” he added. The campus at Indirapuram has three STPs whose discharge goes through a common outlet and thereafter gets drained into Hindon near Chijarsi. The third STP (with 56 MLD capacity) at Indirapuram is maintained by the Ghaziabad Development Authority and fully functional. As a result of the untreated waste flowing from STPs into Hindon, the river stretch at Chijarsi sampling location had no traces of dissolved oxygen (DO) from January to July this year, barring April. The data from the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) shows that at sampling location of Chijarsi, the DO levels were 1.7 mg/litre in April while it was zero for the other six months, January to March and May to July. “It is because of the issues with the STPs that untreated waste water was flowing into the river. This is why the sampling location at Chijarsi was showing zero levels of DO during the lockdown period. Since majority of industrial units were closed during the lockdown period, the DO levels were zero,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB. The dissolved oxygen level in a river is one of the major indicators of its health and high DO levels are suitable for survival of aquatic life and further higher levels make it even fit for drinking purposes. The GMC officials said that the STPs in Ghaziabad were built about 20 years ago and had old technologies. “The STPs have been facing issues for the past couple of years. The state government handed over the STPs to the company. The STPs were not meeting the required benchmark and there were some petitions filed with the National Green Tribunal in this regard. So, the rehabilitation of the STPs is now in progress and it is likely that they will be fully revived by March next year,” said BK Singh, general manager (water works), GMC.According to UPPCB’s ‘action plan for restoration of polluted stretches of Hindon’, the entire stretch of the river from Saharanpur to Ghaziabad has 10 STPs which have a combined capacity of treating 524.5 MLD of sewage but the capacity utilization is only 224 MLD, about 43% of the installed capacity. The Ghaziabad district has a total of eight STPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-revives-74mld-sewage-treatment-plant-in-indirapuram/story-BVXCnIUlV11otoetA7Ku0O.html
16-09-2020||Noida||Ridership on Aqua Line increases nearly fivefold within a week||Noida Metro Rail Corporation’s (NMRC) Aqua Line that connects Noida to Greater Noida has recorded nearly a fivefold increase in ridership since it resumed operations post-lockdown on September 7. The 29.70km Aqua Line, which connects Noida to Greater Noida, has 21 stations of which 15 are in Noida and six in Greater Noida. On Day One, when it ran curtailed operations, it had a ridership of 600 passengers. On September 12, full-fledged operations were resumed, and on Tuesday, it recorded a ridership of 2,882, although the previous day it had recorded 3,241. Sandhya Sharma, NMRC deputy general manager, said, “From September 7-11, the metro services were available in the morning hours (7am to 11am) and evening hours (5pm to 9pm) with trains running at a frequency of 15 minutes. From September 12, trains ran through the day (6am to 10pm).” Sharma said NMRC was following all Covid-19 safety standards essential for a safe Metro travel such as compulsory masks, temperature checks, social distancing norms and one-bag rule. Praveen Mishra, executive director, NMRC, said, “We are observing all safety norms and the ridership is gradually increasing. We hope that more people will use the metro as they get a sense of confidence,” he said. However, the post-lockdown ridership is still significantly lower than what it was before the pandemic arrived. On March 16, for example, the Line recorded a ridership of 19,064. It suspended operations following the Janta Curfew on March 22, three days before the nationwide lockdown was announced. NMRC officials felt that since several business houses and academic institutions were yet to open, the ridership was yet to reach full potential. On Tuesday, NMRC also organised a workshop to sensitise the staff towards the transgender community. The workshop was organised by an NGO that works closely with the community and is involved in generating awareness in society. The NMRC has recently dedicated its Sector 50 metro station to the transgender community and renamed it as “Rainbow Station.” The metro has also recently come out with vacancies for persons of the transgender community to provide them with employment opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ridership-on-aqua-line-increases-nearly-fivefold-within-a-week/story-YAomrAYo5MO2cNSSvOIkOP.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid death toll crosses 100 in Chandigarh, mayor among 366 +ve||Covid-19 fatalities breached the 100 mark with six more people confirmed dead in Chandigarh on Wednesday.All six were men, five of whom were 60 or above. In fact, 60% of 101 patients who have died so far were senior citizens, with diabetes or hypertension being most common comorbid condition among them.Among those confirmed dead on Wednesday, there was a 94-year-old man from Sector 11, suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and hypertension. Others include two men, aged 60, from Sector 29 and Ram Darbar, and two, aged 78 and 75, from Sector 35 and 22, respectively, besides a 46-year-old diabetes patient.Around 55% of the deaths have been reported in September alone.366 fresh cases, active tally past 3KWith 366 people testing positive, the number of active cases went past 3,000 for the first time while the total has reached 8,958.Mayor Raj Bala Malik is among those who tested positive on Wednesday. Sharing the news on Twitter, she asked everyone who came in contact with her in the past three days to isolate themselves and get tested if they had any symptoms.Meanwhile, with 181 patients being discharged, the number of those cured has reached 5,683 and the number of active cases stands at 3,171.Three dead, 148 +ve in MohaliA 75-year-old Kharar man was among three people who succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali district on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 148.The elderly man was suffering from hypertension, stated a health release. The other two who died have been identified as men, aged from 31 and 39, from Dera Bassi.Meanwhile, 249 people tested positive for the virus. The total number of cases confirmed so far has reached 7,374, of which 2,443 are active. As many as 4,783 patients have recovered, 123 of whom were discharged on Wednesday.Teen among 2 dead in PanchkulaIn Panchkula, two patients, including a 14-year-old girl, died of the infection while 110 people, including a civil hospital doctor, tested positive.The girl was from Indira Colony and was suffering from tuberculosis. The other person who died was a 60-year-old man from Pinjore.There are 4,496 confirmed cases in the district, of which 1,272 are active after 3,171 patients were cured and 53 died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-death-toll-crosses-100-in-chandigarh-mayor-among-366-ve/story-Y6fdSXvPNzzRfGpFcUt0GP.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt adds two new names to the list of Covid-19 designated hospitals||As the coronavirus cases in national capital continue to rise, the Delhi government on Wednesday declared two hospitals as partial Covid-19 designated hospitals in the city for admitting confirmed/suspected cases of coronavirus.With this, Deen Dayal Upadhya Hospital and Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital are now the new addition to the list of designated Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi, according to a report in ANI. There are total 37 Covid designated hospitals in Delhi.Delhi on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day spike. With the city reporting 4,473 new Covid-19 cases today, Delhi’s tally jumped to more than 2.30 lakh. The previous highest single-day spike, which was recorded on Saturday last week, was of 4,321 cases, according to PTI data.The city’s active coronavirus cases tally on Wednesday rose to 30,914 from yesterday’s count of 29,787 cases, according to the health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-adds-two-new-names-to-the-list-of-covid-19-designated-hospitals/story-XOy47pzPthNvwtUpXBtA3O.html
16-09-2020||City||ICU bed occupancy at all-time high in Ghaziabad, district to ramp up testing||Ghaziabad health department is in spot of bother as the number of ICU beds in the district is getting filled quickly.During the past fortnight, there has been a surge in number of Covid-19 cases. Around 3,224 new cases were reported in September already, as per the state control room records-- almost 201 cases a day. According to the district health department records, 30 of the 37 ICU beds in government’s Covid hospitals were occupied, while of the 98 ICU beds in the private sector read 90% occupancy till September 16. “This (occupancy of ICU beds) is the highest it has ever been. We are trying our best to arrange for more ICU beds and also asking hospitals to add up more beds. The occupancy is because cases are rising fast. In our L-1, L-2 and L-3 hospitals, 485 out of 1276 are occupied. Of these, the two L-2 hospitals have 176 Covid beds, and 146 are occupied. The occupancy in 10 private hospitals is also ranging between 80-90%,” said Dr. NK Gupta, Ghaziabad’s chief medical officer.Uttart Pradesh follows a three-tier hospital system for Covid-19: L-1 for mild cases, L-2 for moderate cases and L-3 for severe cases. The 10 private hospitals providing paid Covid-19 treatment have a combined strength of 663 beds and more are likely to be added within the week. The district has been told to increase tests to 4000 per day, as testing and containing infected individuals is the only way forward to check the spread of the disease.According to the records of the district health department, the test positivity rate (TPR, or the number of positive cases per 100 tests) was about 3.04% during the first 15 days of August when it had conducted 46,617 tests giving 1419 cases. The first 15 days in September saw a TPR of 5.76% with 51,797 tests giving 2986 positive cases. The district’s overall TPR stood at 4.58% till September 15. Officials said that more cases with moderate to severe conditions were being discovered with the increase in tests. “So far, we have been conducting about 3000-3500 tests per day. For increasing tests, we require more lab technicians. We had sent a proposal for hiring 20 lab technicians to the district committee. A decision is expected soon,” Dr. Gupta said. According to the official records, the district completed 249390 samples till September 15 and 142363 of these were done through the use of rapid antigen kits. The use of rapid antigen kits was initiated on June 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/icu-bed-occupancy-at-all-time-high-in-ghaziabad-district-to-ramp-up-testing/story-ZDUc9IRmnWspQGQFC2ezVP.html
16-09-2020||Noida||Despite surge, only 35% of Covid beds occupied in GB Nagar, most remain in home isolation||Despite the surge in Covid-19 patients this month, nearly 65% of the 2,857 beds in Gautam Budh Nagar’s Covid-dedicated hospitals are vacant. A further analysis will show that most of the beds reserved for mild cases are the most unoccupied as patients chose to be home isolated rather than spend time in an institution. Facilities that treat severe and moderate cases, meanwhile, have just over half their beds occupied. The paid facilities show nearly 85% occupancy.On Wednesday, the district had 1,966 positive cases, but over 950 of them were under home isolation, and the recovery rate was around 81%.District magistrate Suhas LY said the administration was working to increasing the number of beds. “To cope with any emergency, we have plans to take number of dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients to at least 5,000. And, since the state government has already announced the price caps for private medical colleges and hospitals, many of them have already started developing exclusive facilities for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” he said. The DM also said that all private and government hospitals have been asked to ensure that all patients be treated without delay. “If any hospital has any difficulty in treating the patients, they can refer them to hospitals with better treatment facilities. However, the referring hospital must co-ordinate properly with the referred hospital so that the patients don’t suffer. Following standard protocol for Covid-19 is mandatory for all the hospitals,” he said. According to the official sources, there are 171 patients in the four L-1 (for mild cases) category hospitals that has 1,430 beds. This includes the 250 in Tata hospital (sector 125) and 240 in Noida Institute of Medical Science, 900 in Bennett Hospital and 30 in community health centre (CHC, Bisrakh). Acting district surveillance officer Dr. Sunil Dohre said that Bennett Hospital and CHC (Bisrakh) have been kept as reserve to accommodate the patients in case of emergency. “In the L-2 category hospitals (for moderate illness), the Kailash Hospital (Sector 10), which has 140 beds, there is 90% occupancy, the Child PGI (in Sector 30) has over 95% of its 120 beds unoccupied, JP hospital (Sector 128) has 75% of its 112 beds occupied, Yatharth Hospital with 200 beds and Tata hospital with 250 beds in sector 39 have 87% and 72% occupancy, respectively,” he said.Yatharth, JP and Kailash hospitals offer paid facilities.In the L-3 category (severe cases) hospitals, out of 697 beds available, a little over 50% beds are occupied. “While 138 beds are occupied out of 250 in the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, 170 Covid-19 patients are being treated at Sharda hospital having 400 beds. The occupancy at 47-bedded Fortis is almost 100%, where 46 patients are being treated,” said Dr Dohre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/despite-surge-only-35-of-covid-beds-occupied-in-gb-nagar-most-remain-in-home-isolation/story-ne68O06Y24xtwaeI8XiO5L.html
16-09-2020||City||Farmers threaten to stop work on Delhi-Meerut Expressway, demand hiked compensation||Hundreds of farmers from different villages of Ghaziabad and Meerut districts gathered at the Govindpuram Anaj Mandi and demanded increase in compensation for their land and service roads used for the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) project. The farmers have threatened to stop work for phase 4 of the DME if their demands are not met within the next 10-12 days.The DME has four phases, two of which are under construction and two are operational. Phase 2 is under construction over a stretch of 19.2km from UP-Gate to Dasna while phase 4, about 32km, is proposed to connect Dasna to Meerut with the help of a six lane access-controlled expressway.“Farmers of villages from where land is acquired for DME walked from Meerut and Ghaziabad and gathered at Govindpuram. We intended to stage a protest outside the district collectorate but administrative officials sent a delegation to hold discussions. We have given them 10-12 days to decide our demand, else there will be a complete stoppage of work,” said Babli Kasana, president of Kisan Ekta Sangh, a farmers’ association.He said the association has demanded that famers who have received less than Rs 8,500 per square metre for compensation should be given this amount for their land. He said land for the DME was acquired from 19 villages in Ghaziabad and five in Meerut district.“The rate of Rs 8,500 is the highest given to farmers from Dasna. Further, we have demanded 14km of service road between Pilkhuwa to Kharkhauda and Mohiuddinpur to Kharkhauda alongside the DME alignment. This will help farmers get a better connectivity to their fields through the underpasses constructed for DME,” he added.Phase 4, like phase 2, is also in an advanced stage of construction and is likely to be completed by the 0end of December. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), meanwhile, said they have already given a heavy compensation to farmers as per norms and the average rate is about Rs 6,000 to Rs 6,500 per square metre (sqm).“If we compare, we have given about Rs 60 crore per kilometre under the DME project while Rs 40 crore per kilometre was given for the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. The rates are very high when we compare it to the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project, which were about Rs 6 crore per kilometre. If service roads are given, there will be no use for the expressway and commuters will start using these roads in order to avoid toll,” said an officer from the authority, requesting anonymity.The farmers, on the other hand, said NHAI is providing about 8.5km of service road which is not a single connecting road. The NHAI said that they have proposed about 45 underpasses under phase 4 and will help farmers with internal connectivity.“We have complied with norms while providing compensation. Now, it is up to the Ghaziabad district administration to decide upon issues raised by farmers. At our sites, we need adequate police protection as the work is going on at a fast pace and we cannot afford any hindrances,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.The district administration said it held meetings with farmers when they came to Ghaziabad on Tuesday night and also during their stay on Wednesday.“The administration is reviewing the progress of different cases (related to land compensation) which are in arbitration and also those which have been referred to the state administration. A regular progress review is taken up on a daily basis. We held discussions with farmers and have also urged them not to stop work as it is a public utility project. The committee of farmers has given us 10-12 days to look into their demands,” said Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-threaten-to-stop-work-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-demand-hiked-compensation/story-uTwmyEJShAniXbZYCq2uuI.html
16-09-2020||Noida||Noida to revise its Master Plan, building by-laws; more area allowed for industrial units||The Noida authority on Wednesday started the process to make amendments in the Master Plan 2031 of the city and the Building By-laws 2010. It has invited objections and suggestions from residents before paving the way for the changes in the plan and the bylaws, which regulate structural development in the city. According to rules, the authority has to seek objections or suggestions from the public before finalising any changes in the master plan or the building bylaws. Once the changes are made, industrial units in Noida, which was set up as an industrial town, will be able to build more floors in a building and cover more floor area with built-up structures, said officials.“The move will enable people to utilise the maximum area of an industrial plot as owners will be able to expand structures vertically and at the same time, use more ground for coverage. The authority has a limited amount of land meant for industrial purposes at its disposal while the demand for it is high, increasing the floor area ratio will boost the industrial growth and fuel economic activity,” said Ishtiaq Ahmed, chief architect and town planner, of the Noida authority.Floor area ratio (FAR) means the proportion obtained by dividing the total covered area (plinth area) on all floors by the area of the plot. The FAR of a plot dictates how many floors an owner can add (vertical expansion) and how much of the plot area can be covered with construction (horizontal expansion).In the changes plan and bylaws, the authority has increased FAR for individual industrial plots and integrated industrial township plots which have an area of 1,800 square metres (sqm) or above, located on a road which is at least 24 metres-wide, to a maximum of 3.5. According to officials, this was done so that owners of industrial units can build more floors and set up more industrial units on a single plot, unlike earlier when only one unit was allowed on a single industrial plot. Previously, the maximum FAR which was allowed was 1.5 for industrial plots, said officials.The authority decided to make the changes in a follow up of directions of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in a review meeting held on May 14 this year. During the meeting, the CM had directed to make more industrial land available in Noida where demand for industrial plots is on the rise, said officials. To make that happen, the authority, in its 199th board meeting held on August 18, had approved a proposal to make the changes.If the changes are approved, then the new bylaws will be applicable to the industrial plots which are to be developed in sectors 156, 157, 158 and 159, among others, said officials. For example, if a plot of 100 sqm has an FAR of 1.5 according to previous bylaws, the owner can now build 2.5 floors and develop 1,500 square feet area, if the FAR is 2.5 then four floors can cover 2,500 square feet area, and an FAR of 3.5 will enable the owner to build six floors and cover 3,500 square feet. However, an FAR of 3.5 can be allowed on plots with a size of 1,800 sqm or above, and also if the plot is located on a road which is 24 metres-wide or more to bear vehicular pressure, said officials.“The changes will impact the new industrial sectors to be developed along the Noida Expressway, where land is being acquired,” said Sudhir Kumar, senior town planner of the authority.The general public can give their objections in the next 15 days at the Sector 6 administrative building. Once the objections are submitted, the authority will work to resolve them and subsequently prepare a proposal to be sent to the state government for a final nod on the changes, said officials.In the Master Plan 2031, a total area of about 2,806 hectares is planned to be developed as industrial. So far, only 1,500 hectares have been developed, said officials. Officials said the authority is not sure how much land it will be able to acquire from farmers in the time to come. According to Master Plan 2031, out of the total of 15,279.90 hectares on which Noida is developed, industrial area is 18.37%, residential area is 37.45 hectares and recreational (green) areas are 15.92 hectares. The remaining land is meant for commercial, institutional, water bodies and agricultural activities, as per the plan.The revised master plan is expected to change the city’s skyline in sectors along the Noida Expressway, say stakeholders.“As of now, the business sector is witnessing an all time low due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. But yes, the changes, enabling industrial units to go vertical, will impact the future of business positively. It will boost growth and fuel the economy in the future,” said Vipin Malhan, president of Noida entrepreneur association (NEA).“Revising the Master Plan 2031 and Building Bylaws 2010 to increase FAR means increase in population density, which will over burden infrastructure such as roads, sewer networks and the drainage system, among others. If we do not make adequate provisions to accommodate the vehicular pressure, chaotic situations will be seen on Noida roads as road design hasn’t been changed. Also, an increase in FAR will require more housing facilities for industrial workers that we have not done. If the authority is to make changes in the master plan then it should look into these issues as well, else it will create a mess,” said Atul Gupta, president of Architects’ Association of Noida Zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-to-revise-its-master-plan-building-by-laws-more-area-allowed-for-industrial-units/story-erQsP1ReuNAAMUBuWehC6K.html
16-09-2020||City||Sukhbir asks party MPs to oppose agri Bills||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has issued a whip to members of his party in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to oppose the farm Bills in both the Houses. Party MPs have been asked to oppose the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill-2020; and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill-2020. The party has two members —Sukhbir himself and his wife, Union minister for food processing industries, Harsimrat Kaur Badal — in the Lok Sabha. Balwinder Singh Bhunder and Naresh Gujral are the Rajya Sabha members of the party. Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa also represented SAD, but parted ways last year to form another Akali faction SAD (Democratic). SAD president had opposed the amendment in Essential Commodities Act that was passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The Bills are expected to come up in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-asks-party-mps-to-oppose-agri-bills/story-QC5FPSd0AGwH0IqE1VGvTL.html
16-09-2020||City||Mohali woman ends her life over dowry harassment, husband booked||A 25-year-old woman committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Kambala village here on Tuesday night. No suicide note was recovered from the spot.As per the police, she ended her life as she was being harassed by her husband and in-laws for dowry since her marriage.The husband has been booked following a complaint by the victim’s father, who alleged that his daughter was murdered by her in-laws and they were trying to portray it as a suicide.He told the police that her daughter got married in March 2015 and her husband and in-laws had been harassing her for dowry. The victim also has a one-year-old boy.“We spent a lot of money on the marriage and on her son’s birth. Still, they kept harassing us for dowry. We were depressed due to their behaviour. I think her husband was planning to kill her and he along with his family hatched the conspiracy of suicide. I am sure she was murdered,” said the deceased woman’s father.Following a post-mortem examination, the woman’s body was handed over to her father, who performed her last rites on Wednesday.Sohana SHO Daljeet Singh and the investigation officer did not respond to calls despite several attempts.A case has been registered against the husband under Section 304-B of the IPC at the Sohana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-woman-ends-her-life-over-dowry-harassment-husband-booked/story-MCanWprXVyf3AFlR1wRgYL.html
16-09-2020||City||Farmers take out protest march in Mohali against proposed agri laws, power bill||Continuing their agitation against Centre’s agriculture ordinances and power amendment bill, several farmers’ organisations on Wednesday held a protest in Mohali.The farmers, including members of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rajewal and Lakhowal, began their protest march from Amb Sahib Gurudwara in Phase 8 towards the Punjab governor’s house in Chandigarh, but were stopped at the Chandigarh-Mohali border near YPS roundabout.However, eight members were later allowed to proceed to the governor’s residence. When they reached at the gate, the ADC to governor came to receive their memorandum of demands, but the farmers refused to hand it over saying that they will do so only if the governor agreed to meet them.Earlier on Tuesday, BKU workers were booked for blocking NH 21 and violating social distancing norms during a protest in Kharar.BKU Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal stated that the BJP’s anti-farmer face had been exposed with the introduction of the three agriculture ordinances in the Lok Sabha. Other farm leaders said the Union government wanted to sell commodities to the corporate houses by not giving the right price to the farmers. Farmers of Punjab were meeting 70 to 80 per cent of the food grain requirement of the country, but such laws would destroy them, added the BKU chief.The protesting farmers also discussed their issues and pledged to fight for their rights in a united manner. The farmers wore black robes and raised slogans against the Union government.The spokespersons appealed to the farmers not to allow the MPs, who had voted in favour of the ordinances, to enter their villages.Rajewal said due to the lethal policies of the Centre, farmers were already on the verge of suicide and now with the implementation of new laws, there was a feeling of uneasiness, resentment and insecurity among them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-take-out-protest-march-in-mohali-against-proposed-agri-laws-power-bill/story-GJHHAJxqNscw1QPBfVFi2O.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid stigma: Chandigarh admn does away with pasting quarantine posters outside houses||The Chandigarh administration has decided to discontinue the practice of pasting quarantine posters outside houses and stamping on hands of those in isolation after several complaints of “stigmatisation”.The administration followed the policy of pasting posters outside the houses of Covid-19 patients to make locals aware of the infected persons in their neighbourhood. However, now following in the footsteps of the Punjab government, UT adviser Manoj Parida reversed the decision.27 NEW CONTAINMENT ZONESThe administration on Wednesday also declared 27 new micro-containment zones amid the rising Covid-19 cases. Parida said the issue was examined by the affected areas committee. The new zones have been created in house blocks in Sectors 15, 19-23, 27, 29, 32, 35, 37, 38, 40-42, 46, 47, 52, 63, Pipliwala Town, Indira Colony, Behlana, Mauli Jagaran and Vikas Nagar.The administration has also modified four earlier declared micro-containment zones in Sectors 15, 21, 42, and Shanti Nagar, Manimajra, and removed the restrictions from parts of Sectors 15, 19, Dhanas, Hallomajra, and Ramdarbar. Earlier, the administration had declared 24 pandemic affected areas as micro-containment zones in the city on September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-stigma-chandigarh-to-do-away-with-pasting-posters-on-quarantined-houses/story-qB8gwlgFB3MMx8ZnfbddKN.html
16-09-2020||City||Proclaimed offender for 14 years, ex-sarpanch’s husband held in kidnapping case||CHANDIGARH The police have arrested a proclaimed offender (PO), who was absconding for the past 14 years, in a kidnapping case.Balbir Ram alias Bali of Saroya village in Nawanshahr, Punjab, was produced before the court on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody.The accused was arrested by a team of Chandigarh police operation cell from his village on a tip-off. Police said Balbir is into farming while his wife was a former sarpanch of Saroya village.Operations cell in-charge inspector Ranjeet Singh said Balbir was declared a PO in 2006 after he stopped appearing before the court in the kidnapping case.As per police records, Balbir was booked under sections 36 and 366 of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station on March 3, 2001 after a Sector 14 resident had alleged that his daughter had been kidnapped by the accused and his accomplice from Sector 15.Police had later rescued the girl who also alleged that she was kidnapped by Balbir. Based on her statement, Balbir Ram had been arrested, but release on bail. Following this, Balbir Ram remained on the run and was declared PO on May 10, 2006, by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/proclaimed-offender-for-14-years-ex-sarpanch-s-husband-held-in-kidnapping-case/story-aPvmxtkV7tkoiSJHs0tiwJ.html
16-09-2020||City||Farmer bodies declare Punjab bandh on Sept 25||Chandigarh/Amritsar Around 10 farmer organisations have given a call for Punjab Bandh on September 25 as a mark of protest against the “anti-farmer Bills being enacted by the Parliament. The decision was taken by the representatives of the farm bodies during a meeting in Ludhiana on Wednesday. All businesses, road and rail transport will be shut during the bandh, they said. Farmer leaders said the ordinances related to the agriculture sector proposed by the Narendra Modi government, set to become laws soon, will sound a death knell for farmers and farm labourers. They said the struggle will continue till the ordinances were shelved. To work out modalities for the bandh, a meeting of the farmer bodies has been convened on September 19 in Moga where representatives of organisations related to agriculture sector will chalk out a strategy to intensify the movement. Ludhiana meeting was attended by leaders of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee; Jai Kisan Andolan; Punjab Kisan Sabha All India Kisan Sabha Punnawal, Punjab Kisan Sabha; Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakonda) and Kirti Kisan Union, among others. Meanwhile, a delegation of farmers led by general secretary of a faction of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Harvinder Singh Lakhowal, staged a dharna outside the Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh on Wednesday. They had sought an audience with the governor, which was denied. Lakhowal said farmer organisations will write messages on the walls in villages, urging villagers to not entertain politicians. Blockades lifted from 3 Majha bridges Farmers on Wednesday lifted the blockades on three main bridges of Majha region, taking cognisance of the ‘inconvenience’ they caused to the people. Farmers, however, have announced to intensify their protest against the ordinances. Thousands of farmers, under the banner of Kisan Sangharash Committee (KSC), had laid siege to the Harike bridge connecting Majha and Malwa, the Beas bridge on the Amritsar-Delhi highway and the Hargobindpur bridge in Gurdaspur on Monday afternoon. Farmer leaders, while lifting the blockades, said since the Centre appears to be adamant on passing the “anti-farmer” ordinances in Parliament, they will scale up their protest and a decision will be taken in a high-level meeting on Thursday. KSC’s general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, who led the protest on Beas bridge, said, “We have lifted the protest, but that doesn’t mean our struggle has finished. Now, the protest will be intensified.” He said, “Our further action plan may include barring the entry of political leaders, especially the Central ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs, in Punjab’s villages. We may also plan to launch rail roko andolan (stir), besides organising long protest marches in all cities and villages of the state.” KSC’s Punjab president Satnam Singh Pannu held responsible both the ruling Congress in Punjab and the BJP’s ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for playing with the sentiments of the state’s farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-bodies-declare-punjab-bandh-on-sept-25/story-ss7XlxwmFUtlWcX26gakBM.html
16-09-2020||City||Bumpy rides for commuters as rain delays road repair works in Ludhiana||Potholed and damaged city roads continue to pose inconvenience to commuters amid monsoon delaying MC’s plans to start road repair work.Several accidents have taken place due to deep potholes on various roads, including Dugri main road, Gill Road, Tajpur Road, Jalandhar Bypass, and damaged stretches in Industrial Area A and Haibowal areas, among others. A resident of Dugri area, Dilpreet Singh, said, “Potholes are detrimental to vehicles. Commuters have been raising a hue and cry over deep potholes on Dugri main road, but MC is not paying heed to it.”Last week, in a symbolic protest against the MC authorities over failure to deal with the pothole menace, social activists had planted saplings in the potholes near Phullanwal Chowk.Mayor Balkar Sandhu had earlier announced that the civic body will commence the repair work after September 15, if the weather conditions remained favourable.MC’s superintending engineer Praveen Singla said, “The road repair works got delayed due to unfavourable weather conditions. We are waiting for monsoon to end. The work is likely to commence next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bumpy-rides-for-commuters-as-rain-delays-road-repair-works-in-ludhiana/story-m1HcsKp2f854CXVwJxNq7L.html
16-09-2020||City||3 masked men loot shopkeeper of ₹2.5 lakh at gunpoint||In a gunpoint robbery, three unidentified masked men snatched a bag containing cash worth ₹2.5 lakh from a shopkeeper in Sohana here, police said on Wednesday.The complainant, Ashish Kumar Agarwal, said the incident took place at his hardware store around 8pm on Tuesday.At first, only two of the accused came to Ashish pretending to be customers. They bought a product from him, but asked to wait for their friend as he was on his way there with the payment. Suddenly, they pointed a gun at him and threatened to handover the bag of cash placed near him.The complainant said as soon as he gave them the money, the duo fled from the spot in a Hyundai i20 car, which was being driven by their third partner. Ashish told the police that the accused even tried to his snatch his gold chain, but could not succeed.According to the police, the robbery was captured by the CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene.“Our investigation is on and the miscreants will be nabbed soon,” said ASI Satnam Singh, the investigation officer.A case has been registered against the suspects under sections 379-B, 511 and 34 of the IPC and relevant Sections of the Arms Act at the Sohana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-masked-men-loot-shopkeeper-of-2-5-lakh-at-gunpoint/story-aTds5NglbLBRZKBrWFuk0J.html
16-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Councillors irked as sewage overflows in streets||Councillors of wards 11, 12, 13 and 15 have been facing a tough time due to sewage accumulation in their locality. Non-functional motors of the Jamalpur sewer treatment plant (STP) is said to be the reason behind the problem.Taking stock of the situation, joint commissioner Swati Tiwana conducted an inspection in the areas along with councillors of several wards on Wednesday.Councillors said that three of the total five motors are lying defunct at the STP, due to which the sewer water is accumulating in their areas. Residents are forced to walk through accumulated sewage water and are also falling victim to various infections due to the negligence of the municipal corporationMLA Sanjay Talwar’s personal assistant, Kanwaljit Sigh said, “We have been complaining to the authorities as three motors are lying defunct for over a month while others have developed a snag a few days back. As the officials were not paying heed to the problem, MLA Talwar had contacted JC Swati Tiwana, who then conducted an inspection in the area on Wednesday.”MC’s executive engineer, Ranbir Singh said that teams have been deployed for repairing the motors. One of the motors will be repaired in a day or two and the civic body will pump out the accumulated sewer water in different wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-councillors-irked-as-sewage-overflows-in-streets/story-Gn4EM2RTMR2eQ8uItEaWJL.html
16-09-2020||City||Gaming technology to bring kisan mela to farmers’ houses||A virtual gaming technology proved handy for the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to give a real-life feel of the virtual kisan mela ((farmers’ fair), scheduled to be held on September 18-19.Explaining the concept behind using gaming technology, Er Rajat Sharma, a computer programmer, said that farmers could participate in the fair by using laptops and smartphones while sitting at home.Sharma said that the farmers would get a virtual tour of the university where signs and references will help them navigate and they could visit any stall virtually and take details from the experts. “Farmers can also visit the cultural fest for entertainment. Everything has been taken care of keeping in mind the requirements of farmers,” said Sharma.Sources in the university said that for the past one month, the university has been working on the concept wherein experts shared details about the advancement in farm technology. These sections of programmes were combined to give a virtual feel of the fair.PAU vice-chancellor (V-C) Baldev Singh Dhillon said, “We have decided to bring the kisan mela to farmers’ houses across the northern region with the help of technology.”While speaking at a live programme, Dr JS Mahal, director of extension education, PAU, said, “Kisan mela is a knowledge centre, where farmers are acquainted with latest advancements and innovations in agriculture and are provided solutions to their agrarian issues.” For the first time, PAU will be organising a virtual kisan mela in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, he added.“The kisan melas have been very popular among farmers and farm women since its inception in 1967, and this year also, farmers can participate in the question-answer session, see field demonstrations, get information on improved and quality seed, interact with PAU experts and machinery manufacturers, etc. by clicking the link www.kisanmela.pau.edu,” said Mahal.He called upon the farmers and the farm women to participate in the fair enthusiastically.Dr Rajendra Kumar, vegetable scientist explained in detail about the availability of seeds of different crops. He said provision will be made for the online seed sale on the ‘farm inputs’ mobile app. In addition, farmers can purchase seed from their nearby Krishi Vigyan Kendras, located in various parts of the state, he said. After cancelling the fair for the rabi season, PAU had decided to organise a virtual mela because of social distancing issues during the Covid-19 pandemic.The university, which had earlier cancelled the mela for kharif crops in March, began reaching out to farmers through mobile applications, webinars and YouTube videos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gaming-technology-to-bring-kisan-mela-to-farmers-houses/story-uFB2uVCJ8sCSxQd83mpRgP.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh court dismisses snatcher’s bail plea, adds Section 379-A||The district court here on Wednesday dismissed the bail application of a Hallo Majra resident accused in a snatching case.Also, looking at the increase in number of snatching cases in the city, the court added Clause A to 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“Snatching incidents have become rampant in Chandigarh. Considering this scenario, Section 379-A was added, making snatching a non-bailable crime. The accused if found guilty will get a minimum of 5 years in jail, which may extend up to 10 years,” said advocate JP Singh, a public prosecutor.On August 23, an FIR was registered under sections 392 and 411 of the IPC at Sector 31 police station after Chandigarh resident Renu (31), who is a security guard at Elante Mall, reported that the accused snatched her mobile phone and purse while she was returning home from work.Suraj Sharma (26) was caught by the people, following which police recovered the woman’s phone and purse from him.Suraj’s application was opposed by the police stating that he may jump the bail and threaten the witness. Following this, his bail was dismissed by the court with the addition of rigorous punishment under Section 379-A of the IPC.Following this, the bail was dismissed and section 379 A was added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-dismisses-snatcher-s-bail-plea-adds-section-379-a/story-er8YynnBRcdXoZqSvtkq2M.html
16-09-2020||City||HC tells farmers to follow guidelines during protests||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday reiterated that farmers should follow all the norms and guidelines laid down by the administrations in view of Covid-19 outbreak and even otherwise, during their protests. The high court bench of chief justice RS Jha was hearing a plea from one Mohit Kapoor, a Patiala resident, who had approached the court on Monday stating that All India Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee, a body of around 250 farmer associations, has announced protests in different parts of the state against Centre’s farm ordinances and sought directions to them to comply with Covid-19 guidelines and other norms. Acting on the plea, the high court on Tuesday sought a status report from the state government. During the hearing on Wednesday, the Punjab government gave details of protests organised by farmers in Patiala, Amritsar, Moga and Phagwara, among other places, and how administration swung into action after the high court order on September 14 and held deliberations with farmer leaders to make them follow the norms. Now, the protests have been called off by farmer unions, the government told the court. The high court bench while seeking further report from state government has fixed the matter for September 29. However, detailed order is awaited. “The farmer unions have been told to follow high court orders issued in 2019 whereby they have to seek deputy commissioner’s nod to hold a protest and further follow other norms put in place by the administration. They have also been told to abide by the guidelines notified by Centre in view of Covid-19 outbreak,” senior advocate Puneet Bali said who had appeared for the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-tells-farmers-to-follow-guidelines-during-protests/story-oAKtBG2jOVv7hoyeAtECPP.html
16-09-2020||City||Forest officials attacked by miscreants in Mahendergarh village||Two officials of the forest department were attacked with wooden sticks by a group of villagers at Kalba village under Nangal Choudhary region in Mahendergarh on Wednesday.The officials had resisted construction work in a protected forest area at Kalba village.Vipin Kumar Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) said forest range officer Rajnish Kumar and deputy ranger Chandergupt were on routine patrolling when they found some villagers digging and levelling the land with JCB machines. “They were attacked after the duo asked them stop the activity. Both the officials have suffered multiple injuries,” he said.He said the accused are influential people of Kalba village and threatened the officers of dire consequence if any action is taken against them.The DFO said, “We have lodged a police complaint against the accused. Both officials are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.”A police spokesman said they have received complaints against a few residents of Kalba village and an FIR will be lodged soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forest-officials-attacked-by-miscreants-in-mahendergarh-village/story-AuLNBMo5ovMd5IdPY8SJYM.html
16-09-2020||City||Four killed in separate road mishaps in Hisar||Four people were killed in two separate road accidents in Hisar on Wednesday, police said.A police spokesman said a couple was killed and their two sons were injured after a speeding truck hit them near cantonment area while they were out for a morning walk. The deceased have been identified as retired army staffer Jitender Singh, 38, and his wife Mukesh 32. Their two sons Tushar and Mayank are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Hisar.“The truck driver managed to flee the spot,” he added.In the second incident, two youths were killed and three received injuries when a speeding car crushed them to death near Shekhpura village in Hisar. The youth were going for a morning run when the incident took place.The deceased are Prince and Jaswant, both aged 17, of the same village. Shekhpura police post in-charge Suresh Kumar said prima facie the youths were hit by a car, whose driver managed to flee the spot.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-killed-in-separate-road-mishaps-in-hisar/story-0q2aJ0KGZY04cf5g0zLVnN.html
16-09-2020||City||Three held for Karnal man’s murder||Three people have been arrested on murder charges a week after a man was killed and his friend sustained injuries after they were ‘deliberately hit’ by a car in Karnal, police said on Wednesday.Robin Nagpal and his friend Arvind Kumar were walking on the road in sector 3 when the incident took place on September 10. Both had sustained serious injuries. Robin succumbed at the hospital while Arvind’s condition is said to be stable.Police said the accused are Rajkumar Bathla alias Raju and his two friends Gaurav Kumar and Neeraj, all residents of Karnal city. Investigating officer and CIA II incharge Deepender Rana said during investigation it was found that the main accused Rajkumar had some financial dispute with Arvind and had allegedly hit him with the car while he was walking on the road with Robin. He said Rajkumar has admitted that he had deliberately hit them with the car with the intention to kill Arvind. “Rajkumar had asked Neeraj to bring his car and he came along with Gaurav. Both Neeraj and Gaurav were present in the car when the incident took place. The accused have been booked under Section 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code,” Rana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-karnal-man-s-murder/story-6pQWGZWf6yJkSmeJClz5KM.html
16-09-2020||City||Congress to seek special session of Haryana assembly over farm Bills: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday termed the three agriculture ordinances passed by the Union cabinet as anti-farmer and said that the Congress will demand a special session of the state assembly to discuss the issue.While interacting with farmers and commission agents at Karnal grain market, Hooda said the state government is trying to divide the farmers to suppress their voice. “But the Congress will not allow the government to impose its decision on farmers and will take up this issue on every platform,” he said.Hooda said the farm ordinances will have a bad impact on the mandi-system of the state. He demanded that the government should bring one more ordinance to ensure that all farmers will be able to sell their produce on Minimum Support Price and that action will be taken against the purchaser if the food grains are brought below MSP.The Congress leader has also demanded an emergency assembly session to discuss the ordinances and its impact on farmers. He said the government should also withdraw the cases registered against farmers for protesting at Kurukshetra’s Pipli.“We will meet Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya soon to demand a special session of the state assembly on this issue. We want that the issue, which is critical for farmers, be discussed threadbare,” Hooda, Leader of the Opposition in the assembly, told reporters.“Imposing the three farm sector bills, introduced in Parliament to ratify the three ordinances promulgated earlier without the consent of farmers, will amount to dictatorship,” he said. Hooda said his party will oppose a “forcible” implementation of the laws. “The party is ready to launch a mass movement on this,” he added.Hooda claimed that if the government continued to “force its decisions” on farmers, the “black laws” will be “abolished as soon as the Congress government is formed in the state”.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-to-seek-special-session-of-haryana-assembly-over-farm-bills-bhupinder-singh-hooda/story-yxucnZfoMC3XgewleixGwN.html
16-09-2020||City||MDU students a harried lot after varsity refuses hostel facility during exams||The final year graduate and post-graduate students of Rohtak’s Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) are worried after the varsity authorities refused to provide them with hostel facility during examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The examination for final year students began on Tuesday and students are paying extra money to stay in paying guest (PG) accommodations and other places outside the campus.The varsity had issued an order on September 12 stating that the students will be allowed to enter the hostel a day before the commencement of the examination. “The students opting for hostels will have to vacate them after the examination. The students will have to give an undertaking that none of their family members was infected from Covid-19. If any student was found infected, he/she will have to vacate the hostel immediately. Mess facility will not be given and students should arrange their food themselves,” the order issued by dean academic affairs Nina Singh had stated.Sanjay Kumar, a MSC Chemistry final year student from Palwal, said he reached MDU premises for his final year examination and asked his teachers about the hostel facility. “The teachers told me to contact the hostel warden, who refused to provide the room to me and many others. My two friends and I had to pay Rs 2,500 each to get a paying guest accommodation for five days,” he said“Social distancing norms can be implemented only because nearly 200 students are appearing in the examination and the varsity has 10 hostels,” he added.Another student, Manoj Kumar studying MSC Chemistry, said he travelled over 200km from Sirsa to appear in the final year examination. “Our teachers told us that hostel facilities will be provided to students during examination and even the varsity authorities had issued an order in this regard. However, the authorities refused to provide us an accommodation and instead told us to opt for online examination,” he added.A female student, pleading anonymity, said she visited the campus on September 14 to get hostel facility. “My warden refused to provide me a room. I had no option to stay in Rohtak and unfortunately I opted for online examination. This is the only varsity in India which forced its students to vacate hostels amid the pandemic and now has refused to give them a hostel even after issuing an order,” she said.“The varsity has not revoked its decision to provide accommodation facility to students so far. They are only verbally denying the facility,” she added.Randeep Rana, chief warden of MDU, said they had not provided the hostels to students due to fear of spread of Covid-19. “Students will have to stay a week for the examinations and they can manage the accommodation on their own,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mdu-students-a-harried-lot-after-varsity-refuses-hostel-facility-during-exams/story-Yo8QYwbJBGZRVNLBVQkRvK.html
16-09-2020||City||Cracks surface in farmers’ unions in Haryana||: Cracks have started appearing in the unity of farmers’ unions in Haryana as a few of them held demonstrations in favour of the Centre’s three agriculture Bills at some district headquarters of the state while supporters of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Charuni) continued their protest for the second day on Wednesday.The Delhi Police also detained BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni, who has been spearheading the agitation, for two hours at police station Alipur in outer north district of Delhi while he along with six others were on their way to meet a farmer union leader.Charuni has also reiterated that 17 farmers’ unions protesting under the BKU umbrella stand united against the ordinances.According to Charuni, who had announced to hold the protests in Delhi on Wednesday, the call to hold demonstrations was cancelled due to “the reluctance of Punjab-based farmers’ unions”.“The Punjab-based farmers’ unions should have at least marched up to the inter-state borders and forced the police to arrest them...We had to cancel the Delhi protests because Punjab farmers’ unions said restrictions have been imposed on their movement,” he said.Charuni said farmers owing allegiance to the BKU will continue district-level protests and on September 20 they will block vehicular traffic movement for three hours across the state.“After September 20 demonstrations, we will chalk out our next course of action,” he added.Meanwhile, farmers associated with Pragatisheel Kisan Sangathan, Kisan Utpadan Sangh and Cooperative farmers’ organisation took out a march in support of the Union government in Panipat and a few other districts. They applauded the Centre for giving farmers the option to sell the produce in open market. Earlier, farmers in Panipat also submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner in support of the Bills. “The new laws will ensure that the farmers get direct payment of their produce,” a farmer said. Though the BKU (Charuni) affiliated farmers continued their protest at the district headquarters, the strength of protesters was thin. In Karnal, members of the BKU (Charuni) alleged that the government was trying to divide the farmers. They said the agitation will continue till September 19 and roads will be blocked on September 20. “We will continue our protest as per the schedule until the government withdraws the Bills,” said Harpal Singh Sudhal, state secretary of BKU. Members of BKU (Tikait) are also agitating against the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cracks-surface-in-farmers-unions-in-haryana/story-OTSJJ4TWSLKAd6M66Xy5IN.html
16-09-2020||City||‘SAD upheld its rich traditions by opposing ordinances’||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra on Wednesday said party president Sukhbir Singh Badal has upheld the rich traditions of the party by opposing the central ordinances in Parliament. He also condemned both the Congress as well as the Aam Aadmi Party for “teaming up to avoid voting” on the amendments in the Essential Commodities Bill. In a statement, Chandumajra said by taking up the cause of the farmers and farm labourers, the SAD president had made it clear that his party will always ensure that the interests of the farming community are safeguarded at all costs. “We have also made it clear that unlike the Congress party, we do not indulge in doublespeak and don’t play with the sentiments of the farmers by betraying their interests in Parliament,” he said. Chandumajra said the party president spoke with a cross-section of farmers, farmer organisations and agriculture experts as part of an exercise to take their opinion on the central ordinances. He also made it clear that the SAD action should be seen from the prism of the welfare of the farmers of the state. “I want to put it on record that the NDA government has taken a number of pro-Sikh and pro-Punjab steps at the instance of the SAD. However, in case of farm ordinances, the Centre did not hold consultations with the SAD and ignored the reservations expressed by the farming community, forcing the party to take a stand against amendments in the Essential Commodities Act in Parliament.” ‘Capt should apologise to farmers’ The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh should have apologised to farmers for failing to protect their interests in Parliament. “The CM should have resigned from his post instead of indulging in a roadside drama in a desperate attempt to wash away the anti-farmer tag which would now be attached to his name forever,” said SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema. Cheema said it was ridiculous that at a time when Parliament was in session, the CM was expressing his views on roads here instead of directing his party MPs to express solidarity with the farming community by voting against the ordinances. The SAD leader also snubbed Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann for indulging in “cheap theatrics”, by claiming that no voting took place in Parliament to pass the Essential Commodities Act. “The two-time MP did not even know that Bills were passed through voice vote in Parliament and was mouthing blatant lies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-upheld-its-rich-traditions-by-opposing-ordinances/story-OLA6VStaFVYFOrOTOSMAyN.html
16-09-2020||City||Farmers lift blockadesfrom 3 Majha bridges||AMRITSAR Farmers on Wednesday lifted the blockades on three main bridges of Majha region, taking cognisance of the ‘inconvenience’ they caused to the people. Farmers, however, have announced to intensify their protest against the agriculture ordinances that are being introduced in Parliament to make them laws.Thousands of farmers, under the banner of Kisan Sangharash Committee (KSC), had laid siege to the Harike bridge connecting Majha and Malwa, the Beas bridge on the Amritsar-Delhi highway and the Hargobindpur bridge in Gurdaspur on Monday afternoon.Farmer leaders, while lifting the blockades, said since the Centre appears to be adamant on passing the “anti-farmer” ordinances in Parliament, they will scale up their protest and a decision will be taken in a high-level meeting on Thursday. KSC’s general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, who led the protest on Beas bridge, said, “We have lifted the protest, but that doesn’t mean our struggle has finished. Now, the protest will be intensified.”He said, “Our further action plan may include barring the entry of political leaders, especially the Central ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs, in Punjab’s villages. We may also plan to launch rail roko andolan (stir), besides organising long protest marches in all cities and villages of the state.”KSC’s Punjab president Satnam Singh Pannu held responsible both the ruling Congress in Punjab and the BJP’s ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for playing with the sentiments of the state’s farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-lift-blockadesfrom-3-majha-bridges/story-QYSaYx8XxzuzUyVvZuwD8H.html
16-09-2020||City||Cong panel meets governor, Capt warns of social unrest if agri ordinances enacted as laws||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday apprehended that enacting laws on the farm ordinances will lead to unrest in the border state, already a target of Pakistan to foment trouble. He led a delegation of his party to submit a memorandum to governor VP Singh Badnore, seeking his intervention in non-pursuance of the agriculture Bills in Parliament. Flanked by state party chief Sunil Jakhar and other lawmakers, the CM told the governor that the party felt that any move to tinker with the present procurement system may deepen social unrest among the farmers of the state. “It may not be conducive for the peace and development of the region, which faces serious challenges of public order due to a live international border,” he said. Pointing to Pakistan’s bid to disturb the state’s peace and stability through narco-terror and other anti-India acts, the chief minister later told mediapersons outside the Governor House that these anti-farmer legislations will lead to rise in the people’s anger. “Why are we playing into the hands of Pakistan?” he asked. These Bills, one of which has already been passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, are against national interest, and particularly detrimental to Punjab, where the majority of the farmers tilled less than 5 acres of land and would be the worst hit, Amarinder said. He said the Centre had failed to take the interest of the farmers into account in introducing these ordinances and instead took a stand in favour of corporate houses. The CM said he had written to the Prime Minister thrice on the issue but had not received any response to far. Taking on the Akalis and Sukhbir Badal over their “theatrics and U-turns” on the issue, the CM pointed out that all, except the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), were on board at the all-party meeting he had convened on the issue. “All were unanimously against the ordinances except the Akalis, who are now pretending to be opposing them,” he said. Terming the passage of one of the Bills in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday a black day in the history of Parliament, Jakhar said that under pressure from the farmer unions, the Akalis may even go to the extent of enacting the drama of resigning from the NDA government but it will be another farce on its part. The delegation comprised cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLAs Rana Gurjit Singh, Kuljit Singh Nagra and Dr Raj Kumar Verka and PPCC secretary Capt Sandeep Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-panel-meets-governor-capt-warns-of-social-unrest-if-agri-ordinances-enacted-as-laws/story-IQKf47ylB925aQQ1zo1QOI.html
16-09-2020||City||Thieves dig hole into Ludhiana shop’s roof, make away with ₹26,000, cloth material||Thieves broke into a cloth store on Hambran Road on Tuesday night and decamped with Rs 26,000 in cash and cloth material worth lakhs, police said on Wednesday.The thieves gained accessed to the shop by making a hole in the roof. The matter came to light on Wednesday morning when employees opened the store for the day and were shocked to find the premises ransacked. They informed the store owner, Ashok Jain, who alerted the police.“Prima facie it appears that four or more thieves gathered in the vacant plot near the shop and thereafter scaled its walls with the help of ropes. They then dug a hole into the roof to enter the store around midnight,” said Paramdeep Singh, SHO, PAU police station.Jain complained that Rs 26,000 in cash and cloth material worth lakhs were missing, and the thieves also took away the CCTV camera and its and digital video recorder to impede investigation.Police have registered a case of theft and are scanning CCTV footage from adjacent properties for clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thieves-dig-hole-into-ludhiana-shop-s-roof-make-away-with-26-000-cloth-material/story-0uwQuui4ML7agDX9XhVaHP.html
16-09-2020||Pune||ZP survey finds 1,248 malnourished children in Pune district||The district administration has surveyed 2.84 lakh children in the district from various gram panchayats who are registered with the government anganwadis. The survey which started in August this year has found 1,248 malnourished kids in the rural areas of Pune which was close to 2,500 during the last survey conducted eight months ago. This survey was conducted among children six years of age and below. An official who was part of the survey said, “Due to the lockdown, children are not coming to the anganwadi and so we are providing dry ration under the government schemes. We have surveyed children for their height, weight and developmental outcomes and based on the result they are categorised into underweight or malnourished and the ration is provided according to the needs of the child.” A total of 3,20,608 children are registered at anganwadis who are surveyed under the malnourishment scheme out of which 2,84,461 could be examined of which 2,71,104 were found healthy, 10,763 were medium underweight, 1,346 are severely underweight and 1,248 were found malnourished; 197 severely malnourished and 1051 mild malnourished. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Zilla Parishad said, “During the survey, we found about 1,248 malnourished kids among the 2.84 lakh kids that we surveyed. We will ensure that no child is left behind. The children identified through the survey would be medically examined by the community health officers. They shall try to determine if the malnourishment is because of underlying health conditions or is it because of poor nutrition. Under the VCDC programme and take-home ration programme the child would be given concentrated nutrition.” Prasad also added that in the last eight months, the number of severely malnourished children have reduced by half due to intensive nutritional programmes delivered to their homes to increase haemoglobin levels in pregnant women who are anaemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/zp-survey-finds-1-248-malnourished-children-in-pune-district/story-W3qdzTjhyn5SGtK1Qzp74K.html
16-09-2020||Pune||Admin to rope in college students and religious leaders for door-to-door survey||The Pune district administration has launched ‘my family, my responsibility’ campaign for which it plans to rope in college students and religious leaders in order to reach every household for the home survey. The survey, part of a state-wide campaign, will screen all citizens for flu-like symptoms and also spread information to clear rumours in order to identify suspected patients of Covid. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “We will kick start the mission which will include surveying every household and every citizen. We will have teams with pulse oximeter and thermometer. The approach now will be Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), influenza-like illness (ILI) and or any active flu-like symptoms, especially among comorbid people.” According to the administration, educational institutions have been identified for involving students in the survey. “We have got commitments from various educational institutions wherein college students will be roped in to reach out over 50,000 citizens living in Pune city and we will also take help from religious leaders and political leaders to spread the word and encourage people to come forward. This time will become more community-driven and administrative supportive. With the support of people from NGOs, political parties and religious leaders, we will be able to efficiently complete the survey,” said Rao. The Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations have already carried out door to door survey in urban parts of the district. The state government has now launched this scheme across the state and so the survey will now be restarted. Every team will have a thermometer and an oximeter will be given and for every ten families, there will be one supervisor. BOX Nitrogen tankers to supply oxygen To ensure of the supply of oxygen in nearby districts too so that the patients do not load onto city beds, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that now with permission, we will be able to supply to use nitrogen tankers to supply oxygen to overcome the shortage of tankers. He said, “We will need to increase testing even among suspected patients who might increase positivity rate of the district but it will be necessary to do so to break the chain.” The district has now reached up to one lakh tests per ten lakh. Every district will now be ranked as per their testing, mortality rate number of comorbid, SARI, ILI or flu-like symptoms patients found for per thousand under the new scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/admin-to-rope-in-college-students-and-religious-leaders-for-door-to-door-survey/story-GhpqEF9GzUQDdyq8c7CrKO.html
16-09-2020||Pune||‘My family, My responsibility’ campaign claims Covid not widespread in rural Pune||The Pune district administration has kicked off the ‘my family, my responsibility’ initiative to ensure that no Covid-19 positive or suspected patients are missed from the radar. Under this program, every person from a hotspot would be screened and if required tested to ensure early isolation to break the chain. The district administration till date screened close to 1.68 lakh people, of whom only 442 were found positive. This indicates that the containment measures have worked in rural Pune, claims the administration. There are 98 hotspots spread across 98 gram panchayats. In the 1,405 gram panchayats included in rural Pune, there are 23 hotspots. A total of 21 gram panchayats and two municipal councils were screened. In total, 1,68,448 people were screened, of whom 2,730 were suspected and tested for the Covid-19 infection. Of these, 442 tested Covid-19 positive. The administration claims that this indicates that containment measures in these hotspots are working. The survey was conducted from September 8 to September 13. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “These are the people who would have gone unnoticed if we did not detect them in the house-to-house survey. They were not aware that they are infected or could have possibly come in contact with someone. This also indicates that there is no widespread of the infection even in the hotspots in rural Pune.” Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad, who is at the forefront of the initiative, said, “The credit goes to Asha workers who have made sure that every person is screened and detected as soon as possible. These hotspots are mainly located in Chakan, Hinjewadi and Wagholi, along the highways, or along the city area. We identify people through multiple government lists including election list, Anganwadi list and school list. We also mark on the nail of the people who have been screened. In addition to checking temperature levels and oxygen saturation levels, we also carry out simple tests like lack of taste or smell using household items and then refer them for further inspection if required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/my-family-my-responsibility-campaign-claims-covid-not-widespread-in-rural-pune/story-elLvpJMiu4Ksh0f8sPZp8M.html
16-09-2020||City||Midnight blaze ravages blanket factory in Mahavir Jain Colony||Four workers had a narrow escape after a fire broke out at a blanket factory in Mahavir Jain Colony on Tajpur Road in the wee hours of Wednesday. One of the four workers, who were sleeping on the ground floor of Sakshi Weaving Factory, saw the flames on the first floor when he woke up around 2.30am to relieve himself, and helped everyone rush out of the building. After running out to safety, the workers and informed the factory owner, Manish Chopra.Chopra said, “As I was sounded, I alerted the fire department. No one was hurt, but goods and machinery worth around Rs 1 crore was ravaged in the fire.”“While the reason behind the fire remains uncertain, it is suspected to have been caused by a short-circuit,” he added.Leading fireman Rajan Singh said the fire brigade received an alert around 3am and pressed five fire tenders into service. It took the firefighters over four hours to douse the flames by 7.30am.FIRE AT HOUSE NEAR KHAJOOR CHOWKHousehold goods and furniture was damaged in a fire at a house near Khajoor Chowk in Salem Tabri on Tuesday night. None of the occupants was injured. Leading fireman Rajan Singh said a short-circuit in a water tank alarm caused the fire around 10pm. The flames engulfed the furniture, bicycles and some packing material kept inside the room. The fire was put out in around an hour, he added.CAR GOES UP IN FLAMES IN KOT MANGAL SINGH AREAA resident of Street Number 20 of Kot Mangal Singh area had a close shave as his Chevrolet Beat car caught fire on Wednesday afternoon. An onlooker informed the Gill Road fire station about the fire that erupted as soon as the car driver turned on the vehicle’s ignition. A fire tender doused the flames in around 15 minutes, even as the car driver escaped unhurt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/midnight-blaze-ravages-blanket-factory-in-mahavir-jain-colony/story-ICf5eDAlRePZov0c0piLCJ.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||World’s longest highway tunnel above 10,000 feet connecting Manali with Leh ready after 10 years||The construction of the 9.2-km Atal Tunnel that connects Manali with Leh, the world’s longest highway tunnel above 10,000 feet, has been completed in a span of 10 years whereas the original estimated time was less than six years. “Atal Tunnel, connecting Manali to Leh, is the world’s longest highway tunnel above 10,000 feet. The estimated period for completion of this tunnel was less than six years but it was completed in 10 years,” chief engineer KP Purushothaman said. “There are CCTV cameras at every 60 metres and emergency exit tunnels at every 500 metres inside the tunnel. The tunnel will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46km and four hours can be saved,” he said. Fire hydrants have also been installed inside the tunnel in case of any fire incident. “The induction and de-induction of resources was a difficult task while it was under construction. We did face a lot of challenges but together we were able to complete its construction. The tunnel is 10.5 metres wide, including a 1-metre footpath on both sides,” he said. Atal Tunnel project director Colonel Parikshit Mehra said that many experts working within the team were of the opinion that the alignment of the tunnel should be changed. “We have had this dream to connect Leh and this was the first step to the connectivity ladder. This tunnel was a challenging project because we were working from two ends. The other end was in North, across the Rohtang Pass which was accessible only for five months in a year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-s-longest-highway-tunnel-above-10-000-feet-connecting-manali-with-leh-ready-after-10-years/story-BvCFxuzGa1kGZdY0ZT5i8M.html
16-09-2020||City||Paonta-Hatkoti road included in Green National Highway Corridor project: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said the proposed national highway between Poanta sahib in Sirmaur and Hatkoti in Shimla district has been included in the 104km Green National Highway Corridor Project. The estimated cost of the World Bank-aided project is ₹1,351.62 crore, the CM said, in reply to a question raised by Shillai legislator Harshwardhan Chauhan during the monsoon session of the assembly. Chauhan had sought details about the project in his question.The CM said the road between Poanta and Hatkoti is immensely important and land for this purpose is being acquired under the Factor 1. Thakur said he will not be able to share details of forest clearances under the project. However, he said, the 250m stretch of the road is prone to landslides and is repeatedly hampering the project work. The CM said a valley bridge is being constructed for an alternate route.Thakur said ₹8 crore Detailed Project Report will be sent to the NABARD and construction of two new bridges has also been proposed. He said the process of land acquisition is going on in a phased-manner and the same will begin for the remaining areas from next week.In his reply to a question of Congress MLA Asha Kumari, the CM said the width of Langera to Khundi Maral road is stalled due to non-issuance of NOC from the wildlife wing. Kumari said the road is important as it connects to the villages in Jammu and Kashmir.Replying to questions raised by MLAs Kishori Lal and Balbir Verma, education minister Govind Singh Thakur said there is no dearth of apple plants in the state. Verma had alleged that officials were distributing plants to their relatives and known persons. He suggested that the government should make provisions to ensure that the apple plants are distributed to those hailing from BPL category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paonta-hatkoti-road-included-in-green-national-highway-corridor-project-jai-ram/story-88PXJLspfiNUSkeZxeUmIM.html
16-09-2020||City||Agra’s Mughal museum to house Braj artefacts as well: Official||Agra’s under-construction Mughal museum, which will be named after Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji, will house artefacts from Braj region of Uttar Pradesh as well, a senior government official said here on Wednesday. “The Braj region comes under Agra division. Braj region and Agra division will be included in the museum and work will be done in a speedy manner,” additional chief secretary (home and information) Awanish Awasthi said. Also read: Taj Mahal’s reopening to give Agra’s marble trade a new lease of lifeBraj, also known as Brij or Brijbhoomi, is the region around Mathura-Vrindavan and is considered to be the land of Lord Krishna. The area stretches from Mathura, Jalesar, Agra, Hathras and Aligarh to Etah, Mainpuri and Farrukhabad districts. On Monday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced that the museum would be named after Chhatrapati Shivaji. However, former chief secretary of the state Alok Ranjan claimed that Braj was anyway part of the initial plan conceptualised in 2015. He said the project was conceptualised in 2015 and it was to be completed in 2017-18. “An interpretation centre is built there (in Agra). It consists of videos, books and audios about Taj Mahal and other monuments. It also houses the art and craft of the local area. The local art, culture and heritage is available to the foreign tourists in their language. There were stalls of art and craft of Agra as well as the Braj area. A very good complex had come up,” he said. Asked if Braj was included in the initial plan itself, Ranjan said, “I think it was.” He said the basic objective behind planning the museum was to earn more revenue for Agra. “Tourists come from Delhi, visit Agra and go back. As a result, the hotel industry, restaurants, shops, craftsmen don’t earn any revenue,” Ranjan, a 1978-batch IAS officer, added. “More revenue will be generated if people spent a night in Agra. For a night halt, the attractions will have to be increased. How long will people keep watching the Taj Mahal? Certain things were thought of and we developed the entire area around the Taj Mahal...We built an interpretation centre, art and crafts centre on the lines of monuments abroad, cobble-stone pathways, antique lighting. One part of it was also to develop the Mughal museum. The idea was to reflect the Mughal history, their lifestyle and culture of that period, along with art, literature,” he said. Meanwhile, member of Parliament (MP) from Agra, SP Singh Baghel has expressed gratitude towards Yogi Adityanath for his decision to rename the under-construction Mughal Museum after Shivaji. He said, “As Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj came to Agra Fort, it is being named after him. As Agra’s MP, I welcome this.” Baghel said Agra’s history was not just Mughal history. “When there is a museum, Mughal emperors will be mentioned, we will not remove them,” he said, adding, “but when foreign tourists come, we cannot tell them that there were only Mughals here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agra-s-mughal-museum-to-house-braj-artefacts-as-well-official/story-OjiBtThVHGCmMzI2h3WeHL.html
16-09-2020||Bhopal||Lumpy skin disease infects over 15,000 cattle in MP||Madhya Pradesh government has banned transportation of bovines, their sale and mingling in animal fairs and mating without a test for the next two months as a viral disease - lumpy skin disease - has affected at least 15,000 such animals in at least 10 districts of the state bordering Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. Measures are being taken to contain the spread of the disease, government officials said. The animal husbandry department and Nanaji Deshmukh Veterinary Science University, Jabalpur, has ordered isolation of infected bovines for 12-14 days and also put a ban on their inter-state and intra-state transportation, as per officials. Animal husbandry department’s additional chief secretary, JN Kansotia, said, “Spread of the virus was limited to some districts but we have issued instructions to district officers of animal husbandry department of all the districts to contain the disease.”Nanaji Deshmukh Veterinary Science University, Jabalpur, dean RK Sharma said, “The disease is spreading very fast due to four main factors- contact, secretion of dung and urine, flies and mating with affected bovines. Isolation and proper medication are the only ways to contain the disease.” “The first case was reported in Anuppur in the second week of August when some cows showed the symptoms of the viral disease. The tested samples from Anuppur confirmed the presence of the virus from family Poxviridae which causes lumpy skin disease,” said PK Solnaki, a senior veterinary surgeon of animal husbandry department, appointed as nodal officer for disease containment efforts. “In just one week, we came to know that it had spread to at least six districts. In less than one month, it spread to more than 10 districts and affected over 15,000 cattle-- mainly domestic. The worst affected district is Balaghat where 8700 cases were reported,” said Solanki. “The local municipal bodies and panchayat officials of all the 52 districts have been asked to remain on alert and ensure isolation of stray cows if found infected. Owners of bovines have been asked to make a separate shed for infected ones and not leave the infected ones for grazing in an open ground,” said the officer. Also Read: MP assembly session truncated to one day; minimum number of MLAs to attend Solanki says that the ban on organising animal fairs, which were on hold due to Covid-19, will continue for the next two months. The bovine owners have also been asked to mate their animals only after testing. To create awareness among people and to provide medicines to infected bovines, camps are being organized in more than 500 villages of 10 districts of east and south east of MP, said JN Kansotia. Also Read: Struck by lightning seven killed in Madhya Pradesh Lumpy Skin Disease or the LSD was first reported in Zambia in 1929. Over the next 85 years, it steadily spread throughout the majority of Africa and into the middle-east. In 2015, it entered mainland Europe in Greece and spread to Russia. In 2019, the first known LSD infection in India was reported from Odisha. The disease then reached MP from Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. It normally spreads through insects or ticks. “The disease has a very rare chance of mortality but the morbidity rate is very high. It causes secretion of milk in affected cows and buffalos. There is no report of transmission of the disease from animals to humans so far,” said RK Sharma, dean of the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/lumpy-skin-diseases-infects-over-15-000-cattle-in-mp/story-xLqY3jofha1MvZdGBZ0U0O.html
16-09-2020||Pune||Study shows at least 99% of surveyed sex workers in Pune in search of alternative livelihood||At least 99 per cent of sex workers living in Pune want to take up alternative means of livelihood, if given an opportunity, reveals a study conducted by the Asha Care Trust (ACT). The lockdown necessitated due to the Covi-19 pandemic decimated the demand for sex trade forcing these workers to borrow loans for survival. For the study, 300 (around 10%) of sex workers in Budhwar peth were surveyed. According to the survey conducted by ACT, a forum that works towards the welfare of sex workers, at least 85 per cent of the workers have taken loans and 98 per cent of them have taken it from their brothel owners, managers and moneylenders, subjecting themselves to further exploitation. “What is more alarming is that 87 per cent of workers stated that even before the pandemic struck, their incomes were not sufficient to support themselves or their families. Key factors like lack of education and employable skills compel them to depend on one source of income i.e. earning through sex work and remain trapped in the vicious circle. Majority of the workers now want to explore alternative sources of livelihood,” said Shilpa Shetty, president of ACT. “Covid-19 epidemic has presented us with an opportunity to create a mechanism to rehabilitate sex workers in mainstream society. Our survey suggests almost all of them are looking at alternative sources of livelihood in Budhwar Peth region. For the women who opt-out of sex work, trafficking victim relief fund should be provided to help them pay-off their debt and get started with a new chapter,” she added. A delegation led by Asha Care Trust along with representatives of other organisations including, Shailesh Badhai from Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samiti; Yogesh Bhokre of Maharashtra Itak Kamgar Sangathana; social worker Pratibha Shinde; Fayyaz sheikh of Pune Jilha Grahak Sanrakshan Samiti, Bhola Vanjale and avocate Vidya Pedankar met Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Monday and submitted the survey report. The delegation also requested quick action supporting the findings of the study. Shetty said, “The meeting was good and the mayor gave us a very positive response. We are very hopeful that the district administration will help us in this regard. We also plan to meet other district and state level decision makers to help them take the initiative forward and provide requisite support to the sex workers in this difficult time.” Tejaswi Sevekari, director of Saheli NGO, which works for sex workers, said, “The condition of the sex workers during the lockdown and now is not good. The income has stopped and they are definitely is search of alternative sources of income. If such initiatives are been taken of doing the survey or helping these women, then Pune Municipal Corporation and the state government should consider this issue prominently. Without the support and help of the government, nothing substantial can be done.”Key highlights of the survey report: 82% of the workers fall in the age group of 25 to 45 years. Some of them were forced into the trade when they were minors. While 84% of the sex workers have not had any formal education and the rest 16% were pushed into the trade even before they finished high school. Also, 92.7% stated that they fear resuming sex work, but are also crippled with the fear of starvation. Harassment from brothel managers has led them to worry about their daily bread and butter. While 68% believe that the sex trade will pick up in the days to come, 99% stated that they will take up any alternative livelihood option, if given an opportunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/study-shows-at-least-99-of-surveyed-sex-workers-in-pune-in-search-of-alternative-livelihood/story-EOwSUHBUtpMfQLZa7ZzizH.html
16-09-2020||City||Covid-19 negative certificate not needed to enter Himachal Pradesh: CM Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said the COVID-19 negative certificate will not be needed to enter the state from now onwards. While speaking to the reporters, Thakur added that the move would result in reviving the state economy as more tourists will now be able to come to Himachal Pradesh. “Now that the state has opened its borders, no registration will be required to enter and exit the state. The tourism business will be opening after this and this will help to revive the economy of the region. After the monsoon season, tourism will start as the tourist arrival begins here after monsoon,” he said. Thakur further appealed everyone to follow the coronavirus related safety protocols and norms. Earlier, the state government had permitted the entrance of tourists who bring along COVID-19 negative reports/certificates till September 15. The Himachal Pradesh government had on Tuesday allowed inter-state travel without an e-pass after shutting borders for more than five months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The state cabinet has, however, decided not to resume inter-state transport buses as of now.Meanwhile, the state recorded 76 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total positive cases in Himachal to 10,411. Out of the total cases, 3,875 cases are active. While 6,481 recoveries have been reported, the death toll stands at 89. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-negative-certificate-not-needed-to-enter-himachal-pradesh-cm-jai-ram-thakur/story-DcgB9aoXItOmdq04fTmS5N.html
16-09-2020||Pune||Pune district now has more Covid-19 active cases than Mumbai, Thane put together||Pune district has reported 80,000 active Covid-19 cases as of September 15, more than Mumbai (30,938) and Thane (29,239), put together. On Tuesday, Pune district reported 4,062 fresh positives and 50 deaths due to Covid-19, as per the state health department. This takes the progressive positive count to 2,39,481,of which 1,54,441 have recovered. The death toll stands at 4,888 with 80,152 active cases. As per the Pune municipal corporation figures released on Tuesday, 1,889 fresh positives were recorded in the city, taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,31,983, with 35 Covid-19-related deaths in the last 24 hours, till Monday evening. This puts the PMC death toll at 3,016. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 871 fresh positives taking its total Covid-19 cases to 63,399 with four deaths in the last 24 hours. This puts the PCMC death toll at 917. Pune rural reported 1,302 fresh positives taking its total Covid-19 cases to 44,099 with 11 deaths. The death toll for Pune rural stands at 955. The state health department reported 19,423 patients discharged on Tuesday taking the total discharge count for the state to 7,75,273. Recovery rate in the state is 70.62%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.77%. Of 54,09,060 samples taken, 10,97,856 have tested positive (20.29%) for COVID-19 as of Tuesday. Currently, across the state, 17,34,164 people are in home quarantine and 37,225 people are in institutional quarantine, as per the the state health department’s press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-now-has-more-covid-19-active-cases-than-mumbai-and-thane-put-together/story-qvpHOlYU1rNpdkE5BPANdM.html
16-09-2020||Patna||Doctors unhappy as Bihar promotes them without ranks||An organisation of government doctors in Bihar has expressed displeasure over the state government’s move to promote 550 of them on Monday and last week without giving them ranks commensurate to the pay scale they have been elevated to as part of Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP).Bihar Health Services Association (BHSA) general secretary Dr Ranjeet Kumar said the doctors have not been promoted for the last 24 years. “The government has been cheating us by not giving in situ promotion to doctors. Promotion does not come without a change in designation commensurate to the pay scale.”These doctors are among those dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayKumar said a government panel in 2016 agreed to DACP with elevation in rank and pay for doctors. “The government accepted its recommendations in toto. Yet, the health department has not been giving us promotion in rank...”Kumar said 3,000 positions are vacant from the first promotion level—senior medical officer to director-in-chief —because the department has not promoted doctors for 24 years. “The total vacancy of doctors will add up to 5,000 if the 2,000-odd positions at GDMO [general duty medical officer] and specialist level are taken into account despite the recent appointment of 4,100 doctors.”Bihar’s principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit was unavailable for comments.An officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there are human resources issues in the department. “Rules have been overlooked and standard norms of executive business bypassed, as the lower level staff held sway. This has been happening for long, leading to a disgruntled workforce of doctors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/doctors-unhappy-as-bihar-promotes-them-without-ranks/story-8cNy52dJ5M2RHUe2uCzg4I.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Finance dept unhappy at agenda of Punjabi varsity syndic meeting||The state finance department has submitted its reservations and observations to the higher education department about the agenda that Punjabi University followed in its syndicate meeting on August 17. The higher education department is the administrative department to the varsity.Commenting on the meeting agenda, the department observed that the services of contractual employees should not be regularised by the university in violation of government policy, without the approval of the administrative department.The department of finance said, “Punjabi University is passing through severe financial crisis and needs to implement corrective steps as pointed out in the audit report submitted to the finance department on June 30.”“No additional benefits shall to be given to the officers and officials in the case of additional charges. The extension in the services of contractual and ad hoc staff should not be a routine exercise but it should be decided as per the work load assessment and the requirement of the institution as per UGC norms,” the communique stated.It also observed that the grant of new pension scheme from July 2012, onwards must be reviewed as it is in violation of the government policy, while the grant of pay scale to some employees by the university at its own level in violation of the government norms must be reviewed.The higher education department has been suggested that the university must prepare a standard operating procedures for grant of extraordinary leave and study leave to its employees. Secretary higher education Rahul Bhandari said they were yet to receive final proceedings of the meeting.“The department will surely look into the observations and required suggestions will be made to the varsity,” Bhandari said. Varsity vice-chancellor BS Ghuman could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Previously, in a report submitted to the department of higher education on June 30, the principal accountant general (audit) listed glaring financial anomalies, including excess payment of ₹1.4 crore for advertisement on commercial rates, non-recovery of temporary advance totalling ₹4.9 crore from different departments, unwarranted expenditure of ₹5 crore and irregular procurement of goods worth ₹9.6 crore between 2014 and 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/finance-dept-unhappy-at-agenda-of-punjabi-varsity-syndic-meeting/story-gEYEeEdiSvZdVrf5PqnNCM.html
16-09-2020||City||Ex-cricketer Bhupinder Singh Senior alleges scam in PCA||Former cricketer and selector Bhupinder Singh Senior has alleged major discrepancies in the functioning of the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA). Addressing a press conference in Ludhiana on Tuesday, the former cricketer alleged that the funds released by PCA, in favour of the Patiala District Cricket Association, its registered affiliate, were siphoned off to a family-owned trust -- Patiala Cricket Association-- which was a “huge financial scam”. He added that two office-bearers of PCA allegedly managed disbursement of funds in the name of Patiala Cricket Association by manipulating the records. PCA receives grants under various heads from Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to ensure that the same is spent for the betterment of the game of cricket in the state. “Instead of spending the funds for the improvement of the game, they were illegally transferring it to their family trust which was formed in 1988,” he alleged.“Since 1988, the above mentioned persons have been embezzling funds to their family trust by misleading everyone and claiming it to be a registered society. As a result, they have accumulated over crores in the bank account. When questions were raised regarding this trust, the members of Patiala Cricket Association had answered in writing to the apex council that they had changed the name of Patiala District Cricket Association to Patiala Cricket Association in 1995,” he said. He also alleged that the aforesaid persons had illegally occupied provincial government land in 1988 under the name of Patiala Cricket Association by preparing false documents in conspiracy with other unknown persons. Bhupinder Singh Senior further questioned that if the name of Patiala District Cricket Association was changed in 1995, then how did the family trust acquire the land in 1988 under the name of Patiala Cricket Association. Former cricketer Rakesh Handa also raised objections over the appointment of PCA secretary Puneet Bali, alleging that the latter had submitted incorrect information at the time of filing his nomination papers and claimed to be a ‘representative’ from Ropar district cricket association, Roopnagar. When contacted, Puneet Bali refuted the allegations. He said that there are no discrepancies at all in the PCA. “The PCA body is following all norms and constitution and working for the benefit of cricketers,” he said, adding, ”Some persons want to defame the body for the reason better known to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-cricketer-bhupinder-singh-senior-alleges-scam-in-pca/story-M0B8ju3G0EDqfHTzYU4oJN.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Activists’ press conference condemns Umar Khalid’s arrest||A group of civil society activists on Wednesday condemned the Delhi Police’s arrest of student activist Umar Khalid under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPAA) Act, 2019, calling it an “inquisition of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 protests” and a “witch-hunt against young minds”.Khalid has been arrested for his alleged role in orchestrating the north-east riots in Delhi in February, which had claimed 53 lives and injured over 400 people.The press conference was attended by former member of the Planning Commission Syeda Hameed; Supreme Court (SC) lawyer Prashant Bhushan; Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation, or CPI (ML), leader Kavita Krishnan; senior journalist Pamela Philipose; and former Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president Nandita Narain.Also Read: Umar Khalid in 10-day custody, police to show him 1.1mn pages of dataCommunist Party of India (CPI) leader Kanhaiya Kumar, who was also a speaker and had been arrested along with Khalid in the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) sedition case in 2016, could not attend the event. However, he released a statement on social media. “Questions must be raised over the investigation of Delhi riots as the purpose of this probe is not to ensure justice but to take political revenge,” Kumar said. He demanded questioning of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, who had “incited the riots”.Those present at the gathering, including Khalid’s mother and civil society activist Harsh Mander, wore masks with faces of other arrested student activists to show solidarity and also held placards of their names. The organisers played a pre-recorded video of Khalid before his arrest.Also Read: Why no action against ruling party leaders, ask former top cops“I gave a 17-minute speech out of which 20-30 seconds is being made viral stating that I conspired in the north-east Delhi riots. The part, where I had talked about satyagraha, is nowhere to be heard. The ones who spoke up are being put behind bars but my message to everyone is that one must not be scared and speak out against injustice,” he said in the video.Bhushan said, “Police said that the members of a WhatsApp group, organised with the objective to support the exemplary peaceful [anti-CAA] protests, are conspirators. But people like Kapil Mishra, who were instigating violence by saying ‘goli maro’, did not face any action.”Mishra, who had denied allegations of his involvement in the riots, on Monday released a video congratulating Delhi Police for arresting Khalid and “people like him”, and likened the February riots to the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.Also Read: Umar Khalid’s arrest: Activists, academicians, politicians express solidarity, call it a ‘witch-hunt’Bhushan alleged that the Delhi Police was indulging in “criminal conspiracy” in the name of investigation. “In the name of investigation, the Delhi Police is indulging in criminal conspiracy to frame innocent people who were protesting peacefully against an unconstitutional law. It is a conspiracy to let off those against whom unimpeachable evidence is available to show their involvement in these riots. Some of us wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind a few days ago that there needs to be a commission of inquiry (CoI) into the investigation by the Delhi Police itself as it had happened during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots,” he said.“We have gathered here today to express our collective anguish at the sheer brazenness with which the Delhi Police has turned the investigation into the February violence in the national capital into an inquisition of the anti-CAA protests,” the attendees said in a statement.“We demand an immediate end to this outrageous investigation that is being conducted with prejudice and mala fide intent. We demand that activists booked under the UAPAA be immediately released; and a judicial enquiry commission be constituted to punish the real culprits and ensure justice for Delhi violence,” it added.Delhi Police had contended that an examination of witnesses revealed that Khalid was coordinating between protest sites in Delhi in connivance with other arrested accused. Delhi Police had claimed that Khalid, along with some other prominent anti-CAA protesters, had used the protest sites to plan and orchestrate the riots.Delhi Police has argued almost an equal number of Hindu and Muslims rioters were booked and it is conducting a ‘free and fair investigation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-activists-press-conference-condemns-umar-khalid-s-arrest/story-ytYu7ObphVAfGM6yzaM3YO.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man who duped over 2,500 by offering phones on easy installments held||A man (32) has been arrested from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh (UP) for allegedly using fake websites to con unsuspecting public by offering cheap mobile phones on easy equated monthly installments (EMIs), Delhi Police said on Wednesday. Two mobile phones that were used in the crime were seized from the accused, while his two associates are still absconding, the police said. Also read: Using demonetisation ruse, man, 55, cheats Delhi trader of Rs 2 lakhJitender Singh, who holds an undergraduate degree in computer applications, has reportedly confessed to his alleged crime. He along with his two accomplices had duped more than 2,500 people across the country in the past two years using fake websites and luring his gullible victims with cheap mobile phones and easy EMIs, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (south-east), Delhi Police. “We are verifying his claims of cheating over 2,500 people. The bank accounts that the fraudsters used are being examined to ascertain the money transactions related to the scam. We have arrested Singh in one case that was being investigated by our district’s cyber cell team since January,” said DCP Meena. An investigating officer (IO), who did not want to be named, said that initial analysis of one bank account has reflected around five deposits made by the victims for buying cheap mobile phones. “We will approach the depositors to know whether they had filed any police complaints regarding the cheating. Singh has told us that his gang used to dupe two or three persons daily,” the officer added. DCP Meena explained the gang’s modus operandi.The fraudsters would create fake websites, where they promised mobile phones on rates cheaper than available market prices and also offered easy EMIs. They would dupe a certain number of people and then deactivate the website. They would choose a new domain name for the website in a bid to avoid refund or delivery demands of the purchased mobile phones by their duped victims.“They used to charge between Rs 1,999 and Rs 7,999 for each mobile phone. The prices were deliberately kept low in a bid to ensure that the victims would not approach police even after being conned. They only accepted payment through a virtual payment address (VPA) mechanism to make the detection of a financial transaction difficult,” added Meena. On January 9, the DCP said, one Irfan Pathan filed a case at Govindpuri police station in south Delhi regarding a similar fraud.Pathan alleged that last December while surfing online to buy a mobile phone, he came across a website that promised phones on cheaper rates and also offered easy EMIs. “An executive of the website tricked him into depositing R 5,998 in three EMIs through a VPA. However, the fraudsters neither delivered the phone nor returned the amount. They deactivated the website and all their contact numbers. Pathan filed a complaint at Govindpuri police station in January after he was defrauded,” said Meena. During the probe, the police collected details of the phone numbers that were linked to the website and were used to contact Pathan. The call details of one phone number revealed that it was registered with an e-commerce payment system site and a bank account in the name of one Rajat Shukla. The details of the alleged VPA used by the fraudsters were obtained from the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). It was found that the VPA was registered with Shukla’s bank account through which the money was transferred to another account opened in the name of accused Singh, said the DCP. “We arrested Singh from his home in Ghaziabad and seized two mobile phones used in the crime. Singh disclosed that Shukla and Praveen Kumar were his partners in crime,” said Meena.“Raids are in progress to arrest the two absconding suspects,” the DCP added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-conman-who-duped-over-2-500-by-offerings-phones-on-easy-installments-held/story-CVu3Y3G4AutuGZryd2TUnI.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Increase number of RT-PCR tests: Delhi High Court order||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked a committee appointed by the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) to immediately convene a meeting “on priority” to chalk out a strategy for increasing the number of RT-PCR tests in the national Capital.A bench comprising justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad also asked the Delhi government to provide maps of all the community centres and the mohalla clinics where testing would be conducted after it told the court Geospatial Delhi Limited (GSDL) would map test centres in the city.Also Read: Coronavirus study to trial vaccine delivery through inhalersThe court was hearing a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking the scaling up of tests in the city. On the last date of the hearing, the court did away with the provision of asymptomatic persons having to produce a prescription for Covid-19 tests. The bench also asked the Delhi government to put up maps of testing centres at Metro stations.On Wednesday, the bench expressed its displeasure over the low number of RT-PCR tests conducted between September 8 and September 15, compared to the number of rapid antigen tests (RAT). It posed a query to advocate Satyakam, the additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, as to why the rapid antigen tests were still being conducted when their accuracy is about 60%.It said that more RT-PCR tests should be conducted because they are more accurate.Also Read: Substance use disorders linked to Covid-19 susceptibility“Having regards to the fact that results of the RAT tests are 60% false-negative leaving a great doubt on the infection in asymptomatic persons, we are of the view that RT-PCR should be increased. Delhi government should focus on soaring tests through RT-PCR as much as possible...,” the court said.The bench said that since there is an expert committee constituted by the L-G, it should immediately decide on testing more people via the RT-PCR method to get accurate results. It asked the committee to file a report and posted the matter for further hearing on September 30.During the proceedings, Directorate General of Health Services Nutan Mundeja told the court that they have started mobile testing facilities in a few Metro stations. In an affidavit, the government also told the court that 79 mobile teams are active in the city. It said that testing facilities have been set up all over Delhi and DMRC is displaying their details to enable commuters to access testing sites closest to their point of exit and entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/increase-number-of-rt-pcr-tests-delhi-high-court-order/story-CLNBkPUcF5uxiv1nddcacM.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM announces withdrawal of FIRs against protesting farmers||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday appealed to farmers not to stop traffic or violate Section 144 of the CrPC in the state over the agriculture Bills, but made it clear that no cases would be registered against them for violation of prohibitory orders as they were fighting for their lives. “FIRs already registered against farmers protesting in violation of Section 144 would be withdrawn,” Capt Amarinder Singh told mediapersons outside Punjab Raj Bhawan after submitting a memorandum against the anti-farmer Bills on behalf of the Punjab Congress. “The farmers are violating the law as the ordinances will ruin them and their families,” he said in response to a question. The state Congress and his government are with the farmers, the chief minister said. “The ordinances would pave the way for ending the minimum support price (MSP) regime,” he added. Captain Amarinder urged the farmers to take their protests to Delhi, at the doorstep of the central government, and assured them that the Congress would stand with them in their fight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-announces-withdrawal-of-firs-against-protesting-farmers/story-XygKfcwV16rSZ3S7MsHWDJ.html
16-09-2020||Education||Two govt schools open on trial basis; Haryana may adopt formula for higher classes||Karnal/Rohtak: Two government schools in Haryana’s Karnal and Sonepat divided students into groups as per colour codes to help them and their teachers maintain social distancing when they opened on a trial basis for two days last week as per the Centre’s Covid-19 Standard Operating Procedures. The trial involved groups of 20 students each.The Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines issued late month to ease the restrictions imposed in March to check the pandemic spread allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to return to schools on a voluntary basis from September 21 to seek academic guidance. Schools across the country were shut and exams suspended as part of measures to deal with the pandemic in March.“We adopted this [colour-coding] formula when the school opened for three hours and over 70 students of Class 12 attended the school,” said Karnal school principal, Dharampal. He added the students were divided into four bubbles or groups, and given coloured masks and badges as per the colour of their groups. He said their benches were also colour marked for identification in separate classes. Dharampal said the formula worked well.The teachers were instructed not to share books, chalks, and dusters with the other teachers and students. Also, the school authorities modified the toilets and pedals were installed to control water taps.An education department official said students were not allowed to interact with their schoolmates in other groups.The state education department has decided to adopt this formula as it is planning to reopen schools for Class 9 to 12 students.A second official, who did not wish to be named, said the two schools were reopened to check whether they are prepared to restart classes. “We have received videos of students during their trial classes. A team of experts from the school education and health departments will access the videos and check the loopholes. If all the safety protocols were followed, we will send these videos to other schools, otherwise, we will discuss with experts what other steps should be taken to maintain safety standards.”The second official said they got the bubble system idea from schools in the UK and other European countries.Chand Kishor, the headmaster of the Sonepat school, said 40 students of Class 10 returned to the school. “We divided them into two groups and students wore assigned bubble colour code and ribbons on their sleeves. The same colour code was used for the roll numbers and names pasted on their desks. Students brought their food and water bottles. A five-minute break was given after 40-minute class. One student was allowed at a time to go to the toilet...” He said they are confident that they will be able to run the school if the government gives them the go-ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/two-govt-schools-open-on-trial-basis-haryana-may-adopt-formula-for-higher-classes/story-CTrKgyOMOkyz7fJzUZBdkO.html
16-09-2020||City||SIT formed to ‘probe’ interfaith marriages in Kanpur||The Uttar Pradesh police have formed a nine-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe cases of interfaith marriages in Kanpur, inspector general Mohit Agarwal said. Agarwal said the SIT has been given 10 days to complete the probe after a woman’s family claimed she was a victim of “love jihad”.Radical Hindu groups have popularised the term “love jihad”, which they use to describe what they believe is an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriage. In February, junior home minister G Kishan Reddy told Parliament the term “love jihad” is not defined under the laws and no such case has been reported by any central agency.The SIT probe has been ordered even as the woman recorded her statement in Delhi’s Tis Hazari court, saying she married on her own volition. The case fell flat but the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) joined the family in staging a demonstration in Kidwai Nagar alleging a pattern in five interfaith marriages. As of now, the SIT has 15 such cases to look into.“There is a new case every day; the investigation clearly cannot be completed in 10 days. It will need more time,” said Kanpur (South) police superintendent Deepak Bhuker.Circle officer Vikas Pandey will lead the SIT and look into the 15 cases of interreligious marriage. “The investigation entails collecting information on couples, recording the statements of their family members, checking call records of Muslim youths, their bank account statements,” said Pandey.Agarwal said apart from tracing any links between the Muslims involved in such cases, the probe team would explore the conspiracy angle and look at whether the men were receiving overseas funding.The SIT is collecting details from the police stations from where the cases were reported. Deen Dayal Gaur, a local VHP functionary, said the organisation’s representatives met Agarwal and sought the probe because they felt these cases were not merely about love. “They are a result of a well-hatched conspiracy to target the Hindu girls; most of them are minor as per our inputs,” he said.“We demand a comprehensive probe to expose this conspiracy and funding from overseas. Love does not see caste and religion but as it is turning out there is a pattern, which would lead to communal disharmony.”The SIT is also pursuing the case of a Muslim man, who allegedly adopted a Hindu identity, and allegedly abused a minor after renting a room in her house. Station house officer Kunj Bihari Mishra said the man has been arrested on charges of rape. Police said they have recovered two Aadhaar cards, one in his original name and the other based on the fake identity, from him. The girl, in her statement before a local court, has maintained she was duped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sit-formed-to-probe-cases-of-interfaith-marriages-in-kanpur/story-aXZD04aH4DKAShSynu6YyL.html
16-09-2020||City||Uttarakhand village boy’s journey from being a porter to PhD scholar||The life of Virendra Rana (35), who belongs to a tiny hamlet Lata in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, has come full circle. At 18, he had worked as a part-time porter and guide for six scientists, who were involved in a field project in the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve that proved to be a turning point in his impoverished existence.The fleeting experience stood him in good stead as he ended up pursuing a doctor of philosophy (Ph.D) degree on the Himalayan glaciers under one of the six scientists in Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna(HNB) Garhwal Central University, Srinagar, in Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal district, followed by post-doctoral researches in the country’s premier institutes such as Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)- Kharagpur and the Banaras Hindu University (BHU). The field researchers had fired Ram’s imagination to attain the academic goal of a Ph.D on Nanda Devi glaciers. At present, he is doing a post-doctoral research from BHU. Rana, who belongs to a humble background, is the second among five siblings and his father is a retired havildar of the Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP).Rana grew up in the lap of Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve as his native village Lata is located there. The reserve is also the natural habitat for the famous Valley of Flowers. The summer of 2003 changed the course of Rana’s life, who as a teenager used to work as a part-time porter and guide to tide over the family’s financial hardships.“I was in the first year of my undergraduate course that summer (in 2003). I was only 18. During summer vacations, I used to work as a part-time porter and guide to earn my pocket expenses and to support the family. I had joined a team of six scientists who needed porters to carry their luggage up the mountains in the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve. The expedition changed my life forever,” said Rana while speaking over the phone from Varanasi. Rana recalled that he was particularly attached to one of the scientists from the group -- MPS Bisht, who is currently the director of Uttarakhand Space Application Centre. “I curiously watched Bisht sir picking up some stones on the way and explaining to his two students, who were accompanying him. Though I had enrolled for a Bachelor in Science (B.Sc) degree in geology, I had no clue what he was talking about. However, his actions caught my attention. I used to listen to him attentively whenever he used to explain anything to his two students,” Rana reminisced. He said while trekking they took a halt during which Bisht asked him about his education and family background after spotting his keen interest. “I told him during our brief conversation that I belong to a family with limited financial means. I was pursuing my undergraduate studies in geology from a government degree college in Gopeshwar. Soon, our interactions became more frequent and we kept in constant touch,” he said.He got a call from Bisht about his future academic plans following his completion of the B.Sc degree in geology in 2005.“In 2005, Bisht sir was a professor of geology in HNB Garhwal Central University. He got me enrolled in the university, from where I completed my postgraduate degree in 2007. I was fortunate that he helped a poor village lad like me to realise my dreams,” Rana said. During his postgraduate course, Bisht would ask Rana to accompany him on trips to the Himalayas, especially in the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve. On one such trips, where Bisht was working on a project on the Valley of Flowers approved by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), he adviced Rana to pursue his Ph.D on the Nanda Devi glaciers. “I readily agreed to his proposal, as I had gained the basic knowledge under him on the subject during those field trips. I did my Ph.D. under his able guidance from HNB Garhwal Central University and was awarded the degree in 2014. Then, I went to IIT-Kharagpur the same year for a four-year post-doctoral research programme on Dharwar Craton in Karnataka as a research associate,,” said Rana. “Currently, I am pursuing another research under a fellowship programme of the University Grants Commission (UGC) in BHU, Varanasi,” he said. In retrospect, Rana said his life is full of struggles as he has to take care on all fronts, including farming at his native village because he is the eldest son of the family. “It has been a long and hard struggle. I had to work in fields in my village and help my mother in other household chores,” said Rana, who has been a farm hand since his school days as his father was serving in the ITBP. “Even now, I collect fodder for the cattle and livestock during my annual visit every year to my native place during October-November for a month. The fodder needs to be stocked up ahead of the harsh winter in the hills,” he said. He said his family’s financial conditions have considerably improved since he finished his Ph.D.‘I am thankful to Bisht sir for nurturing my talent and helping me realise my cherished dream,” he added.Bisht recounted how he spotted Rana.“Whenever I used to explain anything to my two students on various geological aspects, he used to listen very attentively, which was unusual for any part-time porter. On that trip, at times, when I would get confused about the spot from where I picked any sample, he would promptly correct me by saying that ‘sir you picked it from there’. That attitude is what got me interested in him,” said Bisht. “Today, I am proud of what he has achieved through his hard work and dedication. I consider him like my eldest son, such is our affinity,” he said. Rana’s hard work and dedication has struck a chord with his mentors in IIT-Kharagpur and BHU. Professor MA Mamtani from IIT-Kharagpur, under whom Rana pursued a four-year research project as a research associate on Dharwar Craton of Karnataka, said, “He was one of the most sincere and hard-working researchers under me in that project.” He added: “He brought an invaluable experience of working in the Himalayas in the project as the terrain is very difficult, as compared to the plains.” Professor Mamtani said that Rana executed every task in a systematic and organised manner with hardly any error. “He had taken the responsibility of managing my laboratory for the project. He didn’t need many instructions. It has been two years since he left the institute, but I still miss such sincerity and dedication in my team,” said Mamtani. His mentor at BHU, Professor HB Srivastava, under whom he is currently pursuing another research project, also lavished praises on him. “I have worked for a significant time in the Himalayas of Uttarakhand. I know how the people from that area. When I came to know that Rana has applied for the research here, I was very happy to welcome him,” said Srivastava. “Also, when I came to know that he hails from a poor family, I decided to support him as much as I can. He is a very nice person and he never shies away from hard work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uttarakhand-village-boy-s-journey-from-being-a-porter-to-phd-scholar/story-ouncbEwGjvGTI3ue3gbjuO.html
16-09-2020||City||Murder of Suresh Raina’s relatives: 3 arrested, 11 other accused remain on the run||Three members of an inter-state gang of robbers have been arrested for murdering cricketer Suresh Raina’s two relatives in Pathankot on August 19, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Wednesday even as 11 other accused remain on the run.With the arrests, the chief minister said, the case of the attack and murder had been solved.Singh ordered the formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the killings after they triggered outrage.Raina’s uncle, Ashok Kumar, a contractor, was killed while his son, Kaushal Kumar, succumbed to injuries on August 31 after the robbers attacked them. His aunt, Asha Rani, is battling for life at a hospital in critical condition while two others injured in the attack have recovered.Punjab police chief Dinkar Gupta said over 100 suspects were questioned before the three were arrested from a slum near the Pathankot Railway Station on Tuesday. He added rings, a gold chain, and Rs 1,530 were recovered from the arrested accused Sawan, Muhobbat, and Shahrukh Khan.The initial probe has revealed that the three are members of a gang involved in robberies in Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Punjab. Sawan, who is from Uttar Pradesh, has told the investigators they started on August 12 from Rajasthan’s Chirawa in an autorickshaw and bought items including a screwdriver from a hardware shop in Ludhiana before leaving for Pathankot. They also committed a robbery in Jagraon on August 14.Gupta said in Pathankot, one Sanju, who knew the area well, joined them, and conducted a recce of the area. He added on August 19, five of the accused entered Ashok Kumar’s house using a ladder and attacked the people sleeping inside before escaping with cash and gold ornaments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-of-suresh-raina-s-relatives-3-arrested/story-evSCQMYq1D8mMXPkmGVZKJ.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||BMC eases restrictions on sealing buildings with Covid-19 cases||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities have decided to ease the rules for sealing residential buildings, where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have been reported in the city. The new rules will come into effect from Thursday.Instead of sealing these buildings, where viral outbreak cases have been reported, the civic authorities have directed office-bearers of respective housing societies to take more responsibilities in a bid to tackle the spread of the contagion, which has been causing havoc for the past six months in Mumbai.Also Read: Substance use disorders linked to Covid-19 susceptibilityThe new BMC protocol has stated that a building would be sealed if 10, or more Covid-19 positive cases, are found in the premises, especially on more than two floors. A part of the building such as a wing or a floor would be sealed if a single Covid-19 positive case is found or multiple persons are found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, which causes the viral disease, in a single household, stated a circular of the new protocol issued by the BMC. ‘However, the final call will be taken by an assistant commissioner, or a ward officer, who is in charge of an administrative ward, or a medical officer of health (MOH) on whether sealing the floor or wing is adequate, or if the entire building needs to be sealed in a bid prevent the spread of Covid-19,” the circular stated. The new BMC protocol fixes the accountability on a residential building’s office-bearers and local civic authorities to ensure social distancing, a ban on entry of outsiders in the sealed area and monitoring the health and ensuring supplies of essential commodities of home quarantined patients. Also Read: Coronavirus study to trial vaccine delivery through inhalersBesides, home quarantined patients’ high-risk contacts will also needed to be monitored by a residential building’s office-bearers.Earlier, the BMC used to seal an entire building, if more than three Covid-19 positive cases were reported. While a floor or a wing was sealed, if less than three cases of the viral outbreak were reported. Initially, when the civic body started sealing neighbourhoods and residential buildings in March and April following the viral outbreak, it had stipulated that even if one person from the building premises was found to have tested Covid-19 positive, then the entire premises would be sealed.The office-bearers of a residential building have also been directed to ensure that foolproof containment measures are put in place such as a ban on the entry in the sealed area for visitors like maids, vegetable and fruit vendors. Emphasis needs to be laid on online delivery of essential items in a safe and secure manner while complying with all necessary protocols issued by the civic authorities.The home quarantined patients and their high-risk contacts in sealed buildings will have to download Arogya Setu application (app) on their phones in a bid to monitor their movements, ward war room or the BMC’s control room number (1916) should be alerted if patients develop symptoms and the infected persons should be in touch with MOH of a ward on a regular basis. In the BMC-run area, there were 8,763 sealed buildings and 592 containment zones, including slums and chawls, until Monday. While between Sunday and Monday, the civic authorities had tracked down 16, 304 high-risk contacts within a span of 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-eases-restrictions-on-sealing-buildings-with-covid-19-cases/story-aNUpBlEtYGyCtR45VusNeP.html
16-09-2020||City||Milking success: Pulwama emerges as Anand of Kashmir||The day dawns early at Bundzoo village, barely 4km from Pulwama town on the highway to Shopian. Women and youngsters, most of them educated, queue up and wait their turn outside the milk collection centre as Kashmir wakes up to a silent dairy revolution. A hotbed of militancy, Pulwama district is seeing a churn and has emerged as the Anand of Kashmir with dairy cooperatives run by women and youngsters revolutionising milk production in the Valley. Today, there are more than 40 milk collection centres besides vendors and their middlemen who procure milk from every village house for milk plants in Pulwama district. WHERE MILK FLOWS IN ABUNDANCE Last year, official figures show Pulwama produced 31 crore litres of milk, which was supplied across J&K, and in 2017-18, it produced 28.04 crore litres. Every day, 8.5 lakh litres of milk is produced in Pulwama. The abundance motivated entrepreneurs to set up processing units and the district has five big milk plants come up in 12 years. “My unit has a capacity to process 50,000 litres of milk and the venture is running in profit. There is no shortage of milk here. We market and process more than 20,000 litres of milk and milk products every day,” says Shabir Ahmad, the owner of one of the units in Pulwama. “We get all our milk from local villages and our collection vans go everywhere in the district. Earlier, we used to collect milk from house to house, however, the network ended after the 2016 agitation when the Valley remained shut for six months. Now, we have suppliers who bring milk from households across the district,” he says. Sharing the secret behind Pulwama’s dairy revolution, district chief animal husbandry officer Syed Abas says, “The topography of the district is such that it is full of orchards and has vast swathes where fodder is grown. Almost every house has milch cattle. Many educated youngsters have also set up small dairy farms.” Secondly, Abas says, the government provided incentives such as subsidy to buy cows, equipment, tractors, milking machines, milk vans and automatic milk collecting units. Women cooperative societies and self-help groups helped make the milk business a successful venture. SHOPIAN TAKES TO MILK PRODUCTION, TOO Villagers in neighbouring Shopian district have drawn inspiration from Pulwama’s success story. “Most rural families here were into horticulture but they have now shifted to rearing cows and collectively produce three lakh litres of milk a day,” says Muneer Ahmad Quershi, the chief animal husbandry officer of Shopian. “For women, the milk produced by cows generates enough to run their homes and gives them financial independence,” he says. Showkat Hussain Mir, a postgraduate running a successful dairy unit with 20 cows at Pahoo village, 6km from Pulwama, says, “I worked in the private sector before taking a loan to set up this dairy farm last year. Today, I get more than 200 litres of milk from the dairy that I sell locally and to milk plants. I receive payment from milk plants after every 10 days. I plan to expand the business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/milking-success-pulwama-emerges-as-anand-of-kashmir/story-XgvIwCdckTPiEOg9D0YofO.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||13 of 24 Mumbai wards have over 1,000 active Covid-19 cases||As Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases increase, 13 of 24 administrative wards in the city have recorded over 1,000 active cases, of which four wards have recorded over 1,500. Nine other wards have recorded over 500 active cases, while the R Central ward of Borivali has recorded over 2,000 active cases. The current situation is a cause of concern for the civic administration as only two of the 24 wards,the R South ward and the R Central ward (Kandivali West and Borivali West), had recorded over 1,000 active cases just a month ago in the second week of August. The number of active cases is calculated after deducting the number of recovered and dead patients from the number of infected persons. According to official figures, until Monday, there were 26,710 active cases. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 30,938 active cases. Also Read: Coronavirus study to trial vaccine delivery through inhalersThe worst-affected wards continue to be suburban wards in Borivali, Dahisar, Malad, Andheri, Mulund and Bhandup. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained these wards have a high number of active cases due to their proximity to Mumbai’s satellite cities of Navi Mumbai, Thane, Mira Bhayandar, Vasai and Virar, from where a large number of people come to Mumbai every day for work. Many domestic workers and shop owners in these wards also travel from these cities. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic public health department said on Sunday, “Two trends we have continued to note are that more cases are coming from high-rises as opposed to slums. And more cases are from the north wards, due to their proximity to Mira Bhayandar, Thane, and the other cities. I visited the north wards on Sunday to take a stock of the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/13-of-24-mumbai-wards-have-over-1-000-active-covid-19-cases/story-Ew7Rt3FwsT5dedpktIXJ9N.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai road caves-in at Metro-3 site near Girgaon station, no one hurt||A portion of a road caved-in at the Mumbai Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) site in Girgaon on Wednesday morning. It was a stretch on the Jagannath Shankar Sheth (JSS) road near the upcoming Girgaon station, which collapsed due to water ingress, said authorities. Officials from the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing the underground line, said the road has been closed and the section that caved-in has also been filled. “We have started grouting from inside the station area to stop the water ingress. MMRC is continuously monitoring all the buildings in the nearby area to ensure their safety,” said an MMRC spokesperson. Also Read: 6 Shiv Sena workers rearrested for assault on former Navy officer, released on bailThe spokesperson added that on-ground teams of MMRC, the consultants and contractors have also been deployed at the site to ensure proper repair and reconstruction.“The situation is under control. However, the 100-meter portion from Thakurdwar Junction to Kranti Nagar on the Jagannath Shankar Sheth (JSS) Road will remain closed for 2-3 days for safety reasons,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-road-caves-in-at-metro-3-site-near-girgaon-station-no-one-hurt/story-NVYkR9mMOW93BD70Urz5aJ.html
16-09-2020||Ranchi||20% of Jharkhand MLAs have tested Covid +ve, Cong MLA latest victim||Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra and Kolebira Congress MLA Naman Bixal Kongari have been found infected with coronavirus among a total of 1,702 new cases of Covid 19 infection and eight deaths reported from Jharkhand on Tuesday, as per the latest report issued by the state health department. In a Facebook post, Ranchi mayor and BJP leader, Lakra, disclosed that she had tested positive for covid-19.“I appeal to those who came in my contact in recent times to get themselves tested,” said Lakra.The mayor on September 13 had met and interacted with the assistant police personnel, who have been protesting at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground for the last four days demanding regularisation of their services. She had also attended a party’s programme, also attended by other leaders in Ranchi.Meanwhile, Congress legislator Naman Bixal Kongari also tested positive for the deadly virus. Both the leaders have placed themselves in home isolation.Over 20% of Jharkhand’s 79 MLAs have so far tested positive for Covid-19. However, a majority of them have recovered from the disease.With the discovery of 1702 cases on Tuesday, the state’s coronavirus tally climbed to 64,439 including 14,118 active cases, 49,750 recoveries and 571 deaths.Also Read: Mob lynches three murder suspects in JharkhandThe state also reported eight deaths including three in East Singhbhum’s Jamshedpur, two each in West Singhbhum and Dhanbad and one in Bokaro. According to state health department’s bulletin released on Tuesday night, Ranchi reported 457 cases, East Singhbhum discovered 191 cases and West Singhbhum 180 cases.Also Read: 3, including a woman, lynched in Jharkhand; 2nd incident in 24 hoursThe state’s capital, Ranchi, which topped the list with maximum number of cases, has so far reported 13,912 cases including 3,523 active cases, 10,297 recoveries and 92 deaths.The spread of the disease is felt maximum in urban locations in cities and towns. Five districts--Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Ramgarh--were worst affected contributing 35,190 cases, accounting for over 54% of the total 64,439 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/20-of-jharkhand-mlas-have-tested-covid-ve-cong-mla-latest-victim/story-XkhEu6mQ03oSHKYoTeDuMI.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta tests positive||Adesh Gupta, who heads the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Delhi unit, tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Wednesday. At least 17 people working in the party headquarters in the national capital at Pant Marg had tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. Later, they were sent to a dedicated Covid Care Centre (CCC) in Delhi.On Wednesday, Gupta tweeted, “I had got the Covid-19 test done last week and tested negative. But as I have not been keeping well, I tested again. This time, I have tested Covid-19 positive. Though I’m in home quarantine for the past one week, those who have come in contact please get yourself tested.”The BJP has closed its state unit office for two days. Ashok Goyal, the media in-charge of BJP’s Delhi unit, said, “We will get the office disinfected and sanitised. On Monday, a peon had tested Covid-19 positive following which we got the test done of all the staff working at our office. Of the 42 people, who underwent the test, 17 were found to be Covid-19 positive. We have sent these 17 people to a CCC in the national capital.”Sidharthan, organisational secretary, BJP’s Delhi unit, who lives on the campus of the party office, also got himself tested on Tuesday, but he was not infected by SARS-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19, Goyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-bjp-chief-adesh-gupta-tests-positive/story-GJzhKFHNsHU4BAcGlakiqL.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Emergency parole of prisoners in Maharashtra will be automatically extended: Bombay HC||Prisoners released on emergency parole from jails in Maharashtra will continue to enjoy the leave as long as the notification, issued by Maharashtra government on May 8 for decongesting prisons in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, is in force.The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday clarified that the emergency parole period would be automatically extended and the prisoners, who have been granted the leave, need not formally apply for getting it extended again.Also Read: Covid-19 outbreak: Lawyers in Mumbai permitted to travel on local trains to attend hearing in Bombay high courtA two-member HC bench, comprising Justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar, said the May 8 notification itself stated that the emergency parole would be initially for a period of 45 days and later would be extended by slabs of 30 days each.The bench said that there would be an automatic extension of the parole period as the notification is in force, and the prisoners on leave would not be required to submit formal applications for getting it extended.“When there is automatic extension of the parole period, there is no need of giving application every time when it expires... No other interpretation is possible,” said the bench.The bench was hearing applications filed by six inmates of Paithan and Visapur open prisons in Maharashtra’s Marathwada region, seeking extension of the emergency parole granted to them by the HC earlier.The bench clarified that even the prisoners to whom emergency parole was granted by the HC need not file applications for getting it extended and their leaves would also get extended automatically.The bench said the court granted emergency parole to the prisoners on the basis of the state government’s May 8 notification.The notification is issued by the state home department to amend the Maharashtra Prisons (Furlough and Parole) Rules, 1959 in a bid to allow jail authorities to release certain category of prisoners on emergency parole and decongest jails following the raging Covid-19 pandemic..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/emergency-parole-of-prisoners-in-maharashtra-will-be-automatically-extended-bombay-hc/story-sADw8GGkVuWp02BaooqT2N.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Six months after Covid lockdown, bars allowed to serve liquor in Himachal Pradesh||Six months after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, the Himachal Pradesh government allowed bars to serve liquor from Wednesday.A notification to this effect was issued by special secretary, excise and taxation, Arindam Chaudhary in Shimla on Tuesday night.The bars will be operated with strict compliance of the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the central and state governments.The notification said bars across the state will follow social distancing norms.Waiters will not be allowed to serve liquor without masks and appropriate face cover by the licencees.It is mandatory for bar owners to ensure that all crockery and cutlery is washed with hot water and soap solution.Bar owners have been asked to make provision for thermal scanning and hand sanitizers at entry and exit points.The premises will open and close at the usual permitted time.Bars will have to keep a distance of at least one table in between tables used by customers to follow social distancing. Only people with same family or group will be sharing a table.Bar owners will ensure regular health check-up of all staff. The employees at the bar will have to use Aarogya Setu app.“Opening bars is a welcome decision. We also want the administration to order the opening of shops and business establishments without restrictions just as it was before the lockdown in March. Now there are restrictions for shops to close by 7pm and restaurants by 8pm. The government should also resume bus service like before,” says Sanjay Sood, the president of the Shimla Hotels and Restaurateurs Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-months-after-covid-lockdown-bars-allowed-to-serve-liquor-in-himachal-pradesh/story-p1jHiTjJmXmS2wHofR59GK.html
16-09-2020||Jaipur||14 feared drowned as boat capsizes in Rajasthan’s Chambal river||At least 14 people were feared drowned as a boat carrying around three dozen pilgrims capsized in the Chambal river near Khatoli in Rajasthan’s Kota district on Wednesday.Local administration, villagers, and police teams were carrying out rescue operations. A State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team was also rushed there to join them.District collector Ujjawal Singh Rathore said around three dozen villagers of Gothda Kala were on their way to Kamleshwar Dham across the Chambal River when the boat capsized.Watch: Boat capsizes in Rajasthan’s Chambal river, locals rush to rescue He added since the boat capsized near the banks, some managed to swim to safety while 14 people have been missing. The missing include men, women, and kids, said Rathore.He said the SDRF team was expected to reach the spot soon to join the rescue efforts.“Bodies of three persons are reported to have been fished from the river and search for more missing persons was on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/14-feared-drowned-as-boat-capsizes-in-rajasthan-s-chambal-river/story-ahavP8FdLxy8yzaItWwL7H.html
16-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan lifts ban on transfer of govt employees till Oct 31||Rajasthan government has lifted the ban on transfer and postings of employees in all departments between September 15 and October 31. The applications will be only accepted online on the portals of respective departments because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The order, issued by administrative reform department late at night on Tuesday, stated that neither any application in person should be submitted at the offices, nor a department would consider any paper, except for online. Also read: Uniform in Rajasthan govt schools to change againThe model code of conduct (MCC) by the state election commission (SEC) will be strictly followed during this six-week period. The directive would be applicable to all corporations, board and autonomous bodies, the order stated. Earlier, the state government had imposed a ban on transfers in September 2019. The Congress workers and leaders in the recently held feedback meetings had raised the issue of transfers and postings. A delegation of members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs) had also had met chief minister Ashok Gehlot to draw his attention to the issue.On Monday, Govind Singh Dotasara, president of Rajasthan unit of the Congress, said there was a demand for lifting the ban on transfers following the feedback meetings. The transfer would be done online in all departments on the lines carried out by the state education department., he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-lifts-ban-on-transfer-of-govt-employees-till-oct-31/story-G3qfrq9f2cJM2GL6TRNTcJ.html
16-09-2020||Environment||‘Soil pollution from Kanjur landfill killing fish less than 500m from flamingo sanctuary’||Leachate from Kanjurmarg dumping ground and stagnant water have killed fish over a two-hectare mangrove forests’ area in the eastern suburbs of Mumbai between Bhandup and Kanjur, an environmentalist group has said.Shree Ekvira Aai Pratishthan (SEAP), the group, on Tuesday filed complaints with various state bodies and the Bombay high court-appointed wetland grievance redressal committee after a visit of the site near the Eastern Express Highway and the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary.“Hundreds of dead fish were floating in and along the edges of the creek on Tuesday,” said SEAP chief Nandkumar Pawar. “The natural tidal flow of this mangrove stretch seems to have been blocked resulting in stagnant water. As a result, there is no fresh supply of tidewater affecting the entire biodiversity of this area.” Pawar said untreated toxic chemicals drained from the dumping ground have been killing fish after regular intervals.Also Read: Covid-19 waste: Maharashtra pollution body asks BMC to enhance abatement measuresMangrove Cell range forest officer Nathuram Kokare said an investigation into the matter would be undertaken.Soil pollution from bio-medical waste and leachate is caused due to excess waste, especially from discarded medicines, and chemicals. Excessive amounts of trace nutrient elements and other elements including heavy metals in soil are harmful to the natural biodiversity of an area.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai generates 5,400 tonnes of solid and approximately 24 tonnes of biomedical waste. Of this, 60% of the waste is sent to Kanjur while the remaining to Deonar.Also Read: Ganga’s water quality improved between 2014 and 2019, experts say pace is slow“We are not dumping any garbage beyond the land [at Kanjur] belonging to us. There is no question of leachate entering the creek area. We are also taking adequate precautions. However, I will ask my team to visit the site, verify what has been happening, and submit a report to me. We have no intention of causing any environmental damage and corrective measures are being taken to see to this,” said BMC’s additional municipal commissioner, Suresh Kakani.Stalin D, a member of the high court-appointed panel, said this is not the first time when aquatic biodiversity has been lost. “Pristine mangrove forests near the Bhandup pumping station start stinking with every high tide. The treatment facility at Kanjurmarg is woefully inadequate... leachate is regularly being leaked into the creek. It has increased much more since the landfill was expanded.”Also Read: Delhi’s ridge board to rule on projects without independent membersScientific waste disposal is undertaken at the 121-hectare Kanjurmarg dumping ground. It is adjacent to the 1,690-hectare sanctuary but has been left out of the proposed eco-sensitive zone (buffer area).Until earlier this year, the sanctuary was spread across 68.5 hectares but the BMC expanded the size of the landfill by acquiring an additional 52.5 hectares. The move was challenged in the high court. The petitioners argued it was done in violation of Coastal Regulation Zone norms and threatened the safety of the sanctuary.The court allowed the expansion in December saying BMC had acquired all necessary clearances. The Supreme Court in February directed the high court to close the issue within three months, and BMC was allowed to begin dumping waste across the entire 121 hectares.“Though Kanjurmarg landfill is actually surrounded by reserved forest. It has been carefully left out of the protected area to make way for solid waste management within an ecologically sensitive zone,” said Stalin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/soil-pollution-from-kanjur-landfill-killing-fish-less-than-500m-from-flamingo-sanctuary/story-D2JTlJsPWYZp3qeBChF6eK.html
16-09-2020||City||Soldier killed; Major injured in Pak shelling in Jammu’s Rajouri||The soldier who lost his life in Pak shelling in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district on Tuesday has been identified as Naik Aneesh Thomas.A major and a soldier, both injured in the shelling, have been evacuated to a hospital in Akhnoor. Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation along the line of control (LoC) in Sunderbani sector on Tuesday afternoon. Indian troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. However, in the incident, Naik Aneesh Thomas was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries.”Naik Aneesh Thomas belonged to Kerala. “Naik Aneesh Thomas was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he added. The ceasefire violation took place in Mala area, manned by 17 Madras Unit of 28 Infantry Brigade, of Sunderbani sector around 1.20 pm.The Centre had informed Parliament on Monday that there have been 3,186 incidents of ceasefire violation along the Line of Control in Jammu region this year till September 7.In addition, 242 incidents of cross-border firing were also reported along the Indo-Pak International Border in Jammu region from January 1 to August 31. There have been eight fatalities and two injuries of Army personnel in J&K till September 7 and there have been five injuries of BSF personnel along the International Border and Line of Control in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soldier-killed-major-injured-in-pak-shelling-in-jammu-s-rajouri/story-GbAPU7l8jihD07WC20UdLK.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Woman teacher found murdered in heart of Chandigarh||A government schoolteacher was found murdered at her house in Sector 23 in the heart of Chandigarh on Wednesday morning. Police said the decomposing body of Jyoti Rani, 40, was found wrapped in a blanket on a blood-stained bed at her government accommodation. Her husband, Mandeep Singh, 42, who is absconding, has been booked for murder as well as attempting to kill their 13-year-old son, who was pushed into a canal in Ludhiana district. Their younger son, aged 9, is missing.Mandeep is a teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 47, while Jyoti taught social science at the government school in Karsan, Ram Darbar. The murder came to light when the Ludhiana police accompanied the 13-year-old back to his house after he was rescued from the Neelon canal. Around Tuesday midnight, the Ludhiana police approached their Chandigarh counterparts after the house was found locked from outside. The lock was broken to gain entry into the house as foul smell was coming from inside, and the body was discovered, said Ram Rattan, station house officer (SHO), Sector 17. Preliminary examination revealed injury marks on Jyoti’s head and face. Father pushed me into canal: 13-year-old sonA Class-8 student, the son told police that on September 13, Mandeep asked the two brothers not to go to their mother’s room on the first floor as she had tested positive for Covid-19 and was in isolation. The next day, the accused left for Ludhiana with the two children in his car. After paying obeisance at a gurdwara, Mandeep allegedly gave some medicine to the children, claiming that it would protect them from coronavirus infection, but it made them vomit.Later in the night, Mandeep stopped his car near the Neelon canal, claiming that it had developed a snag. While the younger son was seated on the rear, the father took the 13-year-old towards the canal and before he could figure out anything, he was pushed into it.“I shouted a lot, but there was no one around to help. After flowing along the stream for some distance, I managed to catch hold of a tree branch,” he is reported to have told police.Constable Manpreet Singh of the Ludhiana police told his Chandigarh counterparts that the child was rescued the next day by some people at the Gurdwara Katana Sahib and police were informed. Accused had returned to Chandigarh: CopsMandeep’s mobile phone is switched off, said investigating officials. His last location has been traced to Sector 40 on September 15, indicating that he had returned to the city.Jyoti’s body is kept at the mortuary in Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. The Covid test conducted before the postmortem found her negative. Mandeep belongs to Fatehgarh Sahib while Jyoti was from Nabha in Patiala. People known to the family claimed Mandeep did not interact much with the neighbours or colleagues. In fact, he was not even in touch with his relatives and had not talked to his father for five years. Meanwhile, Sanjeev Singla, principal of the school where Jyoti worked, said: “The news has come as a shock to us. We have lost a good teacher who was also deft at administrative work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-in-home-quarantine-found-murdered-in-heart-of-chandigarh/story-5bS9tJOweXx9zAeE05yVlM.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi hospitals start increasing ICU capacity||Hospitals in the national capital have started increasing their beds earmarked for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients following the order of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government.The number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds in Delhi for the treatment of Covid-19 patients has gone up to 2,558 from 2,100 within two days.Also read: Results of 2nd national sero survey to be out by September-end, says ICMRAround 63% of these ICU beds were occupied as on Wednesday morning, according to the latest data from the Delhi Corona app.The Delhi government had directed three of its hospitals -- Lok Nayak hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital -- to increase their ICU bed capacity.Of them, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital at Tahirpur has managed to ramp up its non-ventillator ICU beds by 100. At present, the healthcare facility has 391 ICU beds.The ICU beds in private hospitals, which are disproportionately sharing the burden of Covid-19 cases in the national capital, are almost 85% occupied. Last week, the Delhi government had ordered 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU capacity for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Some of these private hospitals have started increasing their non-ventillator beds. However on Tuesday, an association of private healthcare providers said it would move court to seek relief on the Delhi government’s order.“We will be filing a petition in the Delhi high court (HC) for striking down the order. We have also given a representation to the Delhi government and Dr Harshvardhan, Union minister for health and family welfare. The order was suddenly issued without any consultation with us or prior intimation,” said Girdhar Gyani, director-general, Association of Healthcare Providers (India).“Our data showed that the in-patient occupancy in private hospitals, which was just 20% to 25% in April and May, has gone up exponentially. The patients, who had been postponing their surgeries, are no longer willing to wait indefinitely because of the viral outbreak. If 80% ICU beds are reserved, these treatments have to be stopped. What if such a patient gets critical and needs an ICU bed? These are the biggest private hospitals in the city that specialise in surgeries such as transplants. These patients have waited for long and some of their condition may well have turned life threatening. In any big hospital, up to 30% admission happens in the emergency department. Road accident patients and those suffering from trauma, cardiac arrest need immediate medical attention and that cannot be stopped because of Covid-19 treatment,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-hospitals-start-increasing-icu-capacity/story-Mu2wdt28zE49G8CbXwKHBM.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||SDMC fast-tracks scheme, life insurance for contract staff by Sept 30||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to expedite implementation of its scheme of providing life insurance cover to its contractual staff and daily wage workers. In an order released by the civic body earlier this week, the officials have been asked to cover all contractual employees and daily wage workers under the scheme by September 30. The corporation has asked them to obtain consent forms from contractual employees and submit them to the bank partners along with the premium for insurance scheme. Also read: Veggie vendors, locals oppose curbs imposed by south Delhi RWA, file police complaintUnder the scheme, SDMC contractual workers will be provided life insurance of Rs 2 lakh in case of death or accidental death at a premium of Rs 330 per year. This premium amount will be borne by the civic body.The south Delhi civic body, in an order released on September 8, said that officials should ensure 100% coverage of contractual and daily wage employees by September 30. “The progress in enrolment of employees under this scheme has not been satisfactory, despite instructions. To expedite the implementation of this scheme, it is now decided that the department will obtain consent forms from employees and hand them over to the bank providing the insurance, along with the premium amount,” the order said.According to SDMC officials, contractual and daily wage employees of the municipality do not get service benefits such as life insurance. They said that eligible employees of the corporation had to enrol themselves for the scheme but the process was hampered due to coronavirus pandemic and other reasons. “But now the plan has been revived and fast-tracked to ensure that eligible contractual employees get life insurance benefit at the earliest. This will be the first-of-its-kind move by any corporation in the city,” the official said.The scheme was launched by SDMC in November last year with an aim to benefit around 14,000 contractual employees and daily wage workers of the municipality and is applicable for employees up to the age of 55.SDMC had signed an MoU with the State Bank of India (SBI) and Allahabad Bank for the scheme on November 20 last year. Contractual employees include sanitation workers and mosquito breeding checkers.SDMC mayor Anamika Mithilesh said that eligible employees would not have to pay anything to avail the benefits of this life insurance scheme. “The insurance scheme is part of the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana. We are expediting the process to cover all our contractual employees under the scheme by the end of this month,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sdmc-to-fast-track-scheme-life-insurance-for-contract-staff-by-sept-30/story-QutEZHlHuqQqcqsBPWHwqO.html
16-09-2020||City||After journalist body issues ultimatum, Tripura CM says his speech was not to threaten||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Tuesday explained that he didn’t threaten anybody but his recent comments were against misleading the public and make them morally strong amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. He gave the explanation after the three-day deadline set by the media persons expired on Tuesday. The CM was given the deadline to withdraw his comment on not forgiving the newspapers, whose reports are purportedly trying to confuse the public over the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. He recently made the remark at Sabroom in the state’s South district. “I didn’t hurt anyone in my speech. I am dedicated to work for the interests of people of Tripura, keep them healthy and safe and also prevent them from falling into conspiracies. The people should know the truth. I have always tried to present the truth before them. If the CM of the state doesn’t say anything, then the public will think whatever is being said is true. Propaganda can turn monkeys turn into tigers,” said Deb while explaining his Sabroom speech.Also Read: Tripura HC cites poor treatment facility for Covid-19 patients, seeks report from govt“Duties and responsibilities of such people (media persons) should be understood. We should also introspect whether we are able to carry out our responsibilities properly or there is any shortcoming. Our government also introspects on its actions,” said Deb. However, the media persons are not satisfied with the CM’s explanation. “We are not satisfied with the CM’s explanation. We are going to hold a meeting soon and will decide our future course of action,” said Subal Dey, chairperson of newly-formed Tripura Assembly of Journalists. The CM’s recent remark at Sabroom led to incidents of assault on media persons. Two journalists were assaulted in the state. A local Bengali daily newspaper was also served a show-cause notice over publication on reports on the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-journalist-body-issues-ultimatum-tripura-cm-says-his-speech-was-not-to-threaten/story-Yk2EXaKqqVZqsXHSAmL0NM.html
16-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Uttarakhand schools to remain closed till Sept 30||Uttarakhand education department has now decided that schools will not be opened, even for class 9-12 students who wanted to attend classes voluntarily, till September 30, given the steep rise in Covid-19 cases in the state in the last few days. The decision followed directions to all the district education officers (DEOs) to start preparations for the opening of schools from September 21. RK Kunwar, director for secondary education in the state released an order on Tuesday stating that as per the directions of the state education minister, all chief education officers are being directed not to open schools in their respective districts at least till September 30. Also read: Results of 2nd national sero survey to be out by September-end, says ICMROn Monday, the state education department had asked all district education officers to start preparations for the opening of schools from September 21, with proper sanitisation, arranging for masks and sanitisers for students and ensuring that only 50% of staff was present in school. Education minister Arvind Pandey said that schools in the state will remain closed till further orders. “Children are the future of the state and the country, and looking at the rising number of cases, we do not want to risk the lives of our students. We have decided to not open schools till further orders. Officials have been asked to ensure that the current mode of education continues without any disturbance and that our students do not suffer in any manner,” said Pandey. Meanwhile, with 1,391 fresh Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Tuesday crossed the 34,000 cases mark, taking the state tally to 34,407. The state also reported 1,008 recoveries on Tuesday with maximum 228 from US Nagar, taking the tally of total recovered to 23,085. With this, the recovery rate now stands at 67.09% and the rate of doubling of cases stands at 21.44 days. The state also reported nine Covid deaths. With this, the Covid toll rose to 438 in the state of which 137 cases were of deaths due to coronavirus, while the others died due to comorbidities. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Tuesday evening, 421 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district followed by US Nagar (318), Nainital (226), Haridwar (219), Uttarkashi (51), Pauri (38), Tehri (31), Pithoragarh (30), Rudraprayag (27), Champawat (23), and Chamoli (7). Dehradun district has reported the maximum, 8,391, Covid-19 cases so far followed by Haridwar (7,180), US Nagar (6,419) and Nainital (4,398). The state has so far tested over 541,000 samples of which results of over 12,000 are awaited. The infection rate stands at 6.63% in the state. Uttarakhand currently has 496 containment zones in nine districts, including 370 in Haridwar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-uttarakhand-schools-to-remain-closed-till-sept-30/story-yJSg3xTj7uRcX2fUr7CKfL.html
16-09-2020||Bhopal||Chhattisgarh minister demands probe in death of tribal man in encounter||Minister for forests, Chhattisgarh, Mohd Akbar wrote to Madhya Pradesh (MP) chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday, demanding a high-level probe into death of a tribal man from Chhattisgarh who was allegedly killed in an anti-Maoist operation by police in Balaghat district of MP on September 6. HT has seen a copy of the letter. A resident of Balsamund village of Kabirdham district of Chhattisgarh, Jham Singh Dhurve, 45, was allegedly killed in an encounter with police on Bansbehra area of Kanha tiger reserve of Balaghat district on September 6. Talking to media persons on Tuesday the minister confirmed that he had written to the MP CM on Monday, demanding a probe into the death. The minister states in the letter, “In a preliminary inquiry, Jhalmala police of Kabirdham district in Chhattisgarh have pointed out that MP police allegedly opened unprovoked firing on two tribals in which one of the tribals was killed. I wrote a letter to you (MP CM) in this regard but so far I haven’t received any reply about any action being taken by MP government. It is a very serious matter regarding murder of an innocent tribal and attempt to murder another one.” “Due to no action by MP government on this even after a week of the incident, there is massive resentment in the tribal community in this region”, said Akbar, who is an MLA from Kawardha in Kabirdham district. Talking to media persons, Jham Singh’s son Narendra Singh said, “My father had gone fishing in Kanha Tiger reserve area, which is 5km from my village, with Naim Singh Dhurve on September 6. Naim Singh informed the family that they were returning to the village in the evening when police stopped them. They panicked and started running away. The police personnel opened fire on them. Naim Singh succeeded in saving himself but my father died.” Balaghat’s Baihar constituency MLA Sanjay Uikey also raised questions on the encounter and demanded action against the guilty for “killing an innocent tribal man”. Balghat superintendent of police Abhishek Tiwari said, “We received information regarding movement of two Maoists in Bansbhera area of Kanha Tiger Reserve. Police cordoned off the area. The members of Vistardalam started firing at the police. In reply, the police also fired at them. On September 7, an additional force was called and in the search operation, the body of 45-year-old man was found. Raw food and a rifle were found near his body. Later, the district collector Deepak Arya ordered a magisterial inquiry in the matter.” MP’s director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri said, “It was not a fake encounter. The police took action after receiving information from reliable sources.” Principal secretary to chief minister of MP, Manish Rastogi said, “The claims of the Chhattisgarh minister are baseless. A magisterial inquiry is going on. Any further action in the matter will be taken after the inquiry report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/chhattisgarh-minister-demands-probe-in-death-of-tribal-man-killed-in-encounter/story-5l5Ys6mKPCd4lZr0uU1viO.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||‘Good’ air days over as AQI starts to spike?||After a spell of clean air and several days on which a clear blue sky was visible, seasonal changes and resumption of businesses and commercial activities are leading to meteorological conditions that aren’t favourable to the dispersion of pollutants hanging over Delhi, scientists said. This year, clean air days could be all but over with forecasts showing heavy showers, which help wash away pollutants, are unlikely in the coming days and with the lifting of the 68-day lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, the scientists added. The national capital has recorded “moderate” air quality days (when the air quality index, or AQI, reads 101-200) for a week since September 9, with Tuesday’s AQI standing at 144. In comparison, August recorded four “good” days (when AQI was 0-50) and 27 “satisfactory” days (when AQI was 51-100), as the air quality never slipped to the “moderate” level. “Rain has stopped. Wind speed has reduced. The accumulation of particles in the atmosphere is building up. There are possibly more vehicles (on the road) as services get unlocked. Suspended dust will start increasing as we approach winter,” said Sachin D Ghude, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology who also works on Delhi’s early air quality warning system under the earth sciences ministry. During the lockdown (imposed on March 25), photographs of Himalayan peaks visible from northwestern plains in the absence of pollutants surfaced on social media and became a talking point. The rainy season that followed also helped wash pollutants away. “Every year, just when monsoon starts retreating, we start seeing adverse meteorological conditions for dispersion...This is also the time when crop stubble burning takes place. The air quality in the winter of 2019 was better than that in 2018. It will be very interesting to see what happens this year,” said Sagnik Dey, an associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric at the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi. Experts also said the opening of several sectors and an increase of vehicles on the roads, too, have contributed to the shift in air quality. “There are multiple factors that lead to higher pollution levels, including emissions and meteorology. During the initial lockdown period, emissions from industries and vehicles had come down drastically. So, obviously, it improved the air quality. Thereafter, meteorology was also favourable; there were high winds,” said Prashant Gargava, member-secretary, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to CPCB data, Delhi did not record a single “good” air day in 2015 and 2016. Two such days were recorded in 2017 (on July 30 and 31) with AQI readings of 43 and 47. There was no good air day in 2018. The next year, two consecutive “good” air days were recorded on August 18 and 19 with AQI readings of 49 on both days. So far, five “good” air days have been recorded this year in the national capital.Delhi also recorded an AQI of 41 on August 31, the lowest since 2015 — the benchmark year from when AQI records are being maintained in the city. And on August 6, one of the days when Delhi residents saw a clear blue sky, the ventilation co-efficient — a product of mixing depth and average wind speed, and one of the factors that determine pollution potential — was around 45,500 m2/s, over three times higher than that on Tuesday. A higher ventilation coefficient means better air quality. It can drop very low in winter when the atmosphere is calm. This year, Delhi residents witnessed several blue sky days. According to experts, molecules in the atmosphere scatter sunlight in all directions and blue light gets scattered more than the others because it travels in shorter waves. A clear blue sky is visible in the absence of factors that act as obstacles to this scattering, such as clouds, fog, pollutants and smoke. Although India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said there were no immediate indications of monsoon withdrawal from northwest India, it was unlikely that there will be heavy showers in the coming days. Delhi has so far recorded a rain deficit of 15% in the monsoon.Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, said it was not likely to rain anymore in Delhi, except for a very light drizzle on September 18 and 19. “Meteorological conditions are not conducive for dispersion (of pollutants). Vehicles have increased and industries are opening up. It’s unlikely that we will see blue sky days like we saw in August,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/good-air-days-over-as-aqi-starts-to-spike/story-oUkPqabg9TZDqZuhFzVVcO.html
16-09-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly election 2020: Crucial meeting of LJP today||Lok Janshankti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan has called a meeting of all party MPs on Wednesday to discuss how to fight the Assembly elections in Bihar.Paswan has made his discomfiture with the ruling Janata Dal (United), part of Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), known. His LJP is also part of the NDA.The issues LJP has with the JD(U) were raised in the party’s parliamentary board meeting on September 7. It was also decided that a list of 143 candidates will be prepared and sent to the central leadership.Though he has been critical of the Bihar government’s handling of a number of issues, including the Covid-19 pandemic and law and order in the state, Paswan has maintained that his party will support whoever the BJP backs as the chief ministerial candidate in the polls.The BJP has already announced that chief minister Nitish Kumar will be the NDA’s choice for the job in the assembly polls.Paswan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to apprise him about the political situation in Bihar. Paswan said in the letter that people are unhappy with the functioning of the Bihar government which can have impact on assembly poll results.The LJP has six members in the Lok Sabha from the state and one Rajya Sabha member is its founder and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan.Bihar has 243 Assembly seats and elections in the state are due and expected in October-November as the tenure of the current Assembly will end by last November this year. The Election Commission has not yet taken a final call on poll dates in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-crucial-meeting-of-ljp-today/story-q71iC9sBzPxmRuAdoCR1dI.html
16-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan MP questions Covid test at Parliament||Rajasthan MP Hanuman Beniwal has dismissed Covid-19 test done at Parliament as “fake” after it found him to be Covid 19 positive more than a month after he was declared recovered from the disease after successful treatment at a Jaipur hospital in August. To confirm his negative status, the MP got his sample tested again by the Jaipur hospital, which was found to be negative, Beniwal said.Beniwal, MP from Nagaur, gave a sample for testing at Lok Sabha on September 11 and was informed three days later that he had tested positive. The report left Beniwal puzzled since he had already undergone treatment at SMS Hospital in Jaipur after testing positive on July 26 and even completed the 14-day quarantine period after his discharge on August 6. “After learning about my report from LS secretariat, I spoke to doctors at Jaipur who suggested that I get tested again here. I gave my sample and the SMS Hospital report says I am negative,” the MP said. Doctors at SMS Hospital said that he was fit and could even donate plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients, Beniwal added. Also Read: Battle against Covid-19 far from over: Harsh Vardhan in ParliamentHe said between July 26 and Monday, he has tested negative thrice and called the Delhi test fake. “I appeal to Lok Sabha Speaker to probe this. False positive is harmless but imagine if a positive person is sitting in the Parliament because he has falsely been tested negative,” he said. Beniwal is the founder of Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), which is supporting National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at Centre. “What pains me more is the fact that despite me being an NDA ally, no one from the government has spoken to me yet to find out about this test fraud,” Beniwal said. Also Read: State emblem may crown new Parliament buildingHe said he was admitted to Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) hospital in Jaipur on July 30 for Covid-19 care. His second test, conducted on July 31, was also positive. He was discharged on August 7 after he tested negative. After that he was in home isolation for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-mp-raises-question-over-covid-test-at-parliament/story-zQIgGYXaYfz5nX8bnBBfeL.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Industrial Training Institutes to reopen in Punjab on September 21||Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) of Punjab are set to resume classes from September 21 after six months of lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a circular issued by the directorate of technical education, administrations of state-run and private ITIs have been directed to make all arrangements for classes in adherence with Covid-19 guidelines. ITIs will be the first educational institutes in the state that will restart classes in the Unlock 4 phase since the lockdown imposed in Punjab on March 22. Last week, the ministry of health and family welfare had allowed the reopening of educational institutes offering skill or entrepreneurship training. Punjab has 347 state-run and privately managed ITIs in which 55,000 students have been enrolled. FOCUS ON PRACTICAL TRAINING, EXAMS IN NOVEMBER Principal secretary, technical education, Anurag Verma said on Wednesday that the focus of the classes will be to impart practical training. After these classes, exams will be held in November that will enable students to join the profession after getting diplomas from their respective institutes. “Every trade comprises 70% curriculum of practical and it will be completed in about 40 days. After a fortnight of the lockdown in Punjab, our instructors started holding virtual classes from mid-April and these remain quite successful. But it is important to have hands-on practical training using machines and tools,” he said. Verma said students who took admission recently will continue to attend online lectures for theory parts of various subjects. The principal of the Government ITI for Women in Bathinda, Nirmal Singh, said work to hold staggered practical classes has begun. “Students and instructors will be called on alternate days to ensure physical distancing. As ITI workshops are normally spacious and every trade has an average of 20-25 students thus it will not be much challenging to arrange practical training,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-training-institutes-to-reopen-in-punjab-on-september-21/story-5h9jS9b49PRIZJwxFyEFqN.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Chawri’s unusual wardrobes||A blue lungi is hanging in front of a shuttered shop, folded within a mishmash of power cables. Nearby, a baniyan and underwear are on a similar exhibit. Across the road, a pair of shirt and pants are on a string hitched to electric poles.This is a morning scene in Old Delhi’s Chawri Bazar. The streets are decked with thick power cables looped around tall bent poles most haphazardly. Dangling over the pavement, these wires resemble the zigzag lines that complicated graphs are made of. The spectacular anarchy somehow works, and the electricity is successfully supplied to the surrounding buildings.The more visible use of these cables (the ones in plastic coverings) is as clothes hangers for the hundreds of daily wage labourers of Chawri Bazar. Mostly single men with families back in the villages, the labourers tend to live in groups. If you walk the bazaar at midnight, you might see them slumped next to each other in long rows, asleep on the unlit pavements, and on carts and rickshaws. “We don’t have a house, we don’t have a suitcase, so we hang our clothes on the cables,” explains Deepak, a labourer. He informs that most labourers don’t have many material possessions and live on two sets of clothes. “Every morning, while taking a bath under the handpump, we wash the previous day’s clothes, hang them on the cables to dry and put on the clean set for the day ahead.”Some labourers also have quilts and bedsheets too heavy to be hung on cables. Deepak points to an electric pole with stuffed bundles tied around it with ropes. “These sarkari khambas (government poles) are of great help.”And now, a young man, fresh from his bath, picks up a red shirt hanging from a cable, and casually puts it on. He walks over to a street barber and combs his hair in front of a small mirror.Meanwhile, some steps away, a stretch of cable is looking pretty with... well, two, little facemasks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/chawri-s-unusual-wardrobes/story-aV2ED3CD53vyM19fh68mjN.html
16-09-2020||Ranchi||Mob lynches three murder suspects in Jharkhand||Three people, including a woman, were lynched by villagers after the trio allegedly strangled a man, who had opposed the relationship of his wife, in Jharkhand’s Gumla district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place in the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday at Deragdih village under Sikoi Panchayat. This was the second incident of mob lynching within 24 hours in Gumla district. Police reached the village on Tuesday morning and sent all four bodies for post-mortem. The man, who was strangulated, was identified as Marianus Kujur, 42, while his wife was identified as Nilam Kujur, 35. The two other persons, who were allegedly in a relationship with Marianus’ wife, could not be identified. Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan said, “As per the villagers’ statement, the two youths who had come from other places had illicit relationship with Marianus’ wife. When they were killing Marianus, he screamed. Hearing his voice, his family members, relatives and villagers came and they killed the two youths and his wife.” He said two FIRs would be lodged in the case-one for murder and another for killing three persons by villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/mob-lynches-three-murder-suspects-in-jharkhand/story-Kjzxzua1iQXMunAUJQyHdM.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for impersonating cop in J&K||A 28-year-old was arrested by the Jammu and Kashmir Police in Doda for impersonating a sub-inspector in the rural areas of the district. He was identified as Neeraj Kumar, of Bibnota village in Ghatt of Doda. DSP (headquarters) Manoj Kumar said the man was working as defence labour procurement assistant. He got a police uniform stitched, and even procured name plate and other accessories. The DSP said, “We are trying to ascertain from where he got the uniform stitched and managed other accessories, though he had no weapon with him.” “As of now his involvement in extortion or any other criminal activity has not been established. He is under arrest and a case under sections 419, 170 and 171 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against him,” he added. Kumar informed that the impersonator was working as fake SI for the past few days and used to visit check posts in rural areas. “Since his father late Rajinder Kumar was a head constable, he told people that he had been given the job in lieu of his father, who died while in police service. He was arrested from a check post at Arnora on Monday,” said the officer. He was caught when he entered Doda town and started visiting different police check posts, the officials said. During questioning, he said he always wanted to be a police officer, which drove him to impersonate one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-impersonating-cop-in-j-k/story-Fn1TCSnij4U8i3NtyY3k9M.html
16-09-2020||City||Farmers start six-day-long protest outside ex-Punjab CM Badal’s Muktsar residence||Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) started a six-day-long dharna outside the residence of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal at Muktsar district’s Badal village.BKU leader Shingara Singh Mann said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will face electoral consequences for supporting the three farm ordinances introduced by the Centre. He said the farmer organisations have united to oppose any move to weaken the agriculture sector by the BJP-led government at the Centre.Initially, the Muktsar police stopped the agitating farmers at Kalcharani near Badal village, but later the farmers were given passage.Also, activists of farmer associations blocked the Bathinda-Patiala road on the issue.Different farmer outfits raised slogans against the Centre for bringing the anti-farmer ordinances at Bhai Ghanhya Chowk and demanded their rollback.At both protest venues, a large number of activists were found violating Covid-19 guidelines by not following physical distancing or had their faces uncovered. On Monday, Bathinda police had released a detailed traffic diversion plan in view of the farmers’ protest. But in a press release issued on Tuesday, deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said there was a complete prohibition on any large gathering. He said the violators will face legal action.However, no police action was initiated till the time of filing the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-start-six-day-long-protest-outside-badal-s-residence/story-QsUO4H6nnp4M4k9YSkI7LP.html
16-09-2020||City||340 NORI visa holders return from Pak via Attari||At least 340 people, most of whom had gone to Pakistan on NORI (no objection to return to India) visas, were allowed to come back via the Attari-Wagah border in Amritsar district on Tuesday. Indian High Commission in Pakistan recently said it was facilitating the return of 363 such visa holders and 37 Indians on Tuesday. These people were stranded in various parts of Pakistan due to the closure of borders for the containment of the coronavirus pandemic. In the last week of June, India and Pakistan operated a shuttle service for people stuck on both sides of the border due to the pandemic. Barring NORI visa holders, nearly 2,000 Indians and Pakistanis have already been allowed to return to their respective countries though the border since June. But this is the first time that NORI visa holders were allowed through the land border since the closure of the borders in March. The Indian government issues NORI visas to Pakistani and Bangladeshi nationals who leave their home country and live in India or are married in India but have not yet obtained Indian citizenship. Sub-divisional magistrate (Amritsar 2) Shiv Raj Bal said, “These people are from different states of India. Their apid diagnostic tests are being conducted, and only those found to be negative will be allowed to go back to their home states. Those found to be positive for the coronavirus will be isolated in Amritsar.” Till 9pm, 340 people crossed over to India, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/340-nori-visa-holders-return-from-pak-via-attari/story-iLVjxX0uRhAkOQ07S7wG3N.html
16-09-2020||City||Punjab farmers continue siege of 3 key bridges, block highways against agri ordinances||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee continued to block three major bridges on the Beas river in the Majha region for the second consecutive day on Tuesday against the central government’s three agriculture ordinances. Due to the blockade of the Harike bridge connecting Majha and Malwa, the Beas bridge on the Amritsar-Delhi highway and the Hargobindpur bridge in Gurdaspur, thousands of commuters were hassled. Long lines of stranded trucks and other vehicles was seen on both sides of the bridges.The farmers were seen taking meals to the protest site. Hundreds with their tractor-trailers were also seen joining the protest on Tuesday. The farmer leaders said their protest would continue until they get assurance regarding the revocation of the agriculture ordinances.Addressing the protesters in Amritsar’s Beas, committee’s general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “We don’t want to harass the commuters, but the governments have left us with no option. The ordinances are not only against the farming community, but also against every Indian. These ordinances, which were presented in Parliament on the first day of the ongoing Monsoon session, are only in favour of the corporate sector. The Central government is trying to make the Indian farmers landless by making this legislation, but we will not let it happen.”At the Harike bridge, committee’s state president Satnam Singh Pannu said, “These ordinances were introduced to give benefit to the corporate sector close to the influential leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which is an ally of the BJP, should take a tough stance on the issue. The Akali leaders are shedding crocodile tears on the issue.”TRUCK DRIVERS STAGE PARALLEL PROTESTDrivers of hundreds of trucks, which have been stuck on both sides of the Beas bridge for the last two days, staged a parallel protest against the farmers. The drivers impeded the movement of the farmers’ vehicles towards the bridge for at least two hours in the evening. The truck drivers threatened to intensify their protest on Wednesday if they were not allowed to move. They said due to the coronavirus pandemic they have already been suffering huge losses. Apprehending the possibility of a clash between the truck drivers and the farmers, a heavy police force was deployed there. “We have made adequate arrangements for the movement of commuters thorough alternate routes. But there was a problem for heavy vehicles,” said Amritsar superintendent of police (SP investigation) Gaurav Toora.Farmers blocked the National Highway (NH -44) at Khanna in Ludhiana district for two hours in protest against farmer ordinance. The farmers first blocked the Doraha-Neelon road and then marched towards Khanna where they were joined by arhtiyas and other labour organisations. During the blockade of the highway, they allowed passage to emergency vehicles only. Later, the police got cleared the traffic jam on NH-44. Congress MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli also joined the protesting farmers and expressed his party’s support to the cause of farmers.‘WON’T ALLOW MPs SUPPORTING BILLS TO ENTER THE VILLAGES’“MPs who support these farm bills in Parliament will not be allowed to enter villages and we will teach him a lesson,” warned Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal who was holding an agitation along with other farmers at Neelon. In Moga, some agitating farmers wore black robes while some of them tied a noose around their necks. Traffic between Jalandhar-Phagwara-Ludhiana, Phagwara-Nakodar and Phagwara-Nawanshahr-Chandigarh was blocked, causing inconvenience to commuters.At Phagwara, farmers blocked the national highway-44 near the Sugar Mill Chowk. At 11am, over 2,000 farmers started a protest march and blocked both sides of the highway to mark their protest.Also, farm labourers, arhtiyas and those connected with agricultural activities participated in the protest. Traffic movement was hit, with police diverting commuters to other routes. There were long queues in the service lane.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-farmers-continue-siege-of-3-key-bridges-block-highways-against-agri-ordinances/story-4GN1u193vxll3c1vC51PML.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Teacher who raped 2 underage girls and eloped with another pupil nabbed in Solan||Assuming different identities, travelling to various cities, even abroad to Nepal, he had been on the run for two years, but fate finally caught up with Dhaval Trivedi. The 50-year old English teacher from Gujarat, who had been imprisoned for sexually molesting and abducting two underage students, had jumped parole and eloped with another 18-year-old pupil.He was arrested in Solan by Delhi police on Tuesday.The teacher had earlier been awarded life imprisonment after being arrested in Punjab in 2014 for sexually assaulting, abducting and eloping with two underage girls he taught. Out on parole, he was running a coaching centre when he eloped with another teenaged pupil from Chotila in Gujarat’s Rajkot district in 2018 .Even as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) announced a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh to find him after it took over the case filed at a local police station (in Chotila) by the girl’s parents, the couple could not be traced.Trivedi changed his name to Satnam Singh alias Mukhtiyar Singh and the couple moved from one gurdwara to another in various cities. They travelled to at least 25 places, including Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, Patna, Haridwar and Kathmandu where he found teaching jobs to survive.Both also attempted to flee to Canada as preachers of Sikhism, but failed to furnish the relevant documents.Things started unravelling for Trivedi after the girl, who had given birth in the interim, returned home with her 11-month-old child after an altercation with him. Both were then living in Haridwar in Uttarakhand.CBI had in the meantime issued an advisory to all states and also reached out to Nepal and Bhutan police through Interpol, issuing blue corner notices (to have someone’s identity verified, obtain particulars of a person’s criminal record, locate someone who is missing or is an identified or unidentified international criminal whose extradition can be requested).Left on his own, Trivedi had come to Solan, where he was arrested by Delhi police after they traced him through technical surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teacher-who-raped-2-underage-girls-and-eloped-with-another-pupil-nabbed-in-solan/story-vuMYJSlKY3x7jbguLGsU3M.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||HC puts on hold colonel couple’s posting to two different locations||The Delhi high court on Tuesday put on hold the army’s decision to post two of its senior officers, a married couple, to different parts of the country. The decision by a bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon came on a plea moved by the husband -- Colonel Amit Kumar -- challenging the May 15 posting order issued by the Military Secretary Branch, his lawyer said. Senior advocate Rana Mukherjee and advocate Sunil J Mathews appeared for Col Kumar. Mathews said that the court has asked the army to consider the plea as a representation and to take a decision on the couple’s plea for a posting at the same or geographically close location. The high court also asked the army to inform it about the decision on the representation after four weeks when the matter will be taken up, he said. He also said that till the next date the bench put on hold the May 15 orders posting Col Kumar and his wife Col Anu Dogra, both of whom are in the Judge Advocate General (JAG) branch of the army and presently posted in Jodhpur, to Port Blair in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Bhatinda in Punjab, respectively. Central government standing counsel Harish Vaidyanathan said he opposed the plea moved by Col Kumar. Col Kumar, in his plea filed through advocates Ashim Dua and Tasmin Singh, has said that he had requested the Army in August for reconsideration of his date of movement and also leave of 30 days to attend the “piping ceremony of his wife”, and secure the relocation of his family, which included his aged parents and minor son, to Bhatinda. However, his requests were denied, the petition has said and added that the decision taken to transfer them without considering their preferences was in violation of the laid down policy and standard operating procedure regarding posting of senior officers. His petition has alleged that the decision to transfer him and his wife to far off locations has been taken as he had filed a statutory complaint against the JAG, Indian Army as well as Deputy JAG, Headquarters Southern Command, Pune. He has contended that the two senior officers allegedly influenced the said posting orders. Col Kumar, in his petition, has said that since his requests were denied he has been forced to put up his papers for voluntary premature retirement “despite an unblemished and stellar service”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-puts-on-hold-colonel-couple-s-posting-to-two-different-locations/story-QSZfIDi7yg13KfakV3TdvL.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon session: Furore in HP Assembly over benami land deals||The Opposition on Tuesday created a furore in the Assembly over benami land transactions, and suspicious sale and purchase of properties in Himachal. As soon as the House assembled, Congress legislator Rajinder Singh Rana asked about the adjournment notice given by the Opposition under Rule 67 seeking discussion on benami land deals and suspicious sale and purchase of properties in the state. However, speaker Vipin Singh Parmar denied permission to raise the issue, saying the notice had been forwarded to the government for the final decision. The speaker said he will allow discussion after receiving the government’s reply. Dissatisfied with the response, Congress leaders started raising slogans and demanded that the matter be discussed. The speaker said he will not allow the discussion but if the Opposition tables any documentary evidence, he will examine it. In response, Rana asked, “What is the government hiding? Why is the Opposition not being allowed to raise the matter?” When they did not get their way, the Opposition staged a walkout. Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj said, “The House has already held discussions under Rule 67, which lasted three days. The Opposition is raking up the issue for the sake of sensationalism and in doing so is causing losses worth lakhs by disrupting the question hour.” “Notice for Rule 67 was given in the morning but no facts were stated in it. How can the matter be discussed without facts?” he said, adding the matter had been forwarded to officials and will be discussed under an appropriate rule. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also condemned the Opposition’s behaviour. “A lot of information has to be collected to run the question hour and it should not be disrupted. Earlier, too, the government had allowed an adjournment motion on Covid-19 given the gravity of the issue. The Opposition had raised the issue but did not hold any logical discussion.” “We need time because the matter pertains to the entire state. The Opposition should exercise some restraint. It is not appropriate walk out of the house just to remain in the limelight,” said Thakur. Opposition stages protest outside Speaker’s office The Opposition on Tuesday morning staged a protest outside the speaker’s office. Several Congress members, including leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, staged the sit-in before the proceedings of the house began, alleging their voice was not being heard. After a brief protest, the Opposition members met with the Speaker. The chief minister condemned the protest, saying, “Today, members of the opposition sat on a dharna outside the Speaker’s office. This has never happened before and it is condemnable. A wrong precedent should not be started.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-session-furore-in-hp-assembly-over-benami-land-deals/story-RVneAetuTIvevdnwlczfQK.html
16-09-2020||City||Ludhiana tweeted about ‘romance’ the most among 22 Indian cities||Punjab’s industrial hub, Ludhiana, tweeted about ‘romance’ the most among at least 22 Indian cities in 2019, conversations on microblogging site Twitter on a variety of themes have revealed. Commissioned by Twitter India, a study titled ‘Conversation Replay’ analysed 8,50,000 tweets from these cities between September and November last year. Besides ‘romance’, Ludhiana was among the top three cities to have conversations on themes of ‘doing good deeds’, ‘food’, ‘animals’, ‘friendship’, and ‘humour’. The study focused on ‘top joyful conversations’ “to look back and rejoice moments” in the pre-pandemic time when there was no work from home culture or social distancing norms. Southern cities like Ernakulam, Hyderabad and Chennai led conversations on themes of sports, food, celebration, celebrity content, and ‘humour. Chhattisgarh’s capital city Raipur led conversations around animals. Odisha’s Bhubaneswar had the most conversations around ‘family’ and ‘doing good deeds’, whereas Mumbai talked about ‘nostalgia’, the study found. Ludhiana was followed by Ahmadabad and Kolkata on the theme of romance. The 10 most talked about themes across the cities were ‘animals’, ‘celebration’, ‘celebrity content’, ‘doing good deeds’, ‘family’, food, humour, nostalgia, romance and sports (listed in alphabetical order). Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari says, “Twitter is a modern public square where diverse voices discuss and share their views on topics and conversations that interest them. Last year, people were celebrating and reveling in many joys of life, and with Conversation Replay, our intent is to throw back to those vibrant conversations, across varied themes from diverse parts of India, to encourage people to celebrate life. Sharing these conversations is our way of giving Indians a moment of happiness and reminding them that joy can still be found in little pleasures.” “On Twitter, we see people celebrating moments of romantic love. These include vibrantly-coloured pictures of couples smiling, laughing, embracing, or posing together on holidays. Cropped shots of interlocked hands also feature on the site. Images are usually decorated with stickers and text, showing a touch of playfulness and light-heartedness,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-tweeted-about-romance-the-most-among-indian-cities/story-gOLdl5v5Ez9Bt7zjHN4iXL.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD’s pretence of protecting farmers exposed: Amarinder||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the presentation of the farm ordinances in Parliament by the Centre has totally exposed the farce of the Shiromani Akali Dal’s pretence of protecting the interests of the farmers of the state. In a statement, Amarinder said the fact that SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal stayed away from the House when the ordinances were presented for legislation, showed that the entire drama of seeking postponement of their enactment was played out by him to appease the farmer organisations. “There is clearly a conspiracy to undermine the farmers’ interests and that of the states, which are constitutionally mandated to be responsible for agriculture. The SAD chief knew all along that the ordinance would be brought to the House,” the CM claimed. He said the SAD, which had endorsed the ordinances, was now indulging in the drama of seeking clarifications and amendments to the ordinances. He also ridiculed the statements of AAP MLAs, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and Aman Arora, alleging connivance between Congress and SAD-BJP, asking them to check the facts before shooting their mouths off. In its haste to criticise the state government, AAP has become habitual of making unsubstantiated statements without a grain of truth in them, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-s-pretence-of-protecting-farmers-exposed-amarinder/story-SnnFAszebNnBYlzuKe8WtJ.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Lok Sabha clears contentious farm bill, SAD votes against it||Shiromani Akali Dal, the key constituent of the ruling BJP-led National Democratic Alliance at the Centre, voted against a contentious farm bill that was passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.Three farm sector-related ordinances were cleared by the Union cabinet recently and the corresponding bills were tabled in Lok Sabha on Monday. One of them -- the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 -- was taken up for a discussion and passed by a voice vote. Participating in the debate, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal described the bills as anti-farmer and said that the Centre never consulted his party before the ordinances were framed. “Even when the ordinances were being discussed in the cabinet, my wife and Union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal had raised objections and conveyed the concerns of farmers. She had requested the ordinance be put off, but her voice was not heeded to,” Sukhbir said, adding that Punjab will be the worst-affected state by these legislations.Underlining that he himself hails from a farming family, Sukhbir, in an emotive speech, said: “Every Akali is a farmer and every farmer is an Akali at heart. The SAD has always championed farmers’ cause.” “The party’s legacy cannot and will not be compromised or diluted, no matter what price we have to pay,” he said, speaking in Punjabi. The SAD’s strident stand is seen as a sign of fissure in its over two-decade-old alliance with the BJP. Farmers in many states, including Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against these bills. Sukhbir said all Congress and Aam Aadmi Party MPs from Punjab abstained from voting.Responding to the debate, minister of state for consumer affairs Raosaheb Patil Danve said the amendment is aimed at transforming the farm sector and raising farmers’ income. (with agency inputs)WILL MOVE COURT: AMARINDER Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the state Congress will challenge the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 in the court. He described the legislation “a direct and deliberate assault” by the Centre on the farmers’ interests. Riding roughshod over the farmers’ concerns, the Modi government has imposed a central law on a state subject, thus “eroding” the federal structure of the country, said the CM. “We will challenge it in court,” he said in a statement .Amarinder said the enactment of the legislation is a step towards the “abolition” of the MSP (minimum support price) regime. “It is a conspiracy on the part of the BJP-led NDA government to destroy Punjab and its farmers,” he alleged and declared that the Congress will fight this “attack” on the state’s interests tooth and nail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lok-sabha-clears-contentious-farm-bill-sad-votes-against-it/story-UaeY43Dbftx9ph9Zp8CtXM.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal lifts travel curbs; tourists can enter without e-pass, Covid negative report||Seven months after imposing travel restrictions to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, the Himachal government on Tuesday lifted all curbs, including the requirement of an e-pass and Covid negative report, for entering the hill state. The decision was taken at a late evening meeting of the state cabinet. However, inter-state transport services will remain suspended for the time being. The cabinet also did not take any decision on opening of educational institutions. The ministers also decided to provide relief to the state’s ailing tourism industry. Earlier, individuals seeking entry into state had to mandatorily register themselves on the Covid e-pass portal. Tourists coming to the state had to show valid hotel bookings and a Covid-negative report issued by an ICMR accredited lab, not older than 72 hours.The number of cases have been steadily increasing in Himachal. The state recorded the highest Covid-related fatalities in a day on Tuesday, with eight people succumbing to the coronavirus disease, taking Himachal’s death toll to 88.With 2,359 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra (1,567), Sirmaur (1319), Mandi (1030), Una (906), Hamirpur (746 ), Chamba (644), Shimla (676), Bilaspur (543), Kullu (395), Kinnaur (121) and Lahaul-Spiti (29).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-lifts-travel-curbs-tourists-can-enter-without-e-pass-covid-negative-report/story-XMVqB0HuoaRQLZ7fnphOSO.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 28-crore fraud: Crime branch presents chargesheet against accused in Jammu||The Crime branch produced a supplementary chargesheet against a notorious fraudster before the local court, officials said on Tuesday. Accused S Gurdeep Singh, of Channi Himmat, was booked under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust ), 409 (criminal breach of trust in respect of property), 420 (cheating) , 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (use as genuine a forged document ) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The chargesheet was presented in the court of second additional sessions judge Jammu for accused’s involvement in duping public of crores through a finance company ‘Dutta Financers’ at Nanak Nagar in April, 2011. He had hatched a plan with his associates and diverted funds to the tune of Rs 28 crore. He was absconding for eight years and was finally arrested from Mohali.A preliminary charge-sheet was filed before the court in 2013. The accused was also involved high profile case, in which a conspiracy was hatched by the accused to assassinate a prominent citizen of Jammu. A case had been registered against him under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC, and the Arms Act. The accused is also involved in a murder case in Batote and a case was registered under Sections 302, 134 (abet an assault by an officer, soldier, sailor or airman) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rs-28-crore-fraud-crime-branch-presents-chargesheet-against-accused-in-jammu/story-tNEQpf5LxKmM5hrY7cYgZL.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid effect: Kashmiri weddings no longer a grand affair||Kashmiri weddings are traditionally a grand affair that last around four to five days, involve a couple of scrumptious 12-course feasts (the Kashmiri wazwan) and a large gathering of friends and relatives who breathe life into the party. However, these days with the Union Territory of Jammu Kashmir recording around 50,000 Covid cases and 850 deaths, guests are making do with a serving of Khewa (green tea with saffron), meat and large dollops of sanitisers. Many families have decided to postpone the weddings till such a time they can hold a grand feast, others who are going ahead are adapting traditions to ensure guests’ safety. “My brother was to get married this year and all arrangements were almost done, but in light of the growing number of Covid cases we have deferred the wedding to next year. Besides, what is a Kashmiri wedding without a big gathering,’’ says one Adnan Ahmad of the old city. In Kashmir, the peak marriage season is between August to November. Those in the wedding industry say few weddings have taken place since the outbreak of the coronavirus and the weddings that did take place were hardly a two-day affair with few people in attendence and masks and sanitisers part of the wedding paraphernalia. Haji Shabir Ahmad, a wholesale dealer of disposable wedding items, says, “Earlier, we would sell disposables ranging from ₹60,000 to ₹1,50,000. Now, the bills have whittled down to ₹20,000- ₹30,000. Even the number of weddings have come down by 70%.’’ He, however, says they have added sanitizers and masks and personal protective equipment (PPW) kits in the list of items. TRADITIONS TAILORED In Kashmiri weddings hosts traditionally serve a couple of feasts known as Kashmiri wazwan comprising seven to 12 courses served in big copper plates. Each plate is consumed by four people. While a simple marriage lasts for two days, affluent families stretch their marriage ceremonies four to five days where quintals of mutton prepared by trained chefs (wazas) is served. Nowadays, wazwan is being served in single copper plates instead of bigger plates known as (trami). Some have replaced the plates with clay bowls . “I recently attended a marriage at Iqbal Nagar Sopore, it was a simple function, the guests were served in clay pots instead of copper plates. Many people like the way, our ancestors used to eat in clay pots,’’ says a resident Shiekh Haroon, adding “ A curtailed guest list has also made marriages simple, with many skipping the wazwan altogether and serving tea or Khewa. Peer Ishfaq, the cousin of a groom-to- be, says, “Last time when we had a marriage at our house, the function lasted for four to five days and we ended up serving seven quintals of meat to nearly 1,000 guests. This time we are preparing just 100 kilograms of meat and our guest list is not more than 100.”Mohammad Yaqood a chef from north Kashmir says, “The wazas have been hit by the successive lockdowns imposed after August 5. Earlier, they had to be booked months in advance. The Kashmiri wedding industry is at its nadir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-effect-kashmiri-weddings-no-longer-a-grand-affair/story-JHgRMlY5PPgUUVuudvWmIL.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||8 new deaths push Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra Police to 202||The number of Covid-19 fatalities in the Maharashtra Police breached the 200-mark after deaths of eight police personnel were reported from across the state. The toll in the state police force now stands at 202. In addition, 371 new cases were reported in the state police force in the past 24 hours. According to police, the headquarters on Tuesday received reports of deaths of eight policemen due Covid-19 from Mumbai, Thane, Jalgaon, Ratnagiri, Sangli, Osmanabad and Nandurbar districts. According to the details shared by Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), the number of infections in the state police force is now 19,756, of which 15,830 have recovered and 3,724 personnel are undergoing treatment at various public, private hospitals and Covid care facilities.Of the total 202 fatalities, 20 were police officers. “Most of the policemen who lost battle with Covid-19 had comorbidities such as diabetes, blood pressure. The fatality is higher in personnel of the 48-58 age group,” said a senior police officer.In Mumbai Police, a total of 5,469 personnel tested positive and 75 have lost lives. Around 4,000 infected personnel have recovered.In Ratnagiri, 55-year-old police sub-inspector Jyotiba Pachrekar, attached to the Wireless message department, died of Covid-19 on Monday night. Pachrekar was undergoing treatment at the civil hospital since September 11.Thane City police recorded two fatalities with a 50-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached to Kalyan encroachment department succumbing on Monday and head constable Fajendra Mhadik of Kopri police station succumbing on Sunday.In another fatality, sub inspector Bhagirath Nannavare, 57, of Jalgaon police died of the infection early on Monday. He was undergoing treatment at the civil hospital since September 6.In Nandurbar, assistant sub inspector Deepal Fulpagare attached to Shahda police station also succumbed to the disease.Head constable Rajendra Dhekle, 49, from Nashik City police also lost the battle. From Osmanabad, Tukaram Vaidya, 51, attached to Tahmanwadi police station, has died of the infection.Mumbai and Sangli police also reported a death each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-new-deaths-push-covid-19-toll-in-maharashtra-police-to-202/story-sMlYteAwmlVe7tGIymFP6N.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||6 Shiv Sena workers rearrested for assault on former Navy officer, released on bail||Six Shiv Sena workers, who were arrested for assaulting a retired Indian Navy officer, Madan Sharma, over a WhatsApp forward on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday and released on bail, were rearrested on Monday. They were released on bail of ₹15,000 each. They will have to mark attendance in the police station for 60 days.Dilip Sawant, additional commissioner of police (north region), said, “While scanning the CCTV footage of the society, we found the accused had entered a private property and dragged the victim out, where they assaulted him. Consequently, section 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code was added to the case and they were re-arrested.” Sharma was assaulted in front of Vasant Pride Co-operative Housing Society, Thakur Complex, Kandivli (East), and he suffered an eye injury. The six accused are Kamlesh Chandrakant Kadam, 39; Sanjay Santaram Manjare, 52; Pratap Motiram Sundevesha, 45; Rakesh Rajaram Velnekar, 31; Sunil Vishnu Desai, 42; and Rakesh Krishna Mulik, 34, all residents of Poisar in Kandivli. Based on Sharma’s statement, on September 11, Mumbai Police had registered an offence under sections 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt),143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting) and 149 (being a member of unlawful assembly) of Indian Penal Code.An officer from Samta Nagar police station said, “On September 14, we submitted an application before the Borivli metropolitan magistrate court, saying we have decided to add section 452 of IPC to the case, which is a non-bailable offence.” Defence minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Sharma on Saturday. He later tweeted: “Spoke to retired naval officer, Shri Madan Sharma who was attacked by hooligans in Mumbai and enquired about his health. Such attacks on Ex-Servicemen is completely unacceptable and deplorable. I wish Madanji a speedy recovery (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/6-shiv-sena-workers-rearrested-for-assault-on-former-navy-officer-released-on-bail/story-QcK73hUJpgDABZLl3OuqgK.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Ex-staff alleges ‘politically sensitive’ bid via Facebook to influence Delhi polls||A ‘politically sophisticated’ attempt to influence the Delhi elections played out on Facebook before it was taken down silently, a former employee said in a memo that cited examples of how the company failed to act in time or with transparency in tackling efforts to undermine democratic processes around the world.The memo, written by data scientist Sophie Zhang, who worked at Facebook and was recently laid off, was obtained by Buzzfeed News, which reported about it late on Monday.The memo cited instances of alleged attempts by political parties to sway elections in Azerbaijan and Honduras, and similar but unattributed campaigns in Ukraine, Spain, Brazil, Bolivia and Ecuador, besides India.“I worked through sickness to take down a politically sophisticated network of more than a thousand actors working to influence the election,” Zhang wrote about the 2020 Delhi elections in the 6,600-word memo, according to the report.The takedown was not officially reported by Facebook and the employee did not specify who were behind the attempt.The Buzzfeed News report is the third since an August 14 story by Wall Street Journal that first detailed how Facebook struggles to manage content on its website, especially those involving politicians. Facebook India’s policy team members personally intervened to halt action against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Telangana, citing a potential risk to the company’s commercial interests in the country, the first report said. Facebook, which has been attacked by both the opposition Congress and the ruling BJP, has since banned the politician, and denied that it acted in a biased manner. The company is being investigated by a parliamentary panel and a Delhi legislative assembly committee.Raghav Chadha, the chairperson of the committee on peace and harmony, said the recent disclosures were worrying and unless such practices are deterred in time, they can affect the country’s democracy. Also read: Facebook in contempt, warns Delhi Assembly panelBefore she was fired, Zhang was with Facebook’s Site Integrity team tasked with combating fake news, the Buzzfeed report said.It was not clear why she was fired, but the report noted that she had turned down a $64,000 severance payment in order to avoid a no-disparagement deal.“In the three years I’ve spent at Facebook, I’ve found multiple blatant attempts by foreign national governments to abuse our platform on vast scales to mislead their own citizenry, and caused international news on multiple occasions,” she wrote in the memo. The disclosure adds to questions of transparency in how the social media company acts on problematic content, which includes hate speech and fake information that has been proven to succeed in influencing elections. It also spotlights the problem of who takes these calls, which in Zhang’s case appeared to be a mid-level employee. A Facebook spokesperson said the company deals with each issue thoroughly. “Working against coordinated inauthentic behaviour is our priority, but we’re also addressing the problems of spam and fake engagement. We investigate each issue carefully, including those that Ms Zhang raises, before we take action or go out and make claims publicly as a company,” this person added.Zhang could not be reached for a comment.Experts say that the latest memo highlights a recurrent problem with social media websites in general and Facebook in particular. “Facebook normally comes out with a transparency report. It is important to ask why there was no disclosure of the takedown but, more importantly, also ask Facebook what it considers as inauthentic activity. The ex-employee expresses how she was overwhelmed by the larger political repercussions of her decision. When a company’s content moderation begins to impact the world outside their users, it becomes a democratic duty to intervene and determine how these decisions are taken,” said Jyoti Panday, researcher at the Internet Governance Project, Georgia Institute of Technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ex-staff-alleges-politically-sensitive-bid-via-facebook-to-influence-delhi-polls/story-gGjRmiPb1NlC3cN723TIAN.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Ban on export of onions will benefit Pakistan exporters, says NCP chief Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday opposed the Centre’s decision to ban export of onions across the country. He has requested the Central government to reconsider the decision and pointed out that the move will benefit exporters from Pakistan. The sudden decision is a major blow to India’s image as a reliable exporter of onions in the international market, he said.The veteran leader, who is in Delhi to attend the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament, has also met Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal in this regard.“The Central government has abruptly announced a ban on onion exports. This has led to strong reactions from the onion growing belt in Maharashtra & therefore the representatives of various political parties contacted & requested me to convey their demands to the Central Government,” Pawar said in a series of tweets.“To address this issue, I met Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Shri Piyush Goyal today and apprised him of the plight of onion growers. I pointed out to him that these onion growers are mainly small land holders and Jirait (rain water dependent) farmers. I also brought to his notice that onions are in good demand internationally & we have been exporting onions consistently. But a sudden decision to this effect by the Central government is a major blow to India’s image as a reliable exporter of onions in the international market,” he tweeted.“I also emphasised on the fact that Pakistan and other onion exporters will benefit immensely from this situation. In view of all this, I urged Piyush Goyal ji to reconsider the ban on onion exports,” the NCP chief added.Goyal told him that the ban on onion exports was proposed by the Union ministry of consumer protection on the basis of rising onion prices in the market and the decision will be reconsidered in consultation with the Union ministry of commerce, ministry of finance and ministry of consumer protection.The farmer’s organisations have also opposed the ban and warned of agitation.Dr Ajit Nawale, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), condemned the ban and said, “Recently, the Central government claimed that farmers have been given a big relief by making onions free from regulation and removing it from the list of essential commodities. This ban is a betrayal to the farmers. AIKS and other farmer organisations condemned the move and the Centre will have to face the consequences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ban-on-export-of-onions-will-benefit-pakistan-exporters-says-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar/story-QK3IIvDnX1ues4ZkOTbI7H.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||No NAAC grade for University of Mumbai this year as well||The long-awaited National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grade for the University of Mumbai (MU) will remain elusive in the 2020-21 academic year as well. Officials from the varsity confirmed that the process of submitting the self study report (SSR) had to be re-started after the process was left incomplete in March due to the lockdown. Once the SSR is submitted, a peer team from the NAAC committee visits the university to verify the details submitted in the application. Thereafter, the committee is expected to take around six months to announce the university’s new grade, which makes it impossible for MU’s NAAC grading process to be completed in the current academic year. An MU official said that by December 2019, the varsity had submitted the institutional information for quality assessment (IIQA) and the same was approved by the apex grading body. “We had started the process of uploading the SSR early this year. The process was almost 95% complete when the pandemic led to a national lockdown. All our work had to be stopped and eventually, the apex body asked us to restart submitting our SSR as the previous documents could not be saved due to its incomplete status,” said an MU spokesperson. While IIQA is a document recording the university’s compliance with the criteria and policies of the NAAC committee, SSR is a self-evaluation identifying strengths and rectifying deficiencies. NAAC accreditation is a performance indicator for higher educational institutes and is mandatory for funds from Central agencies. The university was given a ‘Grade A’ score by NAAC in 2012, which expired on April 20, 2017. Since then, MU has failed to apply for re-accreditation. In the absence of a NAAC grade, the university has lost out on grants worth crores of rupees from the Centre, and dropped in annual national and global rankings. “The fact that the university sat on the re-application process in 2017 itself was a big mistake but not having managed to complete this process for three years now is unacceptable. Several students have suffered over the years and we hope the problem ends soon,” said Vaibhav Narwade, a senate member of the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-naac-grade-for-university-of-mumbai-this-year-as-well/story-E0dXK2TUc4CxS9hjctSetN.html
16-09-2020||City||Thane civic body collects ₹8K fines from hawkers for littering, not wearing masks in 3 days||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has fined hawkers in Thane markets for littering and not wearing masks, whereas they warned those found using plastic. This is part of the civic body’s initiative to fine those not wearing masks or not following social distancing in public places.Till now, it has fined 30 hawkers and collected a total sum of ₹8,000 in the last three days from Jambli Naka market alone.TMC had released an order last week that stated that ₹500 would be levied from those seen without masks. Strict action against violators of social distancing rules was also specified in the order.However, during inspection, the officials found hawkers littering and using plastic as well which were also against the rules.“At the first instance of using plastic, we warned them. But if they repeat the offence, a fine is levied. On Tuesday, we found 16 hawkers littering and we’ve fined them and collected ₹2,500 on a single day. We have also raised awareness among hawkers to not litter and about plastic usage,” said Santosh Patkar, sanitary director, solid waste management department, TMC.The fine for using plastic is ₹5,000. “This is a huge sum that we have to pay. We are here out of helplessness as we do not earn much nowadays and fewer people step out. However, the officers have explained the health benefits of wearing a mask and the damage that plastic does to nature, so we will also try to cooperate,” said Rajendra Yadav, one of the hawkers at Jambli Naka market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-collects-8k-fines-from-hawkers-for-littering-not-wearing-masks-in-3-days/story-2F1bxIoFsvkinG8xe2RaVI.html
16-09-2020||City||18-year-old held for stalking minor girl, extorting money in Navi Mumbai||Vashi police arrested a 18-year-old boy on Tuesday for stalking a minor girl on a social media application and extorting ₹38,000 from her.The 14-year-old girl from Sector 2 in Vashi knew the accused, Sandeep Ramu Pawar, a resident of Koprigaon, Sector 26 in Vashi. He was allegedly in a relationship with the victim’s friend.According to police, the accused used to send texts to the minor to be conveyed to her friend. However, since May the accused allegedly started forcing the minor to be in a relationship with him.“As per the complainant, he would coax her on social networking sites. As she did not respond, the accused threatened that he would slash her wrist or get her kidnapped and demanded money from her,” a police officer attached to Vashi police station said.On several occasions, the complainant stole money from her family and gave it to the accused. Between May 31 and September 10, the accused made her pay around ₹38,000. The incident came to light when her family realised that she was taking the money, and confronted her. After she narrated the ordeal to her family, they approached Vashi police on Tuesday. “We arrested the accused immediately after the case was registered. The accused did not work anywhere and helped his brother-in-law in his contract business,” senior inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said.Pawar has been arrested for stalking and extortion under sections of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He was produced before the court on Tuesday and has been remanded in police custody till September 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-held-for-stalking-minor-girl-extorting-money-in-navi-mumbai/story-SHbN9BKCSuw1sumn1H0iCL.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||3-storeyed illegal building comes up in McLeodganj under MC’s nose||The Dharamshala municipal corporation (MC) has issued a notice to Yashi Dolma, a woman of Tibetan origin, for illegally building a three-storeyed building adjoining Hotel Norbu House, 250 metres from the abode of the Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama. The MC notice was issued last week on the complaint of a local resident, Ashok Rai, on whose plot (about 780 yards) the illegal construction was made during the lockdown. “There was no construction on the site till the middle of April,” Rai said, demanding action against the owners of Hotel Norbu House who raised the building “by taking advantage of the Covid-19 lockdown”. Not only has the structure come up without the approval of the civic body and town planning department but it has also been built on encroached land and three trees have been damaged at the site. One tree has been taken inside the construction site. Meanwhile, Ghazala Abdullah, a green activist who took the matter of illegal felling to the high court, alleged that the same people had carried out digging for the construction of a water tank endangering four Deodar trees. MC commissioner Pradeep Thakur said, “A case has been registered against owner Yashi Dolma under Section 253 of the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, and a notice has been issued to her.” The section provides for demolition of illegally raised structure if violations are confirmed. Yashi Dolma and her husband, Indian citizens of Tibetan origin, run hospitality business in Mcleodganj and own several properties. When contacted, Wangdu admitted that the construction they raised was illegal. He, however, maintained that the construction was an old one and they had submitted a regularisation plan to the authorities.He alleged that person who submitted complaint with the MC wanted to grab his land. Wangdu also denied commissioning the digging. Dharamshala mayor Devinder Singh Jaggi said that the civic body will take strict action not only against the owner but also against officials who failed to keep a track of such activities. “Responsibilities will be fixed and action will be taken as per law,” said Jaggi. OFFENDER LEFT OFF THE HOOK EARLIER MC sources said that this was not the first time that Dolma was involved in illegal construction. Two years ago, the water and power supplies to Hotel Norbu House was cut after she built a six-storeyed building despite having permission for only two storeys. The case is still pending in the court. In recent years, illegal structures have come up in McLeodganj. After High Court took cognizance of the matter notices power and water supply to about 180 hotels and guest houses for violation of building and environmental norms. The court also appointed a local commissioner and had “warned” to stop the salaries of erring officials after the commissioner had reported rampant violation in McLeodganj area. Later, court provided some relaxations by restoring the water and power supply on the condition that the illegal portions shall be demolished or fine be imposed as per the law. The owners had also submitted affidavit in the court in this regard. The matter is still pending. The town and country planning department allows only two-storeyed buildings in the hill town as it is in the seismic sensitive zone. Also, in July 2019, the National Green Tribunal had banned any kind of commercial construction in McLeoganj area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-storeyed-illegal-building-comes-up-in-mcleodganj-under-mc-s-nose/story-DcO0RNuwH54FhrbEJFktUJ.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Pulwama gunfight: Police assault two photojournalists||Two photojournalists were allegedly assaulted by the police while they were covering a gunfight between militants and security forces at a village in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Tuesday. Kamran Yousuf, a multimedia journalist working with an online portal and Faisal Bashir, a freelancer, were beaten up by policemen near the gunfight site at Marwal Kakapora in Pulwama. Yousuf’s right leg was fractured and he had to be hospitalised at a hospital in Srinagar. Kamran said, “Many journalists had reached the outer security ring near the encounter site in the morning to cover the incident and were taking pictures when the CRPF personnel present told them to move a bit farther from the spot. When we started leaving, suddenly some policemen came rushing towards me. They told me to stop and simply started raining batons without asking anything.”“I was surrounded by them and somehow managed to escape. They even chased after me,” he said.Faisal Bashir also said that he was assaulted without a reason. “I was on the bund of the Jhelum when they told me to come down. They rained batons on my back and also hit my camera. After assaulting me they caught hold of Kamran, who was behind me,” he said.Police in a statement said: “Today an exchange of fire took place at village Marwal between terrorists and SFs. Cordon was placed to prevent people from venturing inside as that would have endangered their security. However some media persons tried to move closer, they were duly stopped”.The incident has caused outrage among journalists, with two prominent bodies – the Kashmir Press Club (KPC) and Kashmir Editors Guild (KEG) – slamming police for the assault.The two bodies asked LG and police top brass to ‘sensitise’ the cops about working of media persons.Senior journalist Yusuf Jameel said that thrashing,harassing & intimidating journalists in Kashmir was not new. “We’ve lived with & endured it for yrs.What is,however,more disgusting rather despicable is the authorities,after every such incident,assuring “it will not happen again’.I see it also as rubbing salt in the wound,” he said in a tweet (sic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pulwama-gunfight-police-assault-two-photojournalists/story-3qwQRbESZ9pB5Am9jH252I.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 outbreak: Lawyers in Mumbai permitted to travel on local trains to attend hearing in Bombay high court||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the railways and state authorities to permit those advocates who have been issued letters by the court, to travel by local trains to reach HC to attend physical hearings in their matters. The initiative will be undertaken on an experimental basis for two weeks from September 18 till October 7. HC said that based on the outcome of the initiative, the relaxation would be considered for advocates from lower courts, too. The court has also directed the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa to take action against lawyers who misuse the facility. The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Chirag Chanani and other lawyers through advocate Shyam Dewani, and another plea through advocate Uday Warunjikar, was informed that advocates were unable to attend the limited physical hearings in HC, as they were not permitted to travel by local trains. The permission for train travel has been restricted to state, municipal and health staffers and others in essential services owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. In the previous hearing on September 10, the bench had directed the state and railways to consider starting an initiative in which lawyers with letters of certification from the HC’s registry could be allowed to travel on locals to attend physical hearings or visit their offices. On Tuesday, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state and additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the railways informed the bench that they were agreeable for travel arrangement for lawyers on experimental basis. Kumbhakoni placed on record a note, setting out the arrangement that can be made for lawyers who are required to attend physical hearings in their matters. As part of the procedure, such advocates will have to apply to the HC registrar, who will scrutinise and issue certificates. The advocates will then have to show the same to the railway authorities, so that they may be issued a pass or a ticket for the particular date of physical hearing. Kumbhakoni’s suggested that if the system worked, it could be applied for trial court advocates too. The court said that though it was not inclined to grant similar relief to trial court lawyers immediately, it would consider the suggestion during the next hearing on October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-outbreak-lawyers-in-mumbai-permitted-to-travel-on-local-trains-to-attend-hearing-in-bombay-high-court/story-QCJVZR8fybQcOddekj8obI.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Record spike of 19 deaths in J&K, toll 914||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday witnessed the biggest single-day spike of 19 deaths, taking the total number of fatalities in the Union territory to 914. Officials said 14 people succumbed to the disease in Jammu division and five in Kashmir. The death toll had crossed 300-mark on July 25, 400-mark on August 3, 500-mark on August 13, 600-mark on August 22, 700-mark on August 31 and 800-mark on September 07.The UT also recorded 1,329 fresh Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 56,654. A government spokesperson said 741 people tested positive in Jammu division, including 53 travelers, while 588 cases were reported from Kashmir, of which 16 were travelers. This month, Jammu has been witnessing more daily infections than Kashmir, which in the last five months has contributed to major percentage of cases in the UT.Also, 681 more people have been cured and discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 37,062, which accounts for a recovery rate of 65.4%. There has been a consistent decrease in the rate of recovered patients from a high of 77.3% on September 2. Active cases have steadily increased to 18,678 from 7,980 on August 31. A total 12.7 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far.In Jammu division, the highest jump of fresh cases was witnessed in Jammu district with 254 cases while 114 people tested positive in Doda district. In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was recorded in Srinagar where 148 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 127.Srinagar is the worst affected district as the number of total cases in the district have reached 11,942 with 255 deaths. Jammu district has recorded 8,998 cases and 99 deaths.Till date, 5.27 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 34,530 in home quarantine, 18,678 in isolation, and 60,298 under home surveillance. Besides, 4.13 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/record-spike-of-19-deaths-in-j-k-toll-914/story-jSJOMHhcEwqPQm6olM7VQO.html
16-09-2020||City||Cops in Thane celebrate birthday of 7-year-old boy whose parents are admitted to hospital for Covid-19 treatment||Shil Daighar police officers in Thane on Tuesday celebrated the birthday of a seven-year-old boy whose parents are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a hospital. On Monday, the boy’s 36-year-old father tweeted to Thane Police, requesting them to celebrate his son’s birthday and arrange a cake for him, if possible, as there was no one with him to organise the celebrations this year. The man and his wife, who are residents of Diva near Shil Road, tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago and had been admitted to a hospital in Vashi. Their three children are now being taken care by their grandmother. “Since both, my wife and I, are admitted in a hospital, we will not be able to be with our son. His dream is to be a cop when he grows up, so we request the Thane Police to send some officers to our home and celebrate his birthday, as that will make him very happy,” the Diva resident had tweeted on the police’s official handle. He also gave his address in the tweet. After the tweet came to the Thane Police’s notice, senior inspector Chandrakant Jadhav, from Shil Daighar police station, along with his team arranged for a cake and went to the boy’s house to celebrate his birthday. “The couple’s three children are being looked after by their grandmother, who is old and cannot make any arrangements for her grandson’s birthday. After we went to the boy’s house with the cake, he was very happy. We also felt good and gifted him a cricket bat and a ball,” said Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-in-thane-celebrate-birthday-of-7-year-old-boy-whose-parents-are-admitted-to-hospital-for-covid-19-treatment/story-UYnlA7kabcP896erxbDGSK.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 8 deaths, 419 fresh cases||The state recorded the highest Covid-related fatalities in a day on Tuesday, with eight people succumbing to the coronavirus disease, taking Himachal’s death toll to 88.As many as 419 new coronavirus cases were reported in the state, of which 121 cases were reported in Mandi, 87 in Solan, 60 in Sirmaur, 44 in Shimla, 36 in Kangra, 35 in Una, 16 in Bilaspur, eight in Hamirpur, seven in Kullu and five in Chamba. So far,10,335 cases have been reported in the state. Three deaths have been reported in Mandi district, two at Indira Gandhi Medical College and two at the Tanda Medical Centre. A patient from Una who was admitted to a private hospital in Chandigarh due to an illness succumbed while he was being shifted to Tanda Medical college. With 2,359 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra (1,567), Sirmaur (1319), Mandi (1030), Una (906), Hamirpur (746 ), Chamba (644), Shimla (676), Bilaspur (543), Kullu (395), Kinnaur (121) and Lahaul-Spiti (29).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-logs-8-deaths-419-fresh-cases/story-tJqstB4k7fVrKISlAdZUmI.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic corporation says daily Covid-19 tests surged to 15,000 from 10K in last week of August||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has steadily increased the number of tests conducted for Covid-19 this month. In the second week of September, Mumbai conducted up to 15,000 tests per day, of which up to 40% were rapid antigen tests and the remaining were reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. This is a sharp increase from the last week of August, when 7000 to 10,000 tests were conducted per day, of which up to 28% were rapid antigen tests. So far, Mumbai has conducted 9,25,148 tests and its positivity rate is 18.34% at present. BMC’s data shows that compared to the first week of September, when approximately 67,500 tests were conducted, there was a jump of approximately 20% in the second week of September, when approximately 81,500 tests were carried out. In the last week of August, BMC conducted approximately 60,100 tests, which was 45% more than the number of tests carried out in the first week of August (approximately 26,800). Along with the number of tests, the percentage of rapid antigen tests has also risen. In July, when the city saw 5,000 to 7,000 Covid-19 tests daily, rapid antigen tests were 10% of the total. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 taskforce, said, “We still need to do more tests to control the spread of the virus. Also, we need both methods – rapid antigen kits and RT-PCR – considering rapid antigen is required for its fastness. We can always go for the RT-PCR method if those suspected test negative in rapid antigen tests.” While RT-PCR tests are considered the gold standard for Covid diagnosis, it takes several hours to arrive at results. In contrast, results of rapid antigen tests can be delivered in approximately 30 minutes. However, rapid antigen tests continue to have a low positivity rate (between 5% and 10%, with a few exceptions) while RT-PCR has a high positivity rate of between 20% and 30%. Positivity rate is the percentage of people correctly diagnosed as Covid-positive from the total tests conducted. The low positivity rate for antigen tests means that on when Mumbai saw more of these tests being conducted, the positivity rate for the day also dropped. For example, on September 9, Mumbai conducted 15,700 tests of which 7,300 were rapid antigen tests. The city’s positivity rate for the day was approximately 16%. Similarly, on September 19, Mumbai conducted 15,100 tests of which 6,700 were rapid antigen tests, and the city’s positivity rate was 17%. In contrast, on September 13, Mumbai conducted 9,400 tests of which 1,900 were rapid antigen tests, and the recorded positivity rate was 24%. Since antigen tests deliver quick results, they are preferred in cases where a suspected Covid-19 patient may have a high number of risk contacts. Last week, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had told HT, “Rapid antigen kits have to be used for suspicious patients who have heavy symptoms. We cannot use the kits randomly on say citizens or frontline workers. The positivity rate for RT-PCR is much more but this doesn’t mean we will not use rapid antigen kits.” BMC has already used more than 1 lakh rapid antigen kits till now, and has ordered more rapid antigen kits. A senior officer from BMC said, “BMC started out using rapid antigen kits for shopkeepers, frontline workers, in slums, and high risk contacts of Covid-19 patients. Because we get immediate results, it helps to quarantine suspected patients immediately and break their contact with the community. We will use rapid antigen kits for repeated testing of frontline workers with greater interaction with the community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-corporation-says-daily-covid-19-tests-surged-to-15-000-from-10k-in-last-week-of-august/story-WtvSPxCXhRuhFHHebf59WL.html
16-09-2020||City||BMC to teach Mumbaiites to live with Covid-19 safely, responsibly||With no signs of the Covid-19 pandemic subsiding, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) starting Tuesday began to educate citizens on how to live with the virus by taking various precautions in everyday life and making lifestyle changes and started to screen them. Part of state’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ programme, the campaign will continue till October 25. The civic body will give out a set of instructions/advisories to be followed by individuals and families at home as well as in housing societies or colonies, at shopping malls and markets, workplaces and while travelling in public transport. Some of these instructions include no sharing of masks among family members, avoiding talking face-to-face when outdoors, speaking less while eating your meals outside, wearing masks while driving your car, regular temperature, and if possible oxygen level, checks, care to be taken while handling non-perishable goods ordered online.BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “In order to effectively curtail the spread of coronavirus, it is imperative that all members of the family take necessary care and are vigilant to avoid even inadvertent mistakes. Citizens will be informed about the important steps that should be taken to achieve positive results against Covid-19.”BMC has also initiated a door-to-door survey to screen over 1.24 crore population of the city. Under this, it has formed 5,000 teams of 15,000 officials to screen citizens for symptoms for the next 40 days. Each team will have three BMC officials and has to cover 50 households daily. The team has to cover 40 lakh households in the city in the coming days. BMC officials said the deadline could be extended until 40 lakh households are covered. Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “We will undertake the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign for the next 40 days to cover maximum population. We have already undertaken screening for senior citizens earlier, and this will be similar to that.” So far, BMC has screened around 10 lakh citizens in the city, of which around 3,100 citizens have been referred for oxygen therapy, considering their oxygen count was low.Several areas of the western suburbs, Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Jogeshwari, Andheri and Vile Parle, have the highest number of active cases in the city. The city has around 31,123 active cases, as of Monday. Shankarwar said, “The drive will be more aggressive in areas namely Dahisar, Borivli and Kandivli. There will be more surveillance and testing from these areas.”The campaign will also provide referral treatment to people with co-morbidities such as diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease, obesity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bmc-to-teach-mumbaiites-to-live-with-covid-19-safely-responsibly/story-exx7Vqw2R05LE4z3JMJjmI.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Question hour: 87 cases pending under Section 118 of HP Land Tenancy Act||Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Tuesday said 87 appeals seeking permission under Section 118 of the Himachal Pradesh Land Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, which provides for restriction on transfer of land in favour of a person who is not an agriculturist in the state, were still pending, while 122 cases had been sent back to deputy commissioners for reconsideration. Jawalamukhi MLA Ramesh Dhawala had asked whether land purchasing procedure had been simplified for establishing industries and how many cases had been accepted under Section 118 during the question hour of the ongoing monsoon session. Bhardwaj said 417 permissions had been granted under Section 188 and 388 cases had been approved. “From 2013 to 2017, the Congress-led state government had approved 543 cases and sanctioned 844 housing projects and 1,387 cases under Section 118 while the BJP government has approved 805 cases so far,” he said. No amendment has been made in sections of the act to facilitate ‘ease of doing business.’ However, some rules had been changed and the process simplified. Responding to Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh, agriculture minister Virendra Kanwar said the title of the Totu sabzi mandi land had not been cleared yet. “Once the court takes a decision, the government will construct the fruit market,” he said, adding that 13 bigha land had been earmarked for the project, which will cost ₹3.75 crore. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur told Jogindernagar MLA Prakash Rana that the government had not yet decided to create the post of a sub-divisonal magistrate (SDM) in Lad Bharol tehsil. However, as people were being inconvenienced, the Jogindernagar SDM has been asked to serve there at least three-four days in a month. In response to BJP MLA from Hamirpur Narinder Thakur, health and family welfare minister Rajiv Saizal said the construction work of a medical college in Hamirpur had been awarded to a Delhi-based company. The medical college will be built by CPWD and the construction work will start soon. Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania while responding to a question posed by BJP MLA Arjun Singh said as Pong Dam was the largest wetland in the state, laws will not be broken to allow agricultural activities in the area. Pathania said agricultural actives could not be performed in the Pong Dam Sanctuary as the Supreme Court has banned removal of dead and dry trees from national parks and sanctuaries. The removal of grass is also prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/question-hour-87-cases-pending-under-section-118-of-hp-land-tenancy-act/story-7EGP2vWTKuFopFRQMvsjWK.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department to form committee to look into private school fees||After several parents of private schools urged the state government and the education department to look into the issue of fee hike during the pandemic, the department has now decided to form a committee. “After receiving complaints from parents, it has now been decided to conduct a detailed audit of the schools in question. After the preliminary enquiry, if schools are found breaking any norms concerning fees, notices shall be sent to them and an explanation will be sought for the same. If they fail to comply even then, action will be initiated from the department,” said an official from the education department. Last week, several parents from different schools in the city met member of legislative Assembly (MLA) Bacchu Kadu, state minister of school education. Jayant Jain, president of the Forum for Fairness in Education who coordinated with the delegation of parents from around 35 schools said, “The minister has ordered officials from the education department to look into the same. Several schools in the city are flouting norms concerning fees and strict action needs to be taken against them,” he added. Bacchu Kadu could not be reached for a comment despite several calls and messages. Meanwhile, an official from the education department said that the committee would be further split into multiple panels and officials shall be allotted schools that they need to investigate. “The committee shall submit a report to the education department and the government. The further course of action will then be decided,” added the official. A government resolution (GR) released on May 8 stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The petitioners had argued that the government cannot regulate fees of private schools as per the current rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-to-form-committee-to-look-into-private-school-fees/story-BTUTMCi2Qi3hIlkY48eGNM.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Two chain snatching cases reported in Mumbai’s Charkop and Borivli areas||Northern suburbs of Mumbai on Sunday witnessed two chain snatching incidents within an hour. The first incident took place under the jurisdiction of Charkop police station and the other was reported at Borivli.According to the police first incident took place at around 7.30am when 41-year-old Prashant Sawant, a Charkop resident was walking on Ambemata temple road when a pillion rider snatched his gold chain worth ₹85,000. The second incident took place at around 8.30am, when the accused targeted a senior citizen. The victim, Lilaben Shah, 65, a Borivli resident, told police that she was walking along Acer Road when the accused on a bike snatched her gold chain worth ₹35,000 and fled away.In Mumbai, 80 cases of chain snatching have been reported this year, of which 45 cases are detected. In January, 11 cases of chain snatching were registered of which five were detected. In February, 17 cases got registered and 11 were detected. In March 14 cases of chain snatching were reported of which 9 got detected.As the Covid-19 lockdown came in force, in April not a single incidence of chain snatching was reported in Mumbai. In May two cases of chain snatching cases were reported and both the cases were detected. The cases started increasing from June, when 12 cases were reported of which two got detected. In July five cases were registered and on August 16, cases of chain snatching reported of only two cases were detected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-chain-snatching-cases-reported-in-mumbai-s-charkop-and-borivli-areas/story-PGMA2ILP2ffhBdkD3kEAHL.html
16-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut vs Shiv Sena: A new fight begins in Maharashtra||The ongoing spat between the Shiv Sena and actor Kangana Ranaut is not the first instance of a fight between the party and Hindi film personalities. It, however, is the first one where a Bollywood personality has taken the Sena head-on. Over the years, the Sena has taken up issues targeting films or actors as and when it suited their political agendas – from batting for the rights of Marathi manoos to raking up anything related to Pakistan or Hindutva. Sena supremo and party founder Bal Thackeray had personal relations with actors Dev Anand, Dilip Kumar and Sunil Dutt, among others. The stories of the evening sessions between Thackeray senior and these actors on the terrace of Matoshree, the Thackeray residence in Bandra East, are well-known in political circles. However, his party had run-ins with almost all Bollywood biggies, from Dev Anand to Dilip Kumar to Shah Rukh Khan. Political observers said this is the first time a Bollywood actor has taken the fight with the ruling Shiv Sena, albeit with the backing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to the Centre. The recent war of words is a new type of a clash, the one the Sena is not used to. Bollywood and Shiv Sena The party’s first skirmish with the Hindi film industry came early on after the Sena was founded in 1966. In 1971, Marathi actor Krishna Kondke, popularly known as Dada Kondke, turned to Bal Thackeray for help after the owner of Kohinoor cinema did not screen his movie, Songadya, despite booking it three weeks in advance. Instead, the cinema hall screened Dev Anand’s Tere Mere Sapne. Angry Shiv Sainiks protested outside the cinema hall after it replaced the Marathi film with Anand’s film produced under the Navketan banner. Back then, the Sena’s primary agenda was ‘Marathi manoos’. The Sena, which had adopted the Hindutva agenda, targeted Dilip Kumar for accepting Nishan-e-Imtiaz, a civilian honour by the Pakistan government in 1998. The Sena, which was Maharashtra’s ruling party in alliance with the BJP then, questioned the patriotism of Dilip Kumar, who was born Yusuf Khan in Peshawar in undivided India. In 1995, Bal Thackeray was given a special screening of Mani Ratnam’s film Bombay, which was based on the 1993 Mumbai riots, and he demanded some cuts. In 1998, the Sena protested against the screening of Deepa Mehta’s film Fire and did not allow the release of Water as the former was depicting lesbian relationship and the latter “hurt Hindu sentiments”. In 2010, the party protested and prevented screenings of the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer My Name Is Khan after the lead actor spoke for inclusion of Pakistani cricketers in the Indian Premier League (IPL). Sena leaders have protested against films such as Salman Khan-starrer Tiger Zinda Hai in 2017, as its producers booked most screens, leaving no space for Marathi movies in multiplexes. Bollywood hasn’t hit back at the party on most occasions as Mumbai is a big market for Hindi movies and offending the Sena would mean disturbing the release in theatres. Besides, the Sena controls the Mumbai civic body (which is an authority for a number of things, including houses and offices as well as permissions for shooting at public places). The Sena always had a strong ground presence. Thackeray was also an authority for several Bollywood personalities who would approach him if they faced trouble from either unions or any local trouble-makers. Questioning the Sena or even ignoring it was not a preferable option for Bollywood. Ranaut versus Sena Political observers point out that be it protests or blessings from Matoshree, nobody wanted to rub the Thackerays the wrong way. However, this changed recently after Ranaut’s attack on the party. Political analyst Prakash Bal said Bal Thackeray built ties with the film industry, at the same time, ruled with an iron fist, which meant going against the Sena would hurt their business. “Thackeray had personal equation with several Bollywood stars; Uddhav Thackeray did not do so after he took over the reins of the party. He moved away from street politics in a bid to project the Shiv Sena in a different light. On the other hand, Raj Thackeray (who moved out of the Sena to form the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena) inherited his uncle’s way of functioning. Therefore, in 2010, Karan Johar and Shah Rukh Khan went to Raj (when they faced a problem with their movie’s release) and not Matoshree, although Bal Thackeray was alive then,” Bal said. In 2016, Johar also had to meet Raj Thackeray after the latter’s party objected to the release of Ae Dil Hai Mushkil, which had Pakistani actor Fawad Khan as one of the leading actors. Bal added that had Uddhav Thackeray built a rapport with the film industry, it would have helped his son during this “political gimmick”. He also added that as film’s economics changed, the industry biggies needed less protection from political parties. “Now, they make more money from overseas rights and other things than from here [the box office],” he said. Another political analyst Surendra Jondhale said Ranaut shifted the dimension of Sena’s run-ins with Bollywood. “The Sena always picked issues of Marathi culture and common man with the film industry. It was the cultural protector, but this has turned into a hard core political battle with the BJP operating behind Kangana. The Sena has so far handled it well and it will have to deal with it politically,” he said. A Shiv Sena Member of Parliament, who did not wish to be named, said being in power puts certain restrictions on reactions. “We have to remain conscious of not breaking the law. What happened in the case of the ex-Navy officer was an aberration. Shiv Sainiks will not tolerate anything against the Thackeray family,” he said. Amid the criticism over the assault of the former Naval officer, Sena minister Anil Parab said, “Although we are sitting in power, it does not mean that anybody can say anything to us. Our activists will not tolerate this.” He added that restraint should be observed from both sides. Sena MP and party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said Mumbai and Maharashtra are being projected in poor light as part of a “conspiracy” to defame the Maharashtra government. He said the issue is being kept alive for Bihar elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-vs-shiv-sena-a-new-fight-begins-in-maharashtra/story-qzdgKnJOBR7mK7mCWMjRAP.html
16-09-2020||City||Gurugram: 36-year-old woman dies by suicide||Gurugram: A 36-year-old woman died after allegedly jumping from the seventh floor of a building complex in the Civil Lines area on Monday night. The woman was married to a police head constable posted in the city, the police said.The police have filed an inquest report under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure. According to the police, the incident was reported around 9.30pm when the woman, her husband and some family members, who were visiting, were at their house. “The reason for the alleged suicide is yet to be known. According to her family members, she was under stress due to certain personal matters. There was discord due to some issues within the family. After a discussion, she went to the roof of a different tower in the complex and jumped off. No suicide note was recovered. Inquest proceedings have been initiated,” said a police official. She was rushed to the Civil Hospital, where doctors declared her dead on arrival, the police said, adding that the woman’s family has not filed any complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-36-year-old-woman-dies-by-suicide/story-yfZ4ozTCQHH0S3J2yNuXuI.html
16-09-2020||City||Gurugram: 28-year-old man beaten to death; personal enmity suspected||Gurugram: Ten days after a 28-year-old man came to the city in search of a job, he died of injuries suffered from an assault by two unidentified men on Jharsa road near sector 31 early on Tuesday morning, said police. Police said the motive for the alleged murder is still unclear. The deceased was identified by his first name as Pankaj, a native of Bhadaf village in Kanina of Mahendragarh district. Arriving in the city on September 5, Pankaj stayed at the house of his friend, construction supervisor Ajay Kumar, in Rajiv Nagar in sector 13. In the police complaint, Kumar said that around 1am Tuesday, a woman had come to visit Pankaj. ”Pankaj told me to withdraw some money from his account. I withdrew ₹500 and gave it to him and went to the roof to lie down on a folding bed,” it read. “After the woman left, Pankaj came to the terrace and was talking to someone on the phone. He said he has to meet someone and asked me to accompany him.” At around 2.10 am, said police, they rode a motorcycle towards Atul Kataria Chowk. Near a restaurant on Jharsa service road, the motorcycle broke down. While dragging the vehicle towards the nearest fuel station, two men arrived on a white scooter and intercepted them. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The suspects parked their scooter and slapped the victims. Ajay managed to run and hide in a lane nearby. Pankaj was severely beaten up and kicked. The assailants then left on their scooter and also took the keys of the motorcycle along.” Kumar allegedly told police that Pankaj had lost consciousness and a commuter helped rush him to a private hospital in Jharsa. “After treatment, I gave him a medicine and we returned home. At 5am, he complained of severe pain in his private parts where the accused had kicked him repeatedly. So, I took him to a private hospital in sector 13, from where he was referred to another private hospital in sector 38. The doctors then referred him to civil hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.” Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Personal enmity could be the reason for the alleged murder. The victim had received a phone call following which he and his friend went to meet someone. The victim’s phone is locked at the moment. We will check the call detail records and ascertain who had made the phone call. We are also checking CCTVs in the area to trace the suspects.” The victim’s body was handed over to his family after the post-mortem. A case was registered against the accused persons under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) at sector 40 police station on Tuesday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-28-year-old-man-beaten-to-death-personal-enmity-suspected/story-ejw8kulKdtQ33osIFXnL3H.html
16-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: ‘Burglars looked for uncollected newspapers, unclean floor to target homes’||The police arrested two persons, allegedly members of a gang, on Monday night from Badshahpur for their alleged involvement in at least 50 daytime burglaries in various residential areas across the city over the past year. Jewellery, laptops and other valuables were recovered from their possession, said police. Police said the suspects used to visit residential areas during the afternoon and target houses on the basis of uncollected newspapers and unclean floor. This indicated that the house was temporarily unoccupied, said police. Police identified the two suspects as 22-year-old Kallu and 24-year-old Sonu, from Nadia in West Bengal and were allegedly two of the four members of the alleged gang. Police said they had a criminal history and were jailed and later released from Uttar Pradesh in 2017. Acting on tips, the crime team arrested the duo while they were partying at one of their relative’s house in Badshahpur. Police said that a hunt is on to arrest two other members of the gang. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that a person named Amit Kumar, a resident of Sector 57, had complained on February 13 that his home was burgled. Kumar and his family had gone out of town for two days and, upon return, found that burglars had made away with cash, jewellery and electronic gadgets. In all, items worth ₹5 lakh were stolen, said police. “We recovered leads from several CCTV footage from crime scenes. The two suspects were seen making rounds of the area several times. Their modus operandi was to get inside residential areas and target houses that were locked by posing as domestic helps looking for jobs. They would steal whatever they could and carried them in bags stolen from victim’s houses,” said Sangwan. The police suspect that the two were aided by two others, who kept watch while their accomplices broke into the houses. “They would switch off their mobile phones to avoid police’s technical surveillance. They also bought new SIM cards after every theft,” Sangwan said. The police said that the gang members armed themselves with knives but had never used them in the cases. “They would enter the residential areas looking for jobs and if anyone stopped them, they would give false information and fake names to get in.”The suspects would allegedly sell the stolen jewellery to a goldsmith in Old Delhi and in remote areas of Uttar Pradesh. The police said that cases are registered against the gang members in at least six police stations of the city, and they are working on identifying more such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-burglars-looked-for-uncollected-newspapers-unclean-floor-to-target-homes/story-SbZRQyUcBKO8WfKiklxL8K.html
16-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG to issue notice to officials for being absent from finance meeting||For ensuring greater accountability and better supervision of its engineering department, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to start issuing show-cause notices to officials who remain absent from the civic body’s finance and contract (F&CC) meeting. The civic body has also decided that from now on, a copy of every project work order will have to be submitted to the three mayors and the local councillor of the area to which the project has been allocated. These measures are meant to prevent any irregularities in the project. The F&CC meeting, which is chaired by the three mayors, is responsible for approving civic projects costing between ₹1.5 crore-₹2.5 crore. Projects costing above ₹2.5 crore are sent to the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB) for approval. As per mayor Madhu Azad, most executive engineers remain absent from the F&CC meetings despite directions from MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, asking them to be present.Azad said that all eight executive engineers of MCG have been directed to attend the F&CC meeting as projects pertaining to their area need to be approved and questions pertaining to the projects need to be answered.“We need the presence of executive engineers in the meeting as various questions and doubts pertaining to projects need to be addressed. If something seems amiss, they need to be present physically so as to clear the doubts or else the approval is delayed till the next F&CC meeting. This often hampers the development work. As such, a decision has been taken to issue a show-cause notice to officials concerned so that disciplinary action can be initiated against them if they are absent from the meetings,” said Azad.Azad further said that for projects costing below ₹1 crore, which is approved by engineering officials themselves, it has been decided that a copy of every project work order needs to be submitted to the three mayors and the councillor of the area to which the project has been allocated.“There have been many cases in the past one year, where major discrepancies and irregularities have been found in both the work allotment and payment of funds for projects by the engineering wing officials. Hence, for greater transparency and close monitoring of development works it has been decided that a copy of each work order would be sent to the three mayors as well as the local councillor of the area,” said Azad.Azad pointed out that the ULB had also issued directions to municipal corporations across the state, asking their engineering wing to submit a copy of every work order to mayors and local councillors.“Reminders have been sent to the engineering wing for attending the F&CC meetings as well as submitting a copy of work orders to mayors as well as local councillors. If both these directions are not followed, disciplinary action would be taken against concerned officials as per the law,” said the MCG commissioner.Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG, said, “Directions have already been issued to all executive engineers concerned to submit their work orders to the mayors and councillors. Further, they have been warned against remaining absent from any future F&CC meetings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-mcg-to-issue-notice-to-officials-for-being-absent-from-finance-meeting/story-Ofy0wuFAGrKGrpDCk9h4oL.html
16-09-2020||City||Gurugram’s air quality deteriorates in September||Gurugram: For the seventh consecutive day on Tuesday, the city recorded air quality in the ‘moderate’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin. The city’s AQI reading on Tuesday stood at 130, and has ranged between 116 and 177 since September 9. This is in contrast to the period between September 1 and September 8, when Gurugram’s air pollution levels were largely in the ‘satisfactory’ category, with an AQI value oscillating between 51 and 100. Experts said this phenomenon is a natural occurrence for this time of the year, but also attributed a growing quantity of vehicular emissions for rapidly deteriorating air quality in Gurugram. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist who regularly tracks data from government and privately owned monitoring devices, said, “August had a lot of good air days because of fewer vehicles and also a good amount of rain, much more than in the last two or even three years. September has been drier and with more traffic. There is still just enough moisture in the air to make particulate pollutants, like PM2.5 and PM10, heavy enough that they won’t be blown away by wind, but not heavy enough that they settle down on the ground. They continue to remain airborne.”Panwar added that a strong spell of rain would be enough to break this trend. This view was echoed by Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Gurugram. Singh explained that the prevailing spell of moderate air has more to do with the absence of rain than a steep drop in temperature. “The summer heat has passed, but the process of thermal inversion, where a sudden drop in mercury brings down the mixing heights of pollutants closer to the earth’s surface, will occur much later into the winter,” he said.However, Singh and Panwar both emphasised that the incoming winter pollution cycle is likely to be less severe this year, due to reasons stemming from the Covid-19 outbreak, coupled with favourable rainfall patterns. “For one, there will be less travel happening and fewer cars on the street. Emissions from the summer season have a direct impact on pollution levels during the winter, and since air quality during the lockdown, during peak summer, was largely favourable, we can expect the winter pollution levels to be the lowest in a few years,” Panwar said. On the other hand, the HSPCB regional officer said that the onset of severe air quality, which typically happens around mid-November, may be delayed this year by about a week or two. “While AQI numbers from the past year can’t be compared with 2020, because they are now calculated based on a larger data set from new HSPCB monitors, the individual monitors are all recording pollution parameters at lower concentrations than you’d typically expect. We usually start seeing poor air around the end of September, but this year poor air may set in around mid-October, owing to the lockdown’s impact,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-s-air-quality-deteriorates-in-september/story-Uof9wB6jx3crqMCIAFEtBN.html
16-09-2020||City||Centre okays Haryana Orbital Rail link between Palwal and Sonipat||The Union cabinet on Tuesday approved the construction of the Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor Project from Palwal to Sonipat aimed at decongesting the railway network in the National Capital Region (NCR).The project is estimated to cost Rs 5,617 crore and completed over five years.The project will see rail lines bypassing Delhi and is a crucial infrastructure project for the Indian Railways. A Haryana government spokesperson said the corridor will render rail travel facility to 20,000 passengers everyday other than carrying more than 50 million tonnes of freight every year. The alignment of this 121-km project is adjacent to the western peripheral (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) Expressway and has been under consideration for some time. The project will have connectivity with all the existing railway routes originating from Delhi and passing through Haryana State as well as with the Dedicated Freight Corridor network.“This rail line will start from Palwal and end at the existing Harsana Kalan station (on Delhi-Ambala section). This will also connect with the existing Patli Station (on Delhi-Rewari line), Sultanpur station (on Garhi Harsaru-Farukhnagar Line) and Asaudha Station (on Delhi Rohtak Line),” read a statement from the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA).The project will be implemented by Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (HRIDC), a joint venture company set up by the ministry of railways with the government of Haryana. Private stakeholders will also participate.It is expected that the districts of Palwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Jhajjar and Sonipat districts of Haryana will benefit with this rail line.“This will facilitate diversion of traffic not meant for Delhi thus decongesting NCR and will help in developing multimodal logistics hubs in Haryana State sub-region of NCR. It will provide high-speed seamless connectivity of this region to Dedicated Freight Corridor network resulting in reduction of cost and time of transportation for EXIM (export-import) traffic from NCR to ports of India, making exports of goods more competitive,” the Cabinet statement read.In a statement, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said this would strengthen the roads and railways network in the national capital region||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-okays-haryana-orbital-rail-link-between-palwal-and-sonipat/story-QAisciX7qQpgyfN1dhbTSI.html
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre tells HC: Ashok Khemka not eligible for central government appointment||The Centre has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that senior Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka cannot be considered for appointment to the central government as he did not fulfil the eligibility criterion. The Centre said Khemka had ‘nil’ central experience at the time of consideration of his batch for empanelment at additional secretary level. “Empanelment at senior levels cannot be claimed as a matter of right; and it is for the competent authority to decide the suitability of the officer for empanelment in terms of the relevant guidelines/ instructions. ..petitioner has been left out from empanelment ....because he did not fulfil the eligibility criteria,” Subandhu Basu, under secretary, department of personnel and training, said in an affidavit. In July, Khemka had filed a plea challenging a Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order, wherein, his plea seeking direction to Centre to consider his empanelment was dismissed. The Centre’s response has come in that plea. The court was told that after April 2016, officers who had not completed a single year of central deputation but were currently serving at the Centre may be considered for empanelment along with the next batch. Otherwise, officers who had been serving at the Centre for more than a year were also being considered for empanelment with their batch. The petitioner lost opportunity for consideration of his candidature on his own volition, it stated. The Centre told court that even the CAT had recorded that his claims on deputation at the Centre on various occasion were ‘at best, intermittent and not sustained’ and that he appeared to be misleading the court by citing example of other officers who were serving at Centre. The court was given details of some such appointments. The Centre also stated that Khemka’s claim that his consent was taken for appointment in the Prime Minister’s Office, was never recommended by the appointment committee of the cabinet (ACC). It has also been argued that appointment at top level posts at Centre requires some level of experience at lower level posts in Union government to understand its system and functioning. Even CAT had opined that it is a perfectly logical expectation and hence such classification cannot be considered unreasonable, it has submitted. “...Empanelment is more of a suitability of an officer to occupy senior levels in the central government,” the Centre told the court, denying allegations of arbitrariness or discrimination and seeking dismissal of petition with ‘costs’. The Centre also said that a certain record sought by Khemka on central government appointments can’t be shared under RTI Act 2005 as they are exempted from disclosure. The matter will be taken up on October 14 for final hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-tells-hc-ashok-khemka-not-eligible-for-central-government-appointment/story-wGxK2IWIGozHudNJBB2MtO.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s ridge board to rule on projects without independent members||The fate of at least 10 major infrastructure projects that will directly affect the city’s Ridge— the green lungs of the national capital — is likely to be decided by the Supreme Court-mandated Ridge Management Board (RMB), on Friday without its two independent expert members present. The RMB, headed by the chief secretary, was formed in 1995 on the directions of the apex court, to preserve the Ridge. It has scheduled a meeting on September 18 to discuss at least 10 projects that will affect the Ridge. The Ridge is the northern extension of the Aravalli Range, extending from Tughlaqabad in south-east to the north near Wazirabad, covering a distance of about 35km.The Delhi Ridge acts as the green lungs of the capital and, through various government orders over the years, all construction has been banned in the Ridge in an effort to preserve it. While six of the eight members of the RMB are permanent, two are nominated environment experts who represent the public interest and ensure transparency in the functioning of the board. Sunita Narain, director-general of environment NGO Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) and Vimlendu Jha, executive director of NGO Swechha, were nominated as the two independent expert members for a tenure of two years, which ended last March. But since new independent experts are yet to be nominated, the board will meet on September 18, minus the two experts. Officials privy to the RMB’s workings, said both Narain and Jha have been asked to attend the meeting as ‘special invitees’, but they refused on the grounds that the board needs to be reconstituted before any meeting can be scheduled. They also confirmed that since Narain and Jha are not “nominated members” anymore, their opinions will not be binding on the board. “The board technically has not been complete since March 2019. Both these experts have been invited as special guests and they can give their suggestions only as experts, but the board will be under no obligation to follow them. However, if they were attending as members, their votes could have swayed the fate of the projects discussed,” a senior government official, who did not wish to be identified, said. The list of projects to be discussed includes permissions for the 22km Tughlakabad-Aerocity corridor of the Delhi Metro’s Phase 4, which has proposed four stations on Ridge land. The meeting agenda will also look into the proposal for the Delhi-Alwar corridor of the Regional Rapid Transit System, which will cross the Ridge area. The meeting agenda also includes proposals for the construction of the campus of Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, two skill centres and a new laboratory complex, all abutting the Ridge. Documents accessed by Hindustan Times show that tenure of the last RMB expired last March , after which the board was not reconstituted. A senior official from the forest department, without wanting to be named, confirmed that a request for the reconstitution of the board was sent to the Delhi environment minister’s office in November 2018, but the proposal is still awaiting a clearance. “The proposal to renominate Narain and Jha was sent from our end but the file is pending approval,” the official said. Responding to HT’s query, environment minister Gopal Rai’s office Tuesday said “the file, with the names of the expert members, is in the process of being cleared”. While both Narain and Jha refused to comment on the matter, Narain confirmed that she had written to the Delhi government that she will only attend the RMB meeting once the board has been reconstituted. Environment activist Ravi Agarwal, a former member of the RMB for over 12 years, said the board was constituted to ensure that decisions taken by government agencies were transparent. “It is illegal to have meetings of the RMB without all members present. The whole idea behind the board was to ensure public scrutiny, and independent members made that possible. Without them, the board is just an internal group headed by the chief secretary. Which junior official will ever go against the CS’s decision?” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-ridge-board-to-rule-on-projects-without-independent-members/story-0EridLCfOQ8UPuNJcQhvOP.html
16-09-2020||Gurugram||Sohna road project: Work on ground level to resume this week, says NHAI||The work on Sohna road project, which was suspended after an elevated section collapsed span on August 22, will be restarted in stretches at the ground level within the week, said National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials on Tuesday. However, the elevated section work would resume only after a report is received from a five-member high-level technical committee that is probing the incident. A report by an independent engineer on the measures taken to improve the safety and to reduce vulnerability has, meanwhile, been submitted to the authority, NHAI officials added.Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, said that seamless barricading and grilles have been installed and marshalls deployed for traffic management at the ground level work. This, he said, could be started in the next two to three days. “The report on the safety measures and related issues by the independent engineer is being studied. The work on stretches at ground level where no major construction is taking place and spans are not being launched can be allowed to resume in next two to three days,” he said. The elevated sections of the project, Mittal said would begin only after they have studied the high-level committee report on the incident in which spans between pier 10 And pier 11 near Vipul Greens condominium collapsed. Mittal did not clarify by when the report was expected.The five-member technical committee has directed for testing the strength of concrete being used for construction of spans from a private laboratory. It has also sought the details of statement used for launching the spans at the project site. The 21.66 km-long Sohna road project is being constructed in two packages. The first part comprises an underpass and an elevated road from Subash Chowk towards Badshahpur covering 6 km. The section that collapsed was a part of the first package. The second part comprises the expansion of 12.72-km road from Badshahpur to Sohna and involves construction of flyovers and underpasses at major crossings to ensure smooth movement of vehicles on the entire stretch. The deadline for both these projects is July, 2021.A senior official of Oriental Structures Ltd, the contractor for the project said that they have taken all safety related measures recommended by NHAI. “The independent engineer has already submitted the report and we are expecting the project director to hold an inspection on Wednesday after which the work could be allowed to be restarted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sohna-road-project-work-on-ground-level-to-resume-this-week-says-nhai/story-alWiqQvxnOMpCpQMZmygBI.html
16-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana: Districts asked to ramp up Covid-19 facilities||As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to spike, the state health department on Tuesday asked all districts to ramp up facilities for management of the pandemic. Gurugram on Monday reported 324 new cases, taking the total count of coronavirus patients in in Gurugram to 15,909. With this, the number of active cases has also reached 2439, almost 15.33% of the total cases.“Special focus is on Covid-19 bed management. Due to an increase in the number of cases, hospitalisation has been increasing. Besides hospitals, all private medical colleges have also been asked to ramp up the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients,” said Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer. He said that dedicated Covid-19 hospital — Medeor — in Manesar for seriously ill patients will also make its 120 beds fully functional in the coming weeks. On Monday, the district administration directed all private hospitals to increase Covid-19 bed capacity from 25% to 35%. Currently, 200 patients are hospitalised in 40 hospitals of the city, while 2203 are under home isolation and 36 in dedicated Covid-19 isolation facilities set up by the district administration. To ensure that hospitals have facilities to handle Covid-19 patients, the district health department has been asked to ensure adequate oxygen availability in all healthcare set up, along with unrestricted intra as well as inter-state movement of oxygen cylinders. “Gurugram is not facing any problem related to oxygen availability at present,” said Yadav Also, two deaths were confirmed on Tuesday, taking the toll to 151. Of these, 106 are deaths due to co-morbidities and 45 without co-morbidity. “Although the mortality rate of the district is 0.94%, the state has directed to keep a check on it,” said Yadav. In September alone, 18 deaths have been reported, more than the August’s count of 10. At the state level too, the total number of fatalities have reached 1026. The current fatality rate of the state is 1.04%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-districts-asked-to-ramp-up-covid-19-facilities/story-wmpKE6gBaVuMaNNL9zR2hK.html
16-09-2020||City||As Covid-19 cases rise, Rohtak’s PGIMS engaged to test samples from Gurugram||Gurugram: As the number of Covid-19 cases rise in the district, about 500 samples for confirmatory reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are now being sent every day to a government lab at PGIMS, Rohtak. According to officials, the health department collects an average of 1,700 samples per day for RT-PCR testing, but has the capacity to test only about 1,200 of those samples in a day at the Civil Hospital in Gurugram, which has necessitated outsourcing some of the tests.“Naturally, increasing number of cases has put a strain on our ability to test and we have to send some samples elsewhere. Gurugram is still processing more samples each day than any other district in Haryana. A vehicle is sent to Rohtak every day after sample collection. The vials are stored in an ice box to maintain the integrity of the swab and a lab technician is present in the vehicle, as was done earlier when we did not have testing facilities here,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.Data from the health department’s daily bulletin also shows an increased backlog of tests awaiting lab results, which stood at 3,382 samples on Tuesday (up from 3,288 samples on Monday). However, an official clarified that about 1,600 of these samples included swabs collected for RT-PCR tests on the same day itself. “The actual backlog is much lesser, though still a bit higher than it used to be,” said a senior lab technician with the health department, who is also tasked with transporting samples to Rohtak.The health officials also said they are considering sending some samples to be tested at private labs, to expand the district’s capacity to 5,000 tests per day, with a focus on RT-PCR tests, which are considered the gold standard in diagnostic testing for Covid-19. For the past two days, the district has been conducting about 4,000 tests per day.“With an increasing number of cases, the focus needs to be on RT-PCR. Rapid antigen tests are the quickest way to isolate, but many people are coming in with flu symptoms and they will need to be retested in any case. So, the plan is to maintain a higher number of RT-PCR tests. We may use the private labs’ surplus capacity to test our own samples if necessary,” said Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram.However, the health department officials did not mention any plan to boost the existing testing infrastructure, by procuring more RT-PCR machines or newer generation RT-PCR kits, which produce results in about three hours. “At the moment, we have enough capacity to conduct RT-PCR tests. When the need comes, then of course the necessary equipment will be procured,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-19-cases-rise-rohtak-s-pgims-engaged-to-test-samples-from-gurugram/story-Wb81ZYT4d7u7JXzX1ra1YI.html
16-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram decides to curtail polio drive as staff battle with Covid||With most health care workers engaged in Covid-19 duty, the Gurugram health department has decided to limit the pulse polio immunisation drive to only areas where the inoculation is most needed. Polio is a highly infectious viral disease that can cause paralysis and affects mostly children under five years. It is mostly spread through unhygienic practices. The pulse polio immunization usually involves setting up booths and house visits by around 15,000 health care workers in the districts. But with the pandemic, around 13,000 workers are engaged in surveillance and testing for the coronavirus disease Covid-19.Health officials said that, this time, only 2500 health care workers will be involved in the pulse polio drive to innoculate 77,000 children in high-risk areas from September 20 to 22. “In the pre-coronavirus time, at least 350,000 children were covered, which has been reduced to 77,000 kids as most of the healthcare workers who are deployed for pulse polio drive are already involved in the surveillance and monitoring of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr. Naresh Kumar Garg, Gurugram deputy civil surgeon, who is also the nodal officer for polio immunisation.Although there have been no cases of polio reported in the district since 2010 in the state, unhygienic practices remain a concern.“Gurugram is among the 13 high-risk districts of Haryana. It is, therefore, crucial to conduct polio immunization drive. It cannot be held back due to the pandemic,” said Garg. Recently, Uttar Pradesh government postponed its pulse polio vaccination drive citing the Covid-19 pandemic and that its accredited social health activist (ASHA), auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and other health workers were currently exposed to Covid-19 patients. In April, the Union ministry of health and family welfare had issued guidelines on resuming non-Covid essential services, including polio immunisation. Even the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended that those at risk have to be prioritized while catching up with the vaccination if services are suspended.Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer, said, “At least 425 high-risk locations have been identified where pulse polio booths will be set up. Since staff is limited, the department has approached the deputy commissioner to get assistance from non-government organisations (NGOs) with volunteers. In these polio high-risk areas, Covid-19 test will also continue with the help of different teams. Covid-19 testing will not be affected.” High-risk zones have been identified under each Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC). These are mostly slum areas or small colonies inhabited by migrant population. “Like in Pataudi, there are 80 booths and 70 in Badshahpur since these area are largely dominated by migrant population,” said Garg. The vaccination drive will continue for three days. On September 20, booth activity will take place, while on the second day, health care workers will do house-to-house visit to give polio drops to infants and children till five years of age. On the last day, September 22, children, who could not be reached out on the first two days, will be covered. According to Dr. Garg, health care workers will be tested for Covid-19 before the vaccination drive. “They will be equipped with masks and sanitisers. They will not touch the kid as parents will be asked to open the child’s mouth and the vaccine will be dropped from a distance by the health worker taking safety measure,” said he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-decides-to-curtail-polio-drive-as-staff-battle-with-covid/story-A8ex2TXKPwA2Lpu6OS6qpN.html
16-09-2020||Education||St Stephen’s cut-off out, 99.25% needed for Eco (hons)||Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College on Tuesday released its first cut-off for ten undergraduate courses with the highest being 99.25% for applicants for BA Economics (Hons). This is a marginal increase of 0.50 percentage points from last year when the highest cut-off was set at 98.75% for students from commerce background opting for BA Economics (Hons).The college has also issued a caveat that for admission in Economics (Hons) students need to score 95% or above in Mathematics. Last year, it was 90%.Most of the other courses have also seen an increase of 0.25 to one percentage point in the cut-offs. At 99%, the cut-off for BA English (Hons) has gone up by 0.25 percentage points from last year. Students hoping to get admission in the course must also score more than 90% in English Core or 85% in English elective.Applicants from commerce and science backgrounds, who want to get admission in BA History (Hons) also need to score 99% or above in order to be eligible for the course. For Philosophy (Hons), the cut-off stands at 98% this year for students from Commerce background and 98.75% and 97% for students from Humanities and Science streams.For the BA programme too, the cut-offs have increased by a percentage point at 99% for students from Commerce and Science streams. For Humanities students, the cut-off has seen been set at 98%. The lowest cut-off, like last year, is for Sanskrit (Hons) at 70%.The cut-off for BSc Physics (Hons) has also been increased from 96.66% last year to 97.66% this year. For Chemistry (Hons) too, the cut-offs have increased from 96.33% last year to 96.67% this year. For Mathematics (Hons), applicants from Science and Commerce streams must score 98% and above in the subject to be eligible for admission.The college will begin conducting interviews for various subjects since there will be no written test this year. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the college had earlier announced that it would conduct online interviews of the applicants.St Stephen’s College, being a religious minority institution, fixes its own admission process and reserves 50% seats for Christian students. After releasing cut-offs for undergraduate courses, the college conducts tests and interviews, which together have a weightage of 15 marks. The remaining 85 marks are decided on the performance of candidates in their Class 12 exams. However, this year, the entire 15 marks will be given on the basis of the interview.While St Stephen’s College principal John Verghese did not respond to calls, Hindu College principal Anju Shrivastava said, “I don’t foresee any decrease in the first cut-offs compared to last year. This is based on the data that we have seen in media reports so far. If Stephen’s has also kept cut-offs on the higher side, it is likely that the numbers will remain similar or higher than last year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/st-stephen-s-cut-off-out-99-25-needed-for-eco-hons/story-4062L4BYnCAIO8uE2er1sN.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro launches first indigenous signal system||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday took a major step towards development of an indigenously-built communication-based train control with the launch of i-ATS — the first Made-in-India signalling system.The ATS (or Automatic Train Supervision) is a computer-based system, which manages train operations, including basic functioning such as running and halting. The i-ATS will significantly reduce the dependence of Indian Metros on foreign vendors dealing with such technologies, officials said. The prototype,as well as a state of the art laboratory for further development of the technology, was inaugurated on Tuesday at the Metro’s Shastri Park depot by Union housing and urban affairs secretary, Durga Shanker Mishra, amid the presence of DMRC managing director Mangu Singh, Bharat Electronics Ltd director Shikha Gupta, and other senior officials from DMRC and BEL.  Some of the important features of this technology are that it can work with train control and signalling systems of different suppliers, which ensures that in case of a snag, the operators will not have to depend on foreign manufacturers. The i-ATS can also work with different levels of technology of train control and signalling systems. Mishra said, “It is a really proud occasion to start something like this which is going to add strength to our Aatma Nirbhar Bharat initiative.” Mangu Singh said that the new technology was a step forward towards the development of indigenous systems required in operation of Metro railways. “I am sure that we will be able to work together and scale newer heights to completely indigenise Metro railway construction as well as operations,” he said. Technology systems such as the CBTC, which are also currently in use in the Delhi Metro corridors, are primarily controlled by the European countries and Japan. As part of the government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had decided to indigenise the CBTC technology. DMRC has decided to use indigenous ATS (i-ATS) while upgrading the ATS of line 1 (Red Line) i.e. from Rithala to Shaheed Sthal, Ghaziabad. The same shall also be used in all of the upcoming corridors in phase-four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/metro-launches-first-indigenous-signal-system/story-uhlhq1AxqooHdyfOESCZNL.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Stop using banned Chinese apps for legal work: Circular to all officials in Delhi courts||A circular has been issued to all officials of the district courts in Delhi, directing them to immediately stop the use of banned Chinese applications such as CamScanner in uploading documents on the court website.CamScanner was among the 106 apps with links to China that were banned by the Union government for being “prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of the country”.The circular, issued on September 10 under the directions of the principal district and sessions judge, also directed officials dealing with the website of the Delhi District Court to find all uploaded documents that give the impression of having been scanned using Chinese apps. All such files are to be uploaded again using a different app or cropped so as to remove the app watermark.Since the nationwide lockdown in March, Delhi courts have been hearing cases virtually via video conferencing. That required lawyers and officials to scan all pertinent documents and email them to the parties and the judge concerned.The circular also noted that some officials are forwarding copies of circulars, bail orders, daily orders etc after scanning them on Chinese apps, which is in violation of the Centre’s directions.“It has also been noticed that some circulars and orders have already been updated on the official website after being scanned on banned Chinese applications,” it read.In August, a Delhi court had asked a lawyer to avoid the use of banned app CamScanner in legal work. Additional sessions judge Sunil Chaudhary said the bail application, filed by advocate Praveen Chaudhary, was scanned using CamScanner.“This is an application for grant of bail as received through mail. The application as filed is scanned using CamScanner which has been banned by the Government of India. The counsel is advised to avoid using banned apps for legal work in the future,” the court said on August 5.On June 29, the IT ministry, while banning 59 mobile apps, had cited numerous complaints from various quarters, including reports about misuse of some apps for allegedly “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting user data in an unauthorised manner to servers located outside India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/stop-using-banned-chinese-apps-for-legal-work-says-circular-to-all-officials-in-delhi-courts/story-evY5Kur1RlUrQj3TqqeOGM.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||36 succumb to Covid-19 in Delhi, highest in 60 days||Delhi reported 36 deaths due to coronavirus disease on Tuesday, the highest in over 60 days. Of the 36 deaths, 33 happened on Monday and three on Sunday, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Despite the increase in the absolute number of deaths, the case fatality ratio (CFR) – fraction of people who die among those who test positive – has been on the decline. The cumulative CFR of Delhi since March 2, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in the city, stands at 2.13% so far. However, Delhi’s CFR over the last seven days stands at just 0.65%, meaning most of the deaths in the city were recorded during the surge in cases in June. The number of hospitalisations also saw a record high of 6,658, according to Tuesday’s health bulletin. The highest number of hospitalisations on any given day was just over 6,200 during the surge in cases in June. “The number of deaths are unlikely to shoot up this time as all the treatment protocols have been standardised,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital. About 101 deaths had been recorded in a single day during the previous surge in cases, according to data provided by the CM office.Also read| Covid-19: Concerns over antigen test strategy after Delhi assembly scareAfter a dip on Sunday, Delhi conducted over 62,000 tests for Covid-19, the highest number of tests conducted in a day so far. The city recorded 4,263 new cases – similar to the numbers previously recorded – even with the high number of tests. Of the total tests, only 16.5% were conducted using the more accurate RT-PCR test. The other rapid antigen test is known to throw false negatives. This resulted in a drop in the positivity rate – fraction of people who test positive among those tested – to 6.8%, according to Tuesday’s daily health bulletin. This is the first time the positivity rate has dipped below 7% since third week of August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/36-succumb-to-covid-in-delhi-highest-in-60-days/story-IGpVwaEmkPrIGWAO9mbiQN.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Three held for killing man, dumping his body on street||A 24-year-old woman, along with her sibling and a friend — both of whom are transgender persons, according to the police — were arrested Monday for allegedly killing a man and dumping his body on a street near the man’s home in north Delhi’s Wazirabad five days ago, the police said. The man worked with a weekly newspaper in north-east Delhi. The man’s body was found near the stairs of a house by its occupants around 8am on September 11. By afternoon, police had identified the body as that of Sahil, 23, after circulating his photographs on local WhatsApp groups. The man’s mother saw the pictures and identified the body, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse. After finding strangulation marks on the body, the police registered a murder case and scanned CCTV footage in which three women were seen dumping the body after bringing it in an auto. “We focused our probe on the auto-rickshaw. After minutely scanning the footage, we found “Ansul Ki Gaddi” written on the rear of the auto. We examined nearly 200 autos and finally found the driver who had dropped the women along with the body,” said an investigator. His questioning led them to a hospital and from there to the suspects, police said. A senior police officer said Sahil’s friend Priya and two trans women assaulted and strangled him at their home in Shastri Park during a fight that started when he began making sexual advances at Priya in front of the other two after consuming alcohol on the night of September 10. “When she tried to stop his advances, Sahil burnt her with a cigarette. The three of them got angry over this and a fight broke out. The trio then throttled him to death with his belt,” said a senior police officer associated with the murder case. DCP Alphonse said the trio panicked and decided to take Sahil to a hospital. They hired an auto-rickshaw and reached Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital. But they did not go in for fear of being arrested. They hired another auto-rickshaw and told the driver that the “unconscious man” was their relative and they wanted to take him home as the doctors told them his chances of survival were minimal, police said. The three took Sahil’s body into a lane some 100 metres away from his home. After the driver left, the trio dumped Sahil’s body near the stairs of a house and fled. When the police found the auto driver, he told them he didn’t know that it was a body he was transporting. The police scanned the footage from hospital and found the women in it. “We showed their images to Sahil’s family and they identified one of them as his girlfriend. A police team searched her home but found her and her two relatives missing. We traced them to their village in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-two-transgenders-held-for-killing-man-dumping-his-body-on-street/story-0w5g6Xx73tLzvu5xRmz9nI.html
16-09-2020||City||45-year-old in judicial custody for allegedly beating up, molesting minor daughter in Pune||PUNE: A 45-year-old man was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for allegedly molesting his minor daughter and beating her up for asking him to pay for her education. The man was remanded to judicial custody by a local court on Tuesday. The girl was visiting her father at his office space in Pimpri area at 12 noon when they got into a fight, according to the complaint lodged by her. The girl told the police that she went to the office with her mother to ask him to pay for her education, according to her complaint. “She is a 16-year-old and has entered Class 10 at school, she told us. The father works in the administration department of a construction company. The complainant’s parents are separated and he did not wish to pay for her school,” said sub-inspector Amol Kamthe of Pimpri police station who is investigating the case. After the fight turned physical, the man started slapping and hitting the girl and, in the process, broke open a button on her shirt and touched her inappropriately, according to the girl’s complaint. He also allegedly abused her mother and said he would come to her workplace and jeopardise her job, according to the police. A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCOS) Act was registered at Pimpri police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-year-old-in-judicial-custody-for-allegedly-beating-up-molesting-minor-daughter-in-pune/story-kQTPITOd84daCdoY99PlRJ.html
16-09-2020||Pune||Over 36,000 RTE seats remain vacant in Maharashtra||Pune: The Right to Education (RTE) admissions are still on in the state and Tuesday (September 15) was the last day to complete the admission procedure for students selected for this year’s admissions. One of the reasons behind parents unable to complete the admission process was the arrangement and submission of necessary documents in time due to the lockdown and other issues during the Covid period. As on September 15, out of the total 100,926 seats selected for the RTE admissions, 64,311 students have confirmed the admission. While 36,615 students have been unable to complete the admission process and so their admissions were not confirmed. The RTE admission process was delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the 9,331 RTE registered schools in the state for this year, 115,460 RTE vacancies were available. For this, 291,368 applications were received and 100,926 students were selected. In Pune district, at the 972 RTE registered schools for this year, 16,949 RTE vacancies were available. A total of 62,919 applications were received and 16,617 students were selected. As on September 15, 10,419 students have confirmed the admission. “We have got the RTE selection for my son in Class 1, but as we were unable to get all the necessary documents, still the admission procedure is not completed. The authorities should extend the deadline by at least a month so that parents who are unable to get necessary documents can do so. With many schools yet to open citing coronavirus restrictions, we are unable to contact the school administration and cite our case.” said Ramesh Jadhav, a parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-36-000-rte-seats-remain-vacant-in-the-state/story-Srfg8kX8pvyj0N6rcJAaWL.html
16-09-2020||Pune||Nashik farmers protest Centre’s ban on onion exports||PUNE: The Centre’s decision to ban export of onion has angered farmers and traders from Nashik and other districts in western Maharashtra with growers resorting to agitation at Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs). According to Suvarna Jagtap, chairman, Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee, the rates of the commodity came down at Lasalgaon, home to among the largest onion markets in the country, as farmers and traders held protest on Tuesday. “Before the export ban circular, the average rate in the Lasalgaon APMC was Rs 2,500 per quintal. After the Centre’s decision, rates have crashed to Rs 500 per quintal. The farmers and traders have warned that the market will remain closed on Wednesday if the central government does not withdraw the decision,” said Jagtap. Protests were also held in other parts of Maharashtra, including Mungse, Pimpalgaon, Nampur and Umrane markets along with Pandharpur in Solapur where farmers stalled auctions. The onion growers from Nashik blocked the Mumbai-Agra Highway. Jagtap raised the question that if the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) had the stock of 1 lakh metric quintal, instead of export ban, they can bring these stocks in the market to control the prices. On Monday, rates were Rs 1,100 per quintal on the minimum side and Rs 3,209 on the higher end with Rs 2,950 as an average. However, the decision to ban exports brought down the price to Rs 2,700 per quintal hours later. The Union government on Monday banned the export of all varieties of onions with immediate effect, a move aimed at increasing availability and checking price of the commodity in the domestic market. The decision invited sharp political reactions with the Congress and the NCP, demanding withdrawal of ban. Maharashtra Congress unit chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “Just as onions had started getting a good price, Modi government has suddenly banned exports, which is injustice to the farmers. The ban should be immediately reversed. Against this unjust decision taken by the central government, Congress party will on Wednesday, September 16, hold statewide protest.” NCP chief and former Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar met Commerce minister Piyush Goyal in Delhi. “The central government has abruptly announced a ban on #onionexports. This has led to strong reactions from the onion growing belt in Maharashtra & therefore the representatives of various political parties contacted & requested me to convey their demands to Central Government. To address this issue, I met Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Shri. Piyush Goyal (@PiyushGoyal) today and apprised him of the plight of onion growers. I pointed out to him that these onion growers are mainly small land holders and Jirait farmers,” Pawar said in series of tweets. Nampur APMC chairman in Nashik district Sanjay Bhamare who is also Bharatiya Janata Party’s Nashik district vice-president said, “Farmers and traders did the agitations on Tuesday. After the central government’s decision on Monday, despite the auction, traders rejected the purchase of the onion. It happened to almost all the APMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nashik-farmers-protest-centre-s-ban-on-onion-exports/story-cCu9NUBsMkY6cLUalnNiKI.html
16-09-2020||Pune||Space, cyberspace and UNSC seat: France ticks all the boxes for India||Besides defence and anti-terrorism, cyberspace and military co-operation are the major focus areas between India and France, Emmanuel Lenain, ambassador of France, said on Tuesday. Post-induction of the Rafale aircraft into the Indian Air Force, the ambassador said that strong strategic cooperation, military to military, exist between the two nations and areas like space cooperation, launching a satellite for climate observations, for example, will be a part of the future partnership strategy for the two nations. Lenain was speaking, via video-conference, on ‘Strategic Autonomy: A driver of French–Indian relations in the times of changing geopolitics’, at the launch of the ‘Ambassador Speaks’ series by the Pune International Centre. Referring to the emerging global security landscape, Lenain said, “This year has been an eye opener for Europe. The world is becoming dangerous and the world has powers that do not want to play by the rules. We consider India as positive and trust it for exemplary dependency. France will support India’s bid for a permanent seat at the United Nations.” Lenain said that both, France and India, have a strong bilateral relationship and the Covid crisis, which he called a “medical emergency”, has seen both nations do their level best to mitigate the crisis. As to a post-Covid world, Lenain said “The world will be a challenging place laced with unprecedented consequences. The crisis has exacerbated the problems further. Biodiversity, global terrorism, cyber threats are faced by the world and there is a need for corrective action. “During the pandemic situation, more cooperation is needed. A global strategy is needed to tackle emerging health issues and subsequent crises.” Former foreign secretary, Vijay Gokhale, chaired the session, while director general of the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), Prashant Girbane moderated the question-answer session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/launching-satellite-for-climate-observations-part-of-india-france-future-plans-lenain/story-4wMQBFmrEzY6ynNgabFyWI.html
16-09-2020||Pune||SPPU appoints district, and subject-wise, coordinators for final year exams||Pune: In a bid to ensure its final-year examinations run smoothly, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has appointed coordinators, subject-wise and district-wise, to conduct the exams. The exams will be held between October 1 and October 30, in both online and offline formats. Practical exams will begin on September 15 and end on September 25. SPPU has also released guidelines about the practical and oral exams. “To help students of all three districts - Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar - where colleges are affiliated with the SPPU, we have appointed district-wise coordinators. Also, subject-wise coordinators are being appointed by the SPPU, so that during the exams, students and faculty will have help,” said vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. “Eighty-five per cent of students have picked online exams as their preference. For the rest, offline exams will be held where we will follow guidelines of the UGC and the health ministry, for safety of students. If students do not appear this time, re-exams will be held later in the year. For online, two practice tests will be conducted for students,” added Prof Karmalkar. Exams for backlog students will be held between October 1 and October 9. For regular students, exams will begin on October 10. Papers will be of multiple choice questions (MCQ) worth 50 marks, to be completed in an hour’s duration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-appoints-district-and-subject-wise-coordinators-for-final-year-exams/story-i7JNpCamhNfVTbWDKO0y2M.html
16-09-2020||Delhi||Auto driver, phone repairman arrested for robberies in Delhi||Delhi police have arrested an autorickshaw driver and a mobile phone repairman for their alleged involvement in more than 15 recent robberies in Delhi and recovered two countrymade pistols from them.Police identified the two men as 28-year-old Mursleen alias Sameer Faheem and his associate Irshad, 32. While Faheem used to drive an autorickshaw before he took to crime, Irshad worked at a mobile repair shop. Police said Faheem has admitted his involvement in at least 15 cases of robbery and snatching. Irshad is involved in more than 20 previous cases.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said on September 11 his team got information that a man wanted in several cases of robbery and snatching would come to meet his associate near Nanaksar Gurudwara.“Around 3.50 pm when the suspect was spotted, he was intercepted and overpowered. A countrymade gun with two live cartridges was recovered from him and he was identified as Faheem. He was arrested,” the DCP said. During interrogation, Faheem said he had procured the weapon from one Jameel, who is a distant relative of his friend Irshad. “He said he is involved in many cases of robberies and snatching in Delhi along with his associates Sariq, Irshad and Mukul. As Sariq and Mukul had already been arrested in Seelampur recently, on Mursleen’s information, a police team travelled to Etah in Uttar Pradesh and arrested Irshad,” the DCP said.A countrymade pistol and two live cartridges were recovered from him. Irshad allegedly told police he is involved in 12 recent cases of robbery in Delhi with his associates. With the arrest, police claimed to have solved four robbery cases, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-driver-phone-repairman-arrested-for-robberies-in-delhi/story-azFyKR3ewreMGhMgdGHuBM.html
