17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Maximum roads mishaps in 2019 due to speeding||With speeding causing 314 (56.69%) of the total 526 road mishaps in Ludhiana in 2019, and claiming 209 lives, it is the main killer on city roads last year, as per the data released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB). The data also revealed that as many as 176 people also suffered injuries in these accidents.In Punjab, 3,320 (52.56%) out of the 6,316 road mishaps were caused by speeding, and 2,487 people lost their lives in these accidents.Careless driving and overtaking was the second biggest reason behind road mishaps in Ludhiana in 2019, causing 152 accidents in which 104 lives were snuffed out and 88 suffered injuries. Driving under the influence of liquor or drugs caused nine accidents and claimed one life.Two commuters lost their lives in two road mishaps as the person behind the wheel was fatigued. Defect in the vehicle caused one accident in which one person died.Stray cattle on the road, weather conditions and lack of road infrastructure caused five accidents each and vehicles parked on road shoulders claimed eight lives in eight accidents. As many as 23 mishaps were caused by other reasons while in two, the cause is not known.Dr Kamal Soi, member of the national road safety council, said that authorities concerned are not taking road mishaps seriously and they should identify the cause and work to rectify it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-maximum-roads-mishaps-in-2019-due-to-speeding/story-ILzARCHQdz3xzptFKPtmtJ.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CET registrations for engineering surge to 5.3 lakh from 4.1 lakh in 2019||Registrations for the state common entrance test (MH-CET) exam for engineering courses surged by more than 1 lakh aspirants this year as compared to 2019. Official records shared by the state CET cell revealed that 5.32 lakh aspirants registered for the exam this year as compared to.13 lakh students who had registered for the exam in 2019. The registrations in 2018 stood at 4.35 lakh. The exam, which was originally scheduled to take place between May and June, will now be conducted between October 1 and 20 owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The rise in registrations could be attributed to the delay in conducting entrance exams for professional courses or the central authorities directing institutes to introduce newer branches such as artificial intelligence (AI) and blockchain for engineering courses. “Last year, we witnessed one of the lowest registrations for a number of reasons, including the fact that the exam went from a pen-and-paper test to an online-format, which discouraged several aspirants. This year, the registration numbers reiterate the fact that engineering is still in demand among the youth,” said an official from the state CET cell. “While civil and mechanical engineering branches are witnessing a drop in student applications, the introduction of new dimensions such as AI, data science and analytics, as well as robotics, by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) could be one big reason for the revival of engineering degrees among the youth. We, however, need to wait and find out if all those who registered for the test will appear for the exam,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra. While registrations for this exam had ended in March, the ambiguity on the date of examination had left many students worried. Recently, state minister of higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that MH-CET exam will be conducted in October, and therefore, the registration process was reopened for interested candidates for a couple of days earlier this month. Every year, a large number of engineering aspirants who opt for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) also apply for MH-CET and choose to give the exam depending on their JEE score. While this too could be attributed to the sudden spike in registrations for the state entrance exam, experts feel that the opening of new-age branches of engineering could be another reason behind so many students getting attracted to engineering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cet-registrations-for-engineering-surge-to-5-3-lakh-from-4-1-lakh-in-2019/story-5ko1GzDg16TSPivTte6F3J.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees sharpest 1-day Covid case spike; Maharashtra tally now 1,145,840||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its second-highest single-day spike of 24,619 cases, the 11th day of more than 20,000 fresh infections, taking the count to 1,145,840. Mumbai, for a second consecutive day, recorded its sharpest single-day spike of 2,411 cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city has reached 178,385, of which 32,959 are , active cases.Since the beginning of this month, the city has witnessed a rise in daily Covid-19 cases with record-breaking single-day spikes being reported every other day, in line with the civic body’s anticipation of a spike in cases post Ganeshotsav. Last time the city recorded a relatively lower single-day spike was on August 24 with 703 cases.On Thursday, the state also crossed the 31,000 mark for Covid-19 casualties after 398 more deaths were reported, taking its tally to 31,351. The highest toll in a day was also reported at 515 on September 15.The high number of casualties continues to be a concern for state authorities as it is still the highest in the country. Figures showed that the state’s contribution in total Covid casualties is around 37.68%, with 83,198 deaths reported across the country. In Mumbai, 43 deaths were reported, which took its toll to 8,323. The case fatality rate (CFR) is 4.6% and the recovery rate stands at 77%. The daily Covid-19 infection in the state is constantly on the rise, which has concerned state authorities. The surge has led to a rise in active cases as well, which has crossed the 3 lakh mark, as the tally rose to 301,752 cases. It comes to 26.33% of the total cases reported so far.It took the state only 15 days to complete 300,000 active cases as the 200,000 mark was breached on September 2. It took 51 days to complete 200,000 active cases and 126 days for the 100,000 cases. The first Covid-19 case was detected on March 9.The state has recorded over 353,227 cases in 17 days of this month and its average per day cases comes to 22,778. The reason behind the surge is that the state is getting a significant number of cases from rural areas.The rise in cases has also brought additional burden on the health infrastructure, which has left local authorities struggling. The issue was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.“It has been observed that the pandemic is spreading fast in rural areas, which is worrisome as we don’t have adequate infrastructure to deal with the situation. Currently, there is a shortage of oxygen beds in the rural areas. The cabinet has directed the health department to augment the infrastructure as well as install jumbo tanks and supply of big cylinders to ensure sufficient number of oxygen beds are available wherever required,” said a senior minister, requesting not to be named.“We are also arranging ambulances for Covid patients from remote areas so that they can be moved to the nearest tehsil places where oxygen beds have been made available,” he added.Three months ago when the state started relaxing lockdown restrictions in phases on June 3 under ‘Mission Begin Again’, most of the cases used to come from urban areas, but the scenario has changed with free movement of people.Till June 3, the contribution of all the 34 districts in the total cases 6,165 cases (8.23% of the total cases), which has been increased to 392,002 cases that comes to 34.21% of the total cases) on September 17. Besides, the major hotspots from rural areas are Pune district, Satara district, Ahmednagar district, Sangli district, Raigad district, Solapur district and Jalgaon district, where fresh cases recorded were 1,712; 774; 626; 552; 522; 514 and 506 respectively.The state government has also set a target to increase daily Covid testing to 1.5 lakh a day from the current average of over 90,000 tests per day. “We want to increase testing to 1.5 lakh per day. The aim is to cover maximum people and break the chain and thus it can be observed that daily testing figures are increasing,” said a senior official from the health department.On Thursday, it has conducted a record 98,614 tests and the total number of tests conducted till date are 5,604,890. The number of average tests in the past week is 90,047 a day.State to appoint over 1,200 PG med students To deal with shortage of doctors in the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government decided to appoint over 1,200 super-speciality and post graduate medical students on bond service. The decision was taken by the state medical education department on Thursday.The medical students will join government as well as BMC hospitals for a period of one year and will also be remunerated up to Rs1 lakh a month.Amit Deshmukh, state medical education minister, said that 1,204 medical students from super-speciality and post-graduate courses will be appointed at the government, medical colleges and affiliated hospitals.Of them, 385 will be appointed assistant professors at government medical colleges, 178 as assistant professors at BMC run medical colleges, 282 as expert officers at civic hospitals and the rest 359 will be appointed at dedicated Covid hospital and dedicated Covid health centres, the minister informed.This year, a total of 1,648 students have appeared for super-speciality and post graduate medical courses and 1,204 will be selected for bond service from the ones who will clear the examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-sharpest-1-day-covid-case-spike-maharashtra-tally-now-1-145-840/story-AWiuvDU58TXiSxzTQeCfPJ.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Navrati to New Year’s: Festive period may add to rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra||As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise, the state and city administration fear a further spike, with the upcoming festive season that stretches from October-December. The nine-day navratri festival, which is celebrated with much galore in the city, begins from October 17, followed by Diwali, another major festival that begins from November 14, followed by Christmas and New Year celebrations.Apart from increase in testing and more relaxations with the state’s Mission Begin Again campaign, social interactions during the Ganesh Chaturthi festival is also being considered as one of the reasons for a spike in cases in the city and state. The average daily Covid-19 cases shot up after Ganesh Chaturthi from nearly a 1,000 cases in August to 1,800+ cases in the first week of September. Since September 5, cases are being reported in the range of 1,800-2,300 almost daily. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded its single-highest spike of 2,378 cases in a day.In Maharashtra, between August 20 and 31, around 10,000-15,000 cases were being recorded daily, which has increased to 20,000+ cases almost daily since September 5. On Wednesday, the state crossed 1.1 million cases.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state-appointed Covid-19 task force, said, “I agree that the risk is higher with the upcoming festival season. However, it is time citizens start taking the onus and adjust to the new normal. People are still not getting tested immediately after developing symptoms owing to the stigma attached to the infection.”He further said, “There is also lack of cooperation from citizens when it comes to wearing masks. The government is only going to bring in more relaxations hereafter. It is for the citizens to bring in behavioural changes while dealing with a pandemic.”Navratri event organisers HT spoke to said that while they are waiting for the state government to issue guidelines, they are sure of not celebrating the festival this year. Some, however, think the state may allow people to celebrate, however, with reasonable restrictions.“Navratri is largely about garba and dandiya, which is impossible with social distancing norms. So it is clear that there will be no celebrations this year,” said Neil Somaiya, BJP corporator from Mulund, who has been organising a navrarti event at Mulund (East) for the past few years.Pravin Chheda, who has been organising dandiya nights since 25 years in Ghatkopar, said, “Even Ganesh Chaturthi was not celebrated the way it usually is. How can navratri be celebrated without social gathering? The state might only allow societies to maybe do puja within the buildings.”Ajitkumar Ambi, assistant municipal commissioner of N ward, which covers Ghatkopar, and has a huge Gujarati population, said at present, cases are on the rise in many areas of the ward namely Pant Nagar and Rajawadi. “Ideally, celebrations should not be allowed as the number of cases is increasing in many pockets. But if there are demands from local representatives and citizens, then we will escalate it to higher authorities,” Ambi said. He also said a decision on whether to allow relaxations or curb the celebrations will be taken in two-three days.Meanwhile, some organisers are also considering ‘virtual navratri’ to keep up the festival spirit. Jignesh Khilani, secretary of Ghatkopar Gujarati Samaj, which hosted Falguni Pathak in 2017, said, “We are thinking on the lines of arranging virtual navratri. We are waiting for the state’s guidelines on it.”Manoj Kotak, member of Parliament from the Mumbai North-East, which has many Gujarati pockets, also said that they might consider looking at virtual dandiya nights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navrati-to-new-year-s-festive-period-may-add-to-rising-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra/story-LzpGLJFKP7PQfJxR2SXi1O.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Tenure extension of co-op society committees not political: Maharashtra government to Bombay HC||The Maharashtra government, while justifying its decision to postpone elections of managing committees of cooperative societies, extend the tenure of members and not appoint administrators as it did for gram panchayats, has said in its affidavit to the Bombay high court (HC) that allegations that the postponement was politically motivated were misplaced. The affidavit stated that while gram panchayats are democratically-elected constitutional bodies, cooperative societies are independent voluntary bodies and the state has very little power to enforce its jurisdiction on them. The state was submitting its response to a petition filed by Arun Kulkarni through advocate Satish Talekar challenged the June 17 order and the July 10 ordinance issued by the state announcing the extension of the term of the managing committees of cooperative societies. The petitioner claimed that the state had acted arbitrarily and in a biased manner when appointing administrators to the public bodies. The petition averred that because the gram panchayats were predominantly occupied by elected representatives having affiliation to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the state was quick to appoint new administrators as elections could not be held due to the Covid pandemic. It added that administrators were not appointed for cooperative societies as they were headed by the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) loyalists. The petition claimed that in light of this arbitrariness on the part of the state, which was politically motivated, the court should direct the state to set aside the June order and the July ordinance and direct the state to appoint administrators. Pursuant to the direction by the court to the state to respond to the submissions of the petitioner, the state said that while the gram panchayats were constitutional bodies to which persons were elected democratically, the posts in cooperative societies were independent and voluntary, and hence, the state did not have jurisdiction to appoint administrators to them. The state buttressed its submissions with the fact that the Cooperative Societies Act, 1960 allowed postponement of elections and hence sought the dismissal of the petition. After perusing the affidavit, the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla on Thursday directed the petitioner to file a rejoinder and posted the matter for hearing on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tenure-extension-of-co-op-society-committees-not-political-maharashtra-government-to-bombay-hc/story-WBKiJ4Y5Duu5xOUbZOqnTL.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai petrol dealers seek additional police protection after series of robberies||A petrol dealers association has written to the Mumbai Police commissioner asking for increased security at petrol pumps in the city.Citing robbery attempts at petrol pumps while they operate with limited staff due to pandemic, the Petrol Dealers Association Mumbai has asked for help from the police department, especially at night.“A case of robbery took place at a petrol pump in Jogeshwari and an unknown person took a bag of ₹50,000 from a CNG filling point. The situation is especially crucial at night between 11pm and 7am when most petrol pumps are shut or are operating with one or two staff. We request you to kindly look into the issue and increase patrolling at petrol pumps in the night,” read a statement issued by Venkat Rao, president, Petrol Dealers Association Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-petrol-dealers-seek-additional-police-protection-after-series-of-robberies/story-Gpu6k1mV4HtzvTVrh5pEaO.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Electric vehicle charging station planned at Mumbai’s CSMT||The Central Railway (CR) is planning to set up its first electric vehicle charging station near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). CR had allotted a contract for a charging station for electric vehicles at the CSMT parking area near the P D’Mello Road entrance. “The charging station will provide additional income to the railways. More charging stations will be introduced near other railway stations in the city as well,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. The zonal railway is also in the process of introducing electric bicycles and electric autorickshaws outside its railway stations in the city. The self-driven cycles for passengers will be introduced outside CSMT and Kurla railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/electric-vehicle-charging-station-planned-at-mumbai-s-csmt/story-8mhHSX4NuMk5tkYmkSNy6N.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||PU online exams: Delay at rural colleges in Ludhiana on Day 1 due to network issues||The online examination at several PU-affiliated colleges in rural areas, which was scheduled to start at 9am on Thursday, was delayed as many colleges downloaded the question paper late amid connectivity issues. This forced many colleges to give extra time to students to attempt the two-hour paper and send the answer-sheets in PDF format in the next two hours.After receiving the question papers via WhatsApp groups, many students called their teachers to know which questions to attempt. There were a total of 14 questions, of which the first six were short-answer type. The rest were long answers.Due to poor connectivity in rural areas, a large number of students reached their respective colleges to submit the hard copy of their answer-sheet.GTB College, Dakha, did not receive the question paper from the university till 9.45 am. Officiating principal, Avtar Singh, said, “We finally downloaded the question paper from PU’s website. The students were also confused after receiving the question paper and contacted teachers to know how many questions were to be attempted. Over 12 students of final-year submitted the answer-sheets to the college in an envelope as they could not upload the PDF online.”Due to connectivity problems, the authorities of government college, Karamsar, could download only 30 out of 160 answer-sheets sent by students till 4 pm.At Gobind College, Narangwal, the authorities downloaded the paper at 8.56 am instead of 8.40 am due to connectivity issues. Kuldeep Batta, district president of PCCTU, said, “Due to connectivity issues, we downloaded the question paper 16 minutes late. The university has asked students to attempt 50% of the questions of their choice, but many students contacted their course teachers to know which were to be attempted, and wasted a lot of time.” The university opted for online mode to conduct exams for final-semester students due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Many academicians have stated that the varsity should have organised physical exams or marked them on the basis of aggregate marks scored by them in previous semesters. College forcing students to submit hard copies of answer-sheets: Parents Several parents have alleged that authorities of Ramgarhia Girls College, Miller Ganj, have asked students to submit hard copy of the answer-sheet to the college after the exam. Principal Inderjeet Kaur denied the allegations and said, “Today was the first online exam and we have asked the students not to panic if they can’t send the answer-sheet in PDF format. Few parents and students submitted the hard copy of the answer-sheet to the college today as they were unable to send it online. For the next exam, we have informed the students to learn how to convert the pages of the answer- sheet into a PDF.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-online-exams-delay-at-rural-colleges-in-ludhiana-on-day-1-due-to-network-issues/story-u88PYd6VYgKSK7L0gdwj6N.html
17-09-2020||City||Badlapur man set ablaze by neighbour dies||A 25-year-old man was arrested by Badlapur rural police for immolating his 48-year-old neighbour in Vangani, over a petty fight. The attack took place on September 10, and the victim succumbed to his burn injuries on Thursday, after which the accused was arrested. According to Badlapur rural police, the incident occurred in Done village in Vangani, Ambernath taluka. The victim Chandrakant Pawar, an electrician, his wife and two daughters lived in the B wing of Vishwanath Apartments. The accused Nikhil Gurav lived in the C wing. “Pawar moved into the building six months ago. In the second week of September, his elder daughter went to the C wing to get her electricity bill from the secretary of the building. Gurav’s mother allegedly passed a few remarks on the girl’s looks, after which the daughter got into a fight with her. The matter was resolved later,” said a police officer. On September 10, Gurav got drunk and went to Pawar’s house. “He started arguing with the girl and her mother. A few members of Gurav’s family also reached the spot. As the fight escalated, the accused allegedly got petrol and threatened to set the house on fire. Pawar then intervened and took the man inside to calm him down. The other family members were outside at the time,” added the officer. A while later they heard a commotion and found Pawar on fire. Gurav had run away from the spot. Pawar suffered 70% burn injuries and was admitted at a Mumbai-based hospital for treatment. He succumbed to his injuries on September 17. S Nigade, senior inspector of Badlapur rural police station, said, “We have arrested the accused and produced him in court. He had been remanded in police custody for 14 days. The argument was petty and it turned into a massive altercation from Gurav’s side. We have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. We also have video footage of the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badlapur-man-set-ablaze-by-neighbour-dies/story-ebfZGq0mcbsnIeeu4NbAjP.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||10 held for gambling in Ludhiana, ₹1 lakh recovered||The anti-smuggling cell arrested ten men on Wednesday for gambling from at a house in Preet Nagar, Shimlapuri, and disobeying state directives on ban on gathering of five or more people in one place. Police recovered Rs 1.01 lakh from their possession. Four of their accomplices managed to escape.The accused have been identified as Anil Kumar alias Teetu of Preet Nagar, Amit Kumar of Gobind Nagar, Ajaypal Singh alias Babbal of Sahibzada Fateh Singh Nagar, Mohit Kumar of Daba colony, Beas Shah of Itta Wala chowk, Mandeep Singh alias Aman of Kot Mangal Singh, Surinder Singh alias Babbu of Preet Nagar, Sunil Kumar of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar of Barota road, Amarjit Singh alias Nikku of Mohalla Azad Nagar and Ashpal alias Tinku of Daba colony.The accused who are yet to be arrested are Jajji, Bhawar, Kala and Jagga.Sub-inspector Yahpal Sharma, in-charge at anti-smuggling cell, said that the police have arrested the accused following a tip-off who were at Anil Kumar’s house setting bets on card games.A case has been registered under Sections 13-A, 3 and 67 of Gambling Act at Shimlapuri police station. A hunt is on for the arrest of the remaining accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-held-for-gambling-in-ludhiana-1-lakh-recovered/story-COA1ZU1e8eiXOKZQXIfPlN.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||22-year-old from Mumbai’s Ghatkopar stabs mother over pocket money, attacks constable with glass bottles||Pant Nagar police on Wednesday arrested a 22-year-old man for allegedly attempting to kill his 48-year-old mother for failing to give him pocket money. The accused also pelted broken glass bottles at police officers when they arrived at the crime scene.According to police, the incident took place on Wednesday around 7am when the accused stabbed his mother with a scissor around six times in her stomach, waist, thigh, knee, and left foot.“We received a call from the control room saying someone was screaming in one of the houses and constable Subhash Gurav, 34, was dispatched to Kailash Bhuvan, Ghatkopar (East). While Gurav was entering the premises, the accused pelted broken glass bottles at the constable, injuring his right hand,” said an officer from Pant Nagar police station.Gurav managed to enter the accused’s house and caught the accused. “The woman was rushed to Hiranandani Hospital for treatment. She is now stable,” said Ashok Thube, inspector, Pant Nagar police station.Police discovered that the accused is mentally unstable and they are verifying the claim before taking any action against him. They have booked him under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22-year-old-from-mumbai-s-ghatkopar-stabs-mother-over-pocket-money-attacks-constable-with-glass-bottles/story-wuOsxYjDwXhFrawKpsHRPI.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two miscreants held for 10 vehicle liftings in 30 days in Ludhiana||The division number 5 police have arrested two accused for vehicle liftings. The accused have become a headache for police after they had stolen 10 vehicles from different parts of the city in the past one month.The arrested accuseds have been identified as Mohit Dhingra, 34, of Dashmesh Colony and Bhupinder Singh, 40, of Model House.Joint Commissioner of Police Bhagirath Singh Meena said that the police were after the accused for a long. Meanwhile the accused were captured in the CCTVs installed in Model Town area, in which the accused were captured while riding a stolen motorcycle. The police laid a trap and arrested them.The accused are so desperate that they attempt vehicle lifting bid daily.The accused told police that they used to target old scooters and motorcycles as their locks are easy to open.The accused are drug addicts and execute crime to meet their need for drugs.The Joint CP added that the accused have dumped the vehicles at an isolated place and they were trying to sell them for money.Further he added that Bhupinder Singh is already facing trial in five cases including hatching conspiracy of robbery, vehicle lifting snatching and robbery. Bhupinder Singh had bailed out from the jail on October 19, 2019.More important information has been expected from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-miscreants-held-for-10-vehicle-liftings-in-30-days-in-ludhiana/story-8LqgQIoznx8B0i1Ld18LJI.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||BJP’s Kirit Somaiya demands BMC action against Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar||Following the no-confidence motion moved against Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar amidst allegations of corruption against her, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has now alleged that Pednekar had illegally acquired a residential flat in a slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) project in Lower Parel, and also set up an office in one of the SRA buildings which was meant for society welfare purposes. On Thursday, Somaiya wrote to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal demanding action against Pednekar.Somaiya said, “The mayor has illegally acquired a flat in Gomata Janata SRA project in Lower Parel and I have submitted supporting documents as well. The office she has set up belongs to the firm her son owns and she has received several BMC and SRA contracts through illegal means.”Pednekar did not respond to HT’s requests for a comment. Last week, BJP moved a no-confidence motion against Pednekar, in the wake of allegations that she misused her position to award contracts to her son’s firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-s-kirit-somaiya-demands-bmc-action-against-mumbai-mayor-kishori-pednekar/story-Q8rdwDczpPhJyhjTUPjDsI.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Factionalism in Ludhiana SAD-BJP as workers conduct separate meetings with mayor||Factionalism in the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alliance was witnessed here today after councillors from both parties conducted separate meetings with Mayor Balkar Sandhu regarding development works and their grievances. While the SAD councillors conducted a meeting with the Mayor on September 14, the BJP councillors met Sandhu on Thursday. SAD leaders said that they had invited the BJP councillors to the meeting, but they didn’t show up. While SAD had sought action against officials and contractors over inferior quality roads, the BJP has opposed notices being served to shopkeepers for recovery of CLU charges.Leader of opposition in the MC general house, SAD councillor, Harabhajan Singh Dang said, “We had asked the BJP leaders to participate in the meeting, but they did not show up that day. Our motive is to raise the issues being faced by residents and work for the development of the city. Even if the BJP councillors met the mayor separately, we have no issues as our aim is to raise the voice of the public.” When asked about BJP councillors’ meeting the Mayor, Dang said that the BJP leadership did not invite the SAD councillors to the meeting. “But we have no problem with that as both of us have raised the issues for providing relief to the public,” he said.Sources in the BJP said that the party councillors did not participate in the meeting of SAD councillors, as the district president of BJP Pushpinder Singal was not consulted before fixing a meeting with the mayor.BJP district president Pushpinder Singal said, “A delegation of state BJP leaders were in the city on the day when SAD councillors met the Mayor. Our meetings were already scheduled for the day, due to which we were not able to attend the meeting with SAD councillors. As we were not able to participate in that meeting, the BJP councillors went to meet the mayor on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/factionalism-in-ludhiana-sad-bjp-as-workers-conduct-separate-meetings-with-mayor/story-0TebCWPvJsr8KWzYXPVCFM.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||MBA graduate arrested for duping people in Mumbai||Ghatkopar police arrested a 33-year-old MBA graduate for allegedly duping senior citizens and others under the pretext of helping them withdraw money from ATMs. Police officers have recovered 109 debit cards, laptop, a car and a bike from the accused. During inquiry it was revealed that the accused was involved in nine cases in Ghatkopar, Pant Nagar, Mahim and Sakinaka police stations. The accused, Tufail Siddiqui, a resident of D’souza complex in Sakinaka, was working with a private firm but had lost his job a few months ago. As he could not find another job due to the lockdown, he decided to dupe people, said a police officer.“The accused would stand near ATMs, mostly in slum areas, and target people who faced difficulties in withdrawing money. He used to approach them under the pretext of helping them and would memorise their pin numbers. He would then give the victim a fake ATM card instead of the real one,” said inspector Pramod Kokate of Ghatkopar police station.With his arrest, the police claimed to have solved nine cases of cheating — five cases in Ghatkopar, two in Pant Nagar, and one case each at Mahim and Sakinaka police stations, added Kokate. The accused has been remanded in police custody till Friday, following which he would be arrested in another case registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mba-graduate-arrested-for-duping-people-in-mumbai/story-Hb0zyuuUn9T3KBikUmiFfL.html
17-09-2020||City||DU principals deny govt allegations, say they are being falsely accused||New Delhi: A day after education minister Manish Sisodia alleged that state-funded colleges in Delhi University (DU) were not paying salaries to employees despite having funds, principals on Thursday said the government was “falsely” accusing them and forcing them to indulge in an “illegal act” of using student funds for wages.In a digital press conference, DU Principals Association (DUPA) president and principal of SGTB Khalsa, Jaswinder Singh, said the money Sisodia mentioned about was ‘students’ welfare funds’ of colleges and any diversion would amount to “misappropriation”. “How come the Hon’ble Deputy CM is asking the colleges to pay salaries from the student’s society fund, which is collected from the students for specific activities and purposes? Any diversion of funds would amount to misappropriation, which we are not doing but the deputy CM is forcing us to do,” Singh said.In a fresh statement on Thursday after the principals’ presser, Sisodia dismissed their claims and reiterated his allegations.The Delhi government has been at the loggerheads with 12 DU colleges that it fully funds over the release of grants for the last six months. While the principals of these colleges have been alleging they have not been able to pay their staff since May as grants were not issued, the government said the colleges have been provided with enough funds in the present academic year. Sisodia had on Wednesday alleged that at least four out of these 12 colleges had enough funds in their accounts. He cited an initial report of an independent audit conducted by the Delhi government in these colleges, indicating misappropriation of funds. The colleges in which Delhi government is conducting an audit include Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, Deen Dyal Upadhyaya College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya and Maharshi Valmiki College of Education.Manoj Sinha, secretary of DUPA and principal of Aryabhatta College said, “The student’s society fund and development fund are collected from students every year by all colleges, which are governed by University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations across the country. And, nowhere salaries are paid out of these funds. These are used for organising student activities. It’s unfortunate that the deputy CM termed it a donation.”The colleges said the Delhi government had released only Rs 37.5 crore to them in this academic session as of now. The required amount, the association said, was Rs 270 crore for the financial year 2020-21.Sisodia had on Wednesday said several staff members and teachers complained of misuse of funds, which necessitated an audit in six of these colleges. Reacting to the statement, Singh said, “Accounts of all the funds are maintained by the college as per accounting norms of UGC and general financial rules. All these accounts are audited by the statutory auditors every year. Further, the Delhi government conducts local fund audit every year and CAG audit periodically...the only apparent basis of identifying the six colleges for special audit is that the members of their (government’s) choice could not be elected as chairperson in their governing bodies. If that is so, it amounts to scuttling the democratic process.”Poonam Verma, principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, said, “We have no fear in showing our account details but we cannot use our students’ funds for paying the salaries of our teaching and non-teaching staff. Hearing false allegations from the office of the education minister is disheartening.” Sisodia had alleged that the college did not provide balance sheets to the auditors.Sisodia, in a fresh statement, dismissed the claims and said the colleges were depositing their funds in FDs and “incessantly” demanding money from the government. “On one hand, these colleges have been saying that they do not have sufficient funds to pay the salaries of their staff, and on the other hand, the money in their FDs is consistently increasing. This money is not provided by the Delhi government to deposit in the FD. Some colleges have FDs that have up to Rs 15 to 30 crores. What portion of this money has come from which sources? How is it being used? This needs to be investigated by the audit team. I hope that the Delhi University administration will cooperate with the audit team is investigating the possibility of corruption in the college funds,” he said in a statement on Thursday.The association requested chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to intervene. “The chief minister should intervene and the Delhi government should immediately release the pending 75% grants for this academic session so that the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff can be paid,” the association said.DU dean of colleges Balaram Pani had said Wednesday he won’t comment before going through the Delhi government’s audit report but offered no fresh reaction on Thursday .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-principals-deny-govt-allegations-say-they-are-being-falsely-accused/story-to70KBUa4uS3fdSZm2KwfL.html
17-09-2020||City||Commercial goods vehicles in Delhi can reset speed governors at 80 kmph, up from 40kmph||New Delhi: Heavy, medium transport vehicles and light goods vehicles fitted with a speed governor (a speed limiting device) registered after October 1, 2015, and plying in the national capital, can now have a maximum pre-set speed of 80 kilometres per hour. The Delhi High Court on Thursday set aside a provision in the notification issued by the Delhi government in July 2018, capping the maximum attainable speed of such commercial vehicles at 40 kmph. This means that transport vehicles in Delhi, which were designed to stop if they crossed 40kmph on the speedometer, will now have their speed governor settings revised to 80 kmph. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the Delhi government does not have such powers to cap vehicular speed limit under its Rules and neither the MC Mehta judgment, passed in 1997 by the Supreme Court, confer such powers.The notification issued by the Delhi government on July 17, 2018, fixed the speed limits of various types of commercial vehicles. The notification added a provision that had said light, medium and heavy good vehicles registered on or after October 1 2015 shall have a maximum pre-set speed of 40 kilometres per hour. The pre-set speed limit of a vehicle is different from the city speed limit set by the Delhi government’s transport department and Delhi Traffic Police, which is 60kmph for private vehicles and 40kmph for commercial vehicles. In highways crossing the national capital, this limit is 70kmph. The court’s judgment came while hearing a plea by a motor vehicle dealer, particularly those manufactured by Maruti Suzuki India Limited. These include the models Maruti Suzuki Omni Cargo, EECO Cargo, and Super Carry, which are classified as light goods vehicles.According to the petitioner, he was unable to register his vehicles in Delhi due to restrictions laid down in the notification, which capped the speed to 40 km per hour. He said all his vehicles were verified and specified by an authorised testing agency to have a rated speed of not more than 80 kilometres per hour (“kmph”).Appearing for the petitioner, its counsel had contended that the Motor Vehicle Act empowers the state government to issue a notification in respect of vehicles registered prior to October 1, 2015, whereas the proviso in the notification applies to vehicles registered on or after October 1, 2015.Defending the notification’s proviso, advocate Anupam Shrivastava and advocate Sanjoy Ghose, additional standing counsels of the Delhi government, said they had issued the notification in accordance to the MC Mehta judgment. The counsels during the hearing had said central government rules do not empower them to pass the notification with respect to such vehicles registered after October 1, 2015.The court, while quashing the proviso, held that the MC Mehta judgment does not confer power upon the state government to issue the impugned notification. It said the judgment proceeds on the basis that the Act and Rules contain sufficient provisions to enable the authorities to act in the interest of curbing the menace of traffic in Delhi.“In view of the inaction of the executive, the Supreme Court issued the directions contained in the Annexure to the judgment. However it was made expressly clear in paragraph 2 of the judgment (MC Mehat) that the directions issued by the Supreme Court were intended to have effect until the executive acted to fill the lacuna,” the HC said in its judgment of 25 pages.Reacting to the judgment, Delhi Traffic police said it will wait for the court order and abide by whatever directions have been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commercial-goods-vehicles-in-delhi-can-reset-speed-governors-at-80-kmph-up-from-40kmph/story-xyD8t9w8aa1tJDZhA7ldOP.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Six months on, teachers yet to receive SSC paper correction dues in Maharashtra||Nearly six months after teachers from the state evaluated the answer sheets of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination, the state board is yet to pay their dues. Several teachers have written to board officials demanding that their dues be cleared with immediate effect.“Teachers have evaluated the answer sheets in a very difficult situation amid the Covid-19 outbreak this year. Despite this, the dues are still not cleared. It has been six months since the exams and nearly two months since the results were declared, but we are still awaiting our dues,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of the Teachers Democratic Front, which has written to the board.Sandeep Sangave, secretary of Mumbai divisional board, said the dues of teachers would be cleared soon and the process for the same is on. “The board is working with reduced staff due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown-related restrictions. In addition, there were some delays in getting bills from teachers and custodies while some account details provided by a few teachers were also incorrect. These factors seem to have led to the delay. Teachers should not worry as they would get their dues in a couple of days,” he added. Teachers have also requested the board to increase the rate of paper evaluation considering the costs involved in travelling amid lockdown. “This year, teachers have spent a lot of money from their own pockets to transport papers from their schools to homes and vice versa. The board only gives ₹200 as travel allowance, which is not enough considering trains were shut and teachers had to spend auto and taxi fare on their own,” said Pandya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-months-on-teachers-yet-to-receive-ssc-paper-correction-dues-in-maharashtra/story-JowO28TCTwDQ8tJl00rVQJ.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Financial duress acute in North corporation, commissioner asks officials not to take up fresh projects||Given the acute financial crisis that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is currently undergoing, its commissioner Gyanesh Bharti has issued an order directing all heads of the departments “ to not to create any additional financial commitments”. He said apart from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the corporation’s “adverse financial condition” was also due to the non-payment of grants on time by the Delhi government. This is the first time that the commissioner of a municipality has raised the issue of the city government not paying grants/dues on time. Civic functionaries said that means no new project is likely to be taken up until the situation improves. As a result, all development works, such as the construction of new drains, roads, parking spaces and allocation of councillors’ funds, are likely to be affected. In the circular issued on September 11, Bharti also accepted that the financial situation was so grave that the municipality was unable to pay salaries and pensions to certain categories of employees and former employees for the past five months.“After the outbreak of Covid-19 and the consequent lockdown of Delhi since March 2020, the internal revenue of North DMC has decreased drastically. Further, the grant-in-aid, transfer duty and other such dues from GNCTD (Delhi government) are also not being released on time. In view of this, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is facing a severe financial crunch that even salaries and pensions for the last five months to certain categories of employees have not been released,” the circular read.Bharti further said that in view of the adverse financial condition of the north civic body, and keeping in mind the existing cash and committed liabilities, it has become expedient to avoid the creation of any further additional financial liability. “All heads of departments are hereby once again directed not to create any additional financial commitments except in unavoidable circumstances,” Bharti said.A similar order was issued in August 2019 by then commissioner Varsha Joshi. According to civic officials, the north corporation has a workforce of around 50,000 and it spends nearly ₹350 crore every month on salaries. Officials explained that other than self revenue generation, the civic body also gets a grant from the government along with a share in various taxes and advertisement revenue that the government collects on behalf of the corporation.Teachers, doctors, nurses, sanitation employees, paramedical staff, engineers and other employees in different departments of the north corporation are currently owed a salary backlog of four to five months. The civil contractors of the north corporation have not been paid their bills since March 2015.Hundreds of employees of different departments have been protesting at the Civic Centre — headquarters of north and south corporations — against non-payment of salaries.Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation, said the Delhi government has to give approximately ₹1,600 crore to the north civic body in first two quarters of the current fiscal. Of this, the government has so far released only about ₹400 crore. “The situation will improve if the Delhi government releases the pending ₹1,200 crore (approx). This is the first time that the commissioner has also raised the issue of non-payment of dues by the city government. We have been saying the same thing for past few months,” Prakash said.Vikas Goel, AAP councillor and leader of opposition in the north corporation, stressed that the government had been paying its share to the corporation on time. “The commissioner’s statement seems to have been made under pressure from the political executive,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/financial-duress-acute-in-north-corporation-commissioner-asks-officials-not-to-take-up-fresh-projects/story-dOMTfHmK3NZLaSBAZK3YTI.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||No work done at MC’s dog sterilisation unit for 5 days: Ludhiana senior dy mayor||Acting on a complaint of alleged embezzlement at municipal corporation’s animal birth control (ABC) centre at Hambran road, where a stray dog sterilisation project is being taken up, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra conducted an inspection at the centre on Thursday. During the inspection, Malhotra found that no sterilisation was done at the centre for the last five days and it lacked cleanliness. “I had received a complaint that the company which has been awarded the contract to take up dog sterilisation in the city, claims money from the MC by showing more sterilisations done at the centre. The MC pays around Rs 1,000 per sterilisation. I inspected their registers and found that no dog was sterilised in the last five days. The staff said that some team members are not well, due to which the work was stopped,” said Malhotra, while adding that the project was also put to halt in the August due to exodus of labourers amid the pandemic. “The officials said that around 15 dogs are sterilised at the centre on a normal day, but only five to six were being sterilised lately due to shortage of labour. I will ask municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal to mark an inquiry into the matter. Proper monitoring should be done so that public money is not wasted. Also, the officials have been asked to maintain cleanliness at the centre,” said Malhotra.Despite repeated attempts, municipal corporation veterinary officer Harbans Dhalla could not be reached forcomments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-work-done-at-mc-s-dog-sterilisation-unit-for-5-days-ludhiana-senior-dy-mayor/story-QLX7zXktcYcr43JkHZzlzN.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Exam centres for JEE-Advanced doubled this year for social distancing||Keeping in mind social distancing norms amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the number of exam centres across the country for the upcoming Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced has been doubled as compared to last year. In a statement, the organising institute, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi, has announced that most cities would have more than one examination centre this year.“Exam cities have been increased from 164 last year to 222 this year, whereas exam centres stand at 1,150 compared to around 600 last year. Sufficient number of exam centres have been set up for the exam to ensure safety of everyone involved in the exam,” read a statement released by the JEE-Advanced office, IIT-Delhi on Thursday.Registrations for the exam ended on Thursday and students have time till Friday to pay the fees and confirm their spot. The top 2.5 lakh students who cleared JEE-Mains are eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced exam which is scheduled to take place on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exam-centres-for-jee-advanced-doubled-this-year-for-social-distancing/story-9Ydd3FJCLQkTsAU4CxoH1L.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||4 Maharashtra cops die of Covid-19, 364 new cases reported||Four Maharashtra Police personnel succumbed to Covid-19, taking the toll on Thursday to 206. The same day, 364 new cases of infection were recorded within the force.Maharashtra Police’s overall case count now stands at 20,367. Of them, 16,363 have recovered, and most of them resumed duty, said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order).The state police department on Thursday informed that the four policemen who succumbed to the contagion were from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane and Nagpur city police forces.The state police headquarters on Thursday received information about the death of 32-year-old sub-inspector Sushant Vaidya of the Mumbai Police. Attached to the local arms division-2, Vaidya succumbed on September 12.Another young policeman, Sandeep Bhende, 32, from Nagpur city, died on Wednesday.On Wednesday, Navi Mumbai head constable Suresh Suryavanshi, 51, succumbed to the infection. He was attached to the crime branch. The same day, head constable Rajendra Mhadik from Thane city died from Covid-19.The infection is spreading rapidly in the police force, and Mumbai Police remains the highest contributor with over 5,470 cases and 75 deaths. Nearly 4,000 infected Mumbai personnel have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-maharashtra-cops-die-of-covid-19-364-new-cases-reported/story-g0FYj2ccUdciW6nrXDbamN.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body offers free learning resources to students across Maharashtra||In order to ensure that students across the state get access to online learning resources, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will now allow students from anywhere in the state to take online admission in its schools. According to a circular issued by the state education department on Thursday, students from any part of the state who wish to attend online classes conducted by BMC teachers for Classes 1 to 10 can do so free of cost. “Such students can open the civic body’s official website — http://portal.mcgm.gov.in — and fill out a form seeking admission to online classes of BMC,” states the circular. Once they fill out the form, students will be given passwords to join the classes. Officials from the education department said the move is aimed at helping students who might have migrated to their hometowns and are missing school or ones whose parents are not able to afford fees of private schools. “The initiative is completely free of cost. Students will be given a certificate at the end of the academic year with details of the learning outcomes achieved in the online classes. Once enrolled, they would have to attend classes on a regular basis,” said an official. Every day, BMC conducts two live sessions of 45 minutes each for students of Classes 1 to 8 and four live sessions of the same duration for Classes 9 and 10 students. There is a break of around 10 minutes between two sessions. Videos of the sessions conducted by BMC school teachers are then uploaded on YouTube, which students can access later.“The channels are getting good response and even students who are not enrolled in civic schools will benefit from the exercise now on. We hope we can reach out to more and more students to facilitate online learning during the Covid-19 situation,” said a teacher of a civic school in the eastern suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-offers-free-learning-resources-to-students-across-maharashtra/story-rhe34SKSy8wtjoCGmIOkKP.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||35 test positive for Covid-19: Mumbai’s Matunga municipal market shut for 5 days||With 35 of the 200-odd fruits and vegetable vendors and supply labourers from the municipal market in Matunga testing positive for Covid-19 on Thursday morning, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s F North ward office has decided to shut the market for five days starting Thursday. While 12 of the 35 are vendors, the remaining are labourers and shopkeepers, according to Gajanan Bellale, assistant commissioner of F North ward. BMC conducted rapid antigen tests for vendors and labourers as part of its drive to test persons who frequently come in contact with a large number of citizens such as vendors and shopkeepers. Bellale said, “We are randomly picking areas that see a large crowd, such as a municipal market. After five days, we will take a call on whether to re-open the market at Matunga.” Ravi Raja, leader of the opposition in BMC and whose electoral constituency comes under the ward, said, “On Thursday, BMC also conducted a similar testing drive at Gandhi Market in Matunga which also sees a large crowd. A decision on shutting that market will be taken on Friday.” The F North ward, which covers Matunga, King’s Circle, Wadala and parts of Sewri in south central Mumbai, has 1,085 active Covid-19 cases, according to the latest BMC data of Tuesday. The ward has a growth rate of 1.26%, a little below Mumbai’s average growth rate of 1.28%, while its doubling rate is 55 days, same as Mumbai’s average doubling rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/35-test-positive-for-covid-19-mumbai-s-matunga-municipal-market-shut-for-5-days/story-JYenzxQlkW3nkzdTWCdx6O.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body appoints 35 specialist doctors at jumbo Covid centres||In a bid to provide more effective medical treatment at its jumbo Covid centres in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appointed a group of 35 specialist doctors from 11 prominent private hospitals in its seven jumbo Covid centres to oversee the treatment and coordinate with civic doctors. These private doctors will also bring in their expertise to consult critical cases at the jumbo centres.The specialist doctors are from private hospitals including Breach Candy, Lilavati, Hinduja, Kokilaben, Bombay, Fortis, Nanavati and Ambani hospitals. A senior civic official said, “The facilities at our jumbo Covid centres are much better than private hospitals in several areas. This move will now encourage patients to get admitted in our centres, which are perceived to be ill-equipped.”The jumbo Covid centres are located in Byculla, NSCI-Worli, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Nesco-Goregaon, Mulund and Dahisar areas. The total bed capacity in these centres is 7,650 and around 1,466 medical staffers are deployed there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-appoints-35-specialist-doctors-at-jumbo-covid-centres/story-nRDh01Zne9uUh3wI8h02nL.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||MSRTC to now operate inter-district buses within Maharashtra with full passenger capacity||Passengers travelling between Mumbai and Pune as well as other districts in Maharashtra will be able to commute swiftly from Friday as the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will begin operating its buses with full passenger capacity. Earlier the buses were being operated with 50% passenger capacity.Maharashtra government has given permission to MSRTC to operate buses with 100% passenger capacity on Thursday. “The buses will be operated with full passenger capacity. Passengers will be required to wear mask and carry sanitiser. All the seats will be made available for reservations,” read a statement from MSRTC. The state-owned MSRTC has 18,000 buses but is currently operating 5,000 buses within the state with a daily ridership of 5.5 lakh passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msrtc-to-now-operate-inter-district-buses-within-maharashtra-with-full-passenger-capacity/story-RqJ7M1CFAdulDK0uFHG3zK.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||38 govt schools in Ludhiana get free competitive-exam books||For the benefit of students who cannot afford expensive competitive-exam books, the district education department has provided two sets of such books free of cost to 38 government senior secondary schools in the district. The books of physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics will be useful for those preparing for Joint Entrance Examination (Mains and Advanced) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance test As per officials, the district education department had received a grant of Rs 2.5 lakh under Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao Abhiyan for the purchase of these books. Sources said the department had initially decided to handover the books to meritorious students or toppers of the school. But later they decided that school principals can take the call on whether they want to keep the books in the school library or hand it over to the school toppers. Sanjeev Thapar, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, said, “We have received two sets, which comprise of 14 books. We have kept it in the school library from where students can get it issued. This is a great initiative by the department as it will help students prepare for the exam.” District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “We have received funds under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme for the books. The aim is to provide competitive books to meritorious students so that they can prepare for the entrance exams easily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/38-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-get-free-competitive-exam-books/story-Bc0YVyPYzJVe15m4IWwSTM.html
17-09-2020||City||Back-to-back robberies in Delhi, one held||New Delhi: A gang of armed criminals robbed four people and snatched valuables of three others, all within 2-3 hours, in parts of northwest and northeast Delhi early Wednesday. A police team nailed one robber after a long chase. The armed men shot four bullets at the policemen but no one was hurt. One robber was arrested following a chase of more than 10 kilometres from Netaji Subhash Place to Jaffrabad, senior officers said.Police identified the arrested man as Mohammad Izhar, a resident of Brahmpuri. The man is involved in at least 29 cases of robbery, theft, snatching and illegal possession of arms, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said a resident of Rohini named Gaurav reported that around 5.30 am on Wednesday that when he was cycling with his friend near Netaji Subhash Place, three men approached on a motorcycle intercepted him. “The complainant said the third man got off the bike and took out a gun. He said the man snatched his and his friend’s mobile phone and fled,” Arya said.The DCP said, on receiving the call, constable Vishal and constable Anil, who had reached the spot, were told by the cyclists that they have a WhatsApp group in which they share their live location with their other cyclist friends when they step out. On this, the two constable started following the robbers as it reflected in the GPS, she said.Arya said, after a chase of almost 30 kilometers, the policemen intercepted the robbers in Nand Nagri. “Seeing police, the trio tried to flee the area but lost balance and fell off the bike. One of the robbers fired three rounds at the two policemen. The duo, however, managed to dodge the bullets and overpowered one of the three robbers. The other two managed to escape,” the DCP said. Along with a country-made pistol and the bike which the trio had left behind, police recovered from Izhar mobile phones, one gold earring, a gold chain and a gold ring.Izhar told police that he was involved in several robbery cases. “He admitted to have committed four robberies and three snatchings on Wednesday morning with his associates,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/back-to-back-robberies-in-delhi-one-held/story-B4KeiYbqvd0iR5UdzSS0XN.html
17-09-2020||City||Man driving alone fined for not wearing mask in Delhi, challenges it in high court||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought the Centre’s and Delhi government’s responses on a petition filed by a lawyer, who has challenged the Rs 500-fine imposed on him for not wearing a mask while he was driving alone.Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to the ministry of health and family welfare, Delhi government, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and the police, seeking their stand on the petition that sought quashing of the challan, refund of the Rs 500 paid as fine and a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for mental harassment suffered by the petitioner.In his plea, Saurabh Sharma, an advocate, has claimed that on September 9, when he was driving to work, he was stopped by the police and fined for not wearing a mask even though he was alone in the car.Sharma, who is represented by advocate K C Mittal, has contended that there is a health ministry notification that says the wearing of a mask was not compulsory while driving alone in a car.Advocate Farman Ali Magray, appearing for the ministry, said such a notification has been issued. During the proceedings, Mittal contended that DDMA’s guidelines states that a mask has to be worn in a public place or place of work and a private vehicle is neither.The DDMA, during the hearing, said its guidelines issued in April and June this year makes its mandatory to wear a mask in a public place and that the Supreme Court had (in an earlier unrelated case last year in Bihar) held that a private vehicle on a public road is a public place.It authority said that under the guidelines issued by it, there is a penalty of Rs 500 for first-time breach of quarantine norms as well as for not wearing masks and a fine of Rs 1,000 for every subsequent violation.The matter would be now heard on November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-driving-alone-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-in-delhi-challenges-it-in-high-court/story-NCS9attjvJcJ2l0vxv5egM.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Congress vice-president wants road named after Sushant Singh Rajput||Delhi Congress vice-president and a councillor in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), Abhishek Dutt, on Wednesday proposed to name a street in his ward, Andrews Ganj in south Delhi, after late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Dutt has proposed to rename Road Number 8 — that stretches from Andrews Ganj to Indira Camp — after the late actor, who was . Sushant Singh Rajput was a Bollywood actor who was found dead at his Mumbai flat on June 14. Dutt on Wednesday had sent a proposal to the SDMC’s road-naming committee and said that there was a ‘strong demand from locals in the area to name the road after Rajput’.“People living around Andrews Ganj Road Number 8 hail from Bihar. There is a strong demand from local residents to name the Road No. 8 as ‘Sushant Singh Rajput Marg’ in memory of the late actor,” read the proposal.Dutt said that after the proposal is cleared from the road naming committee it will be sent to the SDMC house by the commissioner for final approval.“The road inspections have been carried out to check if it is named after any other dignitary. The stretch is named as road number 8 only, so there should not be a problem in naming the road after late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. This is the least we can do to remember him always,” Dutt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-congress-vice-president-wants-road-named-after-sushant-singh-rajput/story-5owOhtYkSyF6FQUPywn3TO.html
17-09-2020||City||Two suspected dengue deaths keep Ludhiana health department on toes||Already grappling with the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the health department is now on its toes over two suspected dengue deaths in the district. The deceased are two children—one a 14-year-old from Khanna and the other a Class-9 student of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar. A message shared by the school stated that the boy suffered liver and kidney failure, causing his demise. The school will remain closed on September 18 to mourn its student’s death. When contacted, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said he was not aware of the death of the Sarabha Nagar student. He, however, added that Khanna senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Rajinder Gulati is looking into the second suspected case. Dr Gulati, on the other hand, said that the probe was on. He said the boy’s father has been asked to produce the documents which could prove that his son was suffering from dengue. He maintained that merely dropping of platelet count cannot be considered as dengue. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that NS-I test and MAC Elisa tests are mandatory to ascertain that the patient was suffering from dengue. Epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said that the tests reports are presented before a committee which will assess the report and confirm whether it was dengue or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-suspected-dengue-deaths-keep-ludhiana-health-department-on-toes/story-hKFn4oLK7ne4Mk3oDx7WPM.html
17-09-2020||City||12 more deaths, Covid cases cross 15K in Ludhiana district||The district recorded 12 more deaths due to Covid-19 even as 464 fresh cases took the cumulative count past the 15,000-mark.The district’s tally now stands at 15, 372, of which 12,719 have recovered and 2,016 are active cases. So far, as many as 634 people have succumbed to the virus in the district.The speed of the infection spread can be gauged from the fact that as many as 1,000 cases were recorded in the last three days alone.Intern doc among fresh cases A doctor, doing his internship at the gynaecology department of the civil hospital, is among those who tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. He is currently under quarantine. Apart from that, five pregnant women and three cops have also tested positive. The dead include a 78-year-old male from Lajpat Nagar, a 66-year-old male from Basant Avenue, a 50-year-old female from New Subash Nagar, an 18-year-old female from Urban Estate, a 49-year-old female from Vishkarma Colony, a 78-year-old male from Dholewal, a 56-year-old male Jamalpur, a 70-year-old male from Dholewa, a 56-year-old male from Civil Lines, a 14-year-old male from Shivala Road, a 78-year-old male from Amar Nagar, a 75-year-old female from Shahpur Road, a 56-year-old male from Dugri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-more-deaths-covid-cases-cross-15k-in-ludhiana-district/story-DHzFB8rSIZrAp6Che2GwEM.html
17-09-2020||City||Soldier injured in Pak shells in two sectors in Poonch||A soldier was injured and around five houses were partially damaged as Pakistani army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violations in two sectors along the Line of Control in Poonch on Thursday.“At about 0645 hours, the Pak army initiated ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in Balakote and Mendhar sectors,” defence spokesman Lt Col Devendeer Anand said, adding that the Indian Army retaliated effectively.The injured soldier is naik CB Pawar, of 101 artillery regiment. He was injured in the Balakote sector and is hospitalised.On Tuesday, an Army soldier was killed and two others, including an officer, were injured in firing along the LoC in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soldier-injured-in-pak-shells-in-two-sectors-in-poonch/story-rdW29ke4g5oabFSU7Er48M.html
17-09-2020||City||Army chief reviews security in Kashmir||Amid protracted Sino-India stand-off in eastern Ladakh, army chief Gen MM Naravane reviewed the security scenario across Kashmir on Thursday. He is on a two-day visit to Kashmir.“The COAS arrived in Srinagar on Thursday and undertook firsthand assessment of the security situation along the Line of Control (LOC) in North Kashmir,” a defence spokesperson said.“During his interaction with the soldiers deployed in high altitude areas, he appreciated their efforts and complimented them on their response to ceasefire violations by Pakistan. The army chief also commended the use of technology to ensure effective day and night surveillance along the LoC which has resulted in successful operations to foil infiltration bids from POJK in the recent past,” the spokesperson added.“The COAS reinforced the need to extend all possible support to civilians residing in border areas who are victims of targeted ceasefire violations by the Pak army and are facing hardships due to the pandemic,” he added.Gen Naravane also interacted with commanders and troops deployed in the hinterland. He appreciated the coordination among all government agencies towards maintaining peace in the Valley and efforts to reach out to the common man to overcome the challenges faced due to Covid-19.Later in the day, he reviewed the overall security situation along with the Northern Army Commander and Chinar Corps Commander.He called on L-G Manoj Sinha and discussed issues concerning the present security situation in the UT and assured full support of the army in ushering in peace and stability in the region. He is scheduled to return to New Delhi on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-chief-reviews-security-in-kashmir/story-RU8UDYN6yKrNxPLWXvp1nO.html
17-09-2020||City||1,485 fresh cases, 19 deaths reported in J&K||As many as 1,485 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths were reported from Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday.Jammu witnessed a spike in cases with 785 fresh cases and 14 deaths being reported. The Jammu division, especially Jammu, is constantly witnessing surge in cases in the past 10 days.Jammu’s case tally is 9,429 of which 6,114 are active cases and 117 patients have died so far.Kashmir registered 682 fresh cases and five deaths. Srinagar has the highest 12,400 case tally of which 2,024 are active cases. Srinagar has witnessed 260 deaths so far.On Thursday, officials said that 712 patients have recovered - 442 in Kashmir and 270 in Jammu. After Srinagar, Jammu has the highest number of cases and deaths.So far, over 5.35 lakh people have been enlisted for observation. While 30,027 have been kept under quarantine and 20,339 under isolation. The government has conducted more than 13.20 lakh tests across 20 districts of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-485-fresh-cases-19-deaths-reported-in-j-k/story-96EaI1frpV1vz4DQboGpdI.html
17-09-2020||City||Man, kin booked for raping 13-year-old||Police on Thursday booked a man and his relatives for allegedly raping a 13-year-old girl. In her complaint to the police, the girl’s mother said that her daughter was married without her knowledge. She said that she was living separately from her husband after their relation turned sour and her daughter was living with her father. She got married to the accused on July 12. The matter came to light on Tuesday when the girl met her mother and narrated her ordeal following which she gave a complaint with the police. The girl said that her husband, his brother and other relatives raped her. The police said that based on the complaint, a case under Sections 9 and 10 of the Child Marriage (prohibition) Act has been registered against the girl’s husband and his family members.A hunt is on to nab the accused, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kin-booked-for-raping-13-year-old/story-wa27qjLoyHQ8G5mxwcQzZM.html
17-09-2020||City||‘Increase monthly honorarium of sarpanches, panches’||Around dozen panchayat members, including All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference (AJKPC) president Anil Sharma, were taken into preventive custody by the police during a protest and later released.The AJKPC leaders were protesting at Dogra Chowk on different issues related to panchayati raj institutions (PRIs).AJKPC, a frontline organisation of elected panchayat members, on Thursday held simultaneous protests in Srinagar and Jammu, demanding grassroots level and financial empowerment of PRIs in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir.The protests were held on the call of Anil Sharma. In Srinagar, the protests were held outside the Press Enclave wherein members of AJKPC raised slogans against the J&K administration while senior members of the AJKPC held protest near Pt Premnath Dogra Chowk.Reiterating their demand for implementation of 73rd Amendment of the Indian Constitution in J&K, the AJKPC members said government has failed to financially empower the PRIs.“We request the UT to create panchayat development fund on pattern of MLAs’ constituency development fund to improve living standards of people at panchayat level,” Sharma said.The government should fix a minimum of Rs 25 lakh per panchayat for bringing in positive change, the AJKPC president said.He demanded increase in the amount sanctioned by L-G Manoj Sinha under the ‘Back to Village’ programme.The AJKPC leader also demanded immediate increase of monthly honorarium being paid to sarpanches and panches. “It is difficult to work under the existing honorariums of Rs 3,000 and Rs 1,000, respectively. We demand a hike in honorarium for sarpanches to Rs 10,000 per month and for panches to Rs 5,000 per month,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/increase-monthly-honorarium-of-sarpanches-panches/story-VyOGrSWdZ55QeiG0UxAV7H.html
17-09-2020||City||Toddler crushed under mini-truck in Ludhiana||Girl was playing outside the house at the time; driver tries to escape but nabbed A two-year-old girl was crushed to death by a speeding mini-truck in Rajiv Gandhi Colony on Thursday morning. The girl, identified as Divya, was playing outside the house at the time while her mother had gone to a nearby shop to purchase milk. The truck driver, Ajmer Singh of Dhandhari Khurd, tried to escape the spot after the incident but passersby nabbed him. The toddler was rushed to a private hospital near Sherpur Chowk but she succumbed to her injuries, her grandfather, Narayan Das, stated. Eyewitnesses at the spot said that the driver was speeding and the truck too was unfit for plying on roads. “The vehicle’s chassis was tilted to one side and the number plates too were damaged. Its headlights and indicators were also broken and as the truck was overloaded with iron rods, the driver was unable to control the vehicle,” said an eyewitness. He added that the driver tried to escape after hitting the girl but they nabbed him and handed him over to the police. Inspector Mohammad Jamil, the station house officer, said that the police have nabbed the accused and will lodge the case after recording the statements of the victim’s parents. ‘Had I taken my daughter along, she would have been alive’ The younger of the two daughters, Divya had insisted to accompany her mother to the shop to purchase milk. However, her mother, Reshma, had told her that she would bring candies for her from the shop if she stayed at home. An inconsolable Reshma said, “Had I taken my daughter with me to the shop, she would have been alive right now.” Divya’s older sister is six years old. Her father, Chetan Das, a driver, was out of the city at the time of the incident. Her older sister is 6 years old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/toddler-crushed-under-mini-truck-in-ludhiana/story-bZ65Ujk11Aki18w7UtCGCM.html
17-09-2020||City||Missing saroops: Former SGPC jathedar seeks clarification||Former Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) jathedar Gurpartap Singh Riar on Thursday sent a charter of demands to Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh seeking clarification on the issue of the missing ‘saroops’ of Sri Guru Granth Sahib. Addressing the media, Gurpartap Singh said that the 12-point charter of demands included queries related to the date, month, and year of when the saroops went missing, who was responsible for their maintenance and distribution work, and why no objections were raised in the audit. Gurpartap Singh said that the acting jathedar should also specify the actual number of saroops that went missing. He also asked who the president and the general secretary were at that time. Riar further objected to the appointment of Harcharan Singh as chief secretary and questioned that even when he had submitted the resignation why was it accepted without taking charge of the post from him. He also questioned why Dr Roop Singh was not produced before the committee and why his resignation was accepted without taking charge from him. He said that the Sikh community will not be satisfied until Giani Harpreet Singh reveals the reality behind the missing saroops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-former-sgpc-jathedar-seeks-clarification/story-uaP5SUKk0zQfT7RT9KqmEM.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||New recruits in Chandigarh not to get paid higher than Centre, Punjab||The UT administration has decided to follow the Punjab government’s lead with regards to introducing new pay scales for all fresh appointments in its departments.Punjab in July had decided that on the pattern of the central government, the new appointees will be paid with the recommendations made by the 7th Central Pay Commission as the benchmark. They will not get the benefit of the state pay scales, which have been higher than those of the central government employees.As per UT’s decision, the pay scales admissible to all prospective appointments – direct recruitments or compassionate appointment – in any cadre will not be higher than the pay scale admissible to the said cadre in Government of India.A senior official of the UT administration, not wishing to be named, said pay scales in several departments in Punjab as well as in Chandigarh were higher than the pay scales of the central government. Therefore, as per the new rules, UT will adopt the lower pay scale available among the central government or Punjab government for the new recruits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-recruits-in-chandigarh-not-to-get-paid-higher-than-centre-punjab/story-48HgicEQTsTnLZsPXdAHIK.html
17-09-2020||City||NC demands increase in bed strength, installation of oxygen plants||The National Conference on Thursday expressed concerns over alarming spike in Covid-19 cases in Jammu and the lack of adequate infrastructural to meet the challenge.“The situation is quite serious due to lack of oxygen, ventilators and inavailability of enough beds to cope up with the situation,” senior NCo leaders said, in a joint statement. They sought corrective measures on war footing for patient care and treatment.They demanded setting up of a thousand-bedded covid hospital on the pattern adopted by the Punjab government besides allocating more beds in the government medical colleges and associated hospitals to accommodate patients whose number is increasing manifold with each passing day.The present strength of 608 beds out of the total capacity of 2,637 in the associated hospitals is meagre and needs to be revisited in view of the crisis-like situation posed by the pandemic, they said.“The allocation of 203 beds out of 1,077 in GMC, 110 of 250 in CD Hospital, 70 of 120 in the psychiatry hospital, 60 of750 in SMG Hospital and 165 of 200 beds in Maternity Hospital, Gandhi Nagar, is inadequate keeping in view the spike in cases. There is a need for extraordinary measures to meet the extraordinary situation”, the statement read.The NC leaders expressed their dismay over acute shortage of oxygen, wondering why the need for it had not been anticipated immediately after outbreak of the disease, leaving patients in a lurch in the midst of the corona crisis.They called for installation of liquid oxygen generation plant besides other plants in hospitals on the war footing, besides similar facilities at district hospitals to cater to needs of peripheral health institutions.They said the shortage of oxygen has proved detrimental to patient care, causing anxiety among the infected people and their attendants.Provincial president Devender Singh Rana, senior leaders Ajay Kumar Sadhotra,Surjeet Singh Salathia, Rattan Lal Gupta, Syed Mushtaq Ahmed Bukhari, Sheikh Bashir Ahmed, Sajjad Kitchloo, Kashmira Singh, Khalid Najeeb Suharwardy, Abdul Gani Malik, Javeed Rana and others signed the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nc-demands-increase-in-bed-strength-installation-of-oxygen-plants/story-xYwv2McbJG49ZRHyspCiQO.html
17-09-2020||City||Student-parent forum demands curbs on pvt schools||Chattra Abhibhavak Manch, a student-parent forum, on Thursday staged a protest outside the state legislative assembly here demanding a law to regulate fees, syllabus and content in private schools during the ongoing monsoon session.Forum convenor Vijendra Mehra said the state government is not taking any action against the private schools despite their arbitrariness and heavy loot. “The education department had submitted a proposal for legislation to put curbs on private schools, but the state government is deliberately not taking up the matter in the assembly,” Mehra alleged.The forum has also sought the formation of a state advisory council to stop the loot by private schools.“Private schools are committing arbitrary loot in the name of selling books, uniforms and collecting funds,” Mehra added.The forum has warned the state government of intensifying the movement if the school fee is not completely waived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/student-parent-forum-demands-curbs-on-pvt-schools/story-ibYKwWQbsjh7p1SbPORztJ.html
17-09-2020||City||Take final call on shifting dairy units outside city limits: MLA Talwar urges DC||Annoyed over the dumping of waste by dairy owners in the sewer lines, MLA Sanjay Talwar has urged deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma and MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal to take a final decision on shifting of dairy units outside MC limits within 15 days. DC Sharma and Sabharwal are members of the high powered committee formed for shifting dairy units outside the city. In a letter to DC Sharma and MC chief Sabharwal on Thursday, Talwar said that the sewer lines in different parts of his constituency remain choked due to the dumping of cow dung by dairy owners. Talwar said that Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) had earlier proposed to set up an effluent treatment plant (ETP) for the Tajpur road dairy complex, but that project has been put to halt after a high powered committee was formed by the local bodies department for taking a final decision on shifting the dairy units in the last week of August.The committee has not yet been able to take a final decision regarding the shifting of dairy units, due to which residents of his constituency are facing troubles. The NGT has also directed the MC to stop dairy units from dumping waste into the sewer lines and Buddha Nullah. The high powered committee should take a final decision of shifting of dairy units in 15 days. If it is decided that dairy units would not be shifted, then the PEDA authorities should be directed to start the process of installing ETP, which would also take around two years. Sites being identified, but govt yet to decide: MayorA meeting of the high powered committee was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Thursday. DC Sharma and MC chief Sabharwal also attended the meeting.Sandhu said that dairy units have to be shifted and four sites in villages have been identified. The officials have been asked to look into the feasibility of the project and a final decision would soon be taken in this regard. But final approval has to be given by the state government. “We are also working on the project to allow change of land use at the existing dairy complexes. Being a dairy owner myself, I have said that the CLU should be provided free of cost as dairy owners will also have to purchase the plots in new dairy complexes to be established outside the MC limits,” said Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/take-final-call-on-shifting-dairy-units-outside-city-limits-mla-talwar-urges-dc/story-U8GFXWRaSZKDuwf0l1SUrL.html
17-09-2020||City||Question hour: 1,128 doctors appointed across Himachal, says heath minister||The Himachal Pradesh government has appointed as many as 1,128 doctors in various health institutions across the state since January 1, 2018, health minister Dr Rajiv Saizal told the House during the ongoing monsoon session on Thursday.At the same time, several other positions have been filled, including 366 nurses, 80 male health workers, 81 radiographers, 35 OTAs and 9 ophthalmic assistants, Saizal said in reply to a question posed by BJP legislator Jeet Ram Katwal on the behalf of Bilaspur MLA Subash Thakur.The health minister said that in all, record posts have been filled in various categories. To another question on vacancies in hospitals in Bilaspur district, Saizal said recruitment is a continuous process and the said vacant posts would be filled on priority basis.Replying to Congress legislator Vinay Kumar, who asked why the status of 255 doctors appointed under the National Health Mission was contractual even after three years of service, the health minister said there is no provision for regularisation of doctors under the central programme. There are 1,154 employees of different categories and they are engaged under the rules of the Centre and the state government cannot do anything about it, Saizal said adding that out of these, 863 employees are engaged through outsourcing.Elaborating further, he said the Mission’s terms of service provide for recruitment of doctors on contract and outsourcing basis. “The recruits are engaged for one year at first and, if deemed necessary, their services are extended further. The state government’s rules do not apply here as it is the Centre’s programme,” the minister explained.Responding to a query raised by BJP MLA Reena Kashyap, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the new sub-divisional magistrate office in Sarahan, for which 13 posts were approved, was now open and that its notification had been issued on August 22, 2019. Out of the 13 posts, 4 posts have already been filled and the remaining will be soon. The DC has issued orders to transfer the records from Rajgarh to Sarahan to start the work, said Bhardwaj.The minister also divulged that door-to-door garbage collection has been started in Solan city council and 191 employees have been engaged for the same. He said there are 25 dustbins for waste collection and orders have been issued to fix the four bins whose base is damaged. Bhardwaj was replying to Congress legislator Col Dhaniram Shandil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/question-hour-1-128-doctors-appointed-across-himachal-says-heath-minister/story-UQWcL1kAlwSieibSJkYI2H.html
17-09-2020||City||Himachal CM unveils sales counter for local products made by rural women||In a bid to empower rural women, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the Mahila Shakti Kendra Counter at the general post office here on Thursday.At the counter, products made by women self-help groups (SHGs) will be showcased and sold. The initiative is part of the state’s rural livelihood mission.Speaking on the occasion, CM said the state government has taken several steps to stabilise the rural economy and empower women during the Covid-19 pandemic by starting Mahila Shakti Kendras at its main post offices, under the joint aegis of state rural livelihood mission, rural development department and the Indian postal department.Thakur said handmade products by rural women would be available for sale at these counters, and the money would be transferred to the SHGs through direct benefit.He said this would not only strengthen the economy of women folk, but also encourage use of local products among the masses and would realise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s idea of self-reliance.Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, rural development and panchayati raj minister Virender Kanwar, health minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, secretary rural development Dr Sandeep Bhatnagar, rural development director Lalit Jain and chief postmaster general Meera Ranjan Tshering were present on the occasion among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-unveils-sales-counter-for-local-products-made-by-rural-women/story-8Ovo0P65InYNj53E6z2rFJ.html
17-09-2020||City||Second phase of mass covid testing begins in Srinagar||The District Disaster Management Authority, Srinagar, initiated the second phase of mass covid testing of over 60,000 citizens in the municipal wards of Srinagar.The second phase began on Thursday and is likely to get completed by next month as multiple teams are formed to conduct tests. Srinagar has the maximum number of positive cases in J&K. So far, 9,961 positive cases have been reported here, of which, 1,950 are still active. As per data, 256 deaths have also been reported in district since March.Srinagar DC Shahid Choudhary, who is also head of DDMA, said mass testing helps in early detection and containment of covid. The first phase, focusing on markets and government offices culminated two days ago with 32,000 tests being conducted in 12 days. For the second phase, the Srinagar MC has deployed ward officers in 74 wards to facilitate the DDMA and health authorities.A special drive to conduct Rapid Antigen Tests was launched on September 3 with special focus on markets, workplaces, and government and private offices. Teams of the health department aided by staff from other departments.‘’During the special drive which covered 139 locations , over 32,000 RAT were conducted. Of these, 2,116 persons tested positive,” a government spokesman said.DC Srinagar said that in last 15 days 49,334 rapid tests have been conducted which include 32,000 tests under special drive at identified areas.“The special drive is being organised in addition to regular sampling done by zonal teams in respective medical blocks and institutional sampling at respective hospitals. A team of department of social and preventive medicine, GMC Srinagar, is actively working with DDMA for chalking out containment strategies. Sringar MC has deployed ward officers for reaching out to public as per schedule in respective wards to ensure maximum testing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-phase-of-mass-covid-testing-begins-in-srinagar/story-FgFeU2b5sdkbajNasVdWzJ.html
17-09-2020||City||Day after temple razed, GLADA employees booked for hurting religious sentiments||With Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) raising an agitation seeking action against Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) officials for razing a temple among other encroachments in New Vishwakarma Nagar on Wednesday, the Moti Nagar police have lodged a case against unidentified GLADA employees for hurting religious sentiments.GLADA had razed around 15 encroachments at the site and the situation became tense after a temple was razed by the team. While the occupants pelted stones on the team, the BJP raised an agitation against GLADA for damaging the idols kept inside the decades-old temple.Seeking FIR against the GLADA officials, the district BJP unit led by district president Pushpinder Singal staged a protest inside the Moti Nagar police station till late night on Wednesday. Following this, the police had lodged an FIR. Station House Officer, Moti Nagar police station, Inspector Simranjit Kaur said, “We have lodged an FIR against unidentified GLADA officials under Section 295-A of the IPC on the complaint of BJP leader Tirath Taneja. No official complaint has yet been filed by the GLADA officials after the drive was interrupted on Wednesday.”Meanwhile chief administrator of GLADA, PS Gill has written to commissioner of police, Rakesh Aggarwal, asking him to look into the matter and take action against those who had interrupted the drive and pelted stones on the team. Gill said that the temple was a part of the encroachment and FIR lodged against the employees should be cancelled.BJP district president, Pushpinder Singal said, “If no action is taken against the GLADA officials for damaging the idols, we will raise an agitation in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-temple-razed-glada-employees-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/story-fBF7PJ7VEOGB0KCRV3XKDJ.html
17-09-2020||City||Monsoon session: Ruckus over job reservation, SC/ST welfare in HP Assembly||Clamour continued in the Assembly on Thursday as the Opposition created ruckus over non-reservation of jobs for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and no allocation of funds from the SC/ST component plan.The Congress had given an adjournment notice under Rule 67 to discuss the issue on the penultimate day of the ongoing monsoon session.However, as soon as the subject was brought up, the Opposition and treasury members engaged in a heated exchange even as Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar kept urging them to let the discourse proceed smoothly.The issue was raised by Congress legislator Jagat Singh Negi, who demanded that it be discussed by adjourning the remaining House proceedings. He alleged that the state government was not concerned about the issues of Dalits and tribals. He called it discrimination and it led to a huge uproar from the BJP members.Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj argued that all matters cannot be discussed under Rule 67. On this, leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said the House should discuss the issue raised by the Congress member.Soon, others from the Opposition started shouting slogans and when Negi claimed that they are not being heard, the former walked out of the house.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said since the beginning of the session, the Opposition had been creating unnecessary hullabaloo.He said that earlier Congress members had demanded to start the session without delay and when it was, they began running away from the discussion.Since the Speaker had already ruled that more than one subject could not be discussed under Rule 67, the Opposition should not have staged a walkout, the CM said.He said usually only one serious and urgent topic can be discussed under the rule and that has already been done. “It is totally wrong for the Opposition to make such remarks that only one side is being heard.”Claiming that the government was in full cooperation and answering all questions, the CM said there is not a single subject to which the former has not responded.Bhardwaj said as a parliamentary affairs minister he has to talk to the Speaker and Secretary on many topics related to the functioning of the House and whatever happens in the chamber is not discussed in the House.He argued that the discussion sought by Negi could have been held under any other rule, but not Rule 67, as the most pressing matter of Covid-19 has already been discussed under it.The Speaker said Congress members Jagat Singh Negi, Mohan Lal Brakta, Nand Lal and Colonel Dhaniram Shandil had sought a discussion under Rule 67 over government jobs not being given to SC/STs and non-release of funds from SC/ST component plan. A notice under Rule 130 in the same regard came from CPI (M)’s Rakesh Singha and has been sent to the government for a reply, Parmar said.“The way Negi is trying to create sensation in the House by talking about this issue is wrong,” the Speaker added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/monsoon-session-ruckus-over-job-reservation-sc-st-welfare-in-hp-assembly/story-wGgbZDiVWPwOXAxrx1QnCP.html
17-09-2020||City||BJP seeks revocation of CLU notices to shopkeepers in Ludhiana||Seeking revocation of Change of Land Use (CLU) notices served to shopkeepers amid the pandemic, a group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors met Mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Thursday and demanded a reduction in CLU and development charges.Led by leader of BJP councillors in MC General House, Sunita Rani, the councillors rued that rather than providing any relief to residents, the state government is harassing them by issuing notices to recover pending CLU charges.The BJP councillors accused the MC of serving notices without checking its record. They said that notices are being served to decade-old shops when CLU norms were not even notified.Councillor Sunita Rani said, “We have demanded that the mayor should call a house meeting on the issue. The recovery of CLU charges should be deferred for two years and the rates should also be revised to bring some relief to residents. If the MC does not stop harassing the public, we will be forced to take to roads in protest.”Former councillor Inder Aggarwal said that they have also demanded that MC should drop the town planning scheme in the city, which will also bring down the CLU charges. Also, the hike in development charges for residential properties, wherein the charges have been increased from 174 per yard to 518 per yard, should be rolled back, he added.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “We will table the issue in the upcoming MC house meet. We also want that CLU charges should be reduced but the final decision has to be taken by the state government.”Earlier, senior deputy mayor, Sham Sundar Malhotra, Congress councillor-cum-chairman of Punjab State Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC) and shopkeepers in different parts of the city had also opposed the recovery of CLU charges amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-seeks-revocation-of-clu-notices-to-shopkeepers-in-ludhiana/story-CXqmbeKmjc0z9SUguAE7nL.html
17-09-2020||City||To keep virus away, Spiti valley to remain closed for tourists till October 31||Even as the Himachal government has opened its borders for all, the residents of Spiti have decided to keep the valley shut for all kinds of tourism activities.“It is with sheer regret that we would like to inform all travellers and tourists who are planning to visit Spiti that the valley is closed for any kind of tourism activity, specifically till October 31, 2020,” Spiti Tourism Society said in an appeal released on Wednesday.Tourism activity of any kind, including jeep safaris, package tours, trekking and camping, will not be allowed, it added.The decision to close down tourism was taken unanimously after a series of meetings of stakeholders, including hoteliers, homestay owners, guides, travel associates, cab drivers, panchayat representatives, residents and the committee for preventive measures and sustainable development (CPMSD), a joint forum comprising youth, women groups and five monasteries of the valley.The step has been taken considering the consequences of the coronavirus pandemic in the high-altitude region of Spiti which has limited medical facilities, underdeveloped infrastructure and extreme geographical conditions with harsh winters, said CPMSD member Sonam Targe.He said with the winter approaching, the valley will be far more vulnerable than usual. Any person requiring medical assistance will need to be taken outside Spiti for treatment and maintaining social distancing in cold will not be possible.“We collectively believe that our valley cannot afford to get exposed to this pandemic before the winter,” said Targe.The decision to close down tourism is a difficult one for us as the valley depends heavily on it, but it is a necessary step to help curb the entry of Covid-19 into Spiti, he added appealing the tourists to cancel or postpone their plans for the season.‘Make Covid report mandatory’ Targe said the decision to open the border was expected as the state government has to consider every aspect, including Himachal’s economy.However, it was shocking that the condition of having a Covid negative report was removed, targe said adding, “The government should reconsider the decision and make the report mandatory. It would help keep the state safe from the pandemic.”Targe also complained that the government didn’t carry out any awareness drive to educate people about the importance of social distancing and other norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-keep-virus-away-spiti-valley-to-remain-closed-for-tourists-till-october-31/story-aDA1bxrKYHkLoYy5NaD5rO.html
17-09-2020||City||One year MSc in agriculture not viable as per NEP, says PAU V-C||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon said that one-year masters (M.Sc) as per the guidelines of National Education Policy (NEP) won’t be viable in agriculture, especially, when dealing with crop plants as knowledge is growing each day. He also stressed on collaborations with other institutions in the area of research.He said this in an online panel discussion on “National Education Policy and agricultural education and research” organised by PAU. Many vice-chancellors and former V-Cs of various universities, fellows of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS) and faculty of PAU participated in the discussion.More than 160 participants comprising renowned educationists and agricultural experts attended the deliberations.Dhillon said that change is a must but a balance between old and new has to be maintained.“PAU has already been multidisciplinary by producing eminent agricultural scientists, litterateurs, great poets, artists, Olympians, etc. The university has made tremendous strides in the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic by staying connected with 40,000 to 50,000 farmers on Facebook and now, it is all set to hold virtual kisan mela on September 18 and 19,” he added.“Flexibility and multidisciplinary approach in education are important but societal change is equally vital. Student’s outlook needs to be changed in order to meet the needs of the global standards,” said Dhillon.Lauding emphasis on mother tongue and school education in NEP, he said, “Every culture has its own importance and it must be recognised.”Jai Rup Singh, founder V-C of Central University of Punjab, Bathinda called the NEP “a well-drafted and articulated document.” But he expressed concern over the emphasis on ‘multidisciplinary education’ in the policy. “As per NEP, it is written that by 2030, there shall be at least one large multidisciplinary higher educational institution in or near every district. With a total of 739 districts in India and 950 universities (as per UGC on August 4) in addition to a huge number of colleges and standalone institutions, how are the educational institutions going to thrive? There is no money to pay salaries,” he said. “The implementation of a multidisciplinary approach is a challenge as each university has its own niche and expert area,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-year-msc-in-agriculture-not-viable-as-per-nep-says-pau-v-c/story-kMadh9KeYYNFt3fkypY2pJ.html
17-09-2020||City||Lahaul-Spiti’s Gue village declared containment zone||Due to the recent Covid-19 cases reported in Lahaul-Spiti, the district administration has declared Gue village as a containment zone with immediate effect till further orders.Spiti additional district magistrate (ADM) Gian Sagar Negi said Gue village is required to be cordoned off immediately to contain the spread of coronavirus and no person residing here will be allowed to assemble, gather or congregate at any place within the containment zone and should remain inside their houses/ allotted accommodations, except in case of emergency.7 deaths, 395 new cases in state Seven more deaths due to the virus were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the total fatality toll to 96.A 69-year-old woman died in Kullu, while two deaths were reported at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla; a 50-year-old woman and 52-year-old man succumbed to the virus at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk, Mandi; a 75-year-old woman died in Tanda Medical College, Kangra; and one person died in Chamba Medical College.388 patients recover from infection Total 395 fresh infections recorded in the state on Thursday pushed the total number of cases to 11,190. Apart from this, 388 patients were cured of the disease on Thursday, taking the state’s total recoveries to 6,919, officials said.Out of 395, 82 cases emerged in Sirmaur district, 76 in Kangra, 70 in Mandi district, 49 in Solan, 38 in Una, 30 in Shimla, 15 in Lahaul-Spiti, 13 in Kullu, 12 in Bilaspur, seven in Chamba and three in Hamirpur.Solan still worst-hit With 2,525 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district followed by Kangra, where 1,735 cases have been reported till date. Also, 1,415 cases have been logged in Sirmaur, 1,158 in Mandi, 975 in Una, 753 in Hamirpur, Chamba 663, Shimla 757, Bilaspur 568, Kullu 416 and 135 in Kinnaur. With 90 cases reported so far, Lahaul-Spiti remains the least affected district in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lahaul-spiti-s-gue-village-declared-containment-zone/story-kcYu6e5XRfqkPzZTUvFUVN.html
17-09-2020||City||Congress legislators protest over ‘mismanaged’ Covid crisis in Himachal||Congress legislators on Thursday staged a silent protest here against the Himachal government’s “mismanagement” of the Covid crisis and accused the ruling party of throttling the Opposition’s voice.Leader of Opposition (LoP) Mukesh Agnihotri alleged that the government did not pay any heed to the issue of public importance raised by it during the monsoon session of Assembly.“People are now left to fend for themselves. The government has left them to the mercy of gods,” said Agnihotri.Congress legislators also raised objections over the cut-out of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur erected just behind the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at The Ridge here. “Is the CM above the father of the nation? The government should immediately remove it,” he said.Senior Congress legislator Asha Kumari said the BJP MLAs and Speaker did not allow them to speak on the serious issues they were raising in the Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-legislators-protest-over-mismanaged-covid-crisis-in-himachal/story-QAdD1WOqekDKGeuhRgyzkO.html
17-09-2020||City||Sukhbir Badal opposes farm bills in LS, says laws will destroy 50 yrs of hard work||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday opposed the two farm bills that came up for discussion in the Lok Sabha, saying they go against Punjab’s 20 lakh farmers, 30 lakh farm labourers, 30,000 arhtiyas and 3 lakh mandi labourers. He said the proposed laws will “destroy” the 50 years of hard work done by successive Punjab governments to build the farm sector. He recalled Punjab’s massive contribution in making India self-sufficient in food grain production as he vehemently opposed the bills. He also announced in the House that Union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal will resign from the government, which she did in the evening. Sukhbir, who had earlier opposed the bill to amend Essential Commodities Act, was on Thursday participating in the debate on the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill. The two bills were taken up together for discussion in the Lok Sabha. On Tuesday, he had opposed amendment in Essential Commodities Act. “Our party was not consulted before the ordinances were framed. The centre erred grievously in not taking stakeholders on board,” Sukhbir said. “Some states are industrialised, some are tourism intensive, some have information technology industries, while Punjab depends on agriculture. We have focused on agriculture because there was time when our country was fighting hunger. The state accounts for just 2.5% land of the country, but we contributed up to 80% of food requirement in the 1980s and now our contribution is 50%,” Sukhbir said. “We are a party of farmers and if they are apprehensive, we will stand with them,” he said, adding that if the bills were passed, the purchase of food grain will be monopolised by the corporates. He also clarified that SAD continues to be a constituent of the NDA. “We took up the matter at all fora, and farmers were not satisfied. We can’t stand with bills which farmers are opposed to,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-badal-opposes-farm-bills-in-ls-says-laws-will-destroy-50-yrs-of-hard-work/story-4ZgZ12YbQoCf53VNncdNJI.html
17-09-2020||City||6.5kg heroin recovered from cross-border smugglers in Batala; three arrested||Batala Police on Thursday claimed to have unearthed a racket of heroin smuggling from Pakistan with the arrest of three persons, including a contractual employee of the forest department, and the recovery of 6.5-kg heroin. The police said a large part of the seized contraband was concealed in a tyre of a tractor that was lying abandoned in the shrubs of a forest department’s land situated across the Ravi river near Kakkar village of Ajnala sub-division in Amritsar. The village falls along the India-Pakistan border. The arrested accused are Sarabjit Singh aka Sabha, and Surjit Singh aka Billu of Kakkar village, and Jagtar Singh aka Daya (employee of the forest department) of Rania village, which too falls under the Ajnala sub-division. Police said the accused, who have confessed to having links with some Pakistan-based drug smugglers, had been getting heroin supply from across the border in the guise of tilling the forest department’s land across Ravi. Addressing a press conference in Batala, inspector general of police (IGP-Amritsar range) SPS Parmar said the trio were arrested at a barricade at the Bhagat Singh Chowk in Fatehgarh Churrian. “At the time of the accused’s arrest, 157gm of heroin and an electronic scale were recovered from their possession. During interrogation, the accused confessed that they had been in contact with some Pakistani smugglers. They also told the police that they have hidden a large quantity of heroin near the border,” said the IGP. SSP Rashpal Singh said after the confession, a search operation was launched across the Ravi River and along the international border in Kakkar village with BSF officials. “We recovered 16 packets of heroin weighing around 5.4-kg from the tyre of Holland company hidden in the shrubs on forest department land. We also seized four more packets weighing 1-kg from the shrubs,” said the SSP. Sources said a few days ago, the accused took a mechanic across the Ravi river for concealing the consignment in the tractor’s tyre. The tractor was to be transported in a boat from across the Ravi to Kakkar village. Police added one of the accused Surjit Singh was expert in rowing a raft. The trio had been getting information of the heroin from Pakistan-based smugglers though WhatsApp calls. The accused have been booked Sections 23 (wrongful gain) and others of the IPC at Fatehgarh Churrian police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-5kg-heroin-recovered-from-cross-border-smugglers-in-batala-three-arrested/story-IcpP0WIgkIlYSS1jvlRRYL.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||73% fresh infections reported from nine Haryana districts||Nine of Haryana’s 22 districts accounted for 73% of 2,694 new coronavirus infections reported on Thursday. While the national capital region (NCR) districts of Gurugram (394), Faridabad (282) and Sonepat (271) reported the highest number of fresh infections, Karnal (177), Ambala (160), Panipat (159), Kurukshetra, Hisar (113) and Panchkula (112) also reported over 100 cases each. Substantial numbers were also reported from Sirsa (82), Mahendergarh (80), Yamunanagar (72), Jind (64), Bhiwani (59), Palwal (52) and Rohtak (50). Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri reported 49 fresh infections each followed by Rewari (39), Jhajjar (27), Fatehabad (13) and Nuh (11). The new infections pushed the cumulative infections to 1,03,773. The virus claimed 24 infected persons, taking the death toll to 1,069. Among the dead, four were from Hisar, three each from Karnal and Kurukshetra, two each from Faridabad, Ambala, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad and one each from Panipat, Panchkula, Jhajjar and Nuh. The bulletin said that 2,753 infected persons recovered from the virus, taking the total number of recoveries to 81,690. There are now 21,014 active cases in the state. The recovery rate was 78.72%, a shade higher than Wednesday, and the fatality rate remained at 1.03%. As many as 374 patients are critical, of which 61 are on ventilator support at the 17 government and private medical facilities across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/73-fresh-infections-reported-from-nine-haryana-districts/story-U9DZBzblmSttDyM8OSmwAL.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 4,983 fresh positive cases, 53 deaths on Thursday||Pune district reported 4,983 fresh positive cases and 53 deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday as per the state health department.Thursday’s state data takes the progressive positive count in the district to 2,49,513. Of these total cases, 1,62,914 have recovered from the Covid-19 infection, 5,059 were declared dead and 81,540 are active cases.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 2,269 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,36,393. PMC also recorded 28 deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening which took the total death toll to 3,102.The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 1,002 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 65,548. PCMC also recorded 10 deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening which took the total death toll to 946. Pune rural areas reported 1,712 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the total Covid-19 cases to 47,572. Pune rural areas recorded 15 deaths in last 24 hours till Thursday evening which took the total death toll to 1,011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-4-983-fresh-positive-cases-53-deaths-on-thursday/story-GN8OvVqA7JRlYmYt5qk3VL.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana home minister strips ADGP rank officer of all charges||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday divested additional director general of police (ADGP, administration) Arshinder Singh Chawla of all charges assigned to him by the state government. A 1993-batch IPS officer, Chawla was holding the charge of administration, telecom and information technology. The home minister, it is learnt, was upset with ADGP Chawla for not complying with his orders, including proposals to transfer police officials. “The ADGP, administration, did not respond to any communication sent by me. I had made a whole lot of suggestions aimed at improving police functioning and providing relief to the public but each proposal communicated to him was ignored,’’ an angry Vij said. The home minister said Chawla was entrusted with the task of implementing universal helpline number, Dial 112, an emergency response support system for informing the police, fire brigade and ambulance services. “But the Dial 112 project is also at a standstill, which is why I have ordered that all his charges be withdrawn,’’ the minister said. On being asked as to why he paid an unscheduled visit at the police headquarters in Panchkula on Thursday, Vij said he went there to check whether his orders to divest ADGP Chawla of all charges were being complied with or not. As per the orders issued, three officers will now supervise the work looked after by Chawla till further orders. ADGP (modernisation and welfare) Alok Roy will now supervise telecommunication, ADGP (law and order) Navdeep Virk will supervise the work of general administration branch, establishment II and III branches and information technology and ADGP ( headquarters) Kala Ramachandran will supervise the work of establishment –I branch, legal and training branch, the orders said. “The ADGP will remain without work. He will come to the office but will have no work to do,’’ the home minister said. Chawla, meanwhile, has applied for a 15-day leave. “I have also sought a performance report by September 18 from every officer posted at the police headquarters,’’ Vij said. Power to appoint and transfer IPS vests with CM Though home minister Anil Vij on Thursday ordered that all charges assigned to ADGP, Arshinder Singh Chawla be withdrawn and distributed among equal rank officers posted at the police headquarters, the authority to appoint or transfer IPS officials is vested with the chief minister. As per section 28 of Rules of Business, 1977, all proposals for appointment and posting of IAS, IPS and Class I officers have to be submitted to the CM before issuing orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/home-minister-strips-adgp-rank-officer-of-all-charges/story-amYE0M3sphUrTPJVnFimbN.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Govt committed to procure crops on MSP: Khattar assures farmers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday assured farmers that the state government was committed to procure crops on minimum support price (MSP) and there will be no change in the functioning of mandis. Holding a virtual briefing, Khattar said the Opposition was misleading farmers about the three agriculture related bills introduced by the Central government in the Lok Sabha. The chief minister said the three bill will not lead to closure of government mandis as was being said by the Opposition. “Procurement of crops on MSP will continue and no procurement will be done below MSP,” he said. He said that the Bills introduced by the Central government would only empower farmers to directly engage with potential buyers at a price higher than the MSP and eliminate free trade barriers in agricultural production. He said that with regards to contract farming, no contract will be signed with the farmers below MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-committed-to-procure-crops-on-msp-khattar-assures-farmers/story-IpeEksuLNrtujNL5ZINbDN.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||‘No need to panic’: Aaditya Thackeray on Section 144 imposed in Mumbai due to rising Covid-19 cases||As Covid-19 cases in Mumbai continue to be on the rise, Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed in the city starting midnight of September 17 in order to contain the virus spread. However, the order is only an extension of the previous order issued by the officials on August 31 and no new restrictions have been imposed. With this, the restriction on the gathering of a large group has been extended in Mumbai till September 30.Soon after the order was imposed, social media was abuzz as the new order went viral with many mistaking it as fresh restrictions on movement in the city. “The Mumbai Police order is an extension of existing orders and all exemptions under Unlock which will be applicable in Mumbai City up to 30th September will continue,” the Mumbai Police said, clearing confusion around the order imposed on Thursday.Also read | Vaccine by next year, but will take time to reach all: Harsh VardhanMaharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, too, took to Twitter and urged Mumbaikars to not be alarmed as it’s only an extension to pre-existing order.“The order issued under section 144 CrPC is only an extension of the previous order issued on 31st August. No new restrictions have been imposed by @MumbaiPolice Please share and don’t panic,” he tweeted.SECTION 144: What does it mean?Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) prohibits gathering of five or more than five persons in one place. This restriction has been in place in Mumbai ever since the lockdown began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-need-to-panic-aaditya-thackeray-after-section-144-imposed-in-mumbai-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases/story-SaStn356Vp0lblxNr8nRVL.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||JJP tenders apology over lathicharge on protesting farmers in Kurukshetra||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana, on Friday tendered an apology for the lathicharge on protesting farmers in Kurukshetra last week. Digvijay Chautala, who is younger brother of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and president of INSO, the youth wing of the JJP, said the “JJP apologises to the farmers subjected to lathicharge.” He said, “JJP was always with the farmers...and interests of the farmers are always supreme for the party. After watching the video of lathicharge on farmers, the first thing we did was to condemn the incident as it was wrong.”He said the JJP had also demanded an inquiry into who issued orders for the lathicharge. “The police were wrong to resort to lathicharge,” he said. Stating that the Central and state governments had already made it clear that foodgrains will continue to be procured under minimum support price (MSP), Digvijay said some political parties were misleading farmers. Daring the Congress to ‘prove’ if deputy CM Dushyant Chautala has any role in lathicharge, he accused the Congress of defaming the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jjp-tenders-apology-over-lathicharge-on-protesting-farmers-in-kurukshetra/story-8JXFbc3heTUMmnJ5uXs0TL.html
17-09-2020||City||Cong MPs burn copies of farm bills||New Delhi Congress MPs from Punjab burnt copies of the farm bills proposed by the government inside the Parliament complex on Thursday even as the party staged a protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue.The Congress is opposed to the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, that the NDA government has proposed in Parliament during the ongoing monsoon session, replacing the ordinances issued by it earlier.Congress MPs Jasbir Singh Gill, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjit Singh Aujla and Amar Singh burnt copies of the bills and said they will oppose the proposed legislations tooth and nail. They also wore black robes, saying “I am a farmer and farm labourer and don’t betray me”.“We will oppose these bills from Parliament to panchayats. We also appeal to all MPs to vote against the bills, hearing the inner voice of their conscience for the sake of ‘zameer and zameen’ (conscience and land),” Gill said.Bittu said the BJP would be reduced to ashes if they play with the lives of farmers and their land. “The BJP will be finished if it tries to kill farmers and their mother (land),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-mps-burn-copies-of-farm-bills/story-8Z3XUZKsr0C3lgUPTnn9HM.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Court directs Maharshi Dayanand University to consider student under DSC category||The court of civil judge (senior division) Ashish Kumar Sharma on Thursday directed Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) to consider a student’s application under the deprived scheduled caste (DSC) category instead of the scheduled caste (SC) category. The student had applied for a five-year bachelor of laws integrated course on July 28 under the DSC category but her application was uploaded under the SC category due to an online technical error.“The applicant had written a complaint to MDU vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh but her grievances were not heard,” the applicant’s counsel said.State president of Jannayak Janata Party’s student wing Indian National Students Organisation Pradeep Deshwal said a number of irregularities had come to the fore in the online application process on the university’s website.“Around 450 students faced a similar problem. Due to the university’s lackadaisical approach, applicants are being forced to move to court to address their grievances,” Deshwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/court-directs-maharshi-dayanand-university-to-consider-student-under-dsc-category/story-KSmcXGXDF7itEPp8svLXvN.html
17-09-2020||City||Maratha Kranti Morcha members hold protests despite CM’s appeal||PUNE The members of various Maratha outfits held a protest at the district collectorate office on Thursday for reservation in education and employment even after an appeal by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray not to resort to agitation in the light of Covid-19 pandemic.Wearing black ribbons as a mark of protest, they later submitted a memorandum to district collector Rajesh Deshmukh.The protests continued even as the Pune police served notices to Maratha Kranti Morcha convenors.“We handed over a memorandum to the district collector and demanded that the state government take all necessary legal steps to lift the ban on the reservation,” said, Rajendra Kondhare, convenor, Maratha outfit.“We also demanded that admissions of students from the Special Economically Backward Class (SEBC) done before the stay be secured and concessions granted to students from that category should continue,” he saidIn Kolhapur, activists of Sakal Maratha Samaj staged protests for Maratha reservation while attempting to cut Pune and Mumbai’s milk supply.A large number of workers gathered in front of Gokul dairy to block tankers carrying milk for other cities through heavy police bandobast ensured vehicles left the milk distribution centre without any problem. The police detained some protesting members, said officials.Maratha Kranti Morcha members also held a protest in Jalna and Nanded while attempting to gherao ministers. In Jalna, some activists of the Maratha Mahasangh shouted slogans and blocked the way of state health minister Rajesh Tope when he came out of a function in Town Hall area.The police intervened and detained three activists, an official saidThe apex court on Wednesday stayed implementation of the Maratha quota law and referred petitions challenging the law to a larger constitution bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-kranti-morcha-members-hold-protests-despite-cm-s-appeal/story-aEnw0Py68gBiuUFhsDCnPM.html
17-09-2020||City||Missing saroops: Sikh bodies ask SGPC chief, other office-bearers to resign||AMRITSAR On the call of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) and Dal Khalsa, panthic bodies of different colours gathered at Akal Takht on Thursday over the issue of missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib and resolved to go together to corner Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).In the presence of parallel Akal Takht acting jathedar Dhian Singh Mand and Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (ad hoc) president Baljit Singh Daduwal, the gathering passed several resolution to intensify the fight for bringing all the SGPC functionaries to justice. As SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, other office-bearers and entire executive committee are appearing before the Sikh clergy at Akal Takht on Friday, the Sikh bodies demanded that the SGPC chief and other office-bearers must tender their resignations on moral grounds or they will gherao Longowal’s residence on September 22. “It was the basic duty of the SGPC to respect saroops of Guru Granth Sahib but it failed. Lack of respect is sacrilege that has been committed by this gurdwara body. Those responsible for this sacrilege must be punished”, said representatives of those called this gathering. As per another resolution passed on the occasion, it was decided to demonstrate on all the streets leading to SGPC’s headquarters Teja Singh Samundri Hall on September 28 during the budget session of the gurdwara body to make every SGPC member attending the session accountable in the matter. Extending support to the Punjab shutdown call given by farmer organisations on September 25 in protest against the agri ordinances issued by the Centre, the Sikh leaders said they would take part in the shutdown call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-sikh-bodies-ask-sgpc-chief-other-office-bearers-to-resign/story-UBb8FRGJ9ngJq3GWKafoZL.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana enacts law to validate de-licensing of land||Haryana governor SD Arya has assented to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (second amendment and validation) Bill, 2020 passed by the assembly on August 26 to legitimise de-licensing of land with retrospective effect (January 30,1975). A notification in this regard was issued on September 14 by the law secretary. The newly enacted validation law has come as a major relief to the developers of the Gurgaon-based Ambience Mall and other cases involving de-licensing of land. The Punjab and Haryana high court had on July 10 quashed the town and country planning department’s October 18, 2001 and September 1, 2010 orders to de-license two chunks of land (8 acres and 3.9 acres) of the 18.98 acres approved for constructing the Ambience Lagoon Island residential complex. It allowed raising a commercial complex, the Ambience Mall, on de-licensed land. The CBI, on HC orders, had also registered a criminal case in the matter. More than 54 cases of de-licensing of land were also discovered by the department after the high court orders. The HC had termed the term de-licensing a misnomer in the context of the Act and the case at hand. The bench said that state counsel had admitted that there was no such provision in the Act. The court also said the department’s argument that clause 21 of the General Clauses Act, which gives power to grant a licence also contains implied power to de-license, was bereft of any merit or logic. During the one-day monsoon session around three weeks ago, the state assembly had passed the Bill thereby approving insertion of a new clause section 3 (a) in the Act which would give the power to add to, amend, vary, suspend, withdraw or rescind, license or notification, order, rule or direction or to de-license, from retrospective effect. The Bill also contained a significant validation clause which said that notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court or tribunal or any authority, any action taken or orders issued, things done or purporting to have been taken or done relating to sub section 3(a) of sections 3 by the director, before the commencement of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (amendment and validation) Act, 2020, shall be deemed to be as valid and effective as if such action, approval, orders were issued or action taken in accordance with its provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-enacts-law-to-validate-de-licensing-of-land/story-4VkYFVlw2MjLDc4SLRhddP.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers fret as basmati prices plunge below ₹2,000||The price of basmati varieties of rice has dropped below ₹2,000 leaving farmers who were hoping for a bumper harvest this season crestfallen. Grain markets across the northern districts of Haryana reported that paddy, especially PUSA-1509 (an early variety of basmati), was being sold for ₹1,800-₹2,000 per quintal. Farmers say the prices this season were around ₹800- ₹1,000 below last year, causing a loss of around ₹20,000 per acre. Rajbir Singh, who was selling his produce at the Ladwa grain market of Kurukshetra, said, “This is a bad year for farmers as private traders are purchasing paddy at an arbitrary rate. In the absence of buyers, I had to sell two acres of produce for ₹1,940 per quintal.”A farmer, Suresh Pal of Yamunanagar, said, “The few buyers in mandis are making the most of farmers’ helplessness. We cannot store our produce for long and so are selling at a loss.” Growers of parmal and PR varieties of paddy are not faring any better as government agencies are yet to start procurement.Aggrieved farmers allege that in the absence of government agencies, they are selling their produce for around ₹1,300- ₹1,400 per quintal, which around ₹500 less than the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government.“For the last five days, my produce is lying in the grain market as the traders are not ready to purchase it for above ₹1400,” said Subhash Chand of Yunispur village, Karnal.Procurement should have begun from September 15: BKU Reportedly, government agencies will begin procurement from October 1. However, farmers have demanded that the government advance the procurement as most varieties will be harvested within three months.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Tikait) president Ratan Mann says, “Most crops take three months to harvest. This year paddy transplantation began from June 15, thus the government should have ensured that procurement began from September 15.” In another setback for farmers, the All India Rice Exporters’ Association (AIREA) has decided not to procure paddy until the government exempts the market fee on paddy procured from the grain markets.AIREA president Nathi Ram Gupta said, “In the interest of farmers, the government should exempt the market fee and rural infrastructure development fee, which is around 4% on paddy procured inside the mandis of the state. After all, the government has exempted market fee on the paddy procured outside the mandi.”In this regard, AIREA has issued an advisory to private traders asking them not to procure paddy till the government decides on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-fret-as-basmati-prices-plunge-below-2-000/story-GqZFElMs1s7EghIhn9BL2I.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Maha forest department to tag leopards as part of four-year academic study||The state forest department, Pune region in association with the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has started a joint leopard monitoring project in the wake of rising number of leopard spotting in the district. The initiative has received permission from the state government to study hotspots in the district and place collar tags on leopards. The department has maintained that leopard tagging would lead to professional research and academic study on the leopards and their ecosystems. According to the forest department, collar tagging will help them in finding movement patterns, population demographics and its behaviour for future conservation of the endangered species.The four-year leopard study is divided into four phases. In the first phase, the leopard hotspots will be located in Pune district. The hotspots are at forty villages which come under the jurisdiction of Junnar, Ambegaon, Khed and Shirur tehsils of the district. The second phase of study will comprise study of leopard habitat, lifestyle, its path trajectory and leopard population census in the district. Junnar forest division incharge and deputy conservator Jairam Gauda, said, “In order to study the leopard ecosystem and other details, it was essential that they be collar tagged.The state government has given us the permission for tagging and academic research work will begin soon. As part of the next phase which includes leopard census, we will study the area where leopard visits or spotting are the maximum. We will conduct an area survey which includes setting up of camera traps.The camera traps will be set up at every two kms which will help us keep a close tab on leopard movement and at the same time ensure safe surveillance of the wild animal.”Based on the inputs of leopard surveillance, the forest department will be able to prevent man-animal conflict and accordingly devise a policy for the safety and security of animals, Gauda said.Over the past few years, the talukas of Junnar, Khed, Ambegaon and Shirur have witnessed maximum leopard spotting. According to the forest department, new areas comprising north Daund, Baramati, Indapur and road which goes to South Satara have also seen leopard visits. The said areas will see more number of leopard spotting in the near future, forest officials said.Wildlife experts maintained that paddy farming had gone up thrice in the district. Paddy fields provide ideal cover for leopards to hide and increase in paddy cultivation has led to an increase in leopard population and area of influence. Recently, a two-year-old leopard was found dead after being mowed down at the Katraj tunnel on August 15. Seven leopard attacks- one in Hinjewadi and the second in Keshavnagar -were reported in the district in 2019 wherein two persons were killed and seven were reported to be injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maha-forest-department-to-tag-leopards-as-part-of-four-year-academic-study/story-ipML3HxVWRpEu81DjTu6bO.html
17-09-2020||Dehradun||Haridwar: Pilgrims throng Har-Ki-Pauri on Pitra Amavasya||A large number of pilgrims gathered in Haridwar’s Har-Ki-Pauri area to take a holy dip in the Ganga on the occasion of Pitra Amavasya for the first time since mid-March when the Covid-19 pandemic prompted social distancing norms across the country.The district administration closed Narayani Shila--the revered shrine where Shraadh rituals are performed--as a precautionary measure in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the district.Also read: Elephant found dead in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, seventh jumbo to die in less than 3 monthsDistrict magistrate Jagdeesh Lal said that Narayani Shila was closed on Wednesday evening given the threat of Covid-19 as pilgrims in large numbers arrived from across the country to perform shraadh-related rituals.“As shraadh rituals are held at Narayani Shila, the administration decided to close it to avoid a huge influx of people from other states. But Har-Ki-Pauri was opened for sacred Ganga dip for pilgrims though it was ensured that social distancing norms and entry-exit of pilgrims were properly managed,” said Lal.Pradeep Jha, the president of Ganga Sabha that manages the Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghat, said since March 17 this was the first time that such a large number of pilgrims arrived there. “We thank the administration for listening to our suggestions with regard to lifting the prohibition on taking a dip at Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghat on Pitra Amavasya. We hope...more pilgrims and tourists come to Haridwar,” he said.At Narayani Shila only morning and evening aarti was held by temple priests.Chief priest of Narayani Shila, Pundit Manoj Kumar Shastri, said the temple committee was of the view that it should remain closed on Pitra Amavasya because of Covid-19.Police personnel were deployed at Har-Ki-Pauri’s entry and exit points to ensure social distancing and prevent overcrowding.“Today [Thursday] is the last day of Shraadh period of 16 days and it has brought us hope of normalcy soon returning here as well as elsewhere in the country. We are also hoping that soon Covid-19 vaccine comes up and Mahakumbh is held in a grand way,” said Sanskrit-Vedic scholar Tesu Raj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/haridwar-pilgrims-throng-har-ki-pauri-on-pitra-amavasya/story-mcS1EyAZcJzVcI1tWQqHAO.html
17-09-2020||Dehradun||Eye on European market, Uttarakhand promotes Himalayan nettle grass goods||The Uttarakhand Bamboo and Fibre Development Board has cited great demand for Himalayan nettle grass in Europe and said it is trying to promote its trade to generate employment in the state. “A Switzerland based company which works on producing different nettle-based goods has approached us with queries for procuring raw material. They have asked us to supply around 6 tonnes of nettle grass per year. We have sent them samples which are being tested. The company is ready to take uncarded samples also. This [offers] great scope for youth and women in getting employment in this sector,” said Manoj Chandran, the Board’s chief executive officer.Also read: May take decades to clean Ganga water, say expertChandran said the Board is in talks with other firms also. “As we have a fixed market, regular purchases can be made in the nettle season. After collection of the raw material, we process it to make yarns and villagers weave different products for sale. But now only a small quantity is being produced. We are planning to export nettle grass which will encourage more people to get involved in this field. They can practise farming of the grass or earn through collection and processing of the raw grass.”A Board’s study has found there are 96 different types of nettle grass available in Uttarakhand. The Himalayan nettle grass among them has the maximum fibre content--85%--making it suitable for textile and related industries.STS Lepcha, a former principal chief conservator of forest, said that Himalayan nettle grass is found in high-altitude areas, mostly above 2000 m. “In 2007-08, the minimum support price for Himalayan nettle grass was Rs 40 per kg which has now increased to almost around Rs 70. ...we are also encouraging locals to cultivate it.”The Uttarakhand government has been making tea from nettle grass and selling it through development cooperatives. A collection centre and carding facility are also being set up in Rishikesh to increase its production.Chandran said the Board is working on developing techniques through which the fibre made from this grass can be used for making car bodies.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat last year wore jackets made of nettle grass to promote the use of its products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/eye-on-european-market-uttarakhand-promotes-himalayan-nettle-grass-goods/story-22rvjhotKE8pQPmjxhUp3I.html
17-09-2020||City||SAD should now quit central govt, says farm cell head Maluka||Bathinda With a dharna by agitated farmers outside the residence of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal entering its third day on Thursday, farmers’ cell head of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Sikander Singh Maluka said the party should now quit being part of the Central government.“As a whip has been issued, SAD’s five MPs (two in Lok Sabha and three in Rajya Sabha) are bound to vote against the controversial farm bills. The coalition dharma says an ally should quit the partnership, if it opts to vote against the bill moved by the government. There is a general feeling that quitting the ministerial berth in the Centre is the only option that Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had,” Maluka, a confidant of the Badal family, told HT on Thursday.Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) started a six-day dharna outside the residence of Badal at Muktsar district’s Badal village on Tuesday. Maluka, also a core committee member of SAD, said Akalis had a historic political association with the BJP, but the party chose to oppose the farm bills as it always stands with masses.On September 3, SAD had released a video message of the Akali patriarch Badal stating the three ordinances (now bills) are in favour of the farming community. Badal had charged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and other political parties of misinterpreting the bills as anti-farmers. Maluka, however, admitted that the party had to oppose the bills due to widespread resentment among farmers. SAD opted to be the voice of farmers as the common agriculturist seriously apprehend that assured purchase by the government would be gradually taken over by the private sector, and the corporate sector would monopolise agriculture.“It is still being debated if the bills are in the interests of farming or not. But, a common farmer has been made to understand it is against the agrarian community. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s opposition of the bills on the floor of the House has been welcomed by our entire chain of workers,” Maluka added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-should-now-quit-central-govt-says-farm-cell-head-maluka/story-CJt9W7gVvmxXJuHzFQeaHK.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses permission to terminate pregnancy in case of correctable deformity||The Bombay High Court on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by a Pune resident seeking the termination of her 23-week-long pregnancy on grounds that the foetus had a deformity—a cleft lip and palate.The division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav dismissed the petition, primarily due to the report of the Pune’s Season Hospital medical board stating that the deformity was surgically correctable.The woman had approached the high court contending that her sonogram on August 12, 2020 showed that the foetus had a cleft lip and palate. The woman said she then took a second opinion where the deformity was confirmed, and moved high court to seek permission to terminate the pregnancy as it had by then crossed the 20-week limit set by the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971.Also Read: RTI activists seek resumption of services of quasi-judicial bodies in MaharashtraOn August 27, she was referred to a medical board of specialist doctors by the high court. In its report submitted to the high court on September 3, the board confirmed that the foetal anomalies were surgically correctable, and did not recommend medical termination of the pregnancy.But the woman’s lawyer submitted that the mental trauma suffered by the pregnant woman is one of the considerations, which the medical board had not looked into,and it would result from being forced to raise a child with this deformity.Also Read: Emergency parole of prisoners in Maharashtra will be automatically extended: Bombay HCThe bench, however, refused to accept the submission. “The likelihood of the mental trauma in the future sought to be projected by the petitioner, in the peculiar circumstances of this case, cannot be accepted as a ground for termination of pregnancy,” said the bench, while rejecting the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-permission-to-terminate-pregnancy-in-case-of-correctable-deformity/story-WO98mJ7ZbdTjwpEAKIGmNM.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to relax constructed area condition for pvt varsities; CLU waiver for Radha Soami Satsang bhawans||Chandigarh To promote higher education in the state, the Punjab cabinet on Thursday decided to reduce the requirement of constructed area from 50,000 to 30,000 square metres for multi-domain university and from 20,000 to 15,000 square metres for the one with single-domain. It has been decided to accordingly amend the Punjab Private University Policy, 2010, an official spokesperson said after the cabinet meeting held via video conferencing. The move will encourage the establishment of more private universities in the state. This decision was taken at the meeting, chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, in line with the recommendations of the committee, constituted under the chief secretary by the higher education department, to consider the representations received from various sponsoring bodies for relaxation/amendment in various clauses of the policy-2010 for the establishment of new private universities in the state. The cabinet also gave the nod to amend provision 4.3(g) of the policy, making the sponsoring body eligible for setting up a private university on leased land, subject to the lease being a long-term one, for 33 years, from a government authority or gram panchayat. The Punjab Private University Policy-2010 had no provision for taking land on lease for setting up a university, while most states have such an enabling provision of land requirement. Under the policy, the state government has so far approved 14 universities. There is a proposal to establish four more private universities.CLU waiver for Radha Soami Satsang bhawans The cabinet also approved waiver of fee for Change of Land Use (CLU) and several other charges for Satsang Bhawans established, or to be established in future, by Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) across the state. Apart from CLU, the other charges to be waived include external development charges (EDC), permission fee (PF), social infrastructure fund (SIF) and building scrutiny fee. It may be recalled that the state government has already exempted above charges for educational, health, religious and social institutions set up by SGPC, Durgiana Mandir, Amritsar and Devi Talab Mandir, Jalandhar, by a notification in 2012. Sub-committee to finalise modalities for PACL disinvestment A proposal for formation of an empowered cabinet sub-committee on disinvestment of 33.49% equity shareholding of Punjab Alkalies & Chemicals Limited (PACL) was given clearance. The sub-committee will comprise cabinet ministers Brahm Mahindra, Manpreet Singh Badal and Sunder Sham Arora. This decision was in response to the proposal mooted by directorate of disinvestment and public enterprises. The other members of the committee will include principal secretary (finance), principal secretary (industries), managing directors of PSIDC and PACL, besides director public enterprises and disinvestment as its convener. 15th finance commission tied grants for rural piped water Priority will be given to providing functional house tap connections (FHTCs) in the remaining 17.59 lakh households from the tied grants for water under the 15th Finance Commission to meet its 2022 target of 100% piped water connectivity. It was also decided to push Phase 2 of Swachh Bharat Mission (gramin), for making all villages in the state open defecation-free in next 5 years. Co-op audit (group-b) service rules to be amended The cabinet gave its approval to amend the Punjab Cooperative Audit (Group-B) Service Rules, 2016, by merging the post of senior assistant (accounts) with that of senior assistants, to pave the way for promotional avenues to the senior assistant (accounts) working in the audit wing of the cooperative department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-relax-constructed-area-condition-for-universities-to-promote-higher-education/story-avo8Iaw4eI5iOCFfhr7ngK.html
17-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ahead of Cabinet reshuffle, Bhaya meeting Pilot creates buzz||The infighting in Rajasthan Congress seems unending. After a Congress MLA wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot demanding removal of an unnamed corrupt minister from the Cabinet, mines minister Pramod Jain Bhaya met former state party chief Sachin Pilot and then Gehlot on Wednesday, leading to speculations that all was not well in the Cabinet which is expecting a reshuffle in some days. Also read: All bodies recovered from Chambal river in Rajasthan boat tragedyBhaya was believed to be made a minister from Pilot’s quota in Gehlot’s Cabinet but stayed with the latter even after Pilot’s rebellion along with 21 other MLAs.On Wednesday morning, around 11.30 am, Bhaya reached Pilot’s residence in Civil Lines and had a closed-door meeting till 12.15pm. He is probably the first Cabinet minister, who met Pilot, after the Congress high command was able to end Pilot’s rebellion mid-August by assuring him that his concerns would be addressed.Outside Pilot’s residence, Bhaya said he was visiting Pilot as he hadn’t met the leader for a long time. “When two politicians meet, they obviously talk politics,” he said. Thereafter, Bhaya met Gehlot at his residence at around 2pm. The meeting lasted for about half an hour.On September 14, a letter by Congress MLA Bharat Singh had circulated on social media, in which he demanded removal of a minister (without naming anyone), calling that minister a mafia of corruption. Singh, member of state wildlife board, is considered close to Gehlot. A senior leader familiar with the development, requesting anonymity, said both the MLA and Bhaya come from Hadoti region of Rajasthan and have not been on the best of terms.The leader said Bhaya’s meeting with Pilot should be seen in the light of Bharat Singh’s letter and that the minister’s performance was discussed at meetings with party high command recently. “As a reshuffle is expected soon, Bhaya’s meeting the two leaders could save his ministerial berth,” the leader said.Bhaya refused to comment on Singh’s letter, saying he was a senior and respectable leader. “He can have his personal opinion. I do not want to comment. In democracy, all are free to write,” he said. A second Congress leader, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Certainly, the meeting has it political meanings, especially after the month-long political crisis. A clear line between Gehlot and Pilot camp is drawn, things might look settled but differences are very much there, and amid this, the meeting has created a buzz of reshuffle.” Finding an opportunity to attack the Gehlot-led government, BJP leaders quoted Singh’s letter to claim that corruption was prevalent in his Cabinet. Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted, “It seems that part-2 of the film nakara-nikama by the Chief Minister is going to be released soon.” Reacting to Shekhawat’s tweet, Independent MLA and Gehlot loyalist Sanyam Lodha asked who the big brother had chosen for part two of film nakara-nikama. Naming three BJP leaders, he tweeted that they had played a key role in nakara-nikama part-I. “Now tell who the mota bhai (big brother) has chosen for part-II,” he tweeted. Political analyst Narayan Bareth said Congress is one party that faces such issues whenever it is in power. Earlier, there were no challenges but they are a serious concern and they should keep their house in order. “In every party there are rivalries, in Congress, it is out in the open whereas in BJP, it is behind close doors. They haven’t learnt how to run an organisation, especially when they have an opponent like (PM) Modi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-ahead-of-cabinet-reshuffle-bhaya-meeting-pilot-creates-buzz/story-ExhHe6ladvoPBYlQH8FRTL.html
17-09-2020||Pune||11 of 50 Covid-positive children in Pune develop multisystem issues; 6 show brain ‘involvement ‘||Of the 50 children admitted at two city hospitals, 11 reported severe Covid-19 symptoms including multisystem inflammatory and six of those eleven showed impact on their brain, said treating doctors. As more cases are now being reported among children, the complications among the paediatric patients are also coming forward. The hospitals are defining children as anyone below 18 years of age. Of the six kids, a 13-year old girl child lost her life during the course of her treatment two months ago at Sahyadri hospital. Doctors at both the hospitals have now studied these kids and found that the virus has evolved which is leading to such complications in kids who could be saved through earlier detection and treatment. Dr Sagar Lad, a senior paediatric intensivist consultant at Sahyadri and Jehangir Hospital said “Among the six we lost one child who was admitted just six to eight hours ago, the other five are now healthy and discharged. We noticed that these children report paediatric inflammatory multisystem syndrome temporarily associated with SARS-CoV-2 (PIMS-TS) or multisystem inflammatory syndrome of childhood (MIS-C). The children tested Covid-19 antibody-positive so they were once infected but are now not infective. The antibodies developed during the course of the infection by the body ended up damaging their own system.” Dr Lad also said, “The children showed symptoms of brain involvement, excessive sleepiness, altered sensorium, convulsions and severe headache. Since the antibody test is positive so these are the post-infection complications. The children who might test negative for the infection may show such symptoms later so they must be watched for signs including rashes, swelling, fever for over 48-72 hours, swelling on joints, redness, excessive sleepiness, irritating behaviour. However, it must be emphasised that not all children report this and with timely intervention, the child could be saved as the recovery rate is good among children.” Dr Pradeep Suryawanshi - head, department of Paediatrics and Neonatology, Sahyadri Speciality Hospital who was also part of the study said, “Covid-19 was assumed to be a relatively benign disease in children but since the last three months there are various cases coming up with hyperinflammatory syndrome secondary to Covid-19 infection. Generally, children are less affected because receptors, where Covid virus attaches in the breathing tract, are less in children. But PIMS TS disease is seen 3-4 week after Covid-19 infection. There is a formation of auto-antibodies which damages the blood vessels in the body, especially of heart causing disease called Kawasaki like disease and also produces a shock.” “These patients need aggressive treatment. If we diagnose it early and treat appropriately chances of recovery are good and do not produce any complications. Hence, prompt recognition of PIMS/MIS-C is of utmost importance as it can improve outcomes,” said the doctors. The doctors also cleared that not all children with Covid-19 land up in PIMS as it depends on the child’s immune system to handle such infection. Only a few cases have been reported in the world so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-of-50-covid-positive-children-in-pune-develop-multisystem-issues-6-show-brain-involvement/story-wwsXdJAl4nRMEN4cg8grRI.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 5,049 fresh positives and 48 deaths||On Wednesday, Pune district reported 5,049 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 48 deaths due to the infection, as per the state health department.This takes the progressive positive count to 2,44,530, of which 1,57,422 have recovered.The total death toll as of September 16 is 4,936 and 82,172 are the active number of cases. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 2,141 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,34,124, with 26 deaths in the last 24 hours until Wednesday evening. This puts the PMC death toll at 3,042. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 1,147 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 64,546, with nine deaths in the last 24 hours, which takes the death toll to 926.Pune rural reported 1,761 fresh positives taking the total Covid-19 cases to 45,860, with 13 deaths. The death toll for Pune rural is now 968. The state health department reported 17,559 patients discharged on Wednesday, taking the final discharged count to 7, 92,832, as of September 16. The recovery rate in the state is 70.71 per cent. A total of 23,365 new cases were reported in the state, taking the total number of cases up to 1,121,221. Within 24 hours, 474 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state today which takes the death toll for the state to 31,264. The case fatality rate in the state is now 2.75 per cent. Of the 55,06,276 laboratory samples, 11,21,221 have tested positive (20.36 per cent) for Covid-19 as of September 16. Currently, 17,53,347 people are in-home quarantine and 36,462 people are in institutional quarantine across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-5-049-fresh-positives-and-48-deaths/story-WPEOGs9pwbVCKLzM3xkqvK.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Males account for 68% of Covid-19 deaths in Pune district||Of the 4,881 deaths due to Covid-19 reported in Pune district as of September 10, 68 per cent or 3,320 of the patients who died were male.The death analysis report of the district also shows that seven hospitals of the 57 hospitals that reported Covid-19 deaths accounted for 55.3 per cent of the deaths. The data also showed that between August 20 and August 26, was the worst for Pune. Since the first death recorded in the district on April 1, the week between August 20 and August 26 reported 490 deaths. This is the maximum number recorded in a week or 10% of the 4,881 deaths recorded. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, district civil surgeon and nodal Covid-19 officer said, “It could not be said conclusively as to why male gender is more affected than the female gender. There could be multiple factors including lifestyle habits like smoking and alcohol which leads to comorbidities. workstyle, physical activity, and also that the female gender has more immunity than the male gender. However, we cannot say for sure which factor is the most contributing factor. Also, we need to see if we are seeing more male positive cases than female cases proportionally.” Of the 4,881 deaths recorded due to Covid-19 till September 10 the female gender accounts for 32 per cent of the deaths or 1,560 deaths. Also, one transgender death has been accounted for in the district. The analysis also shows that out of the total deaths, 83 per cent or 4,047 deaths has reported an associated risk factor. A total of 17 per cent or 834 reported no risk factor. The report highlights that seven hospitals in the district among which four are run by the government account for more than half the deaths. The seven hospitals include Sassoon general hospital with 1,072 deaths (22 per cent), Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital with 571 deaths (11.7 per cent), Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital with 480 deaths (9.8 per cent), Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital with 192 (3.9 per cent), Naidu hospital with 155 deaths (3.2 per cent), DH Aundh with 122 deaths (2.5 per cent) and Navale hospital with 107 deaths (2.2 per cent). The seven hospitals reported 2,699 deaths or 55.3 per cent among the total deaths. These hospitals also see maximum admission of Covid-19 positive cases. The analysis report also showed that August has been the deadliest month for the district as most cases and also most deaths due to Covid-19 were recorded in the month of August (see graphic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/males-account-for-68-of-covid-19-deaths-in-pune-district/story-mDuab4CCq6pQEGP1ORX2zO.html
17-09-2020||Pune||PMC to form ward-level committees to act against mask, social distancing violators||As the number of Covid cases surge in the city Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has decided to form committees at ward level to keep a check on those violating mask and social distancing norms at commercial areas.PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar issued an order on Wednesday for committees at each of the 15 ward offices. As per the order, a committee will be headed by the assistant municipal commissioner who is also the ward officer, assistant anti-encroachment inspector and health officer of the ward.“The committee will submit its daily report about the action taken on violators in their respective wards,” stated the order.“It has come to our notice that residents are not following the rules and taking safety measures which is leading to the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. The shopkeepers in the city are not following safety guidelines sent to them time to time and it has become necessary to monitor their activities,” said Kumar.“We have now ordered to form ward office level committee headed by the assistant municipal commissioner who is the ward officer, assistant anti-encroachment inspector and health officer of the ward. They should submit their daily action report to the PMC deputy commissioners and further forwarded to us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-form-ward-level-committees-to-act-against-mask-social-distancing-violators/story-2t1RP1VCVKuor97OI6CU7O.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Nigerian man caught with drugs gets bail as NCB fails to file charge sheet||The Bombay high court has granted default bail to a Nigerian national accused of possessing a commercial quantity of contraband material by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), since the agency failed to file a charge sheet within the stipulated period of time.NCB arrested Maduabuchi Igwe at Panvel railway station late in the night on December 30, 2019 and allegedly recovered 500gm of Mephedrone, 490gm of pink MDMA tablets and 75gm of grey MDMA tablets from his possession.Igwe moved the high court challenging July 1, 2020 order of the special court at Panvel, granting extension of 90 days to NCB to complete investigation and file a charge sheet under section 36A (4) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The extension of 90 days was granted over and above the maximum period of 180 days prescribed under section 36-A (4) of the NDPS Act, which expired on June 28, 2020.Igwe’s counsel, Advait Tamhankar submitted that the order passed by the special court was not only illegal and perverse but was also against the mandate of section 36-A (4), since it was passed sans “application of mind”. He pointed out that no independent report of the prosecutor, as required under section 36-A (4), was submitted for seeking the extension.Advocate Hiten Venegaonkar, who appeared for NCB, conceded that the order did not indicate that there was an independent application of mind by the prosecutor. He, however, tried to justify the special court order saying the NCB application did have the grounds warranting the extension.Justice Prithviraj Chavan, however, rejected the request and said it is quite clear that section 36-A (4) requires a report by the public prosecutor and not the investigating officer, and the report should indicate the progress of investigation.“A bare look at the impugned order demonstrates a total non-application of mind by the special court, which cursorily passed the order without assigning any reasons, which is a sine qua non for further detention of the accused in custody” said justice Chavan.Also Read: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally goes past 1.1mn“It is apparent from the application dated June 23, 2020 moved by the prosecution that it was signed by the intelligence officer of the NCB, Mumbai, which is simply endorsed by the Special Public Prosecutor by putting his signature,” said the judge.“It, therefore, cannot be said to be a report of the public prosecutor, as the public prosecutor seems to have acted like a postman,” the judge said.HC added that the right of default bail accrued to the accused in terms of section 167 (2) of CrPC has been thwarted by the special court by granting the extension.Observing that liberty of the Nigerian national needed to be protected, justice Chavan granted him bail on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and one or two sureties in the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nigerian-man-caught-with-drugs-gets-bail-as-ncb-fails-to-file-charge-sheet/story-uhkyfTX4jQduzCCv8g6WaJ.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t need whip like Akalis, united in fight against farm bills: Punjab Congress leaders||Punjab Congress leaders on Thursday said that in contrast to the Akalis, their party was united over the farm bills and did not need a whip to vote against the Centre’s bid “to destroy the state’s agriculture”. They were reacting to a statement of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema over chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh leading a delegation to submit a memorandum to governor VP Singh Badnore on the issue “instead of directing his MPs to express solidarity with the farming community by voting against the agri ordinances”. “The Congress MPs have been fighting against these dangerous anti-Punjab ordinances from the outset and knew which way to vote, unlike those of the SAD, whose MPs were lost due to lack of clarity or direction from their leadership, which has been changing its stance on key issues to suit their personal interests,” said Manish Tiwari, also an MP. He was joined by state Congress president Sunil Jakhar and cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu. The Congress MPs, not just from Punjab but around the country, had voted against the bills, which, unfortunately, the BJP-led NDA, of which the Akalis continue to be a part, succeeded in passing through majority in the House by voice vote, they said in a statement. The Congress MPs already had clear directions from the party leadership, including Captain Amarinder Singh and the high command in Delhi, on the party’s stand on the ordinances, which the Akalis openly supported at the time of their introduction. “Why would they need new directions, given that there had been no change in Captain Amarinder’s or Congress stand on the issue, unlike SAD’s Sukhbir Badal?” they said in a release. ASK WHY SAD IS STILL PART OF NDA They pointed out that it was the SAD, along with the BJP, which had refused to reject the ordinances during the all-party meet convened by Captain Amarinder, and had subsequently stayed away from the Vidhan Sabha session to avoid voting for the resolution against the same. “The sudden U-turn by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal left Akali MPs at a loss to figure out what their party’s stand was, necessitating a whip to vote against the bills in Parliament,” they added. Even now, they said, Sukhbir and his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, a minister in the Union Cabinet, continue to cling to their pretence of power in the NDA in the hope of promoting their petty personal interests. “Why has Harsimrat not quit the Cabinet? Why has Sukhbir not pulled the SAD out of the NDA even after the Narendra Modi government failed to address their purported concerns on the farm bills?” the Congress leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-need-whip-like-akalis-united-in-fight-against-farm-bills-punjab-congress-leaders/story-CTYs681nwylJvF3WJtymsJ.html
17-09-2020||Lucknow||Hindu Yuva Vahini leader found stabbed to death in UP’s Bareilly||A 37-year-old Hindu Yuva Vahini functionary was on Thursday found dead with stab wounds near a hospital he ran in Bareilly, a police officer said.“The body [of Sanjay Singh] was found near his hospital in Dunka locality under Shahi police station area. The body had multiple stab wounds that could have resulted in his death,” said Bareilly’s senior police superintendent, Rohit Singh Sajwan. “We have sent the body for the post-mortem examination and lodged a murder case against unknown people.”Also read: Four held in Delhi for stabbing man to death after one of them was ‘slapped publicly’ Sajwan said five hospital staff members have been detained and were being questioned. Police were also scanning CCTV footage from the murder scene.Dinesh Singh, a relative of Sanjay Singh, said the latter was very active in Hindu Yuva Vahini’s work due to which he had many political rivals in the area. “I think his rivals are behind this incident.”Singh was Bareilly district vice president of Hindu Yuva Vahini, which Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath founded in 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hindu-yuva-vahini-leader-found-stabbed-to-death-in-up-s-bareilly/story-CymrRtrxiyW2jNmEbF07DN.html
17-09-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru civic body issues show-cause notice to 36 hospitals for not allocating 50% beds for Covid-19 patients||The city civic body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued the final show-cause notice to 36 private hospitals for violating the Karnataka government’s mandate to allocate 50% beds for the treatment of Covid-19 infected.It has warned that, any failure to comply with the same will be “viewed seriously” and action will be initiated under the relevant provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act, 2017 and Disaster Management Act, 2005, which include suspension of registration, fine and even imprisonment.Among the hospitals that have been issued final show cause notice include- 21 with over hundred beds, ten with 50- 100 beds and five with 20-50 beds.“It is mandatory for private hospitals to allocate 50% of the beds for the treatment of Covid-19 infected.Notices have been issued by BBMP to 36 private hospitals in Bengaluru who are denying treatment to those infected in violation of government rules. It is certain that strict action will be taken against hospitals violating law,” Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar tweeted.In one such final show cause notice issued to a private hospital on Wednesday, BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad has said that it has been observed that the hospital has not complied with the directions of the government to notify and make available the mandated 50% of the beds for patients referred by it.Noting that even after blocking beds on the online portal of BBMP, patients requiring Covid-19 treatment were being turned away stating beds were not available, the notice to a hospital said, this reveals that beds which are supposed to be reserved for government are being allocated to private patients.“Hence, under relevant sections of Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act, 2017 and Disaster Management Act, 2005 you are hereby directed to immediately comply with provision of the mandated number of beds within 48 hours and report the same,” it said.It further said if the hospital failed to comply with the directions, action would be taken against under Sec 15 of KPME Act and also under provisions of the Disaster Management Act also.Hospitals have also been directed to update on the official portal, details of all government referred patients and private patients so that the actual Covid-19 patient bed occupancy is reflected.They have also been directed to also give information about the occupancy of the beds by non-Covid patients under various categories of beds as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-civic-body-issues-show-cause-notice-to-36-hospitals-for-not-allocating-50-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-y4neam9Lh5YFSTmaOYh02M.html
17-09-2020||Kolkata||London-Kolkata direct flight after more than 10 yrs, thanks to Vande Bharat Mission||More than a decade after direct flights between Kolkata and London were decommissioned, a plane carrying 14 passengers from London under the Vande Bharat Mission touched down at the NSCBI airport in Kolkata early on Thursday. The return flight, which was supposed to depart around 6:20 am was more than three hours late and took off around 10 am with 65 passengers, a senior airport official said. “These Kolkata-London flights are part of the Vande Bharat Mission and would continue till October 24,” an airport official said. Air India had started a direct flight between Kolkata and London in 2005. The services were, however, discontinued in September 2008 because of poor load factor. British airways, too, moved out of the sector in March 2009. The first Vande Bharat flight between London and Kolkata took off from Heathrow airport on September 16 afternoon and landed at the NSCBI airport in Kolkata in the early hours of Thursday. “The flight was scheduled to land around 2:20 am. But it landed almost an hour early around 1:20 am. It was a nice experience. It would be great if direct flights resume between Kolkata and London. It would help a lot of businessmen, students and even tourists,” said Vedanta Gupta, a passenger who arrived in Kolkata. Also Read: Don’t let Covid-19 dampen festive spirit: Mamata Banerjee on MahalayaThe return flight, via Delhi, scheduled to leave NSCBI airport around 6:20 am, departed around 10 am with 64 passengers. “We had come to the airport much before 6 am for the security check and Covid-19 protocols. Now, that the flight is late we have to wait longer. We had booked earlier flights to London but they were cancelled at least five times,” said Amit Singha Roy, one of the passengers. Also Read: Families can perform last rites of Covid-19 victims: Calcutta high courtAuthorities said the Vande Bharat flights would leave London for Kolkata every Wednesday and Saturday and the return flights would leave Kolkata for Heathrow every Thursday and Sunday till October 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/london-kolkata-direct-flight-after-more-than-10-yrs-thanks-to-vande-bharat-mission/story-82POKi27hE4fyFbMnMpZfK.html
17-09-2020||Lucknow||UP’s women self-help groups crumble, family support system hit||The Covid-19 pandemic has had a devastating impact on women self help groups (SHGs) in Uttar Pradesh (UP) as they struggle to make two ends meet in absence of work.“I work with a SHG that does zari work but I am without work since lockdown. Earlier, we used to get large orders in August and September due to Diwali but there are very few orders this time,” said Rubina Raza Khan, 40, a member of a Moradabad based SHG.“I used to earn around Rs 12,000 in these months but have not earned a single penny this year,” she added. The money Rubina earned played an important part in supporting her family of five, especially the education of her two daughters and a son. “I never went to school but ensured that my children go to a school and I used to pay their fees from my earnings. I don’t know how I will manage their fees this year,” she said in despair. According to an estimate by the state government, more than 15 lakh women SHGs are registered in UP, ranging from five members groups to those with more than 50 members.“SHGs are source of income for women, especially the housewives,” said senior economist and former advisor to state government, Ravindra Bhatia. Bhatia said the SHGs in India had a very good track record of returning the loans but the Covid-19 situation can change this. “Although the majority of loans taken by SHGs are of small values, the group will face difficulties in returning them due to the decline in earnings. SHGs will have to either expand their expertise or change their work to continue to be in operation in these testing times,” he added. Also Read: Despite surge, only 35% of Covid beds occupied in GB Nagar, most remain in home isolation According to national bank for agricultural and rural development (NABARD) data, more than Rs 23,320 crore is deposited by SHGs registered with it across the country. Poonam Gupta, founder of a self help group in Hardoi, linked with NABARD said: “We took a loan of Rs 1 lakh from the bank in July last year to take extra orders for decorative pots. We have not been able to submit the deposits to the bank since March because our work has stopped completely and there is little hope that it will start soon.” Also Read: Uttar Pradesh may fund religious travel of 1.5 crore labourers from stateParvati Kushwaha, who ran a SHG in Jhansi that made packaged snacks, shifted to stitching masks to earn some money during the pandemic. This helped her and her group of 12 homemakers for a few months but their earnings have reduced recently. “We earned Rs 4 each for stitching a mask earlier but now the supplier only gives us Rs 2.5 per mask. We are managing with the earnings somehow but we are earning less than half of what we used to,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-women-self-help-groups-crumble-family-support-system-hit/story-8OZ3xlplvHrM7xEfClndQK.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Privatisation in agriculture in name of reforms: All India Kisan Federation||The All India Kisan Federation (AIKF) on Thursday supported the agitation launched by farmers in the country and state against the “anti-farmer ordinances” issued by the Centre. In a joint statement, AIKF president and general secretary Prem Singh Bhangu and Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, respectively, said that the ordinances indicate that the government is appeasing the World Trade Organisation (WTO), which is dictating since India became its member, to abandon the support price and state procurement of agriculture produces and implement recommendations of the Shanta Kumar committee. “This policy of privatisation in agriculture and handing it over to corporates is being carried out under the name of agriculture reforms,” Bhangu said in a statement. Opening of private markets, unrestricted trade, movement and unlimited storing and hoarding of agri-goods would open floodgates for big corporates and will abolish the small and marginal farmers, they added. “Parliament led by the BJP is going to pass the remaining two Bills also by the blatant misuse of its majority. But it will be in utter disrespect of the aspiration and sentiments of the people,” said the two leaders. They said that the state committee of the federation will meet in Doraha on Saturday to chalk out its protest strategy and submit a memorandum to the President for declining assent to the three bills passed by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/privatisation-in-agriculture-in-name-of-reforms-all-india-kisan-federation/story-pOXcUT5zVJWVkjJzZihOEI.html
17-09-2020||City||Residents unwilling to go for voluntary covid testing in Doaba||Jalandhar Despite free covid-19 test, convincing people who are fearful of being stigmatised, especially in rural areas, to voluntarily undergo it has become an uphill task. Jalandar authorities are, thus, finding it hard to meet daily targets.In many localities, most people with co-morbidities have refused to undergo covid tests even when teams visited their houses. Following this, local administrations in the Doaba region are now taking assistance of panchayats to ensure testing of all village residents.The administration has also asked Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) workers and panchayats in the district to generate more awareness among locals and ensure covid testing. “The biggest concern is that people are coming late for treatment and many are not willing to undergo the test. To tackle this, we are seeking help from gram panchayats and many have already submitted affidavits that they will cooperate with health officials,” said Kapurthala deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal.Jalandhar had identified 35,000 people and Kapurthala over 40,000 people with comorbidities such as fever, TB and non-communicable diseases in a survey in August. However, not even 40% of these have been tested yet, with most unwilling to get tested. Epidemiologist Dr Satish Kumar said rural areas were more challenging than urban, and that SDMs concerned and panchayat members are already visiting localities with health officials to assist them in sampling.“Health department officials are making efforts. There cannot be an immediate improvement and change in the attitude of people to come willingly for tests. Otherwise, we are conducting tests of hundreds of people a day,” said Dr TP Singh Jalandhar nodal officer covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-unwilling-to-go-for-voluntary-covid-testing-in-doaba/story-W5WIcegX1zTAAGmV5jnF8L.html
17-09-2020||Lucknow||UP orders public address systems to sensitize people for Covid containment||Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has directed all the district magistrates and superintendents of police to install public address systems at public places in their districts to create awareness about Covid-19 containment protocol to check the spread of the pandemic.The directive to DMs and SPs was issued after the chief minister spoke about the need to use public address systems to sensitize residents about Covid guidelines, including the use of masks, social distancing, frequent hand-washing and sanitization.District magistrates of all the 75 districts in the state were directed to submit a proposal for installing public address systems and the new locations chosen for the purpose by September 19, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said after a meeting of senior officials in Lucknow on Wednesday.Bus stations, hospitals, market areas, road crossings and government offices have been identified among the places where the system would be installed.Principal secretary (transport) Rajesh Kumar Singh said the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) was planning to install the public address systems in all the buses operating across the state along with audio-visual systems at bus stations. The project will be completed within a month.Also Read: UP businessman murder case: SIT focuses on big guns named for ‘extortion’The additional director general of police, (headquarters) was directed to submit a report to the government about the status of existing public address systems in all the 75 districts and the condition of the equipment installed. He was also told to submit a detailed proposal regarding the new places where the public address systems would be set up.Also Read: Doctor is only a click away in Varanasi’s digital villageDuring their visit to various districts, nodal officers had stated in their report that lack of implementation of the Covid protocol was one of the main reasons for the spread of coronavirus infection in the state, senior officials said.The state government has directed the district administration to penalise people violating the Covid protocol, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-orders-public-address-systems-to-sensitize-people-for-covid-containment/story-uBUMMDRBr1ZBUi7Wtue2ZL.html
17-09-2020||Lucknow||Gold worth over Rs 2 crore seized at Lucknow airport||A customs team seized 3.85 kg gold in form of biscuits worth Rs 2.09 crore at Lucknow’s Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport from a passenger travelling from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia on Thursday. Also read: Men suspected of robbing Aligarh jewellery store nabbed in Noida after encounter “The passenger had cleverly wrapped the gold biscuits and kept them in a black pouch in his undergarment. On suspicion, he was thoroughly checked which led to the detection of 33 gold biscuits,” said Niharika Lakha, deputy commissioner, customs, Lucknow airport.“Commissioner, customs, Lucknow, VP Shukla, personally monitored the seizure which was the third biggest gold haul in the history of the Lucknow airport.” Lakha said they keep getting intelligence inputs from various agencies and that is why they keep arresting such smugglers. She added the passenger has been detained for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/gold-worth-over-rs-2-crore-seized-at-lucknow-airport/story-COMT7DLkYZQNb9MyPXkzAK.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Wedding photogs get together: Protest no work, start campaign||A Delhi-based wedding photographer, Dev Verma, recently died by suicide. He used to work as a freelancer at the studios owned by Delhiite Raman Dipak, who tells us, “Dev was a freelancer with us and due to fewer weddings off late, he wasn’t getting much business... Most photographers like us are getting one fourth of the money that we used to get earlier for covering a wedding, and it’s very disappointing. We are not caterers! We have equal amount of work since our focus still remains to capture the memories of a family, in the best possible way. And those who can’t attend a wedding look forward to seeing the pictures and videos.” The incident has triggered a campaign to lend a helping hand to the wedding photographers in distress, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The campaign states that the wedding industry has witnessed a scathing effect, and over 25 lakh people are on the verge of losing their jobs. Harpreet Bachher, founder, Association of Wedding Photographers of India (AWPI) — which has initiated the campaign — says, “This national union of professional wedding photographers came together as a joint entity to create this association during the pandemic. We have around 20 core members representing various states of India. The wedding photography industry consists of more than 50,000 people, and in the pandemic they have been through much (hardship). After Dev died by suicide due to financial issues, we started this campaign to help the community, financially and mentally. We urge those in distress to reach out to their state representatives, and we’ll try to help them in our best possible capacity.”Wedding photographers across India who had been crying hoarse and protesting about the tough time they are facing, since the pandemic struck their livelihoods, are hailing this campaign. Shweta Dhiman, a wedding photographer from Chandigarh, says, “I was a banker for 10 years and then quit my job to join this industry. Seeing our dear friend, Dev give up his life due to loss of work in the current economic slowdown was heart breaking... Our work is reviving now, but clients are not ready to pay as much they were initially. People don’t seem to understand that the photography requirements don’t reduce with the scale of a wedding.”In fact photographers believe that such initiatives are the need of the hour. “We are hoping that this campaign will help stop any other incident in the community, and will also clear Dev’s dues, so that the family doesn’t have to deal with financial issues and suffer further,” says Dhiman. And Bengaluru-based wedding photographer Anand Kumar, adds, “We need to be strong and prevent more people from dying this way. I’m trying my best to support the community, and also raise awareness about the issue through my social media.”If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883 Author tweets @Ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wedding-photogs-get-together-protest-no-work-start-campaign/story-BhWjBSm3JfvntzvDLJHyZI.html
17-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan boat tragedy: All bodies recovered from Chambal river||Bodies of two girls were recovered from Chambal River on Thursday morning, a day after a boat ferrying 40 persons capsized killing 13 people on Wednesday. 11 bodies were fished out on Wednesday by the rescue teams deployed by the state disaster response force (SDRF) near Gothda village in Rajasthan’s Kota district.SDRF commandant, Kota, Amrita Duhan confirmed the recovery of the two bodies on Thursday. They were identified as Jyoti (14) and Alka (13). The deceased belonged to different villages. The bodies have been sent for autopsy, said Duhan.“Although all the 13 bodies of the missing persons in the boat tragedy have been recovered, the district administration will take a decision if the rescue operation has to be terminated or continued,” Duhan said.Six of the 13 people confirmed to have died in the tragedy are men, four are women and three are girls.A boat carrying over 30 devotees to a temple in Rajasthan’s Bundi district had capsized in the Chambal river on Wednesday. Twenty devotees had been rescued. Also Read: ‘Anguished’: PM Modi on Rajasthan’s Chambal river boat accident that killed 13Belonging to the Khatoli–Itawa area of Kota, they were going to the Kamleshwar temple in Indergarh of Bundi to offer prayers.The accident took place around 8.45 am near Gotra village under the Khatoli police station, about 110 kilometers from Kota district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-boat-tragedy-all-bodies-recovered-from-chambal-river/story-oO27zkdQcRoicEOXhis3jN.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||When life itself is an ode to the spirit of living||Dealing with a pandemic under normal circumstances is strenuous enough, but when you are detected with a life-altering disease, it takes great measures of courage to come to terms with it. Adarsh Dham, 62, was detected with High Grade Sarcoma Stage II in June. For this fiercely independent single mother who raised her two sons single-handedly on a government teacher’s salary, coming to terms with the life-altering implications of this disease was not easy.“At first, I was told to get an MRI because a tumour was detected and that, a simple biopsy would be required. I didn’t think much about it, but then there were two tumours which turned out to be cancerous,” says Dham, adding that she had no choice other than accepting it as part of her destiny. Her first surgery was on June 24, followed by another one on July 27, which took eight hours to complete. “I went in very peacefully and was not thinking about corona at all. Maine itni aage ki sochi hi nahi. The doctor had prepared us mentally for the surgery and its aftermath that there was no anxiety while going in,” she says. Her family, including her elder son, 33-year old digital marketing professional Apar Dham, however, was having sleepless nights. “Cancer is such an uncharted territory that you know nothing about it till it hits you. Tests, medical opinions and general running around to find the best treatment, plus the fear of the pandemic was such that we did not have time to take stock of the situation till after her surgery. Moreover, due to the pandemic, we couldn’t get as much support from our friends and extended family as we would have otherwise received. Only a few friends and relatives were able to come forward,” he shares. Read: This family believes that kindness is what will save the worldHer daughter-in-law, Anchal Dham, quit her job when the first diagnosis came. “There was no option of hiring a nurse or attendant because we didn’t want any outsider to enter our house or be near our mother. My brother Anupam also took a sabbatical to share the workload,” says Apar.Immediately after the surgery, Adarsh was administered morphine through an epidural to combat the pain and had multiple tubes coming out of her. “I was restricted to my bed and had difficulty even sitting up. The tubes came with their own set of complications and risk of infection,” she says. Explaining the implications of the surgery, Apar says, “A medical equipment, which is common in these surgeries, is going to be permanently attached to her. We have to get her special clothing which is loose and can be opened from the front for ease of movement. Earlier, she would need someone to help brush her teeth, change her on her side on the bed and clean-up after her. We can see it claws away at her dignity.”With the support of her family, she is tiding over these hurdles. “My babies look after me as if I am their child. They are around me all the time, so that I don’t overthink,” says this survivor who rang in her 62nd birthday on September 1. “We baked a cake at home and my kids got me some knick-knacks. We are trying to get back to normal,” she shares. Without losing a beat, Adarsh recalls how she used to travel every few months and take cruises with her friends. “The four of us want a break from this now. I wish to do all of that once my body allows and the pandemic dies out,” she concludes. With a loving family by your side, there’s no way you can let hope slip through your fingers.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/when-life-itself-is-an-ode-to-the-spirit-of-living/story-dVASJV9PBzY1fYPa6I7x2N.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Indian Navy develops Mumbai’s largest Miyawaki urban forest||A 2,500 square (sq) metres (m), or 0.6-acre, of barren patch in Malad in Mumbai has transformed into a mini urban forest with seven to nine feet (ft) trees in less than nine months.Between January and September, the Indian Navy, along with environment group Green Yatra, developed Mumbai’s largest dense plantation to date by using the Miyawaki technique (see box) on a plot in front of the main campus of Indian Navy Station (INS) at Hamla in Marve-Malad.Forests grown under the Miyawaki method – developed by Japanese botanist and plant ecology expert Dr. Akira Miyawaki – have improved carbon-dioxide absorption, have reduced noise and dust , and added more green surface area, as compared to monoculture plantation. Plants grow 10 times faster and 30 times denser than traditional techniques, with any average plantation area supporting 45 saplings across 150 square ft.At INS Hamla, 10,500 saplings of 40 different native species were planted in phases between January 18 and February 27. “The forest is flourishing under our care, and the plants have grown nine-ft tall with almost 100% survival rate. The location of the forest within the boundaries of the base provides protection to the plants, which are expected to become self-sustaining within a year,” said Captain Sridhar Warrier, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Southern Naval Command.According to Green Yatra, the entire plantation process – prior to January – took 2,400 labour hours and 440 machines, including excavators and dumpers, and involved excavating the bed area for the three-ft-deep plantations.The process included laying 200 dumpers worth of soil such as 165 tonnes of black soil and biomass, manual stone removal, levelling the land, developing a one-ft-high bed mount, making pathways and channels to supply six litres of water per metre square, and planting 10,500 saplings in two phases with each at least two-years-old.The plantation method using this technique focuses on density, said Pradeep Tripathi, founder, Green Yatra. “This is against the average plantation density of three to five plants per sq m depending on the site. Plantations at INS Hamla were four plants per sq m since the site is very close to the coast and there is high wind speed. Also, saplings support each other’s growth and prevent sunlight from reaching the ground halting the growth of unnecessary weeds,” he said.Fixing support sticks to each plant, remulching, and sprinkling microbes and boosters for proper plant development are an integral part of post-plantation maintenance. “Whenever there was any water shortage, the navy supported us with their own resources. We have had an overall survival rate of 98.5%,” said Tripathi. Native trees included a combination of deciduous and evergreen fruiting tree species such as amla, neem, mahua, kokam, mango, silk cotton, banyan, and pride of India. Around 40 species were divided into four layers, including 18 tree species, 12 sub-trees, four canopy species, and six shrubs up to three ft in size. Captain Warrier said a similar plantation drive – of 15,000 more saplings by next February -- was in the works known as the Miyawaki phase II, which would be located near the same site. “The first phase was funded by DCB Bank. This method of indigenous forest by native trees produces rich, dense and efficient protective forest in 20 to 30 years, while natural succession will need 200 years,” he said.Experts said such plantations were welcome for urban environments that are fast losing green cover but do not match the complex forest ecosystem. “These techniques cannot be substituted for natural forest, which represent the non-artificial cycle of carbon, oxygen, minerals and biodiversity, and cannot be replicated by artificial means. For urban spaces, these small green zones may have limited benefits such as reduction of particulate matter, improved oxygen supply, and minimal micro-climatic changes. However, these urban greening concepts cannot be undermined as there is hardly any land available amid the concrete expanse in major cities in the country,” said Dr. Subhash Ashutosh, director-general (D-G), Forest Survey of India (FSI), Dehradun.STATUS OF MIYAWAKI PLANTATIONS IN MUMBAIPraveen Pardeshi, former commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), had last year proposed to plant 377,416 trees under the Miyawaki project at a cost of Rs 35 crore across 100 locations spread over 31 acres in Mumbai. “Our intention was to have half of the recreational areas of every layout should be a Miyawaki forest. Among the 100 locations, plots in Malad, Colaba, Worli and Priyadarshini Park have yielded good results. The idea is to transfer the cost of greening not just to the public exchequer but also the Mumbaikars gaining the most. The security of these plantations is also automatically protected,” said Pardeshi.Besides BMC’s efforts, five major plantations across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have been completed by Green Yatra. The following are the projects:Central Railside Warehouse Company Ltd, Jogeshwari, area 2,300 sq. m, ,7000 plants, 40 species completed in three phasesBhandup Complex, area: 1,200 sq. m, 3,500 plants with 46 speciesState Reserve Police Force Premises in Taloja, Navi Mumbai, area: 700 sq m, 2,000 plants with 40 speciesAmbernath, area: 100 sq. m, 320 plants with 40 speciesINS Hamla, area: 2,500 sq. m, 10,500 plants in phase I with 40 species and another 15,000 plants proposed in phase II in February, 2021.100 YEAR OLD FORESTS IN 10 YEARSWith over 3,000-odd urban mini-forests created using the Miyawaki plantation technique, which can accommodate 12,000 saplings in one-acre land, can increase the number of trees per person within Mumbai through native tree plantation within a brief span of time. The features of this technique include:- 10 times faster growth- 30 times denser than traditional plantations- More biodiverse- Better noise and dust reduction- 30 times better carbon dioxide absorption- Native and organic(Source: Green Yatra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indian-navy-develops-mumbai-s-largest-miyawaki-urban-forest/story-Gy70kJ0bDToRRVMkBqVWNO.html
17-09-2020||City||Assam: Covid-19 deaths cross 500; cases inch close to 150,000||Assam’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related deaths breached the 500 mark, as 19 more patients died on Wednesday.The north-east’s most-populous state is also reporting a consistent surge in new Covid-19 cases. Assam has been reporting around 2,500 new Covid-19 cases almost daily for around a month. So far, the state has recorded 148,969 Covid-19 cases. Also read: India crosses 60 million mark for Covid-19 testingIn September, the state reported around 40,000 new Covid-19 cases and over 200 deaths. The first Covid-19 positive case in Assam was diagnosed on March 31 and the first death due to the viral infection 10 days later. “In August, Assam had reported 68,000 Covid-19 cases and another 30,000 in the first 10 days of September. If the trend continues, we may record around 90,000 new Covid-19 cases in September alone,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said recently. The recovery and the death rate in the state is 80.10% and 0.34%, respectively, according to a bulletin issued by National Health Mission (NHM), Assam, on Wednesday. At present, the doubling rate of fresh cases is 33 days. Altogether, 2,815,285 tests, including both reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen detection (RAD), have been conducted across the state. The total tests per million population stand at 83,095. Around 1,000 recovered Covid-19 patients have donated plasma across the state until Wednesday and over 1,500 patients suffering from the contagion have been given plasma treatment, the NHM bulletin stated. Private hospitals are running out of regular beds and also in intensive care units (ICUs) in the state capital Guwahati, which is a part of the Kamrup Metropolitan district, because up to 500 new Covid-19 cases are being reported daily. However, beds are available in hospitals and dedicated Covid Care Centres (CCCs), said the minister. “We have adequate ICU and isolation beds in hospitals and there will be no problem in September. We are planning to increase ICU beds in a bid to cope with a rise in Covid-19 patients from October,” said Sarma. “Two large oxygen tanks are being set up in Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH), which will be followed by similar measures in other medical colleges in a bid to meet the increased demand of oxygen for critically ill Covid-19 patients. It will help us store oxygen for at least 15 days,” he added. The minister said that there have been several cases in the state, where patients have died after recovering from Covid-19 . However, there has been no survey of the total number of such deaths, Sarma added. “Though the Covid-19 situation in Assam is critical, we are geared to cope with it. The public should take precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing stringently in a bid to rein in the viral infection,” said Samir Kumar Sinha, principal secretary (health), Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-covid-19-deaths-cross-500-cases-inch-close-to-150-000/story-QznBhCdgOtyvaFMCmB7g0M.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Teenager gang-raped in Delhi, three arrested||Three men allegedly gang-raped a 17-year-old girl at knifepoint on Tuesday night when she was returning home from a relative’s place in north-east Delhi with her brother-in-law, who was injured while protecting the teenager, police said. A police patrol in the area rushed to the scene after they heard the girl’s cries for help when the suspects fled with the survivor’s purse. “The policemen chased the suspects which forced them to abandon their motorcycle and the robbed items. We used the motorcycle’s registration number to identify and arrest all the three suspects on Wednesday,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.The suspects are aged between 25 and 30 and residents of north-east Delhi, the officer added. He said their criminal antecedents were being verified.“They [the girl and her brother-in-law] got off a bus near Mandoli Jail and were walking back to their home when the three suspects spotted them at an isolated street. The suspects pulled out knives and dragged the duo to an under-construction building nearby,” said the officer involved in the probe into the case. “The girl has told us that they first robbed her and then took turns to rape her. Her brother-in-law tried to put up a fight, but received a stab wound when he tried to grab one of their knives.” The injured brother-in-law was held at knifepoint.The brother-in-law was treated for his injuries and is out of danger now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/teenager-gang-raped-in-delhi-three-arrested/story-gTtSHysCgsTix37Xj2zmDP.html
17-09-2020||Kolkata||Don’t let Covid-19 dampen festive spirit: Mamata Banerjee on Mahalaya||Wishing people on Mahalaya, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged everyone to come forward and extend help to those in need in this hour of crisis.She said that though Covid-19 has changed the daily lives, people should not let the prevailing pandemic dampen the spirit of the festivities.“On the auspicious occasion of Mahalaya, I extend my warm regards to one & all. Although #Covid19 has restricted how we celebrate festivals, we shall not allow it to dampen the spirit of this Durga Puja. To this end & to lighten up every home, I undertake #MahalayaProtishruti,” Banerjee tweeted.“As a part of this pledge, I vow to ensure that this Durga Pujo, no one is devoid of the festivities. I urge everyone to come forward, extend a helping hand to those in need & spread joy everywhere. Shubho Mahalaya to everyone!” she added.Mahalaya is an auspicious occasion celebrated at the end of Pitri Paksha, a 16-day period when Hindus pay homage to their ancestors. It is believed that it is the time when goddess Durga descends from Kailasha to the earth, her maternal home.Banerjee also wished the people on the occasion of Bishwakarma Pujo and Bhadu Utsab.“Bishwakarma Pujo wishes to the brothers and sisters who work as labourers and their families. They are our pride.They work tirelessly for the development of the society,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/don-t-let-covid-19-dampen-festive-spirit-mamata-banerjee-on-mahalaya/story-CZtLHTCHGXR1etUTEbRqWL.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Rising cases dampen festive spirit in Maharashtra||Following a subdued Ganesh Chaturthi celebration in Maharashtra, the Navratri celebrations are also expected to be low key as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise in the state. Navratri organisers HT spoke to said that while they are waiting for the state government to issue guidelines, they are sure of not celebrating the festival this year. The nine-day festival begins from October 17.“Navratri is largely about garba and dandiya which is impossible with social distancing norms. So it is pretty clear that there will be no celebrations this year,” said Neil Somiaya, BJP corporator from Mulund, who has been organising Navrarti fest at Mulund East since the last few years.Pravin Chheda, who has been organising dandiya nights since 25 years in Ghatkopar said, “Even Ganesh Chaturthi was not celebrated the way it used to be. How can Navratri be celebrated without social gathering? The state might only allow societies to maybe do puja within the buildings.”Also read: India crosses 60 million mark for Covid-19 testingHT had reported that officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are also fearing a spike in cases with the festivals lined-up -- Navratri, Diwali, Christmas and New Years’. Mumbai had witnessed a plateauing of cases in August. However, the Ganesh festival, relaxations during Mission Begin Again and increased testing are widely believed to be behind the resurgence of cases in the city.The average daily Covid-19 cases shot up after Ganesh Chaturthi from nearly a 1,000 cases in August to 1,800+ cases in the first week of September. Some organisers, however, are considering ‘virtual Navratri’ to keep up the festival spirit. Jignesh Khilani, secretary of Ghatkopar Gujarati Samaj, which also hosted Falguni Phatak in 2017, said, “We are thinking on the lines of arranging virtual Navratri. We are waiting for the state’s guidelines on it.”On Wednesday again, the state surpassed another milestone of 1.1 million Covid-19 cases with 23,365 new cases recorded. The state’s tally now stands at 1,121,221 cases. The same day, Mumbai recorded its highest single-day spike of 2,378 new Covid cases pushing its overall tally ro 175,974 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-rising-cases-dampen-festive-spirit-in-maharashtra/story-aCoDhbhoTz4oCt3iZZJxOK.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Protests against forced eviction of Delhi slum dwellers to be held||A coalition of non-governmental organisations, groups working for the welfare of the urban poor and slum residents will hold protests in Delhi and other parts of the country seeking consultations with slum residents for their rehabilitation in light of the Supreme Court’s August 31 order for the removal of 48,000 slums along railway tracks in the national capital. The Centre on Monday ruled out immediate evictions and told the court that discussions were underway to implement its orders. It added no coercive action will be taken against the slum-dwellers until a decision is taken. Congress leader Ajay Maken and slum dwellers have challenged the railways’ demolition notices, saying they had been issued in total disregard for the policy of rehabilitating them amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: Delhi govt offers all help to railways in rehabilitating slum dwellersThe Railway Basti Jan Sangharsh Morcha, the coalition, said it will hold the protests even as it welcomes the Centre’s promise of no coercive action against settlements on railway land for four weeks and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s assurance to slum dwellers that they would be a part of the consultative process over the issue.Basti Suraksha Manch convener Shakeel Ahmed said they will go ahead with the national day of protest and want the governments to accept their demands. “The residents should be consulted while the state and the Centre draw up a plan for their rehabilitation as it affects their homes and livelihoods.”Also Read: State, Centre did little to stop SC order on removal of slums along railway tracks: MakenThe coalition wants the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board’s policy for rehabilitation of slums to be followed and in-situ housing provided within 5km of the existing site.CityMakers Mission International facilitator Indu Prakash said the worst part is the court did not hear over 250,000 residents. “It is a supreme injustice done to these people, especially at a time when the country is fighting a pandemic. These people should be part of the consultative process,” said Prakash, who is also a member of the Supreme Court-appointed committee on monitoring of homeless shelters in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/protests-against-forced-eviction-of-delhi-slum-dwellers-to-be-held/story-u6jbKy9RbPtIts2dCzYW0N.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Asked to stand in queue, Pune couple create ruckus at Covid-19 testing centre||A couple were booked for allegedly creating ruckus at a Covid-19 testing centre, damaging patients’ samples and testing kits in Ambegaon area here on Wednesday. Both, incidentally, tested positive for the viral infection.The couple, who were visiting the centre at Laxmibai Hazare Hostel for an antigen test, lost their temper when civic employees asked them to stand in a queue, said an official of the Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. “There were two queues, one for common people and another for employees of Pune Municipal Corporation. The staff at the centre asked them to go and stand in the queue meant for common citizens, which irked them,” he said.“They created a scene, threw samples and testing kits on the floor and used intimidating language. We have booked them under various sections of IPC and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984,” he said.Both the accused tested positive for Covid-19 and are currently undergoing treatment, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/couple-create-ruckus-at-covid-testing-centre/story-cZl8nu8fEJp0mSSUUyNXwL.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi government adds 200 Covid beds in two hospitals||The Delhi government has earmarked 200 more isolation beds in two of its hospitals for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital at Rohini and Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital at Hari Nagar have been asked to create 100 isolation beds each, according to an order by Udit Prakash Rai, special secretary (health), Delhi, on Tuesday.Also read: What you need to know about Covid-19 todayThere are 14,576 beds in Delhi for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in both government and private-run hospitals. At present, 46.7% of these beds are occupied.Both the hospitals have been asked to make the beds ready within the next four days, according to the order.There are seven government-run hospitals in Delhi, including two newly constructed, which have 4,893 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients.Lok Nayak Hospital is the biggest because it has 2,000 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-adds-200-covid-beds-in-two-hospitals/story-MppSUes1zfnlaVdXdwsugJ.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Traffic cop mowed down by truck; third on-duty officer to be killed in three months||A 49-year-old traffic police officer was mowed down by a truck while he was halting another vehicle for checking on the Outer Ring Road in North Delhi’s Dheerpur on Wednesday evening, the police said.This is the third known case of a traffic police officer dying after being run over while on duty in Delhi. Late in July, an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) was killed in a hit-and-run incident on the Rajokri Flyover. That was followed up by an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) getting mowed down by a car whose driver was signalled to stop during a checking in West Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar in mid August.The officer killed in the latest incident was identified as ASI Radhe Shyam, who was posted in the Burari traffic circle.The fatal hit happened around 4 pm while Shyam and his colleagues were checking vehicles for traffic violations. “Shyam had stopped a truck and was directing it to pull over to the side of the road when another truck from behind hit him,” said a senior police officer.An injured Shyam was rushed to hospital even as other police officers stopped the truck from escaping. Its driver, Deepak Shukla, has been arrested.Shyam was declared brought dead at the hospital. The police said that he has left behind a wife and two children who live in Rohini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-cop-mowed-down-by-truck-third-on-duty-officer-to-be-killed-in-three-months/story-4LFNSFU40oelGW4bcr99SM.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: High court to hear pleas against politicians for hate speech||The Delhi high court (HC) on Thursday will hear a bunch of pleas seeking registration of first information reports (FIRs) against several leaders across party lines for allegedly making hate speeches during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 agitation that eventually led to communal riots in north-east Delhi in February.One of the pleas had sought registration of FIRs against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders such as Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur, Parvesh Verma, who delivered hate speeches that had led to the violence, leaving 53 killed and over 400 injured. Mishra denied delivering hate speeches and distanced himself from the violence in north-east Delhi.Another plea had accused the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders of delivering hate speeches before the riots broke out. On February 26, the Human Rights Law Network had filed a plea on behalf of civil society activist Harsh Mander seeking FIRs against Mishra and Thakur to be booked for making speeches that purportedly triggered communal violence in north-east Delhi.An organisation named Lawyers Voice had filed an intervention in the plea on the following day, making similar allegations against several Congress and AAP leaders. A third plea by Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind had said that the Delhi Police should be directed to preserve closed circuit TV (CCTV) footage of the riot-affected areas between February 23 and March 1. The plea had alleged that FIRs have not been lodged against persons responsible for the riots. Delhi Police has drawn flak for the arrest of student activist Umar Khalid (33) on Sunday night while refusing to act on the hate speeches by the BJP leaders. Khalid was in the forefront during the anti-CAA protests before the riots broke out in February. Earlier this week, nine retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officers wrote to Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava expressing their fears of law enforcing authorities cracking down on protesters while letting the “real culprits “ go scott free. Police have maintained that the riots were orchestrated by a section of anti-CAA protesters, who had mobilised people at the protest sites, delivered inflammatory speeches and planned the communal violence.Earlier, police had told the court that investigation into the north-east Delhi riots have not revealed any evidence that pointed towards the role of the leaders, who allegedly made hate speeches. Police had also said that there was “no actionable evidence” against the leaders indicating their role in instigating or participating in the riots. Mishra had said on July 15: “It is clear that the entire propaganda campaign against me was fake. People, who organised riots in Delhi, are filling fake complaints against me and some ‘urban Naxals’ tried to promote that. The fake campaign against me stands exposed. I am sure not only rioters but also their support groups in media and politics will be punished by the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-high-court-to-hear-pleas-against-politicians-for-hate-speech/story-yG4zwPKxjH0T7ioGtLux0N.html
17-09-2020||City||Burnt mobile seized at KZF operative’s instance in Amritsar jail||A burnt mobile phone was recovered in the Amritsar Central Jail at the instance of a prisoner, Shubdeep Singh, an alleged operative of the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF). The jail officials said Shubdeep had thrown the phone in a hearth in the prison on Monday soon after coming to know that a search operation was to be conducted in his barrack. Shubdeep confessed to have thrown of the cell phone, they said.Assistant jail superintendent of Amritsar jail, Bhagwant Singh, said on Tuesday they got information that Shubdeep was involved in some activities in the jail. “We launched a search operation, but found nothing from his possession. Later on, he confessed to have thrown a mobile phone in a hearth used for cooking food.”A case was registered against Shubdeep at the Islamabad police in Amritsar under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act. On Tuesday, Punjab Police claimed to have averted a major terror incident in the state by busting a pro-Khalistan terrorist module with the arrest of two persons who had allegedly been operating in connivance with five criminals, including Shubdeep.Six sophisticated weapons (a 9mm pistol, four .32-calibre pistols and one .32 revolver), eight rounds of ammunition, mobile phones and an internet dongle were recovered from the two who were arrested at a checkpost in Rajpura of Patiala district.Shubhdeep was arrested by the Punjab Police in September 2019 after the recovery of a China-made drone from Mahawa village in Amritsar district.In April last year, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had filed a chargesheet against him along with eight others in a special NIA court in Mohali.The police had claimed that Pakistan-based KZF chief Ranjeet Singh, alias Neeta in connivance with Gurmeet Singh, alias Bagga, a Germany-based operative, smuggled arms, ammunition, and fake Indian currency notes to India via drones from Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burnt-mobile-seized-at-kzf-operative-s-instance-in-amritsar-jail/story-jtmfEIrUFM9oCA1WpGZeeJ.html
17-09-2020||City||3 deaths a day, Kapurthala has Punjab’s worst Covid-19 fatality rate||With an average three deaths a day in the past one month, Kapurthala district now has Punjab’s worst Covid-19 mortality rate at 4.83%, followed by Ludhiana (4.28%) which has witnessed the highest number of cases of infection as well as fatalities in the state. Also, the death toll in Kapurthala has crossed the 100 mark. The authorities in the district, which recorded 1,570 positive cases and 85 deaths in the past one month, are struggling to curb the spread of the disease. On August 17 alone, the district reported as many 621 positive cases and 23 deaths. So far, it witnessed a total of 2,263 confirmed cases and 108 deaths from the virus. The mortality rate in Jalandhar, which has the second highest number of coronavirus cases among all the districts in Punjab, is 2.67% with 271 deaths. Other districts with higher number of deaths such as Amritsar (269) and Patiala (253) have a morality rate of 2.74% and 3.85% (till September 15). Moreover, hospitals in Kapurthala district do not have level-3 bed to treat critical patients. It only has level-1 and level-2 beds. When the patients’ oxygen level goes down, they are referred to the Amritsar Medical College with some preferring to go to private hospitals in Jalandhar for further treatment. The district health department officials have set a target of collecting 1,000 samples daily to detect cases at early stage and control the death rate. But on Tuesday, the district collected nearly 600 samples. “One of the major reasons behind spurt in cases and deaths is a lack of cooperation from the public. People arrive late for treatment and it leads to increase in death rate. Many people are not even willing to undergo a Covid test,” a senior health officer. Deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal said, “Most of the patients who died had comorbidities and they were taken late for treatment. The health department has launched a drive to take sample of patients with comorbidities.” “Nearly 40,000 people comorbidities have been identified so far. Over 15% sampling has been completed,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-deaths-a-day-kapurthala-has-punjab-s-worst-covid-19-fatality-rate/story-hgcVUQrCxp2N8XrxnTTuMK.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Welcome to the home of fakirs||Delhi is full of fakirs, often spotted at its many Sufi shrines, attired in their robes, turbans, and with begging bowls.But what’s their idea of home? These long-haired bearded men saddled with sacred necklaces and prayer beads.Some of these ascetics living in deliberate poverty can be spotted at the south Delhi Sufi shrine of Hazrat Nasiruddin Chirag Dehlavi. A 14th century tomb tucked in the corner of the shrine’s sprawling courtyard serves as a kind of long-term dormitory for visiting fakirs who might stay for months at a stretch.Their accommodation here is rustled out from within the tomb’s white chamber where any number of mattresses smell damp. This noon a washing line is strung along the facing wall, weighed down with lungis and drapes and even a track suit.The chamber has a niche stacked with dinner plates and mineral water bottles. The presence of a rat trap suggests that even the otherworldly must suffer from the nuisance created by some of God’s creations.Then there’s a small gas burner, along with a vessel filled with milk. Also spotted: a walking stick. And this all is a makeshift home for a fakir, a word that originated from the Arabic for poor.Adjusting a mattress, one of the fakirs, a man in his 30s, says that “we people don’t belong to anybody…when we get together, we enjoy each other’s company but we are not dependent on anybody for comfort.”He goes on to describe their scant materialpossessions as objects of utility “to which we attach no emotions.”Fakirs are solo souls, another gentleman clarifies, explaining that they have no family; an assertion that makes one of their bags hanging on a hook look poignant. It depicts a newly-wed couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/welcome-to-the-home-of-fakirs/story-cGmeKl69GCcnBKHycd72UL.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann yet to adopt a village, says can’t do without funds||Despite three reminders by the district administration, the Sangrur Aam Aadmi Party MP Bhagwant Mann has not adopted any village under the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) during his second term, so far. As per Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, each MP needs to adopt five villages during his or her tenure. The office of Sangrur deputy commissioner wrote to the MP in August 2019, October 2019 and in September 2020, but he did not adopt any village. Mann said he will not adopt any village because the central government never released special funds for the scheme. “Even MPLAD funds have been suspended due to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. “How can I adopt a village without funds? If the government will not issue funds for a particular programme, we cannot develop the idea. If the Prime Minister wants to focus on villages, he should release special funds for development,” said Mann. Sources said that Mann had to face criticism during his first tenure when the adopted villages were not allegedly developed by the MP. “I raised the issue in Parliament today that the government may issue guidelines for the distribution of MPLAD funds but should not suspend them,” he said. “The government can cut our salary and allowances, but the MPLAD funds should be increased and released on time,” he said. Sangrur additional deputy commissioner (development) Rajinder Singh Batra said the MP didn’t respond to repeated reminders of the administration. “As per government guidelines, we have been writing to the MP, but the administration is still waiting for a favourable response from him,” Batra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sangrur-mp-bhagwant-mann-yet-to-adopt-a-village-says-can-t-do-without-funds/story-oAanQdHX7qn7eUmmy8kPIM.html
17-09-2020||City||Haryana Human Rights Commission directs Panchkula civil surgeon to inquire into complaint of overcharging by private hospital||The Haryana Human Rights Commission has directed Panchkula civil surgeon to inquire into allegations of “overcharging” by a private hospital and charging for tests that were never conducted.Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta tested positive for Covid-19 and was referred to Paras Hospital on August 29 and discharged on September 1. She alleged that she was charged for PPE kits, N-95 masks and tests that were never done.“The complainant has levelled allegations regarding overcharging by Paras Hospital. And for redressal of her grievances, she should have filed a complaint before the consumer court,” read the order of the Commission.“However, since she has also alleged charging for tests like ECG, which in fact were not conducted, a copy of both the complaints received on September 3 and 7 should be sent to Panchkula civil surgeon, with a direction to inquire into the matter and dispose of the same,” the order further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-human-rights-commission-directs-panchkula-civil-surgeon-to-inquire-into-complaint-of-overcharging-by-private-hospital/story-gIQDUMqjhKHq1X0f3THjDI.html
17-09-2020||City||Nephew booked for duping Pinjore man of ₹5 lakh||A Noida man was booked for allegedly duping his uncle of ₹5 lakh on the promise of booking a flat in Noida.Complainant Yunus Khan, a resident of Pinjore, told the police that his nephew Nafees Khan had told them that his boss Bhoopati, who lived in Noida, wanted to sell his house worth ₹35 lakh for just ₹22 lakh,” Yunus told the police.He said that by September 2018, he gave his nephew around ₹5 lakh to book the flat. “He handed over some documents, but they turned out to be fake. When contacted, Bhoopati said he was in Dubai and whenever we questioned our nephew, he would assure us Bhoopati would meet us on returning to India,” said Yunus Khan.An FIR under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nephew-booked-for-duping-pinjore-man-of-5-lakh/story-SxigehruSWILGYp8TlNhoL.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amid spiraling Covid toll, health ministry team to visit Jammu||Amid the spiraling Covid death toll across Jammu and Kashmir, a team of senior doctors and experts from Union health ministry will shortly visit the UT to manage the surge in cases. “The Centre has deputed a team of senior doctors and experts to J&K. The team will help local experts with patient management, treatment protocols, oxygen availability and other medical issues to help manage surge in COVID positive cases particularly in Jammu,” said a government spokesperson. Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh said that he had taken up the matter with health ministry. “Have taken up with the Union Ministry of Home Affairs ( MHA),the issue of alarming #COVID situation in #Jammu. A special team of union Health Ministry is being immediately deputed to visit #Jammu and assist the UT Government. Also spoken to LG Sh Manoj Sinha regarding this,” (sic) he tweetedJammu’s recovery rate dropped from 61% to nearly 32% during the last 15 days, the death toll has also doubled in the same period. On August 31, the total positive cases in Jammu were 3,288, of which 2,035 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The recovery rate on August 31 was over 61% with a death toll 44. On September 14, the of positive cases jumped to 8744, of which 5,855 were active cases of which 2,797 people recovered, and the recovery rate dropped to nearly 32%. Amid the raging Covid pandemic, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) of Jammu, the major referral hospital in Jammu region, has become a battlefield for the senior doctors with patient care taking a severe hit. Peeved over indiscipline and chaos, the principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra, opted for the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) on Sunday evening. Netizens also alleged maltreatment at GMCH. Reetika Wali, who lost her father Ashok Kumar Wali on September 11, posted her experience on Facebook. “My father who had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease but did not test positive till his last breath was not put on ventilator for three hours,” she told HT over phone. She said oxygen was a luxury at GMCH and her 58-year-old father’s body was kept on the road for half-an-hour. “Though he was declared Covid positive, which he was not, the hospital staff didn’t follow the Covid protocol and covered his body with a ‘malmal’ cloth. We kept asking them to maintain the dignity of the deceased,” she said. Another woman, Ashima Kaul, said no hospital in Jammu hospitalised her father, whose condition was constantly deteriorating. “The situation in GMC Jammu is alarming. The health care system has collapsed completely. People have started hoarded oxygen also. There is an oxygen plant in Bari Brahmana from where I got a cylinder for my father,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-spiraling-covid-toll-health-ministry-team-to-visit-jammu/story-mjwrxNrGnnmKKbMOlRlJ3L.html
17-09-2020||City||18-year-old commits suicide in Zirakpur||A 18-year-old boy committed suicide in Peer Mucchala area of Zirakpur by hanging himself from a tree on Wednesday.The police said the victim had been staying with his family on rent and had been working as a helper at a cloth shop. His father in a statement to the police said, “He had been mentally upset for the last few days but did not share anything with us. He was the eldest among the three children.”The boy was rushed to the civil hospital in Dhakoli, where he was declared brought dead. No suicide note was found and the police initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 of the CrPC. After postmortem, the body was handed over to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-commits-suicide-in-zirakpur/story-mL6uRt7Pgy2N6n7gsym7XN.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University: 86,616 to appear in first-ever online final-semester exams||The online final-semester examinations for the students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses of Panjab University are set to begin from Thursday.As per details provided by the university, as many as 86,616 students will appear in the first-ever online exams being conducted here. A high-tech control room has already been set up at the varsity to facilitate the online exams.The question paper as per the date sheet will be uploaded on the university website (www.puchd.ac.in) ten minutes prior to the start of the examination for the students to download. It will also be emailed to chairpersons, directors, and principals, who can share it with the students.Both UG and PG students will need to attempt 50% of the total questions all carrying equal marks. On finishing the exam, candidates will be required to scan all answer sheets in serial order and merge them into a single PDF file, the first page of which will have to be the admit card.As many as 40 nodal centres have been set up and nodal officers have been appointed to facilitate the online examination. PU has appointed one BB Talwar as the nodal officer to address queries of students of Ladakh regarding the online examination.No rechecking or revaluation this timeNo rechecking or revaluation of the answer sheets will be permitted after the online exam. According to the evaluation guidelines issued by the university, “since online examination is pen and paper examination to be attempted by the candidates from their own places, hereby no other provisions like rechecking or revaluation is permitted in this regard.”Various student bodies of the varsity have issued helpline numbers for students who can contact them in case they face any problem related to online examination. These are: 8146605638 (NSUI), 9888276406 (SFS), and 9872522887 (SOI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-86-616-to-appear-in-first-ever-online-final-semester-exams/story-A4ArylRKCuE71uYkKYzHTM.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal to set up makeshift Covid hospitals||In wake of the exponential increase in infections over the last fortnight, the Himachal government has decided to setup makeshift Covid hospitals across the state. The hospitals will come up in Shimla, Tanda, Nahan, Tanda, Nalagarh and Una. They will and be set up with the help of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), said additional chief Secretary (health) RD Dhiman. Initially, the makeshift hospitals will have 50 beds and will be equipped with all facilities required to mange the symptoms of severely and moderately ill Covid patients. The government has also changed the discharge policy for Covid patients. “The discharge policy prescribed by the Government of India and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was being followed in all states, except Himachal where patients were being discharged after testing them for Covid after 10 days of treatment. Now, if a patient is discharged after 10 days without conducting a test, he will have to stay in home quarantine for seven days,” said Dhiman. New policy for nursing colleges The state government has also approved a new policy pertaining to nursing colleges, as per which new nursing colleges will only be opened in the state if institutes have at least a 100 bedded hospital of its own. As per the orders of the government of India, general nursing and midwifery (GNM) courses will be defunct from 2021-22 and old institutions will have to apply for changing the course to bachelor of science (BSc) nursing.Some changes have also been made in the eligibility for opening such institutions. Existing colleges will be given conditional approval to increase the seats for different courses. Fresh attachment with a government hospital will not be given to existing colleges for any other course except for master of science (MSc ) nursing, though previously granted attachments will remain unchanged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-to-set-up-makeshift-covid-hospitals/story-82MJcSR473d0QMLwZGPQSK.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon session: We must fight the Covid crisis together, says Himachal CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday sought cooperation from all legislators and people’s representatives to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, saying ‘we will have to fight the crisis together’ during a special speech on Covid-19 in the Assembly during the monsoon session on Wednesday. “The government is increasing testing in the state and is raising awareness about isolation, treatment and prevention. We need to be alert but not be unnecessarily worried,” said Thakur. He also asked members to encourage asymptomatic corona patients and patients with mild symptoms to stay in home isolation.The government’s priority is to treat patients with co-morbidities at hospitals. “This will only be possible when asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms observe home isolation,” said Thakur. Citing the Delhi government as an example, he said around 95,000 patients who were kept in home isolation had recovered in the Capital. “Himachal also has 1,655 patients in home isolation,” he said, adding that increase in the number of covid patiets He said that in a fortnight Himachal has witnessed an increase in the Covid-19 cases and this was matter of concern for all. He said that the number critically ill Covid-19 patient was low and few required oxygen or ventilator. He said the state had also witnessed an increase in Covid-related deaths and it had been observed that people were avoiding health check ups and tests. He said that the death rate in Himachal was 0.8%,which was low compared to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/monsoon-session-we-must-fight-the-covid-crisis-together-says-himachal-cm/story-GDmkGVcehQHaQnS54aVbzI.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||No rainfall in Delhi for a week||There has been no rain in the national capital for a week even as monsoon is not over yet. Lack of rain pushed the mercury further up in Delhi on Wednesday. The maximum temperature settled at 37.9 degrees Celsius, four notches more than normal, the MeT department said.The last time the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded any rainfall (1.3 mm) was on September 8.The national capital has recorded 77 per cent less rainfall in September so far, according to India Meteorological Department data.The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded just 20.9 mm rainfall against the normal of 90.5 mm this month.The Lodhi road weather station has gauged only 18.5 mm precipitation against the normal of 90.5 mm -- a deficiency of 80 per cent.  The Palam weather station has recorded 30.3 mm rain against the 50-year average of 91.6 mm, according to IMD data.  Delhi recorded 237 mm rainfall in August this year, the highest for the month in seven years.  Overall, the city has recorded 576.5 mm rainfall against the usual of 614.3 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts.  The IMD has also said that monsoon is likely to stay longer in Delhi and start withdrawing only in the “initial days of October”.The wind system had reached Delhi on June 25, two days earlier than normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-rainfall-in-delhi-for-a-week/story-vIhQbGFUclJkoDyN8uOz3J.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking resumes inter-state bus service to thin occupancy||Bringing much-needed respite to the residents, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) resumed inter-state services in Punjab and Haryana with 50% occupancy and 33 buses plying on 15 routes on Wednesday.As per safety protocols, only 26 passengers were allowed per bus, although some buses could not even manage this number. The CTU staff blamed it on the lack of awareness about the resumption of inter-state services, coupled with fear of infection.The buses were operational from both the bus stands—ISBT, Sector 17, and ISBT, Sector 43.“The conductor scanned us and asked us to sit leaving the middle seat empty,” said Ashok Nath of Jagatpura in Mohali, who was travelling with his wife and waiting for his bus at ISBT-17.Amit Gupta, general manager, CTU, said, “We started with 33 buses and all routes were functional. Occupancy-wise, it was a good start.”“The staff was instructed not to pick passengers on the route and to operate only between source and destination. However, certain buses that could not manage to get 26 passengers, passengers were picked up en route,” said a CTU staff member, wishing not to be named.After a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 23, CTU had suspended services. On June 10, CTU had briefly resumed bus services to neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab, but again suspended them after a few days owing to a sudden surge in the coronavirus cases. Passengers welcomed with thermal scanners, sanitisersAll bus conductors were provided with thermal scanners and sanitisers and every passenger was scanned before boarding.Despite the facility of purchasing tickets online through CTU website www.ctuonline.chd.gov.in or through the mobile app ‘CTU Musafir’, most passengers opted to purchase them from the conductor before boarding the bus.Every bus coming in or out of the bus stand was sanitised. The seats had stickers pasted on seats indicating ‘sit here’ and a cross mark meaning the seat was to be left empty. Most passengers were wearing masks with a few having replaced the protective gear with handkerchiefs.In some buses, the drivers used polythene sheets to separate themselves from the passengers and nobody was allowed to sit in the first three seats of the bus.Rush witnessed at bus standsThough people were largely seen maintaining social distancing, a few were found standing in groups while waiting for buses. Many had masks around their necks and opted not to wear them. “The conductors were asking passengers to wear masks properly, but no one checked those waiting at the bus stand,” said Shudhashu Mishra, a resident of Sector 49 who was travelling to Hoshiarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-undertaking-resumes-inter-state-bus-service-to-thin-occupancy/story-qLlSoVdAC05YeneuufABbN.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Depressed 16-year-old girl jumps to her death from water tank in Ludhiana||A 16-year-old girl allegedly jumped to her death from a water tank in South City area, police said on Wednesday. The teenager, a resident of South City, was missing since Tuesday night, and was found lying dead near the water tank on Wednesday morning. Police said her injuries indicated that she fell off a great height. A suicide note was recovered, wherein the girl stated that she had failed to meet her parents’ expectations and that no one was responsible for her death. “The girl was suffering from depression as per her family. She left home at 7.30pm on Tuesday and switched off her mobile phone,” said Paramdeep Singh, SHO, PAU police station. Initially, the family kept looking for her, and informed the police after failing to trace her. A police team also launched a search, but in vain. On Wednesday morning, a passer-by spotted the girl lying dead near the water tank and raised the alarm. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy at the Ludhiana civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/depressed-16-year-old-girl-jumps-to-her-death-from-water-tank-in-ludhiana/story-exzgTs1DprZsBtBxpgfUII.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Covid toll rises to 622 with 15 more deaths, 286 test positive||A day after Ludhiana witnessed the sharpest single-day spike in Covid-19 fatalities with 19 residents succumbing to the virus, the district confirmed 15 more deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 622. Among these, 212 casualties have been recorded in a mere 16 days. Among the latest fatalities, eight patients were from villages in Payal, Khanna, Raikot and Samrala sub-divisions.The district also confirmed 286 fresh Covid-19 cases. Of the 14,908 confirmed cases so far, 12,651 people have been discharged, leaving 1,632 active cases.According to health officials, the deaths confirmed on Wednesday include a 73-year-old man from New Kundan Puri, a 65-year-old man from Barmalipur village, a 63-year-old man from Gujjar village, Ladhowal, a 62-year-old woman from Manki village in Samrala, a 61-year-old man from Lakshmi Colony, a 59-year-old woman from Haibowal Kalan, a 59-year-old man from Akalgarh, Raikot, a 57-year-old man from Rahon village in Khanna, a 56-year-old man from Bagowal village, a 54-year-old man from Threeke village, a 52-year-old man from Shivpuri, a 51-year-old woman from Green Park, two 50-year-old men from Dugri and Moti Bagh Colony and a 50-year-old woman from Dhulkot village.The positive cases reported on Wednesday include 95 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness, 79 were referred by the out-patient departments and 32 are contacts of positive patients. Among them, 10 were health workers and two police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-s-covid-toll-rises-to-622-with-15-more-deaths-286-test-positive/story-SjlTrQc0Rug1adjiLzWblJ.html
17-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally goes past 1.1mn||Maharashtra on Wednesday surpassed another grim landmark of 1.1 million confirmed Covid-19 cases with 23,365 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 11,21,221, even as Mumbai recorded its highest single-day spike of 2,378 fresh infections, which pushed its overall tally to 175,974. The previous highest was 2,371 on September 10. The state also reported 474 fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 30,883. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stood at 2.75%. Mumbai reported 50 fatalities--the highest for any city — taking the city’s toll to 8,280. Of the 474 deaths reported on Wednesday, 335 were from the previous 48 hours and 102 were from last week. The remaining 37 deaths were from the period before last week.The state’s active caseload stood at 297,125. The state also discharged 17,559 patients, as the tally of recovered rose to 792,832. The state could cross 800,000 recoveries on Thursday. The recovery rate in the state stood at 70.71%. The state’s last 100,000 cases came in only five days. The state crossed the 1 million mark on September 11. In the first 15 days this month, the state recorded 305,285 cases.The positivity rate in the first 15 days of September has been between 20% and 28% — higher than the state’s overall positivity rate of 20.29%. In the fortnight, the average positivity rate has been 24.10%, which means, for every 100 samples tested, 24 would turn out to be positive for coronavirus.The overall positivity rate in the state has seen a rise in the last one month. On August 16, the positivity rate in the state was 18.84%, while on September 16, it rose to 20.36%. Maharashtra so far has tested 5,506,276 samples. It tested 97,216 samples, as per the data on Wednesday, which gave a positivity rate 24.03%.“The cases were expected to go up since all districts have been asked to increase their testing capacity. Testing has also increased with the rapid antigen test. These testing are not done randomly Targeted testing is giving us a better strike rate. However, the increase in cases is a matter of concern,” said a senior health department official, requesting anonymity.Nearly 24% of the cases reported on Wednesday came from Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Nearly 28% of the caseload came from the Pune circle, which includes Pune, Solapur and Satara districts.Kalyan-Dombivli topped in MMR with 560 new infections, pushing the twin cities’ tally over 40,000 to 40,220. Thane city reported 404 new cases, while its rural areas saw 398 new cases. Navi Mumbai and Panvel city reported 351 and 192 fresh cases, respectively.Pune city was at the second spot on Wednesday to report fresh cases with 2,141 infections, taking its tally to 134,124. It also crossed 3,000 fatalities with 26 deaths. Pune rural saw 1,761 new infections, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 1,147 new cases.Nagpur city, the state’s second capital, reported 1,519 and 30 fatalities. Its rural area saw 455 new cases and nine deaths. Nagpur city mayor Sandeep Joshi has announced a two-day Janata Curfew on September 19 and 20. The city has 42,924 cases, while its rural areas have recorded 12,903 cases so far.The situation in semi-urban and rural areas of districts in western Maharashtra, too, is bad with districts clocking over 700 fresh cases on Wednesday. Kolhapur, Solapur, Satara and Sangli districts reported 737, 616, 862 and 999 fresh cases, respectively. Ahmednagar rural areas reported 798 new cases, while Ahmednagar city reported 330 cases.The Covid-19 spread is seen in rural areas of Vidarbha as well. Yavatmal, Buldhana, Amravati rural, Gondia, Chandrapur city and rural reported 299, 229, 398, 303, 207 and 264 new cases. Beed, Osmanabad, Latur, Nanded districts have reported 358, 238, 357 and 341 new cases, respectively on Wednesday.In north Maharashtra, Nashik city and its rural areas continued to report more cases. Nashik city recorded 610 new cases, taking its overall tally over 40,000 to 40509. Its rural areas reported 288 new cases. Jalgaon rural saw 769 new cases, while Jalgaon city reported 171 new cases on Wednesday. Dhule city and rural areas collectively reported 155 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-tally-goes-past-1-1mn/story-ppl51xvrrzZ9ayZTrovSfK.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid pandemic in Ludhiana: From 19 days in mid-August, doubling rate improves to 27 in September||Hovering around 20 days in the latter half of August, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana has significantly improved in September, government data reveals.Currently settled at 27.43 days, if this doubling rate continues, the number of positive patients in Ludhiana - 14,908 on Wednesday – will double to 30,000 only by the mid of October.Amid the coronavirus pandemic, doubling rate helps estimate the time taken for the cases to double – the lower the number of days, the higher the spike in Covid-19 cases.Sometimes, a large surge or dip in the number of cases can give an erroneous impression of the spread of the disease. Therefore, doubling rate is calculated using the average of five, seven or 10 days to capture the Covid curve over longer periods.For instance: if Day 1 had 100 cases and these multiplied to 200 in a week, the doubling rate will be seven days; if it increased to 400 in the next two weeks, the rate will be 14 days, and so on and so forth. Hence, the higher the number of days, slower the progression of the outbreak.The rate is calculated on the emergence of new cases, and thus, changes every week.After recording the highest spike of cases in a single day with 462 positive cases on August 21, the doubling time was down to 19.44 days in the third week of month.However, as the first 11 days of September recorded 304 or fewer cases, the doubling time increased to 28.51 days by the week ending on September 8.This figure again dipped to 27.43 days by the week ending on September 15 as September 12 recorded district’s second-sharpest surge in cases with 435 new infections within a single day. However, the cases have been fewer since.From an average 975 samples per day in the beginning of August, the number of daily samples now being collected for testing in Ludhiana is 4,686.DIP IN ACTIVE CASESAnother silver lining is that the number of active cases is also on a decline. As per government data, the number of active cases was 1,214 in the beginning of August and multiplied to 2,334 on August 21.But as of September 16, with a total of 14,908 cases and 622 deaths, the active cases have reduced to 1632.According to district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar, the doubling time helps assess the situation, but Ludhiana’s status will be better analysed after a month. “The district has seen a decline in a number of parameters. The positive cases were 438 on Tuesday, but came down to 286 on Wednesday. Hopefully, with better awareness among Ludhiana residents, cases will start to swiftly come down soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-pandemic-in-ludhiana-from-19-days-in-mid-august-doubling-rate-improves-to-27-in-september/story-sus1wZricBGArbOWVOU2MI.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Initial findings of antibody survey in Delhi suggests 33% exposed to Covid-19||The prevalence of antibodies for Covid-19 rose from 29.1% to roughly 33% between August and September, according to the initial findings of the serological survey in Delhi, senior officials in the Capital’s administration said on Wednesday.The number represents the proportion of people from among 17,000 who were sampled, though the final figures are yet to be officially released. If extrapolated to the roughly 20 million population, the finding implies 6.5 million people may now have been silently exposed to the virus, more than 33 times the 193,526 confirmed infections till September 7 (the date on which the 7-day sampling ended). “The report has been submitted to the health department and it is currently being reviewed. The final report could have minor variations in the final sero prevalence since data from some wards are also being re-checked,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named. Covid-19 is known to manifest itself as asymptomatic infections, making its detection hard. Since late July, Delhi has been conducting monthly serological surveys to identify how many people may have had such an infection and silently recovered. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe findings relate to the third survey and, according to the person cited above, the final results are likely to be announced by next week. The presence of antibodies could prevent a second infection, at least for a short while, though scientists are yet to determine this for a certainty. If protection after an infection lasts for long, a sero prevalence of 60-70% could be enough to lead to herd immunity, when an outbreak begins to die out as the virus finds fewer susceptible people to infect. In the first survey held between June 27 and July 10, the sero prevalence among those sampled was 22.9%. The following month, this proportion rose to 29.1%. In terms of estimated infections across the city, the July survey projected 4.5 million cases, followed by 5.8 million in August. This translates to 1.3 million more people being infected in the one-month period in between.Going by the initial findings, the latest serological survey suggests that fewer people were silently infected in August: roughly 800,000, compared 1.3 million the previous month. Also read| Families can perform last rites of Covid-19 victims: Calcutta high courtThe first survey covered 20,000 people, followed by 15,000 in August and 17,000 in September. The findings also suggest that Covid-19 testing has been able to catch a larger share of the infections. Comparing sero survey-estimated projections in July and August with the corresponding numbers of confirmed cases shows that the proportion of possible true infections detected rose from 3.3% to 5.5%.Delhi leads the country in rate of testing per capita. “A sero survey is necessary to find out the true burden of the infection in the city or state. More importantly it helps identify the number of asymptomatic people who had the disease and recovered from it. Such people, in most cases, are not even aware that they are infected,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/initial-findings-of-antibody-survey-in-delhi-suggests-33-exposed-to-covid-19/story-gU2HGo8wAPJSEZv1BgQXbK.html
17-09-2020||City||Gurugram logs highest ever single-day spike of 421 new cases||Gurugram: Gurugram district on Wednesday reported the highest ever single-day spike of 421 new coronavirus infections, according to the district health department – surpassing the previous single-day increase of 339 cases recorded on September 13. The death toll also climbed up to 153 as two more deaths were confirmed on Wednesday. Emphasising that increased testing is behind the rising number of cases, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Gurugram is currently conducting highest number of tests across the state. It is almost 13% of the total 31,000 tests administered in the state in a day. If we are doing 4,000 tests a day, then at the current positivity rate of 11-12%, 400 cases are expected.” On Wednesday, at least 3,839 tests were administered — 2591 samples in government facilities and 1248 in private labs. The tests per million in Gurugram has reached 1,46,098.The total tally of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus in the district has now reached 16,330. Of these, 2,654 (nearly 16% ) are active cases. Data shows that the daily growth rate of active cases is almost 2.3%. Based on the active cases, Gurugram’s Covid-19 burden on the state is almost 12.44%. Currently, it has the highest number of active cases in the state, followed by Karnal (2018) and Faridabad (1835). The number of recovered patients has reached 13,523 in Gurugram, with 204 patients recovering on Wednesday. The recovery rate now stands at 82.81%. According to the district health bulletin, out of the active cases, 2,403 are home-isolated and 38 are in designated isolation facilities. There is also a surge in the number of hospitalised patients. At least 213 patients are undergoing treatment in 40 hospitals of the city. Yadav said that to help Covid-19 positive patients, who require surgery for appendix, fracture or any other routine surgery, an operation theatre has been prepared at the polyclinic in sector 31. “It is a Covid-19 theatre only for positive patients who require immediate surgery,” said Yadav. Data shows cases are doubling in every 38 days, which was almost 80 days until last week of August (August 28). The overall doubling rate of the state is 27 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-logs-highest-ever-single-day-spike-of-421-new-cases/story-4qteJ8HwDU8wFGDAUEWK6H.html
17-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Health department starts CT scan facility only for Covid-19 cases||Gurugram: To facilitate hassle-free CT scan of Covid-19 patients, the district health department has designated specific hours at its diagnostic centre in old Civil Hospital, Jharsa Road, to exclusively cater to such people. Health officials said many private hospitals are refusing to conduct the scan and instead asking patients to get reports on their own, which has been hampering timely diagnosis and treatment. Since the coronavirus infection is a respiratory disease, doctors suggest imaging of lungs to understand the impact of the disease on the organ. Based on the diagnosis, medication is prescribed. “The service will be operational for only Covid-19 patients from 5pm to 8 pm. The effort is to put a system in place where people can get their CT scan easily. Timely diagnosis would assist in identifying serious cases, further reducing the mortality,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. At present, of every 10 people visiting the diagnostic imaging centre at old Civil Hospital, five are Covid-19 positive patients, according to Sunny Saurabh, operations manager. “As of now, these patients were mostly referred by the Civil Hospital in sector 10. Only a few came from private hospitals. CT scan of these patients was conducted after 7pm. Since the dedicated service for three hours will start now, more footfall is expected,” said Saurabh. According to Saurabh, the centre will remain open for other patients from 6am to 5pm. From 5pm till 8pm. only Covid-19 patients will be allowed, after which the centre will be completely disinfected and closed. The health department has fixed the charges for patients referred by private set-ups. “The CT scan charge for a case referred by the government hospital is Rs 1,520. Those referred by private facilities will be charged Rs 2,800. Patients can take appointment on these numbers -- 7082111726,7082403242,” he said. The purpose behind starting the designated service, according to Yadav, is to timely detect serious cases. “It has come into our notice that private hospitals are asking patients to get a CT scan report after they are confirmed positive for coronavirus or complain of some health issue. It is a hassle for the Covid-19 patient and the kin before hospitalisation.” It is suggested that once a patient tests positive, he/she should be isolated and, if required, hospitalised where the test should be conducted. Doctors say they also prescribe CT scan for patients who test negative in the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) but show all the symptoms of the disease. Dr P Venkata Krishnan, internal medicine, Paras Hospital, said, “CT is only for moderate to severely ill patients. It is prescribed in those cases where patients have all the respiratory symptoms yet shows negative in the Covid-19 test. It helps to confirm the case based on the lobes created in the lungs and directs in exact prognosis.”Dr Risabh Rajput, director, Covid-19 lab at Modern Diagnostic and Research Centre, said, “We are getting cases where physicians are prescribing CT scan, suspecting it to be a Covid-19 case. Sometimes, physicians do not mention Covid-19 and simply ask for the scan. In these cases, in the clinical reports we have to mention about patient’s chances of contracting the coronavirus. Therefore, every person coming to the centre is considered to be a possible Covid-19 patient based on which safety precautions are taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-health-department-starts-ct-scan-facility-only-for-covid-19-cases/story-wWT3AvJXmWGvYb4l6U2RbN.html
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Snatcher lands in Ludhiana police net, five mobile phones recovered||Continuing their crackdown on snatchers, the local police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old man and recovered five mobiles phones from his possession. The accused has been identified as Ravi Kumar, a resident of Grewal Colony. According to the sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh of Tibba police station, they had been receiving complaints about snatchers targeting pedestrians, particularly migrants, in the areas falling under the station’s jurisdiction. Following a tip-off on Tuesday, they laid a trap near Gopal Chowk and arrested Kumar. As many as five snatched mobile phones were recovered from him. Kumar was booked under Sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code.He was presented before a court on Wednesday and sent to police remand. Police are working to identify the people whom he sold the devices to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snatcher-lands-in-ludhiana-police-net-five-mobile-phones-recovered/story-WlPSOdJSJ05G2bpaOTFVOK.html
17-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Affordable housing scheme extended to Vatsal Valley||Home buyers in Gurugram can now buy affordable plots at Vatsal Valley, earlier known as Gual Pahari, on the Gurugram-Faridabad road as the government has extended the Deen Dyal Jan Awas Yojana Affordable (DDJAY) Plot policy, 2016 to this area. Under this scheme, developers can offer plots of 80 square metres (sqm) to 150 sqm. Buyers can also get independent floors registered even for plots of size 80 sq metres, which reduces the cost of a unit, said a developer. Four floors along with a stilt can be constructed as per the latest government norms, he added. As per the Vatsal Valley (Gual Pahari) final development plan, the proposed land use has earmarked 75 hectares for residential use, 55 hectares for transport and communication, 30 hectares for public utilities, 153 hectares for public and semi-public uses, 45 hectares for open spaces and 16.45 hectares for special economic zone (SEZ) and 28 hectares for Abadi village. Pradeep Agarwal, managing director of affordable housing company Signature Developers, said that extension of this scheme to Vatsal Valley will further open avenues for home buyers from the middle.class. “The plots of small sizes can be sold for lesser price under this scheme and there are many takers for such.projects. Projects under this DDJAY have been launched in Sohna and met with good interest,” he added. Earlier this scheme was meant for low and medium potential urban areas but it was extended to high potential zones such as Sohna and Gurugram keeping in view the interest shown by buyers in affordable group housing projects. “A large number of developers have shown interest in projects under this scheme in Sohna, Gurugram and Manesar. There is a strong demand for affordable group housing and affordable plots and we are hopuful that many companies would come for such projects in Vatsal Valley and all other areas in the district,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram. Makrand Pandurang, director, town and country planning department district said that extension of DDJAY to Vatsal Valley will help more people get affordable housing and will also curb the illegal colonisation of agricultural land. The department is also extending this scheme to all urban areas. “The companies interested in developing such projects can apply online and they can come to the department for any query and assistance,” he said. The notification issued by director, town and country planning on September 14 states,” The Haryana government has extended the Deen Dyal Jan Awas Yojana of 2016 to Vatsal Valley earlier known as Gual Pahari. The interested companies/ parties and individuals can submit the applications under DDJAY through online portal on any working day within next 30 days.”Ashok Yadav, a real estate dealer said, “Government should facilitate such projects so that end user can buy such plots with ease” he said. DTCP officials said that the Haryana government had also amended the DDJAY in July whereby the upper limit of 15 acres for grant of license was waived but subject to 40 per cent net planned area in a given residential sector. The minimum area required for a license in Gurugram Manesar residential complex was also reduced to 5 acres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-affordable-housing-scheme-extended-to-vatsal-valley/story-2Do3UTN2zRZDdTgzqRhNzJ.html
17-09-2020||Gurugram||Attacked while on duty, Mahendragarh forest guards moved to Gurugram civil hospital for treatment||Two guards with the Mahendragarh district forest department were injured after they were attacked by suspected encroachers in the protected Aravalli forest in Kalba village on Wednesday. First referred to a government hospital in Rewari, the guards were later brought to Gurugram’s Civil Hospital in sector-10 after their injuries were diagnosed to be serious, forest officials said. Officials identified the victims as range forest officer Rajneesh Kumar and deputy ranger Chandra Gupta. Vipin Kumar Singh, Mahendragarh district forest officer and an eyewitness to the clash, said, “I saw my colleagues being beaten up with sticks and strangled with towels. The intention was very much to injure them. They have suffered fractures and will require stitches on their heads and mouths.” Kumar said that they had come across the group while on a routine patrol of the Nangla-Chaudhry forest range, which includes several Aravalli villages, including Kalba. “A group of people were using an earthmoving machine to uproot trees and quarry rocks on protected forest land. When my colleagues warned them of punitive action if they did not stop immediately, they were surrounded and thrashed. I was some distance away in another car, and was able to call for additional staff, who broke up the altercation,” Singh said, adding that an FIR against the suspects, allegedly resident of Kalba village, had been filed with the Mahendragarh police.A similar incident had occurred in June, when a range forest officer in Faridabad was beaten by the land mafia in Surajkund, for taking pictures of illegal constructions coming up on protected forest land in the Aravallis. Citing this incident, Alok Verma, principal chief conservator of forests, Haryana, said, “Such blatant disregard for the law is unacceptable. The state must do more to protect its forest officers who are putting themselves in harm’s way, especially when encroachers seem to have no qualms about assaulting men who are on duty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/attacked-while-on-duty-mahendragarh-forest-guards-moved-to-gurugram-civil-hospital-for-treatment/story-qfB1Dm6yCdAuekHyhX9NYJ.html
17-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Land criteria for property NOC changed to one acre||To curb the illegal registration of small plots, the Haryana government has amended the law to mandate a no objection certificate (NOC) for land less than one acre in area, and vacant land.Earlier, selling agricultural land measuring less than two kanals needed an NOC from the competent authority. Rampant corruption led to several illegal sales and the blooming of unauthorised colonies in the district. The government said it would bring in necessary systemic changes and legislative amendments to curb the practice and bring in transparency.The amendment to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act 1975, notification for which was issued on September 14, follows the transferring of all land registries online to minimise human interference.Makrand Pandurang, director of the department of town and country planning, said, “This move will stop registration of plots which were smaller in size and led to development of unauthorized colonies. Getting an NOC has been made mandatory.” DTCP officials said that a large number of illegal registeries have been carried out in the district without obtaining the NOC under section 7 A of Haryana Urban Area Act 1975. A large number of colonies on agricultural land had come up due to registration of small plots in the city, and the state government was forced to ban registries and introduce a new property registration regime to curb these practices, they added. Pandurang also said that the category of land needing NOC has also been changed from agricultural to vacant land. The notification by Haryana government stated that “vacant land shall mean such land wherein either no construction of any nature exists or such construction is in existence which is either uninhabited or not fit for human habitation and stands constructed without following the due course of law.”Haryana government on July 22 had banned registration of properties across the state as it was revealed that a large number of illegal registeries had been carried out without obtaining NOC from DTCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-land-criteria-for-property-noc-changed-to-one-acre/story-GnCFy2vfaasW2PBIEnXW7O.html
17-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Only 40 applicants found eligible for plots under oustees quota||Gurugram: The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) said that only 40 out of 294 landowners, who had applied for an alternative plot under the oustees quota, have been found eligible for it after a 10-day screening process. As per HSVP rules, only those landowners, whose over 75% land has been acquired for development of residential sectors, are entitled to get a plot from the authority under the oustees quota, officials said. The HSVP officials said that claims of the applicants were screened in a series of meetings led by HSVP administrator Jitender Yadav from September 1 to 10, and only 40 oustees were found eligible. Now, a draw of lots for allotting alternative plots to these applicants would be held on September 22, they said. The landowners whose land has been acquired for public utility projects such as roads, water treatment plant, bus stand and similar facilities are not eligible to get a plot under the oustees policy, the officials clarified. Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer I, HSVP, said that during the screening, it was found that land of 254 applicants had been acquired for construction of infrastructure projects such as roads, power substations, water treatment and similar facilities. Under the HSVP policy, such landowners are not eligible for a plot under oustees quota. “Only those landowners whose land has been acquired for development of residential sectors are eligible to get plots under this quota,” Gogia said, adding that a draw to allot plots will be held on September 22. The authority had invited online applications for plots under this quota in 2018 after which 294 landowners applied for the same. Another reason for rejection of claims for plots was that while land of a single owner was acquired, their multiple heirs had applied for plots separately. “A single owner will get a single plot, but if his three or four sons apply for separate plots then all of them are not eligible,” said another authority official, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-only-40-applicants-found-eligible-for-plots-under-oustees-quota/story-Au1s0hdKy62hyp3G5N6joM.html
17-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Truck driver held for illegally transporting liquor||Gurugram: The police on Tuesday arrested a truck driver for allegedly illegally transporting liquor near the old tax barrier on national highway 48 in Bilaspur. The suspect had hidden 127 cartons of liquor underneath sacks of garments and scrap, and was carrying a fake receipt of the goods, the police said. According to the police, the crime branch of Manesar received a tip-off about a truck carrying liquor illegally, following which the police set up a check post on the highway in Bilaspur. The police said around 7pm, a truck coming from Dharuhera-Rewari side abruptly slowed down about 20 metres from the police check post and tried to turn around. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The truck’s movement raised suspicion and the driver was caught by the police team. At first, he claimed that he was carrying garments and scrap in the canter to Ahmedabad (Gujarat). He also produced a receipt dated September 12 of a transporter. The police team removed the tarpaulin from the top of the canter and found sacks of garments. However, under the sacks, 127 cartons of liquor were found. The driver could not produce the requisite licence or permit to transport the liquor.” The suspect has been identified as Sahroon alias Kikar Singh, a native of Ferozepur Jhirka in Nuh. The police said during further questioning, he said that he used to procure the liquor from Panipat and transport it to Gujarat. A crime branch official, requesting anonymity, said, “The truck driver said that he charged Rs 30,000 for a one-way trip to Gujarat and that he had transported the liquor across states at least twice. He said that he hoodwinked the police at a check post as he had hidden the liquor underneath the garment sacks and used to show them a receipt of goods to establish credibility.” A case was registered against the driver under relevant sections of the Excise Act at Bilaspur police station on Tuesday. The truck and liquor cartons were seized, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-truck-driver-held-for-illegally-transporting-liquor/story-csXbp3M8QU97Goa0TGvsPJ.html
17-09-2020||City||For getting registry appointment, buyers and sellers also need to pay MCG dues||Gurugram: Buyers and sellers of property, along with obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the department of town and country planning, will also have to get a no-dues certificate from the municipal corporation of Gurugram to get an appointment for registering a property, according to a new system introduced recently.Apart from property tax, the MCG has added other civic taxes in the online software system, which has been integrated with the registration process in a bid to generate revenue from property owners. The new system, which was launched last week, has been taken to generate more revenue and to prevent illegal registration of plots in a bid to check unauthorised development of colonies. According to the new online system, house owners whose properties fall in MCG’s jurisdiction will have to clear dues pertaining to property tax, which is annual, development charges, which are a one-time payment, water and sewage charges, which are monthly payments. Dinesh Kumar, zonal taxation officer, MCG, said the new system has been integrated with the registration process and property owners will have to pay their dues before getting an appointment for registration. “This system will generate more revenue for the civic agency and help homebuyers know about their dues. They can also pay these online,” Kumar said. An applicant will get a one-time password to clear the dues with the civic agency. Once the payment is done, the applicant will be allowed to get an appointment for property registration. “The property owners can pay dues online, get their registered mobile numbers and emails changed if required. Around 10 to 12 people come to the registration office at mini-secretariat to pay their dues daily,” said Sandeep Sharma, an MCG official deployed at the registration office. Property owners said the new regime for registration was cumbersome and needed lot of formalities to be fulfilled to get an appointment for registering a deed. “The buyers are finding this system difficult to manage as number of documents need to be uploaded. And now those in MCG areas also need a no-dues certificate,” said Subash Sharma, a real-estate dealer. Asked about issues being faced by property owners in getting appointments, the DTCP officials said they have already started taking online submissions for issuing NOCs. “The applications will be accepted online and soon the new process will become smooth after everyone becomes familiar with it,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-getting-registry-appointment-buyers-and-sellers-also-need-to-pay-mcg-dues/story-gaHI7a186AzSZbHuSqLPwN.html
17-09-2020||City||Overflowing sewers raise a stink at Gurugram Sector 46||Gurugram: Blocked drains and overflowing sewers have become a common sight in Sector 46 over the last one month with residents claiming that repeated efforts to raise the issue with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) have fetched no results and the situation is getting worse with each passing day. Residents said with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the authorities should keep all areas sanitised and alleged that they have neglected the sector and left people to deal with the unhygienic situation on their own. The lanes have turned into breeding grounds for mosquitoes due to overflown, stagnated sewage and the situation has become worse since after the heavy rain last month, residents say, adding the unbearable stench has made it almost impossible to venture out. “It has been more than a month that we have been following up with the civic authorities but to no avail. The situation is getting worse with each passing day,” said Rajkumar Yadav, president, resident welfare association (RWA), sector 46. The residents said some of the sector’s lanes are severely water-logged and people are living in fear in pockets where uncovered power transformers stand nearby. “The authorities should at least conduct a survey or remove the sewage from the roads. The main pipelines are under the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the sector has been transferred to MCG but still no one is interested to even visit the sector and give an assurance by when the issue will be resolved. At least the authorities should provide us with some alternative immediately,” said Praveen Kapoor, a resident. Last month, three buildings in the city had tilted, including one in this sector, after heavy rain. It was demolished for safety reasons, but the residents had alleged at the time that the inadequate drainage system caused water-logging, which weakened the building’s foundation. “We have complained to the MCG officials several times but to no avail. For the past five years, every time it rains, sewage water spills on to the roads and no one makes an effort to get it cleared. Residents cannot walk on the roads and children are forced to stay indoors,” Balbir Singh, vice president of RWA said. The residents, on Wednesday, once again wrote to the MCG commissioner and GMDA officials, highlighting the precarious condition of civic amenities in the area. The residents also alleged that desilting is not done before the monsoons, resulting in the blockage. “There are serious issues of flow and construction in such cases. A concerted effort is needed to effectively clean up the drains. The authorities cannot get away with a quick fix. The roads are in poor shape, so is the drainage,” Yadav said.  MCG officials said they are already working on the issue and are visiting each sector one by one to ensure rainwater drains are not choked and get cleaned regularly. “We are removing the water by machines and it will take at least 10 days to resolve the problem. The lines are connected to the master pipeline of GMDA, which is choked, resulting in overflowing,” said Vishal Garg, executive engineer, division 3, MCG. A GMDA official said they have given a contract for desilting the drains and once the complete drain is cleaned, the issue will be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/overflowing-sewers-raise-a-stink-at-gurugram-sector-46/story-Ay1Zp4diLrx5iSwDEOsbcP.html
17-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Local residents live in fear after Sec 57 building tilts||Gurugram: An under-construction five-storey residential building, built on a 200 square-yard plot in Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran’s (HSVP) Sector 57, has remained tilted dangerously since the last week of July after heavy rainfall, local residents said on Wednesday. The residents said after repeated requests to the house owner and the authorities, two cranes have been deployed to support the tilted structure. More than 20 families living in nearby buildings said they have been living in distress since July-end as the gap between the walls is growing and they fear it can fall anytime, if ignored. They said they have been coordinating with the authorities for more than a month but no concrete action was taken despite several meetings with senior officials, including the district commissioner. Residents of the area said due to the poor quality of construction, the building has tilted to its left as there is no other structure on that side. However, it is surrounded by buildings on other sides.Officials of HSVP had in August had demolished three other buildings in Sectors 27, 46 and 47 that had tilted precariously, following a spell of heavy rainfall in that month. The owner of this building has been asked to demolish two floors of the structure at his own cost. A junior engineer visited the site on Wednesday to probe structural issues with the building. Sumit Saxena, one of the neighbours, said there were flaws in the foundation, which caused the building to tilt. “The gaps have increased and the building is a threat to other nearby houses. The authorities should take prompt action to prevent any damage,” he said. Another neighbour, Vijay Negi, said they have been pursuing the matter with the authorities for over two weeks and are still waiting for any visible and concrete action. “The officials are not taking the issue seriously and we are having sleepless nights,” he said. HUDA officials said they had formed a committee in August, members of which visited locations from where complaints were received regarding tilted buildings. It had made recommendations to prevent such incidents in the future. Vivek Kalia, estate officer II, HSVP, Gurugram, said that the teams are constantly monitoring the site and large iron girders have been placed to support the leaning structure so that there is no risk to people in nearby buildings. “Our team is undertaking corrective measures and assessing the structural safety of the building on a daily basis. Cost of manpower and machinery deployed is being recovered from the plot owner,” he said. Kalia said the owner of this particular house has not compromised with the quality as he has constructed it for his own living. Madan Gopal Wadhwa, a resident of Sector 9 and owner of the under-construction building in Sector 57, said he has submitted the structural report prepared by the engineer to HSVP officials. “The building is sustainable and repairable and there is nothing to panic about. There is no risk to anyone’s life because of the structure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-local-residents-live-in-fear-after-sec-57-building-tilts/story-eV3xXy9uvVpoVbwtvjWQJM.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Building roof collapses, elderly man dies as 2 families fight over AC heat||A quarrel over an air-conditioner blowing hot air into a neighbour’s house turned into a full-blown assault that left a 60-year-old man dead, caused the roof of a nearby house to collapse, and injured two persons in East Delhi’s NSA Colony on Tuesday afternoon, police said. Police said the elderly man, Dharampal Singh, died after being thrown off the terrace by three to four men, who also thrashed his son and left him injured. To escape the assault, the elderly man’s nephew jumped on to the roof an adjacent house, but that roof collapsed under his weight and he got injured. Amit Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara), said so far, one man, identified by his first name Dharmender, has been arrested and a hunt is on for three to four more suspects. The DCP said an FIR has been registered at Farsh Bazar police station under the Indian Penal Code sections of murder, causing hurt, wrongful restraint and criminal intimidation. Explaining the sequence of events, police said Singh lived with his two sons, Dev Kumar and Babulal, who have their own businesses and Dharmender lived next door. Like the other houses in the densely populated neighbourhood, Singh’s house faced Dharmender’s. “Their houses were so close that when Dharmender installed an air-conditioner a few months ago, the hot air from the rear of the AC was blowing straight into Singh’s house,” an investigator associated with the case said. This became the reason for frequent fights between the two families. “When Dharmender’s family refused to remove their AC, we also got an AC installed in our house,” 28-year-old Dev Kumar told the police. That only escalated the matter. The dispute took a murderous turn around 2.30pm on Tuesday when Dev Kumar returned home to find Dharmender’s family and friends allegedly fighting with Babulal over the AC issue. “We hurled abuses at each other before my brother and I went to the terrace to stop the fight from escalating. Soon, four to five relatives and friends of Dharmender barged into our house, reached the terrace and started beating us with helmets and sticks,” Dev Kumar said. When Dev Kumar’s father tried to intervene, the assaulters allegedly flung him off the terrace of the two-storey house. He fell on to the roof the adjacent building and sustained serious head injuries. “Dharmender’s nephew, Arun, tried to escape the assault by jumping on to another neighbour’s terrace, but his leap caused the roof of that building to collapse and Arun was injured,” Dev Kumar said in his police complaint. Dev Kumar said the assault only ended when the police the reached the spot and the assailants fled. An unconscious Singh and his son Kumar were rushed to the hospital where the father succumbed to injuries. The DCP said the arrested accused, Dharmender, was involved in instigating the assaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/building-roof-collapses-elderly-man-dies-as-two-families-fight-over-ac-heat/story-ccfJARqPF4e3hj3Lqw7n3H.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police targeting CAA-NRC critics, says Umar Khalid in video recorded before arrest||A video pre-recorded by Umar Khalid, who was arrested on Sunday night by the Delhi Police in connection with the Delhi riots, was released on Wednesday, in which the former JNU student alleged that those who “incited rioters in front of television cameras” were being let off the hook by the police. “If you are watching this video, it means that I have been arrested,” said Umar Khalid in the two-minute video, which was shown in a press conference organised by activists to condemn the police investigation into the communal riots in north-east Delhi. “Through this video, I want to give a message that Delhi police is not arresting rioters or those who incited rioters in front of television cameras and police officials. We all saw how the Delhi police did not call these people even once for questioning, let alone register an FIR against them. On the other hand, CAA-NRC critics, including student-activists, are being implicated in false cases without any evidence,” said Khalid.Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Kanhaiya Kumar, who was listed as a speaker at the press conference organised at the Press Club, could not attend the meeting, but released a statement on social media. “Questions must be raised over the investigation of Delhi riots as the purpose of this probe is not to ensure justice but to take political revenge,” Kumar said. Those who addressed the conference were former member of the erstwhile Planning Commission Syeda Hameed, Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan, Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation leader Kavita Krishnan, senior journalist Pamela Philipose and former Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president Nandita Narain.Participants and supporters, including Khalid’s family, wore masks with faces of arrested student activists.Bhushan said, “Police said that the members of a WhatsApp group, organised with the objective to support the exemplary peaceful [anti-CAA] protests, are conspirators. But people like Kapil Mishra, who were instigating violence by saying ‘goli maro’, did not face any action.”Mishra, who had denied allegations of his involvement in the riots, on Monday released a video congratulating Delhi Police for arresting Khalid and “people like him”, and likened the February riots with the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.The attendees later issued a statement. “We have gathered here today to express our collective anguish at the sheer brazenness with which the Delhi Police has turned the investigation into the February violence in the national capital into an inquisition of the anti-CAA protests.” “We demand an immediate end to this outrageous investigation that is being conducted with prejudice and mala fide intent. We demand that activists booked under the UAPA be immediately released; and a judicial enquiry commission be constituted to punish the real culprits and ensure justice for Delhi violence,” it added.Delhi Police had contended that an examination of witnesses revealed that Khalid was coordinating between protest sites in Delhi in connivance with other arrested accused. Delhi Police had claimed that Khalid, along with some other prominent anti-CAA protesters, had used the protest sites to plan and orchestrate the riots.Responding to a letter by veteran cop Julio Ribeiro questioning the investigation, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava had said that they were conducting a fair probe backed by evidence without discriminating on the basis of caste or religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-targeting-caa-nrc-critics-says-umar-in-video-recorded-before-arrest/story-s81uwv3aqL3etvKgVBWQTM.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt offers all help to railways in rehabilitating slum dwellers||Delhi urban development minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday wrote to Union railways minister Piyush Goyal, offering to prepare a detailed plan for rehabilitation of the slum dwellers living along the city’s railway tracks. The Supreme Court had ordered on August 31 removal of 48,000 shanties located along railway tracks in Delhi within three months. HT had first reported the matter on September 3.The Centre informed the apex court on Monday that the shanties would not be removed till a final decision is taken. The court then ordered that no coercive action be taken against the slum dwellers for four weeks.In his letter, Jain assured “full cooperation” from the Delhi government in the matter and also reiterated that the project will require multiple agencies of the state and Central government to “closely work together”. “A detailed plan has to be created... We will cooperate fully with you in formulating these policies, and the Delhi government can make these plans and give it to you if you need it,” read Jain’s letter to Goyal. The minister also said the Delhi government has more than 40,000 flats that can be used to relocate the slum dwellers. “The Delhi government also has more than 40,000 flats, out of which some are ready and some will be ready soon. These flats can also be used, if needed, and the Delhi government had also written a letter to the railways last week in this regard. But, these flats are located on the outskirts of Delhi,” Jain wrote.. He said these flats can be offered to the residents of those slums where in-situ rehabilitation policy cannot be implemented for the paucity of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-offers-all-help-to-the-railways-in-rehabilitating-slum-dwellers/story-IcYjqWAGfzy0WruM9kZgdI.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Enough funds, but colleges not paying teachers, says Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that at least four of the 12 Delhi government-funded colleges affiliated to Delhi University have enough money in their accounts despite claiming otherwise, indicating a misappropriation of funds, a charge denied by the colleges.Sisodia’s remark comes on a day when teachers of Delhi government-funded DU colleges began a three-day strike against the alleged delay in disbursal of government grants to these colleges, which they said is the main cause behind pending salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff for months. Addressing a press conference held on Wednesday, Sisodia, however, said enough funds have been provided. “The Delhi government provided enough funds to these colleges for paying salaries but in their initial observation report, auditors have found that the funds are being directed elsewhere rather than paying the salaries to teachers. Projected salaries for this academic year is R 300 crore and Delhi government has provided sufficient funds to the colleges under the pattern of assistance,” Sisodia said. The education minister said several staff members and teachers complained of misuse of funds, which necessitated an audit in six of these colleges. The auditors submitted an initial observation report for at least four colleges on Tuesday, Sisodia said. “It was observed in the reports that colleges kept huge amounts as fixed deposits rather than paying salaries to staff,” Sisodia said. “University and college administration are doing politics and not paying salaries despite having crores in their accounts. Initially, colleges cooperated with the auditors and provided the necessary documents. However, colleges stopped cooperating with auditors on being questioned on the funds.” Sisodia said while Keshav Mahavidyalaya has Rs 10.52 crore, the closing balance of Bhagini Nivedita College shows that they have around Rs 2.5 crore as fixed deposits in their accounts at present. Despite repeated calls and messages, the principals of these colleges did not comment. “Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies didn’t even provide their audited balance sheets to the auditors. However, it was found that they had around Rs 3.5 crore in their balance sheet in the year 2018-19 and Rs 10.45 crore in fixed deposits,” Sisodia said. Principal Poonam Verma said the allegations were false and the matter was being politicised due to the governing body elections. The DU administration and the Delhi government have been at loggerheads over the formation of governing bodies in Delhi government-funded colleges for more than a year now. “The Delhi government has been targeting us because we don’t have their nominated person as the governing body chairperson. We have had a CAG audit in the financial year 2018-19 and because of the pandemic, last year’s audit got delayed. There is no need for a special audit. We are giving them all information. The surplus amount they are talking about is students’ funds and we can’t use it for salaries,” she saidThe Delhi government said Deen Dayal Upadhyay College did not provide audited balance sheets of various funds and books and donated “Rs 25 lakh for the ‘Atal Incubation centre’ from the student society fund account.” Hem Chand Jain, officiating principal, denied the allegations. “We provided all documents to the special audit team and have nothing to hide. Money collected from students for specific purposes or extracurricular activities cannot be used for other purposes other than student activities. Colleges can use student funds for emergency purposes but this cannot be done on a permanent basis. We will provide detailed clarification on the matter soon.” He said most other colleges funded by the University Grants Commission have such funds in their accounts but these cannot be used for salaries. Reacting to the allegations of financial irregularities, DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said, “We can’t comment before seeing the final audit report. If there are any irregularities, we will take action accordingly.” AK Bhagi, a former executive council member, said, “The students fund by no means can be used for paying salaries to employees. It is the duty of the government to pay salaries, other allowances and medical bills, etc., to employees and give grants for new and maintenance of infrastructure. Students’ fund is meant for students’ activities only.” Former academic council member Pankaj Garg said the deputy CM comments were misleading. “Monthly expenditure statements are submitted by every college and only then, grants are released. We are not against any kind of audit but in no case teachers should suffer for no fault of their own,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/enough-funds-but-colleges-not-paying-teachers-sisodia/story-Ma0aEzFvHtwOucdwe5jIpN.html
17-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro expands its colour palette, Tughlakabad-Aerocity line to be Silver||Having used up all primary colours ( Red, Blue and Yellow) and secondary colours (Orange, Green and Purple) for easily identifying its various lines, the Delhi Metro is now delving deep into the colours palette to identify corridors being developed under its Phase 4.The upcoming Tughlakabad to Aerocity corridor of Phase 4 was Wednesday assigned the colour ‘Silver’ by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). Interestingly, silver is not a colour by itself, rather it is a variant of grey, a neutral or achromatic colour (meaning a colour without a colour), which is an intermediate shade of black and white.Assigning colours and numbers to the three new lines, the DMRC said the Tughlakabad to Aerocity line will be known as the Silver Line. The corridor from Majlis Park to Maujpur will be known as Pink Line Extension, while the Janakpuri West to RK Ashram corridor will be identified as a Magenta Line Extension and will take the colours of their mother lines. The Silver Line has also been numbered as Line 10 by the DMRC. The nine existing lines of the Delhi Metro – used by an estimated 27 lakh commuters daily – is identified by a different colour each, so that people are able to remember their routes/trains easily. “Silver has been selected as the colour code for the Tughlakabad to Aerocity corridor. There is no specific rule to deciding the colour of a particular line. However, colours that are distinguishable and can be easily remembered by the commuters are selected,” Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said. Dayal added, “This section is the 10th line to get a colour code. The Majlis Park to Maujpur corridor is an extension of the Pink Line, while the Janakpuri West to RK Ashram corridor will be an extension of the Magenta Line and will retain the same colour codes.” Even from among the six tertiary colours -- Amber (yellow+orange), Vermilion (red+orange), Magenta (red+purple), Violet (blue+purple), Teal/Aqua (blue+green), and Chartreuse/lime green (yellow+green) -- the DMRC has already used up Magenta and Violet.The Delhi Metro has so far used Red for Rithala-Shaheed Sthal corridor; Yellow for Huda City Centre-Samaypur Badli, Blue for Dwarka Sector 21-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City; Green for Inderlok/Kirti Nagarto Bahadurgarh; Violet for Kashmere Gate-Ballabhgarh; Pink for Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar; Magenta for Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden, Grey for Dwarka-Najafgarh and Orange for the Airport Express Line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/metro-expands-its-colour-palette-tughlakabad-aerocity-line-will-be-silver/story-EYLTZe7WoEOCrad1kAdmkO.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Man booked for attempted suicide at police station in Pune||PUNE: A man was booked for attempting suicide at a police station in Pune on Tuesday morning. The 30-year-old man was called to the police station for questioning after a 34-year-old woman had lodged a complaint against him. “The two were known to each other earlier. The woman is married to someone else. She ended their relationship after which he started calling her repeatedly. He used to threaten her with self-harm if she refused to talk to him. So, visit the station to lodge a complaint,” said sub-inspector DR Gupta of Alankar police station who is investigating the case. The man is a commerce graduate and works as an accountant to earn a living. “He started asking her why she had approached the police and had come prepared with a blade,” said PSI Gupta. He cut himself in front of police officials who stopped him before he could harm himself seriously, the police said. The man was taken to a hospital and has been recommended bed rest for 15 days. A case under Section 309 (attempted suicide) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Alankar police station against the man. Pune-based NGO - Connecting - works towards providing support to those in emotional distress using the philosophy of mindfulness based active listening, thereby preventing suicide. Helpline numbers: 1800-209-4353 (toll free) and 9922001122 all days, 12 pm to 8 pm. Walk-in facility: 12 pm to 5 pm, Monday – Saturday. Email: connectingngo@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-attempted-suicide-at-police-station-in-pune/story-l3D49MZkM6uKRGg8JGKFTO.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Onion export ban: Cong protests in Pune; auctioning resumes at Lasalgaon||Pune: Even as farmers and traders at Lasalgaon in Nashik called off their strike and resume auctioning of onions, the Congress on Wednesday staged statewide protest, demanding withdrawal of Centre’s decision to ban export of onions. At Lasalgaon, Asia’s largest market, auctioning was carried out smoothly at Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) even as the supply of onion was less than average a day after operations were closed due to protests by farmers. With rates hovering around Rs 2,300 to 2,600 per quintal, a rise of Rs 500 from Tuesday’s rates, farmers too participated in the process without resistance. According to Suvarna Jagtap, chairperson at Lasalgaon APMC, the onion arrival was reduced by over 60% as most farmers did not bring their produce for auction. “Even as many farmers did not bring onions for sale today, they will have to bring the commodity at APMC. This being rainy season, farmers won’t be able to keep it in the field for long,” said Jagtap. In other markers in Nashik, including Yeola, Nandgaon and Andarsul, onion growers staged protests demanding roll back of decision. In Pune and parts of Maharashtra, Congress workers wearing onion garland staged protests while terming Centre’s decision against the farmers. State Congress unit chief Balasaheb Thorat said in Mumbai, “The decision by Centre to ban export of onion shows that the government in Delhi is anti-farmer. We want the Centre to lift the ban immediately.” Congress city unit president Ramesh Bagwe, who led the protest said this year, the crop was good as farmers worked hard during lockdown. “However, just when farmers were started getting good prices, the Centre imposed ban,” said Bagwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/onion-auctioning-resumes-at-lasalgaon-as-congress-protests-over-ban/story-1PRLjfrFXDuFEtbx1BQzvO.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Over 40K engineering diploma seats may remain vacant this year in Maharashtra||Pune: Poor response saw the admission process for the engineering diploma courses after Class 10 being extended three times in this academic year. The latest deadline to apply for admission is September 21. Authorities said that the popularity of these courses seems to be on a decline. For the total 113,000 seats available across the state, 78,000 applications were received and only 70,000 students confirmed their admission. The dismal figure is now worrying colleges and the Maharashtra state directorate of technical education (DTE) that conducts the admission process. The number of seats and polytechnic colleges in Pune district has been reducing over the years for lack of adequate number of admissions and financial reasons. Currently, in Pune district, there are seven government polytechnics, four aided and 105 private polytechnic colleges. Between 2016 and 2020 around 16,000 seats have been cut down in these polytechnic colleges. At least 26 private colleges were also shut down during this period for low student strength and lack of funds. Dilip Nandanwar, joint director at the Pune regional office of DTE said, “The percentage of admission happening in government and aided polytechnic colleges is good in Pune district. The admission rate in some private colleges is satisfactory, but majority of them are not getting admissions due to lack of infrastructure, good faculty and many placements seats remain vacant. We extended the admission deadline for the third time and students can still apply to get admission till September 21.” Surendra Giram, principal, AISSMS College of Polytechnic, Pune said, “There are various reasons for low percentage of admission, but one of the major reasons is that direct second year diploma admission seats have reduced this year. It has impacted on the overall applications coming for engineering diploma courses. The administration has continued with the admission process despite the Covid situation. Studies, in online mode, are taken by college authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-40k-engineering-diploma-seats-may-remain-vacant-this-year/story-v03KQi9Wcjp1lf58LyItSJ.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Four CCTV cameras stolen from parked PMPML buses in Pune||CCTV cameras installed in two parked buses of public transport utility were stolen on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday from an open ground near Aundh toll plaza, according to the police.The two buses were among those leased by the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) which runs the city buses.The four cameras stolen included the front and rear ones installed on two buses.The cameras collectively cost Rs 12,000, according to the police.A complaint was lodged by Pravin Murkute (49), the operation manager at the company that owns the buses - MP Enterprises and Associate Limited.The space near the Aundh toll plaza was used by PMPML to park its buses when the lockdown came into effect. The space accommodated 32 buses, according to the police.A case under Section 379 (theft) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cctv-stolen-from-parked-pmpml-buses-in-pune/story-D0SKU2Tr94GCXkVyftDtxN.html
17-09-2020||Kolkata||Lawyer who killed husband with phone charger chord gets jail for life||The Barasat court in North 24 Parganas district on Wednesday sentenced a lawyer to life in prison for killing her husband with the chord of a mobile phone charger.Lawyer Anindita Pal Dey, 35, was convicted for murdering her husband Rajat Kumar Dey, who too was a lawyer at the Calcutta high court, on the night of November 25, 2018. Anindita Pal Dey was also accused of tampering with evidence. The victim’s body was found on the floor of the bedroom. His face had turned blue and there was a deep mark on the throat. His wife told the police that he fell from the bed and suffered a heart attack. The couple lived in an apartment in New Town in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata. Their only child, a boy, is now three years old. “This was a unique investigation. The evidence filed before the court was based almost entirely on the convict’s mobile call, chat and Google search history,” said Bibhas Chatterjee, the public prosecutor. Before being arrested, the victim’s wife made self-contradictory statements for six days in an apparent bid to mislead the investigators. Later, it was found that she had been visiting websites to find information on strangulation, said Chatterjee. “We could not even believe that she had committed the murder. She behaved normally all day,” Samir Dey, the victim’s father, told the media at Barasat court. The court had pronounced Anindita Pal Dey guilty on Monday. After the sentence was announced, she said she had been framed and would fight for justice. Her lawyers will challenge the order in the higher court. Police suspected that an extramarital affair led to the murder. The couple often fought over phone calls that Anindita used to make. On the night of the murder, she allegedly wanted to be alone in the bedroom and the couple quarrelled over this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/lawyer-jailed-for-life-for-suffocating-husband-with-mobile-charger-chord/story-kslnBCmntU6ar2NchGNXQJ.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Rs 21 lakh in cash, valuables, stolen from Wakdewadi house in Pune||PUNE: A house in Wakdewadi was broken into in the early hours of Tuesday and cash and valuables worth at least Rs 21 lakh were stolen from the house. A complaint in the matter has been lodged by Prashant Aminbhavi (50), a resident of the house. “He is a real estate registration office and lives with his wife and a 20-year-old son. They were not at home when it happened,” said senior police inspector Rajendra Sahane of Khadki police station. The police have three suspects based on the statement of a person, whose identity is being withheld for now, who saw them running away. Of the stolen valuables, Rs 3,00,000 was cash, while the other valuables included 380 grammes of gold and five kg of silver, according to police. The family members were not at home when the theft was committed, according to the complaint. The lock on the main door was broken by the thieves who entered the house between 5:30pm on Monday and 2:30am on Tuesday, according to the complainant. Police inspector (crime) Shafil Pathan of Khadki police station is investigating the case. A case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc.), 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Khadki police station against the unidentified suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-21-lakh-worth-booty-stolen-from-wakdewadi-house-in-pune/story-3KQa4GiMGcZWQNd4L9ZWgP.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Siblings held in Pune for printing, using counterfeit Rs 100 notes||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested a sister-brother duo for allegedly printing counterfeit Rs 100 notes and using it at a vegetable market, on Tuesday evening.The duo has been identified as Sunita Pradeep Roy (22) and Datta Pradeep Roy (19), residents of Ghotawade in Pune.Sunita worked in a beauty parlour that stopped functioning during the lockdown, while Datta is a first-year student at a college at Ghotawade. Their mother works as domestic help, according to the police.The two were nabbed from the vegetable market near Bhosari police station around 5pm.“We got a tip-off from an informer that a couple was roaming around in the small and local markets. We are investigating how long they have been doing this,” said senior inspector Uttam Tangde of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch.The police recovered two printers and paper along with 34 fake notes of Rs 100 from their possession.“They used a scanner to make a soft copy of an original Rs 100 note and then kept printing copies,” said Tangde.A case under Sections 489(b) (using forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank-notes as genuine), 489(c) (possession of forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank-notes), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code is registered at Bhosari police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/siblings-held-in-pune-for-printing-using-counterfeit-rs-100-notes/story-rSV9WU0Bre4iHda8rXAK1O.html
17-09-2020||Pune||J&K ‘reorganisation’ cannot be pretext for China aggression: former foreign secy Vijay Gokhale||Pune: China cannot use India’s internal reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 as a pretext to justify its aggressive posture, said former foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale, during an online lecture –cum-discussion on Wednesday. The lecture was conducted as a part of Symbiosis Golden Jubilee Lecture Series. “India did not alter its international map, it did not change the border or the Chinese map. In August 2019, it only reorganised its internal map. The same thing happened in 2000, when Uttar Pradesh was bifurcated into two regions. China did not oppose then, so it cannot justify its present aggressive behaviour based on such a pretext,” said Gokhale, who has served as the Indian ambassador to China from January 2016 to October 2017. Highlighting how rejuvenation of Chinese subjects is important for the Communist Party of China, the former ambassador explained that one of China’s focal points of its comprehensive national security policy is seizing what it considers its “lost territories”. Such regions include Hong Kong, Taiwan, South and East China Sea, and Arunachal Pradesh, which it calls South Tibet. Rajani Gupte, vice-chancellor of the Symbiosis International (Deemed University) reiterated how understanding China’s outlook of the world is important for India to secure its national wellbeing. “China is a formidable force to reckon with in the new era with its significance growing in almost all realms like geopolitics, health security, economic and military. Hence, it is important to understand what Chinese President Xi Jinping meant when he said that China will be at the centre of the world stage in the next 30 years,” she said. Gokhale added that with a $14 trillion economy, China is on the road to becoming the biggest economic power soon and to build up its military as one of the strongest, will also be one of its goals. “By 2030, China will have more ships and submarines in the Indian Ocean than the US and India combined. Its augmented military capacity will be huge. There is a fundamental Chinese belief that global order is shaped by force and power and therefore, it will modernise its military structure. It is already doing so by reshaping theatre commands, introducing new service arms, weapon systems and the like,” he said. However, India must maintain its firm position and secure our own place in the world and not blink, added Gokhale. Gokhale also spoke on the economic rise of China and how China’s goal to grow at 5.8% will be difficult to follow through over the years, because of low domestic consumption, declining age of the population, low export-led growth, among other factors. However, he added that the Made in China 2025 policy will lead future growth through innovations. “China is looking at new alternatives to be relevant in the new economic order. Its ‘Belt and Road’ initiative will give it integration with Asia. New platforms like innovations will be key for China including high-speed rail, information technology,” said Gokhale. The former foreign secretary said that the Chinese government says that its economy is already on track, while other Western nations are still grappling with the pandemic. “China wants the world to see how advanced countries have been unable to handle the Covid crisis, whereas China curbed it, and its economy is already on track. This will improve China’s influence on world organisations and global world order. China is already on its way to create a parallel world with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), Made in China digital platforms and its own social application which helps it create its mark in the multipolar world. However, Chinese hegemony is very different from American hegemony and hence has to be dealt with differently,” said Gokhale. Gokhale ended the lecture stating that the Chinese system has fundamental flaws, including an opaque system and that the legitimacy of the Communist Party of China (CPC) is fragile as it is not the people’s mandate and hence, it will always have to show power in order to be accepted. Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director of Symbiosis Society and SB Mujumdar, founder and president of the Symbiosis Society, were present online for the lecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reorganisation-cannot-be-pretext-for-china-aggression-ex-foreign-secy-vijay-gokhale/story-9hikrqTDH9Szg7mtxbtJ4L.html
17-09-2020||Pune||Poor response in Pune prompts PMPML to try and explore new revenue models||Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited is embarking on an innovative “revenue generation plan”, necessitated by a huge loss of revenue suffered due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns stemming thereof.PMPML operations resumed on September 3 and chairman and managing director, Rajendra Jagtap, told HT on September 12 that the current daily passenger count is at one lakh with daily revenue at Rs18 lakh now. Pre-Covid daily ridership of the city’s public service, by its own published data, was an average of 25 lakh daily commuter with a daily average income of Rs 1.5 crore. “We are looking at the Covid pandemic like a blessing in disguise. We are working on several ideas to increase revenue. These include route rationalisation, fare optimisation, new areas and avenues for deployment of buses, and specialised new services. Also, we want to improvise services which we have been negligent about; like the Pune airport bus service, or services to the Hinjewadi IT hub and weekend services for tourism,” said Jagtap. “Along with that, we are also working on depot development, which was one of the major points at the last meeting of the board of directors. If we look at our fare revenue, it is about 90 per cent of our total revenue earnings. When we compared it with other public bus services, like the Bengaluru Municipal Transportation, or BEST, they have other areas of revenue income. Their assets and properties give them lot of rental as well. We have 18 depots in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and 10 other areas which we will think about utilising as transit hubs, or for commercial activities which serve our purpose,” he added. Jagtap was reluctant to put a timeframe on any of these ideas coming to fruition, but insisted that the plans were imminent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/poor-response-prompts-pmpml-to-try-and-explore-new-revenue-models/story-Eo5yd1nIgxVp1l4UgvEPSP.html
