18-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 outbreak at children’s homes in Mumbai: Human rights body asks state to form panel for better implementation of steps to prevent spread of virus||After more than 60 residents of two children’s homes in Mankhurd were tested positive for Covid-19 in the past two months, the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission has asked the government to form a monitoring committee comprising experts to ensure better implementation of measures to prevent the virus spread and care of specially-abled children at such facilities. HT had first reported on July 26 about the Covid-19 outbreak at the Mankhurd Children’s Home. Recently, 23 residents of Mankhurd Mentally Deficient Children’s Home (MDCH) had also tested positive for Covid-19 and are undergoing treatment at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid care centre.Taking cognisance of the matter on a complaint filed by former Member of Parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kirit Somaiya, over the poor Covid-19 management at the children’s homes, the commission passed an order stating, “What is disturbing is the fact that no proper explanation has come on record as to how the inmates of the homes got infected, as a vague explanation has been put forth on record by submitting that they might have come in contact with an outsider and got infected. This is somewhat not acceptable as had the management properly implemented the guidelines of GR (government resolution) of April 21, 2020 and June 29, 2020 such mishap could have been avoided.”MA Sayeed, acting chairperson of State Human Rights Commission, on Thursday in an order under section 18 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, recommended the chief secretary of Maharashtra to constitute a committee under the chairmanship of the minister for Women and Child Welfare and Social Justice, with a team of experts, including “persons of outstanding repute and having work in social area to monitor the functioning and management of shelter homes for such children including mentally affected and disabled children throughout the state of Maharashtra, so as to due and proper implementations of government’s rules and guidelines related to management and control of the Covid-19 situation and maintain a strict vigil over the safety of the children.”Somaiya said, “In the order, the commission has expressed its displeasure over the present situation [at the children’s home].”In July-August, 43 specially-abled children and staff at Mankhurd MDCH were tested positive for Covid-19. Recently, 23 residents, including 10 children who had previously recovered from the virus, were also tested positive later. Authorities are still trying to ascertain if the 10 children are infected again or if they are tested ‘false positive’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-outbreak-at-children-s-homes-in-mumbai-human-rights-body-asks-state-to-form-panel-for-better-implementation-of-steps-to-prevent-spread-of-virus/story-Tpk9w0eUPlEJcEiSEqyAzH.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana: Mobile health teams to increase personal visits to home isolated Covid-19 patients||With more than 90% of Covid-19 patients under home isolation, the state government has decided to increase field visits with mobile health teams visiting these patients every alternate day and collecting their basic vitals, such as temperature and oxygen saturation, among other health parameters. For this, a district monitoring team for home isolated patient will be constituted at the district level, according to a notification issued by the Haryana health department on Friday. In the district, out of the 2,755 active cases, 2,503 patients are under home isolation. At least 37 are isolated in Covid care centres, while 215 are hospitalised. On Friday, the district reported 339 new cases. The total count of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 has reached 17,063. The Covid-19 toll stands at 156. The monitoring committee, comprising deputy civil surgeon, senior medical officers, along with two to three doctors or medical students, will keep a record of the home isolated patients. Under the committee, each Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) will have a designated mobile health team. It will comprise an assistant medical officer (AMO), an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and an accredited social health activist (ASHA) worker. The field team will also comprise students of Bachelors of Ayurveda, Medicine and Surgery (BAMS), who will be assigned with the task to call the patient and inquire about their Influenza Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). They will be visiting patients to monitor their oxygen saturation levels using the pulse oximeter. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said, “The new guidelines emphasise on personal visits by mobile health teams. The field team will check the premises of the patient and prepare a log of their vital parameters, such as oxygen level, blood pressure, etc. Teams will also carry medicines, such as immunity boosters.” As per the order, the team will have to visit the patients on the first, third, fifth, seventh and ninth days to check the medical condition of the patient. They will look out for worrying symptoms, such as fever, breathlessness, chest pain, congestion, oxygen saturation less than 95%, fits, loss of taste and smell, weakness in the body, blue colouration of lips or face, sweating, etc. Teams will be providing basic medicines like immunity boosters, AYUSH medicines, paracetamols and vitamins. No steroids, antibiotics or allopathic medicines would be given without the prescription of a doctor. The data of all these parameters will be maintained at the UPHC level, which be submitted to the state on a regular basis. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Based on the notification, a district monitoring team will be constituted. ASHAs and ANMs are already doing the home visits. Calls are being made to the patients, enquiring about their daily health condition. Now, more details will be taken into account to ensure that patients, especially those with co-morbidities, get timely diagnosis and shifted to the tertiary care facility, if required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-mobile-health-teams-to-increase-personal-visits-to-home-isolated-covid-19-patients/story-nT8NiUxfa8fl3JpEtakruI.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||Community centre in Begumpur Khatola to house Covid positive prisoners from Bhondsi Jail||With at least 42 inmates at the Bhondsi district jail testing positive for Covid-19 since September 2, the district administration on Friday issued an order, instructing that an isolation ward for prisoners be set up at a community centre in Begumpur Khatola, about 15 kilometres away from the jail premises.Issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, Friday’s order stated, “Keeping in mind the spreading and upsurge of Covid-19, a necessity has arisen to keep and treat the Corona Virus positive prisoners and a proposal for the establishment of an isolation centre/dedicated ward... was under consideration. The task for identifying the suitable accommodation was entrusted to the SDM Gurugram and Superintendent, District Jail. They have reverted with their recommendation that the community centre in Begumpur Khatola is a suitable site (sic).”On September 2, 33 inmates were found to be positive for Covid-19 at Bhondsi jail. Since then, 67 more suspected cases of Covid-19 have been tested, of whom nine were found to have been infected with the SARS-Cov-2 virus, thereby denoting a test-positivity rate of 13%. “Two hundred other inmates, who have travelled outside the jail premises recently for medical checkups or court proceedings, are currently in quarantine within the jail. They will all be tested for Covid-19. If found to be positive, we will move them to the government medical facility in Sector 9 for now. Once the community centre is set up, they will be moved there,” said Sanjay Kumar, assistant jail superintendent, adding that 35 of the 42 confirmed positives in Bhondsi so far have already recovered. It was still unclear, however, how many isolation beds will be available for inmates, how many health staffers will be deployed there, or by when the facility will be up and running. Police commissioner, KK Rao, could not be contacted on Friday despite multiple attempts, while Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), did not share any specific details. “We will comply with the deputy commissioner’s order as directed,” he said. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Adequate security shall be provided at the isolation centre for Covid positive prisoners in Begumpur Khatola, especially during transportation from the centre and to the district jail and vice versa.”As per Friday’s order, the health department has been asked to provide “an adequate number of medical officers and other medical staff for treatment and examination of prisoners”, and to ensure that “testing of prisoners and submission of reports is done on a priority basis.” Jail authorities, meanwhile, have been asked to depute staff for internal management and maintaining the records of prisoners admitted to the isolation centre. “Bedding, utensils, food and other necessities for prisoners” will also be provided by jail authorities. The sub-divisional magistrate, Badshahpur, has been tasked with ensuring adequate supply of electricity and potable water to the community centre, and to provide two vehicles for the facility. One will function as an ambulance for emergencies, while another will be used to transport food and other necessities for patient inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/community-centre-in-begumpur-khatola-to-house-covid-positive-prisoners-from-bhondsi-jail/story-l6IlE8VXydbbxR1VIdm7vI.html
18-09-2020||City||Gurugram: 20 more warehouses demolished in Sector 94||Gurugram: Continuing its drive against illegal warehouses in Sector 94, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Friday demolished 20 warehouses that had come up without permission from the government. DTCP officials said that a team of the enforcement wing, supported by the Gurugram police, reached the spot around 10am and carried out the demolitions till late evening.During the drive, a number of warehouse owners and local residents also gathered at the spot and allegedly asked the officials to stop the demolition as it would render many people unemployed. “The demolition drive was carried out throughout the day and the remaining structures were demolished. The owners have been clearly told that this area is earmarked as open space in the master plan and no construction is allowed in the area,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram. On Thursday, the enforcement wing had demolished 25 warehouses that were constructed on plots having areas between 500 to 1,500 square yards. The warehouses were rented to different firms for ₹50,000 to ₹1.5 lakh, said the officials. A complaint against these warehouses was lodged by a city-based RTI activist, Raman Sharma, who alleged that illegal warehouses had come up in Sector 94 due to inaction of government agencies. Sharma also said that this sector was notified as an open space and construction was banned as per Gurugram-Manesar Urban Complex Master Plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-20-more-warehouses-demolished-in-sector-94/story-7FGiZ5Z9kirLdxfIAZgBaO.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad: Two held from Manipur for running stolen cars’ racket||Faridabad Police busted a gang that procured documents of scrapped vehicles, then bought stolen cars of the same make, and swapped their chassis numbers. These vehicles were then sold with new identities along with original-looking documents in Kolkata and Meghalaya. They arrested two men from Manipur on Thursday and brought them to Faridabad on a transit remand. The police also allegedly recovered drugs worth ₹70,000 from their possession, which were supposed to be delivered to a peddler in Delhi. The suspects have been identified as Muhammad Aksar and Aribam Gunananda of Thoubal in Manipur. The police said Aksar was arrested from his residence, while Gunananda was arrested from a flight, which he had boarded from Imphal international Airport for Kolkata. Adarsh Deep Singh, assistant commissioner of police and public relation officer, said that both the suspects are part of the gang whose kingpin was arrested on September 10 from Faridabad-Delhi border. “They all have a criminal background and are also involved in drug peddling. We are questioning the suspects to know more about their modus operandi and their operations,” he said. Singh said the suspects used to sell stolen vehicles to car dealers for an amount ranging between ₹1 lakh and ₹1.5 lakh. After changing the chassis number of the stolen car with that of the scrapped vehicle, they used to forge documents. The police said the suspects were wanted by Meghalaya and Manipur police forces and were at large for the past one year. On September 10, the police had arrested two men — including a 24-year-old postgraduate posing as an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer — who were allegedly involved in over 200 vehicle thefts from Delhi-NCR. “We have received crucial leads for another suspect in Manipur but the local police are not in favour of conducting a raid at his hideout as it is a very sensitive area and he has political protection as well. We are trying for some other alternative to arrest him,” said ACP Singh. The two men arrested earlier have been identified as Abang Mehtab, who posed as the assistant commissioner of police(ACP) of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and Kabir Khan. The suspects used to visit Delhi-NCR and returned in stolen cars, said police. The police said all four suspects were produced before the court on Friday and were taken on a four-day police remand. The suspects had also made fake doctors’ identity cards to deal in drugs and used to carry a supply for the same, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-two-held-from-manipur-for-running-stolen-cars-racket/story-dCeFICmUnPqfsyZNYIv6BO.html
18-09-2020||City||Govt colleges in Gurugram yet to start online classes||htreporters@hindustantimes.com Gurugram: First and second-year undergraduate and postgraduate students in Gurugram’s government colleges are yet to start with formal online classes for the past three months. This puts them at a disadvantage when compared with other private and government institutes in the state that have begun classes.While the department of higher education had directed colleges to make efforts to start online classes for students from September 15, most colleges are yet to do that. Neelam, MA English student of Government Girl College, Sector 14, said that while classes had been taking place in private colleges and other state universities, they were mired in delays in the city. “We are asked to fill forms seeking details every now and then, but it doesn’t translate into our registration in the next semester. Our exams take place in December. How are we supposed to give exams if classes have not been initiated?” said Neelam who uses only her first name.Srishti Yadav, a second-year BSc student of Government Girls College in Sector 14, said that while a 40-minute session in a subject had taken place earlier this week, there was no regular timetable. “There is no schedule or structure. It’s like a formality,” said Yadav. Colleges said that they were still conducting the promotion process. Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector, said: “We need to promote the students to the next semester. Prior to the promotion, results need to be declared. This can only be achieved once the practical exams are completed, which is expected to be done by the end of this month.” He said that students were in touch with teachers and approached them for guidance, even if intensive classes were not taking place. Principal of Dronacharya Government College, Pooja Khullar, said that they were in the process of promoting students to the second and third years. “We were asked to submit information pertaining to students earlier this week. We have completed the process at our level. Once all processes are complete, we can start classes,” said Khullar. Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, said that some of the colleges had already started classes and others would do soon. “Most colleges have prepared timetables for the initiation of classes and some of them have even started conducting classes. Other colleges are busy with the admission and promotion process. They will be beginning classes shortly, in a week or so,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-colleges-in-gurugram-yet-to-start-online-classes/story-x8EulSNIMaiKoaIA0XVuyK.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 125 health workers infected with Covid-19 since March, shows data||At least 125 health workers in the district, including accredited social health activist(ASHA) workers, doctors, lab technicians and sanitation staff, have tested positive for Covid-19 since the outbreak began in March, as per information shared by the district health department. Of these, two medical officers are currently in home isolation after testing positive for the virus earlier this week. While 125 cases may seem like a small fraction of Gurugram’s 17,065 reported infections, officials pointed out that they make up over six percent of the health department’s total staff, comprising approximately 2,000 people (including permanent and contractual staff members and outsourced workers). “This shows how susceptible front-line workers are to infection. For a health care worker, the risk of infection is essentially doubled. It also becomes extremely challenging when someone directly involved in the Covid-19 response is put under isolation, as their immediate peer or next in command will have to make up for his or her absence. Someone or the other in the department is usually doing work for another who has tested positive,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram. A medical officer with the health department who had tested positive for Covid-19 in June, requesting anonymity, said, “The real number may be higher because health workers are not being tested across the board. These 125 cases are those who either had primary contact with a Covid-19 patient, or showed mild symptoms. While contact tracing and testing of family members and colleagues happen when a health care worker tests positive, we would find more asymptomatic cases if we increased testing within the department. That would be the best option, if you want to give more protection to health care workers. However, we can’t use all the test kits for ourselves.” Senior officials added that these 125 cases have been recorded across various positions in the health staff. “I cannot give the category wise data offhand, but a more or less equal number of infections have been reported across nursing orderlies, rapid response team members, clerical and administrative staff and field staff,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram. Interestingly, he added, most cases within the department are not people who are directly involved in the Covid-19 response, as they are taking proper precautions and have been adequately trained in use of PPE. “We have 67 dedicated Covid-staff of whom less than 10 have tested positive,” Sharma said. Rajesh Kumar, an epidemiologist and former professor of community medicine at PGIMER, Chandigarh, noted, “Health care workers run the risk of occupational exposure and infection from unknown sources in their work surroundings. While a lab technician collecting samples at a primary health centre may be better protected, a sanitation worker working without PPE in the same vicinity may face a higher chance of infection. And with the spread of the virus picking up within the community, health care workers in OPDs and flu clinics are also at an elevated risk of getting Covid-19.” These 125 cases, however, do not include infected healthworkers in the private sector. Spokespersons of at least five private hospitals on Friday declined to reveal any data in this regard, though two of them confirmed that cases of health care workers being infected have been, and continue to be, reported. A spokesperson of a private hospital in Sector 44, said, requesting anonymity, “I am not at liberty to provide data, but I can confirm that most Covid-19 cases within the staff have been reported not from Covid-19 wards but from other departments. Cases are also high among general housekeeping staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-125-health-workers-infected-with-covid-19-since-march-shows-data/story-twx7NP0KVcuLrxevqvAJeL.html
18-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Banks, financial institutions to be treated as promoters of realty projects in case of takeover, rules H-Rera||Gurugram: In an important decision, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera), Gurugram, on Friday said that banks and other financial institutions that take over real estate projects due to non-payment of loans by developers would be treated as promoters. The authority also held that the interests of the homebuyers who have invested in such projects should not be considered subservient to that of other stakeholders. The decision was taken by the real estate regulator after hearing a petition filed by a homebuyer who had bought an apartment in Supertech Hues project and approached the authority against the takeover and e-auction of the project by PNB Housing Finance Ltd (PNBHFL). “A bank or financial institution, which takes over a real estate project, will be treated as an assignee of a promoter and the institution will have to secure the interest of the homebuyers. In a number of cases, it has emerged that developers mortgage the project land, structure and receivables to get bank loans. But when this money is not paid back, the banks take over these projects and directly auction these properties by invoking the Sarfaesi Act, 2002. The result of these actions is that large investments made by homebuyers are not acknowledged,” said KK Khandelwal, chairman, H-Rera, Gurugram.The authority also held that in case a developer fails to repay loans to a financial institution and if this institution intends to auction the mortgaged property, then it would have to seek prior written approval from H-Rera. “If the financial institution/lender subsequently wants to auction or sell the defaulting project to a third party, then they would have to seek permission from H-Rera. These steps are being taken to ensure that hard earned money invested by allottees and their interests are safeguarded in such deals,” said Khandelwal. Subsequently, if the financial institutions/banks/creditors intend to transfer the real estate project to any third party to realize their loan amounts, then in that situation too such financial institutions, who are promoters for the limited purpose of mediating the transfer of property, shall also seek prior written approval of the authority, the H-Rera chairman said. In the case of Supertech Hues project, H-Rera said that Supertech was neither licensee nor collaborator but taken loan from PNBHFL and the developer failed to repay it. The financier put the project on e-auction, but the authority stayed the process on the petition of a homebuyer as it held that interests of 950 homebuyers could be jeopardised by this action. The authority also clarified by this judgement that the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest (Sarfaesi) Act, 2002 has to be read harmoniously with the Rera Act, 2016. “If it is found that any lending financial institution engages in auctioning the real estate projects without the approval of the Authority, the same shall be deemed seriously and penal proceedings shall be initiated against the debtor promoter and the lending institutions/individuals,” the authority said.When asked about the matter, Venket Rao, counsel for PNB Housing Finance, said that holding a financial institution as a promoter is not contemplated in H-Rera Act and the authority in this matter has gone beyond its reach. “This decision will impact the flow of credit to the real estate sector, and the banks in any case are not stripping the rights of license holders and buyers. This is definitely an appealable matter,” he said. However, the developer in the case has welcomed the ruling of H-Rera. RK Arora, chairman and managing director of Supertech, said that banks and financial institutions need to support the stressed promoters and in the matter of Supertech Hues, the e-auction was not the right thing to do. “Supertech is committed to complete the project and deliver it to homebuyers. The decision of H-Rera is a step in the right direction and we have already started work on the project,” said Arora. A representative of PNBHFL did not respond to phone calls and messages seeking a response in this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-banks-financial-institutions-to-be-treated-as-promoters-of-realty-projects-in-case-of-takeover-rules-h-rera/story-btgX4Rc51DbROuK2T3ucQP.html
18-09-2020||Noida||Adityanath holds meeting with GB Nagar officials to review Covid-19 situation||Uttar Pradesh chief minster Yogi Adityanath on Friday evening meting with officials from Gautam Budh Nagar and reviewed the Covid-19 preparations. He asked the officials to create awareness for preventing infection from the coronavirus disease in the district. “Ensure the Noida’s integrated command and control centre and all the Covid hospitals actively to deal with the coronavirus,” he said.In the meeting, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY informed the chief minister of the latest testing figures and other metrics such as recovery rate and fatality rates. He said that the Noida District Hospital in Sector 39, for moderately complicated cases, will have 200 additional Covid beds by the next week. It currently has 160 beds for Covid patients.The chief minister ald directed the officials to execute development projects in a time bound manner. He directed the officials to develop infrastructure for production and marketing of products under One District-One Product (ODOP) project. ODOP aims to encourage indigenous and specialized products and crafts in UP that are not at other places. Gautam Budh Nagar district has been selected for “Readymade Garments” under this project. The chief minister also asked the officials to develop public toilets in urban and rural areas, and also facilitate farmers in getting seed, fertilisers, etc. In the meeting, the district magistrate informed that the works of 11 development projects are continuing in the district which includes development of a stadium in Malakpur village in Greater Noida, a bridge over Dadri railway station, and the projects of Dedicated Freight Corridor in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/adityanath-holds-meeting-with-gb-nagar-officials-to-review-covid-19-situation/story-bV6usszEikp5AKd732AOTN.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Residents in DLF Phase-1 complain of frequent power outages, threaten to protest outside DHBVN office||Residents of DLF Phase-1 have complained that they are being forced to live without electricity for more than four hours every day for the past three months. The residents also complain that the voltage remains low for most of the time. Despite multiple calls to the staff of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), no relief has been provided so far, they said. Residents of five Blocks of DLF Phase-1 — A to E — said on Friday that they are gearing up to protest in front of the DHBVN’s office on Monday if the discom fails to come up with a permanent solution. “Since people are working from home, frequent power cuts are causing disruption in zoom meetings and submission of office projects. Online classes for children are also being disrupted. With the midterm examinations being currently underway, teachers are refusing to accept power failure as an excuse for not appearing for online classes,” said Sangeeta Mahajan, a resident of Block E of DLF Phase-1. The residents have been complaining of acute voltage fluctuations for the last one month. They said frequent voltage fluctuations have even damaged home appliances, such as refrigerators, air conditioners and television sets. Motor pumps for drawing water also do not function properly at a low voltage. Residents said several houses in the area are being used as paying guest accommodations, which increase overall consumption, leading to power fluctuations. They said fluctuations happen due to overload but it is the DHBVN’s responsibility to install additional transformers and fix the problem at the earliest. “We were told that a new project of putting 11kV lines underground, installation of supervisory control and data acquisition system (Scada) with new metres will strengthen the low-tension wire system of the area. We do not know the status of the project and things are only getting worse,” said Mukul Swaroop a resident of Block C. Another resident of Block E said underground wires often gets damaged at the slightest spell of rain, or overhead cables rupture due to falling of trees during heavy rains. “On some occasions, transformers have exploded or the conductor has been damaged. The Wi-Fi does not work without electricity, and this results in serious work-related issues,” said Sunil Goswami of Block E. Residents are alleging that the transformers are old and often get burnt leading to the frequent power outages. The old cables and transformers need to be replaced with new ones. We were told two years ago that we would get round-the-clock electricity but the situation has only worsened over the last one year. RS Rathee, councillor of Ward 34, alleged that it is been three months that electricity has been erratic in the area. “The DHBVN officials do not respond to complaints nor have they fixed the problem. We are setting up a camp on Monday where we have called the sub-divisional officer, junior engineer, and executive engineer of DHBVN to listen to the grievances of the residents. If the demand is not met, we shall protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office,” he said. DHBVN officials, when asked about the matter, refuted the allegations and said that they respond to the complaints when they are made and that their lineman visit the spot when required. DHBVN’s superintending engineer, Joginder Singh Hooda, said that they have not received any complaints on their toll-free number, 1800-180-4334, from DLF Phase-1, nor is he aware of any major power outages in the area. “Residents should contact us at 1912 or 1800-180-4334 numbers to lodge complaints. A lineman will be sent within half an hour to solve the problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-residents-in-dlf-phase-1-complain-of-frequent-power-outages-threaten-to-protest-outside-dhbvn-office/story-JAIsEBNbItgqrl3Xb1eItM.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 2 men snatch ₹95,000 cash from employee of gas agency||Two unidentified men allegedly snatched ₹95,000 cash from an employee of a private gas agency in Sector 10 area near Dwarka Expressway on Thursday morning. The police said the accused men are yet to be identified. According to the police, the incident took place around 8am, when the victim, Deshraj, a native of Bharatpur, Rajasthan, was on his way to the gas agency’s office in Sector 9. In the police complaint, he said, “I had left from a warehouse in Wazirpur around 7.30am in a truck. I was carrying a cylinder and some cash, which I had kept in a sack. At 8am, as I reached near Dwarka Expressway, a car came in front of my truck and blocked the way.” “Before I could react, two men, whose faces were covered, alighted from the car and climbed on to the truck from the co-driver’s side. They pushed me and snatched the sack, which had ₹95,133 cash. They assaulted me and escaped. I could not note down the number of the car as I was in a state of shock,” said Deshraj. A police official, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “We are checking CCTVs in the area to trace the suspects. The modus operandi suggests that the suspects were aware that the victim routinely carries cash from the gas agency and had conducted a recce. We are probing if it was an inside job.” A case was registered against the accused persons under sections 379 A (punishment for snatching) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 10 A police station, said the police. In another incident on Thursday, two motorcycle-borne men allegedly snatched a woman’s gold chain near the flyover at Rajiv Chowk. The police said the incident took place around 12.15pm, when the woman, identified as Anita Kumar, a resident of Indira Colony, was on her way to the district court near Rajiv Chowk on her scooter. In the FIR, she said, “As I crossed the chowk, two men, who were on a motorcycle, suddenly snatched my chain. I tried chasing them on my scooter, but could not note down the registration number of the motorcycle.” A case was registered against the accused under sections 379 A and 34 of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) of Shivaji Nagar police station, said the police. According to the police, till August 31, at least 126 snatchings have been reported in the city this year as compared to 308 in 2019. The period includes 68 days of the lockdown, during which only three such cases were reported. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Several crime teams have been formed to trace recent snatching cases in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-2-men-snatch-95-000-cash-from-employee-of-gas-agency/story-DFGvb7wF69p6ABVBwouZMK.html
18-09-2020||Noida||Spl task force arrests four who used forged papers to obtain 32 credit cards||The Noida special task force (Noida STF) on Friday arrested four suspects allegedly involved procuring credit cards using forged documents. Officers said the gang allegedly used the credit cards to their limit and then dumped the cards. The suspects were identified as Jitendra Gulati, Triloki Nath, Kapoor Singh, residents of Rohini; and Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Jahangirpuri in Delhi. Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Noida STF, said that on September 11, Shailendra Kumar, the manager of a private bank, had filed a complaint at the Sector 20 police station alleging credit card fraud.The manager had informed police that a customer of the bank had informed them that though he had never availed of the credit card facility, a credit amount was reflecting in his account. The bank conducted an internal inquiry and found that the suspects had allegedly got at least 32 such credit cards using forged documents. A complaint was filed to the Uttar Pradesh STF in this regard. Sector 20 police registered a case against unknown suspects under Section 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), Section 468 (forgery), and Section 420 (cheating) of IPC.Mishra said that the STF team on Friday received information about suspects’ movement near Film City on Friday. “The police stopped a Maruti Swift Dzire in which the four suspects were travelling. During checking, police seized ₹6.23 lakh cash, seven gold biscuits weighing 44 grams, 16 swipe machines, six credit cards, nine debit cards, eight PAN cards, eight Aadhar cards, one voter ID, and three mobile phones from their possession,” he said. The police seized the car as well as a Nissan Terrano from their hideout in Delhi. Officers said during interrogation, Gulati allegedly revealed that he worked as a property dealer in Delhi where he came in contact with the three others. “They used to forge documents and get credit cards from different banks. A person named Mukesh Juneja helped them in this racket,” Mishra said. The suspects used to pretend to be employees of a leading IT firm in Noida and easily convince the credit card vendors to issue the cards. The complainant informed STF that the gang had allegedly spent about ₹1.5 crore in the last one year via credit cards.Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Noida STF, said the gang was allegedly also involved in hawala transactions. He said initially, the gang allegedly used the credit cards for shopping. “However later, they got to know that shopping may land them in trouble as their images would be captured in CCTV cameras. They then roped in the fifth suspect – Juneja – who deals in hawala transactions,” he said. Mishra said Juneja allegedly used to use these cards on his swipe machines and transfer the amount in his own bank account on a commission of 3-5% . “Juneja used to give them cash after the transaction,” Mishra said. Officials said the gang had been active since 2011. Police said Gulati has been arrested twice by the Delhi Police in the past. “We have seized valuables worth ₹40 lakh and also identified two apartments worth₹60 lakh purchased with illegal money. We have also freezed ₹18 lakh in their bank accounts,” Mishra said.The four persons were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Police have launched a search for Juneja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/spl-task-force-arrests-four-who-used-forged-papers-to-obtain-32-credit-cards/story-V0rAtGtMrdii5I8kDMjyLO.html
18-09-2020||Noida||Noida traffic constable claims he was harassed by senior, probe finds he neglected duty||Noida traffic police suspended a constable on Thursday for dereliction of duty after he failed to turn up for his shift earlier this month. On September 5, traffic constable Sanjeev Rana shot a video wherein he accused traffic sub-inspector Ram Ratan Singh of mistreatment and harassment. Singh denied the allegations and said that Rana’s accusations were vindictive after he reported Rana for being absent from duty.“Rana was assigned the morning shift in Surajpur on September 4 but failed to turn up. I informed my seniors about his absence,” Singh said.HT could not reach Rana for comment. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the traffic police inquiry found Rana guilty. “Rana was suspended for dereliction of duty on Thursday,” he said. In an audio that went viral on Friday, Singh was purportedly heard using abusive language against an autorickshaw driver during a routine check in Noida.DCP Saha confirmed there were allegations that the voice belonged to traffic sub-inspector Singh, but were yet to confirm this. “A cop is heard using offensive language in the audio clip. We have launched an enquiry into the matter. Action will be taken against the official if found guilty.” Singh denied the allegation and said that someone was trying to malign his image. “If I had said anything wrong, the complainant should come and report. I feel someone is targeting me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-traffic-constable-claims-he-was-harassed-by-senior-probe-finds-he-neglected-duty/story-7N8ffLd9HxzackhaV36QKJ.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||26 lakh contacts of Covid-19 patients traced in city so far, says Mumbai civic body||To control the spread of Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has traced over 26 lakh high- and low-risk contacts of positive cases in the past six months, since the first case of Covid-19 was detected in the city on March 11. As of Thursday, the number of cases reported in the city was 178,385 and deaths 8,323. The cases are expected to touch the 2-lakh mark in the coming days. According to BMC, of the total cases detected in six months, 70% are index cases, indicating they came in contact with an infected person. High-risk contacts are immediate family members or people with whom the patient lives. They are also those who have interacted or been together with the patient for over 15 minutes in a closed environment. Low-risk contacts are those who come in contact for less than 15 minutes. This includes neighbours of the patient, shopkeepers or vendors the patient visited before testing positive. As of September 15, BMC had traced 26.27 lakh close contacts, of which 9.85 lakh were high-risk and 16.41 lakh were low-risk. Over 22.92 lakh citizens have been quarantined in the past six months and over 3.32 lakh citizens are currently in home quarantine. BMC says maximum contact-tracing took place in the past three months. By June 9, the civic body had traced around nine lakh close contacts that went up to 15 lakh in the first week of July, followed by 21 lakh in mid-August and crossing 26 lakh mid-September. Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer of BMC, said, “Our tracing has increased in the past three months owing to several drives and programmes launched to aggressively trace maximum citizens. Due to this, our ratio of close contacts being traced behind every positive case has also increased. Tracing aggressively has helped control the number of cases.” Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner of BMC, said, “Contact tracing has been an important tool that helped us control the spread, and around 70% of the cases are index cases, which means they are close contacts of someone who tested positive earlier. We are constantly tracing close contacts of those testing positive. Citizens should also take all precautions, including maintaining hand and general hygiene, wearing mask and social distancing.” On an average, the ratio of close contacts being quarantined behind every positive case is between 1:2 and 1:12 in different wards. The ratio of close contacts being quarantined is 1:12 at M West ward of BMC covering Chembur. While on the other hand, the ratio of close contacts being quarantined in slums is 1:13, on an average, but in areas like Kurla, Colaba, Churchgate, Worli, the ratio is between 1:16 and 1:20, data reveals. Meanwhile, BMC has also conducted screening of over 10 lakh senior citizens in the past six months. In the next two months, the civic body also plans to cover over 40 lakh households, as part of the state government’s initiative, My Family, My Responsibility, to educate citizens on how to live with Covid-19. Overall, 9.50 lakh tests have been conducted and positivity rate is 18.26%. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant, said, “Contact-tracing becomes very important when it comes to detection of new cases. However, there needs to be an upgrade in the definition of high- or low-risk contacts, with the unlocking. The type of contact will change and vary in unlocked city when compared with the lockdown period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-lakh-contacts-of-covid-19-patients-traced-in-city-so-far-says-mumbai-civic-body/story-fxhhbEE4JB0SZMOR5nHXjI.html
18-09-2020||Noida||Sanitation staff seek permanent jobs, protest outside Noida authority office; 6 arrested||A group of sanitation workers on Friday demonstrated outside the Noida Authority’s office demanding regularisation of their jobs. They also allegedly scattered garbage onto the road and created a ruckus, after which the police were called. Six persons were arrested; police used lathis to disperse the crowd.The workers, under the banner of Akhil Bhartiya Safai Mazdoor Congress, gathered outside the authority’s office at 10am. “We have been protesting at the Authority’s office for three days. We have been working as sanitation workers for over 10 years. We get ₹11,000 per month and have no other benefits. We have been demanding that the Authority regularise our jobs and end the practise of contractual work. However, our grievances have not been addressed and hence we are protesting,” said Sunil Chauhan, one of the workers. The sanitation workers have also demanded a hike in salary as well as an annual bonus. R K Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station, confirmed that the sanitation workers had gathered outside the authority’s office and littered the garbage. “They had blocked the road and created problems for the commuters. A group of sanitation workers were also on a hunger strike and their health had started deteriorating. A gathering in the times of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic is prohibited in Noida. We arrested six persons and sent them to judicial custody after producing them before a magistrate,” he said. The arrested persons were identified as Bablu Parcha, Ravindra Diwan, Sachin, Vikas, Sonu, and Sanjay. They were arrested under Section 151 (knowingly joining or continuing in assembly of five or more persons after it has been commanded to disperse) of IPC. The Authority, on the other hand, said a group of contractual workers were not willing to mark their attendance through the mobile application which was recently introduced.Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida Authority, said the Authority has always been open for discussion with sanitation workers. “They have some demands which can’t be fulfilled at our level. The demand of regularisation will be decided at the government level. Some people have misguided the sanitation workers that their jobs can be directly regularised,” he said. He said that there are about 3,000 contractual workers, out of which 2,400 have joined duties so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sanitation-staff-seek-permanent-jobs-protest-outside-noida-authority-office-6-arrested/story-bHvmR6Wg5fLZjRFDjyebdK.html
18-09-2020||City||Sharda University equips its Covid-19 hospital, campus with 1,200 zoom cameras||Sharda University has equipped its Covid-19 hospital as well as the university campus with a total of 1,200 CCTV cameras and also developed a centralised command and control centre for monitoring. The University has made 450 cameras operational for now while the rest will be made operational once the varsity reopens, officials said.P K Gupta, Chancellor, Sharda University, said the high quality cameras will ensure transparency and improve efficiency in work. “The cameras will keep an eye on the movement of people in the hospital and the varsity. We have installed five big screens to monitor the footage on a real-time basis. The command centre will monitor camera footage 24X7. The systems will be headed by a technical team of IT service personnel. We have deployed 12 security officers to monitor the system in three shifts,” he said.The system is equipped with good quality audio and visual recorder, said Ajit Kumar, joint registrar and public relations officer of the varsity, adding that zoom cameras have been installed on the campus, including the activity hall, gallery, hospital building and different entry and exit gates, among others.“Visuals from normal cameras are not good in quality as the images are not clear. We have installed high quality zoom cameras in the hospital building and different departments of the university. Cameras have also been placed to capture the road outside the university and hospital. The visuals will help the administration and the police in case of need,” he said. Kumar said that about 300 cameras have been dotted in the Sharda Hospital, which is also a covid facility for the district. “There was also an incident in the past in which the kin of a Covid-19 patient alleged negligence. We have now placed cameras at different spots to record digital evidence which will be used if needed,” Kumar said.The hospital has handed over a 600-bed facility, with 40-bed ICU beds, to the district administration for treatment of coronavirus patients. The hospital has since March treated 1,400 Covid-19 patients while 175 patients are currently lodged at the hospital.On September 2, the hospital also set up a 20-bed private economic ward for Covid-19 patients. This facility is air-conditioned and equipped with modern equipment and ICU, and trained medical staff. The facility costs ₹5,000 per patient per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sharda-university-equips-its-covid-19-hospital-campus-with-1-200-zoom-cameras/story-92Ge9Fudk3EmVkUVzPzZQO.html
18-09-2020||City||Almost all ICU beds taken, Ghaziabad refers patients to Delhi||Concerned by the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the Ghaziabad health department is now scouting for more ICU beds and has also started referring critical patients to Delhi in order to avoid fatalities. The district, according to state control room figures for September 17, has a total of 11,831 Covid-19 cases and 3,542 of them were reported since September 1. Officials said with the rise in number of Covid cases, the occupancy in hospitals has also gone up and almost 80% of ICU beds -- 37 in government hospitals and 98 in private hospitals -- are taken. As a result, officials have now started referring critical patients to Delhi and are also trying to arrange more ICU beds in the city. “We have about 5% patients who come with severe symptoms and need ICU beds. Since these beds are not easily available, we have started referring critical patients to Delhi. This week, we referred 10 patients to Delhi and if patients are able to find ICU beds at private hospitals in Noida, they will be referred to those hospitals as well. On our part, we are trying to arrange more ICU beds. We have two new private hospitals which have 100 beds each and together, they have 60 ICU beds,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. “We are trying to get clearances for the two hospitals as soon as possible, but we estimate that the two will be ready only in another 20-25 days. Until then, we will refer critical patients to Delhi. We do not prefer that our patients go to Meerut as the number of fatalities there is high,” he said. According to official figures, of the 74 deaths recorded in Ghaziabad, 33 took place in Ghaziabad itself while 37 happened in Meerut, besides two each at Delhi and Noida hospitals. The officials are also concerned as cases which are coming in these days are showing severe symptoms. “The severity of symptoms has gone up in cases reported over the past two weeks or so. So, they need L2 or L3 category ( L2 deals with severe and L3 with critical patients) hospitals for treatment. Since fatalities in the higher age group is already high, we are focussing on immediate referral and treatment of aged patients,” Gupta said. According to the health department, the number of fatalities in the age group of 0-9 years is zero while the highest number of fatalities is in the age group of 60 years and above. They account for 27 deaths or 36.49% of all deaths since March. The second highest number of deaths is in the age group of 50-59 years which account for 22.97% of all Covid deaths in the district so far. The third highest group is of those aged 40-49 years, which accounts for 21.62% of the total fatalities. “The age groups of 20-29 years, 30-39 years and 40-49 years have the most number of cases in Ghaziabad. But the fatalities rates in these groups are low. This is because senior citizens tend to have low immunity and several co-morbid conditions that the young often don’t have,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, nodal officer (Covid), state health department, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/almost-all-icu-beds-taken-ghaziabad-refers-patients-to-delhi/story-7jVKh5qNSOyduvsXleRX4I.html
18-09-2020||City||Demanding enhanced land compensation, farmers disrupt work on Delhi-Meerut Expressway||The officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said Friday that farmers have been disrupting work on the Delhi- Meerut Expressway for demanding a hiked compensation for their land that was acquired for the expressway project. NHAI officials said the farmers’ stir partially affected work on Phase 4 -- 23km stretch from Dasna to Meerut -- of the expressway on Thursday while it completely hampered the work on Friday as farmers arrived at the work site in their tractor-trolleys, motorcycles and other vehicles. The DME has been planned in four phases as a high-speed access-controlled expressway to connect Delhi and Meerut. “Work was disrupted in different patches of Phase 4 and primarily at Moradabad village near Bhojpur. Farmers did not allow the movement of our trucks carrying earth for filling and other allied works. The disruptions were partial on Thursday while it was almost complete on Friday,” Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI, said. During their protest at Govindpuram grain market in Ghaziabad on September 16, farmers had demanded more land compensation, at the rate of ₹8,500 per square metre (sqm), the same as the rate paid to farmers of Dasna village. “In our village, different land owners have received compensation ranging from ₹2,500 per sqm to ₹6,500 per sqm. We demand that all farmers be given land compensation at the same rate as it was given to Dasna farmers. The rate of compensation should be the same for all,” Mukesh Pradhan, former chief of Moradabad village, said. “Until that happens, we will continue our protest at the construction site and will not allow the expressway work to proceed,” he said. The farmers have also demanded an increase in the length of service road alongside the expressway for better connectivity to their farmlands and nearby villages. According to NHAI officials, the farmers under the DME project have been paid land compensation of about ₹60 crore per kilometre as opposed to ₹40 crore per kilometre given to farmers whose land was acquired for the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. The Phase 4 of DME is presently 74% complete and is expected to be ready by the end of 2020. “Farmers are camping at the site but we have deployed a police force to ensure that there is no law and order situation. Their protest has remained peaceful until now. We will ensure that the DME work is not hampered,” Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural), said. The district officials said they are reviewing the demands of farmers and have also referred some cases to the state administration for its consideration. “During the previous meeting with farmers, we assured them of a solution soon. We will speak to farmers again and urge them not to disrupt the DME work as it is a public utility project,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, said. The work on Phase 2, a 19.2km stretch from UP Gate to Dasna, is also underway and likely to be over by December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demanding-enhanced-land-compensation-farmers-disrupt-work-on-delhi-meerut-expressway/story-7xkYuVCiBjtqSd5DnrkvJN.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants pre-arrest bail to 2 Navy officers accused in ₹6.76-crore fraud||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday granted interim protection from arrest to two Indian Navy officers who were booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in July for allegedly generating fraudulent bills of ₹6.76 crore for supplying IT hardware to Western Naval Command. The two officers — Captain Atul Kulkarni and Commander Raj Pal Sharma — informed the HC that as another accused had been granted pre-arrest bail by the special CBI court in August, on grounds of parity they too should be granted the same, which the court accepted. The single judge bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal while hearing the anticipatory bail pleas filed by Kulkarni and Sharma was informed that in July, CBI had booked four Navy officers including Kulkarni, Sharma, Commander Mandar Godbole and Petty Officer Kuldip Singh Baghel along with 14 others for allegedly generating fake bills. In the complaint, it was stated that between January and March 2016, four officers had raised fraudulent and forged bills of IT hardware supplies to the Western Naval Command however, none of the supplies had reached the headquarters. Thereafter another five persons from the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (Navy), the department that carries out auditing of bills, and other private individuals and companies were also booked in the case.Advocate Shrikrishna Ganbavle for Kulkarni said his client was Command Logistics Officer for entire Western Command, while Sharma was his subordinate. He submitted that Petty Officer Kuldeep Singh Baghel, who was given access to their ID and password in good faith, had misused the same. After the applicants realised the fraud, they were the first to raise an alarm and alerted the authorities of the same. Ganbavle further submitted that as a special CBI court had granted pre-arrest bail to one of the accused, Commander Mandar Godbole, on the grounds of parity, the applicants should also be granted protection from arrest. However, advocate Poornima Kantharia appearing for the anti-Corruption bureau (ACB) of CBI opposed the applications and sought time to take instructions to verify material on record and respond.After hearing the submissions, the bench restrained CBI from taking coercive steps against the applicants until further orders and directed it to file an affidavit in reply to the plea within a week and posted further hearing to October 7. The court also asked applicants to remain present before the investigating agency to cooperate with the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-2-navy-officers-accused-in-6-76-crore-fraud/story-WPt49k0lWiHaPHrTLzZZWK.html
18-09-2020||Noida||State pollution watchdog recommends preventive measures ahead of smog season||Ahead of October when the pollution levels see a steep rise in the city, the Uttar Pradesh Pollution control board (UPPCB) has recommended several pre-emptive pollution control measures to the Noida Authority.Officials of the pollution control board held an inspection at multiple areas of Greater Noida earlier this week, during which they found several dust -generating sources. City-based environmentalist Vikrant Tongad was also present during the inspection.The Greater Noida wing of UPPCB also pointed out eleven such areas where civil work was being carried on without dust controlling measures and thus recommended the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) to take pre-emptive measures to curb pollution.“Every year, we observe a spike in air pollution levels from October. That’s why it is important to take pre-emptive measures to control some of the major sources of pollution before weather conditions worsen and air pollution spikes. We had inspected a number of areas in Greater Noida and found that there were several points where dust was being generated due to civil construction. From October onwards, temperatures drop and the air quality also deteriorates, while dust from roads and construction works worsens it. We have made a recommendation of eleven such areas for the Greater Noida authority to take dust control measures at,” said Archana Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB, Greater Noida.According to Tongad, “There are roads under repair, new constructions being done and pipes being laid, with negligible dust control measures. For now, since the temperatures are higher, the air quality is better. However, once the winter sets in, the entire region of Greater Noida West will become unlivable if proper measures are not taken.”Areas recommended by UPPCB include heavy dust on the road connecting Char Murti in Greater Noida West towards Vijay Nagar road to Ek Murti and Yamaha Road; various sectors in Greater Noida West including sectors 16, 16B, 16C, 4, 2, 1, Tech Zone 4, Gaur City one and two; Sapphire Plaza to Gaur Mall in Gaur City; Ek Murti to Supertech Eco Village 2 (Sector 1), among others.“All inner roads in Gaur City were either broken or unpaved, leading to excessive dust. Please take dust control measures and initiate mechanise sweeping soon,” read the UPPCB letter addressed to the Greater Noida Authority.Going by records, the air quality index (AQI) starts dropping from ‘moderate’ category in September to ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ by October.“The air quality starts to deteriorate from October, mostly due to weather conditions and stubble burning in neighbouring states that starts from September-end. The dust leads to larger suspended particles in the air while smoke leads to smaller particles or pollutants, both of which are harmful,” said Shambhavi Shukla, program officer, air quality, centre for science and environment (CSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/state-pollution-watchdog-recommends-preventive-measures-ahead-of-smog-season/story-79AZFb8nB07xUGchYcGE6H.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to start on-field interaction with farmers to resolve issues||Days after launching an initiative to connect farmers with more than 1,300 value chains, the Maharashtra government on Friday decided to start direct interaction with the agrarian community to identify their issues and resolve them. Under the initiative, the state agriculture minister, department secretary and other officials will have to go on field and interact with farmers. The decision was taken following the directives of agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, officials said.The order issued by the agriculture department states, “The minister and all the concerned officials will go on field, talk about the issues they [farmers] are facing and resolve them. The cabinet minister, minister of state, agriculture secretary, agriculture commissioner and scientists from agriculture universities will be making field visits once in 15 days.”“The director, divisional agriculture joint director will visit once a week, superintendent and agriculture officers will visit twice a week and junior officials will have to go on field three days a week,” it states.Eknath Dawale, agriculture secretary, said he and the agriculture minister have already started field visits and have now directed all officials to follow suit.“These field visits will be in addition to the regular inspection work from the agriculture department. Having dialogue and resolving issues is one part, another part is to understand what exactly is going on in the field. Sometimes, the problem doesn’t reflect on paper. For instance, we will be able to get first-hand information on crop condition. The exercise will help us identify and understand difficulties so that efforts can be made to solve them in due course of time,” Dawale said.Last week, the agriculture secretary visited Nagpur, Wardha, Washim and Buldhana districts.On September 10, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray launched a new initiative ‘Vikel Te Pikel’ (sow that sells) to connect farmers across the state with more than 1,370 value chains. The system will enable farmers to grow crops based on the demand of end-consumers while the established supply chains will guarantee the sale of their produce at competitive rates. This will also help farmers to minimise post-harvest loss of crops as produce can be stored properly and sold without delay, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-start-on-field-interaction-with-farmers-to-resolve-issues/story-UwqEoEfrhlN4d7Ygm49yBJ.html
18-09-2020||City||UP pollution watchdog outlines ‘winter action plan’ for Ghaziabad||With the winter season barely two months away, Ghaziabad authorities are gearing up to tackle air pollution and have prepared a ‘winter action plan’ for it. The district, in past years, has seen alarming levels of pollution and topped the list of most polluted cities across the country several times. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) have outlined a framework in the plan to tackle different sources of pollution which includes dust emission, industrial and vehicular emission, waste burning and dealing with construction and demolition waste, among others.“The plan has been prepared and all probable measures to deal with pollution are being put in place. These include installing anti-smog guns at projects measuring more than 20,000 square metres (sqm), geo-tagging prominent waste and plastic disposal sites, formation of quick response teams to deal with complaints, and installation of PTZ cameras at construction and industrial sites, among others,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB.He said the different agencies operating in Ghaziabad have also been asked to conduct workshops for their contractors about pollution abatement plans and also inform them that they may be blacklisted in case they do not follow norms.“The processes which are to be taken up under the plan have been defined beforehand and all concerned agencies are also required to take up respective measures for pollution abatement,” Sharma added.Due to high pollution levels, Ghaziabad is also identified in a list of 15 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh which have high levels of air pollution.According to UPPCB figures, the city in 2019 recorded 31 days of ‘severe’ category pollution of the air quality index (AQI). It had another 67 days of ‘very poor’ category AQI, and 112 days ‘poor’ category pollution. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. Last year, only the months of August and September saw any let up in high pollution levels when AQI did not exceed 200 or ‘moderate’ category.The data reveals that from January to August this year, the average AQI was 163.68, which is significantly lower when compared to the average AQI of 224.42 for the same period in 2019. “The primary reason for better AQI in recent months is due to heavy rainfall and also that most of the construction work for the Delhi Meerut Expressway project has been completed, due to which there has been no major instances of dust pollution,” Sharma added.The records further indicate that average particulate matter (PM)2.5 levels were 76.34 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m3) in the first eight months of 2020, while the average was 100.66μg/m3 during the same period in 2019.Likewise, average PM10 levels were 149.75μg/m3 during the first eight months of 2020 as against an average of 236.66μg/m3 during the same period in 2019.The standard limit for PM2.5 is 60μg/m3 and 100μg/m3 for PM10. Environment activists, however, said there have been little efforts on ground despite plans being made year after year. “It is only when winter season approaches that different plans are prepared to tackle pollution, while there is hardly any focus round the year. Dust pollution has been a perpetual problem in Ghaziabad but there is hardly any green paving along the roads to reduce it. Although UPPCB has prepared the plan, their officials must assume responsibility if it fails,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer.Others said that city planners have yet again failed to bring in desired projects.“The project of bringing in e-buses has been pending for a long and has not been implemented this year too, while the number of vehicles is growing at a fast pace. Traffic regulation is a major issue in the city but the integrated traffic management plan is yet to take off. There is an urgent need to develop mini forests but officials are not inclined to develop these,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of apartment owners’ federation.“It is time that anyone who aids polluting activities be severely penalised and heavy environmental compensation costs be levied,” he added. Box: components of winter action plan Assessment of resources with regard to water sprinklers, mist sprinklers, mechanical sweepers and anti-smog guns being done by all concerned Departments Constitution of flying squad and quick response teams to address issues of open garbage dumping/burning Identification, assessment and geotagging of all roads that need to be repaired and made pot hole free Creation of green buffers along the traffic corridors Dust removal from all roads once in every three days Residential ward-wise ranking system to be introduced based on number of complaints of waste burning received Defaulting bulk waste generators to be publicized under ‘Name & Shame’ policy Identification and geotagging of prominent C&D waste dump sites Installation of anti-smog guns at prominent sites with regards to C&D waste Deployment of additional manpower for proper traffic management on major bottlenecks Random sampling of stacks to verify status of regulatory compliance by industrial units Installation of PTZ camera in large/medium category industrial units||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-pollution-watchdog-outlines-winter-action-plan-for-ghaziabad/story-uoizU2D4r43juzSg5BeeRM.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra ministers Nitin Raut, Hasan Mushrif test positive for Covid-19||Two more ministers from Maharashtra tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. State energy minister Nitin Raut and rural development minister Hasan Mushrif both confirmed the development on Twitter. So far, 12 ministers from the state have contracted the disease. “I have been tested positive for Covid-19 today. I would like to request all those who have come in contact with me the past few days to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure. Stay Safe everyone and take care,” Raut said on Twitter.According to a close aide, Raut is asymptomatic and has isolated himself at his official residence in Mumbai. “He is fine and has no symptoms. He chose to go through a test after his wife Sumedha tested positive in Nagpur,” he said.Meanwhile, Mushrif tweeted, “I have tested Covid-19 positive. Those who came in my contact should get tested. I will defeat coronavirus and soon will be at your service. I’m fine.” He is currently in his hometown Kagal in Kolhapur and has isolated himself at home, said one of his close aides.Earlier, six cabinet and four junior ministers were infected by the virus. This includes PWD minister Ashok Chavan, fisheries minister Aslam Shaikh, housing minister Jitendra Awhad, social justice minister Dhananjay Munde, cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil, dairy development minister Sunil Kedar, minister of state for revenue Abdul Sattar, minister of state for environment Sanjay Bansode, minister of state for social justice Vishwajeet Kadam, and minister of state for higher and technical education Prajakt Tanpure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ministers-nitin-raut-hasan-mushrif-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Iq4TUcl6ws69oDJjbOFHFN.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Dubai calls off all Air India Express flights, revokes it later||Hours after the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) suspended Air India Express flights between India and Dubai, the biggest city in the United Arab Emirates, from Friday to October 2, the ban was withdrawn in the evening. The flights were suspension notice was issued after a passenger on a recent Jaipur-Dubai flight operated by Air India Express, the low-cost airline of national carrier Air India, was found to be Covid-19 positive by DCAA authorities. This was the second time the airline flew an infected passenger.The suspension notice had stated that the flight IX1135 operated by the airline from Jaipur to Dubai International Airport (DIA) had a passenger who had contracted Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19. “You are aware of our previous intimation made to you by our letter dated September 2 for boarding a passenger with a Covid-19 positive test result, who endangered the other passengers on board and also caused a serious health risk. Boarding a passenger with Covid-19 positive test result for the second time is contrary to and is in violation of the laid-down procedures and protocols relating to air travel to and from airports in the Emirate of Dubai during the pandemic,” stated the notice.While Air India Express had submitted an apology to DCAA before getting the notice, the airline and the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) held discussion with Dubai authorities in the matter, following which the suspension order was lifted. Though Air India Express did not issue a fresh statement, its tweet read, “All Air India Express flights from/to Dubai will operate as per original schedule w.e.f tomorrow, September 19, 2020.” Airline officials said the airline is playing a key role in flying repatriation flights between India and Dubai and operates around 15 daily flights between the two countries. The airline has apologised for the erroneous acceptance of Covid-19 positive passenger by the airline’s ground handling agents on Air India Express flights to Dubai on August 28 and September 4.Aviation expert and former defence pilot Vipul Saxena said, “Though MoCA through diplomatic channel managed to revoke the UAE ban on Air India Express to fly to Dubai, at the same time MoCA must also review the recent order which virtually allows every international passenger to board from last foreign destination without having done RT-PCR 96 hours before boarding. After seeing strict actions by other countries, I hope MoCA reviews its recent order and allows passenger to fly without RT-PCR only under unavoidable circumstances and also treat them on board as infected patients, in terms of seating separately and also serve inflight service by exclusive crew, so that other healthy passengers aren’t risked.”With the rules for international arrivals relaxed in India, passengers are allowed to get themselves tested for Covid-19 once they land at Indian entry airport where testing facility is made available in case the passenger did not get tested within 96 hours before departure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dubai-calls-off-all-air-india-express-flights-revokes-it-later/story-YyERACeP19kYVMxcvUAbJO.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Horse electrocuted to death in Nizamuddin, locals say overflowing sewage conducted power from transformer nearby||A horse died, possibly of electrocution, in South Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti while accompanying its owner who was in the neighbourhood on Friday afternoon to buy fodder for the animal, the police said. While police said the circumstances of the death remain unclear, locals claimed that overflowing sewage helped conduct electricity from a transformer nearby to the spot where the horse was standing, thereby electrocuting the animal. “We have kept the horse’s body for an autopsy. We are seeking legal opinion on the case and will register a first information report (FIR) if there is evidence of negligence,” said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). To begin with, the police have requested a team from the power discom BSES to visit the spot and verify if there were any lapses in the supply network, the DCP said. Social media users sharing videos and images of the dead horse alleged that overflowing sewage carried the electricity from a transformer nearby and led to the electrocution of the animal. Videos showed small pools of water around the dead horse. SM Umar, president, Nizamuddin West residents’ welfare association, , said his association has repeatedly complained about the choked sewer line because of which dirty water keeps overflowing into the lanes and acts as a conductor of electricity from all the loose wiring in the area. He said this was perfect recipe for danger, especially for passersby. “This is so unfortunate that a horse was killed because of the sheer apathy of civic agencies. This is also scary because there are several government schools in the same lane and children were at risk. The government agencies must wake up to the problem and address it on an urgent basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/horse-electrocuted-to-death-in-nizamuddin-locals-say-overflowing-sewage-conducted-power-from-transformer-nearby/story-Vao36KeDog6ikbuEHJrTBL.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s public utility BS-4 diesel vehicles should be registered, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday stated that all Bharat Stage-IV (BS-IV) compliant diesel vehicles purchased before April 1, 2020 by civic agencies and police in the Capital for carrying out essential public services should be registered by the transport authority.Without passing an order to this effect, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde asked the municipal authorities and Delhi Police to submit a list of all such vehicles pending registration to the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) – the statutory body assisting the Court with Delhi pollution matters. The EPCA will file a report to the Court following which an omnibus order is expected to be passed.The direction came while the Court was hearing separate applications by concessionaires operating on behalf of municipal agencies in Delhi which required Court’s nod to get their vehicles registered with the various regional transport offices in the Capital. These vehicles were meant for collection of garbage. In all, the application sought registration of seven compressed natural gas (CNG)-based vehicles, one BS-IV diesel based vehicle and 13 BS-VI based vehicles.This has been the practice since the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order of April 2015 directing ban on diesel vehicles in Delhi owing to the rising level of air pollution. Taking up the applications, CJI Bobde remarked, “What is this….has the Supreme Court started registering vehicles also?”Senior advocate Aparajita Singh who is assisting the Court in these matters as amicus curiae pointed out that all these vehicles qualify for registration as they were purchased before April 1, 2020. The vehicles even had temporary registration with the E-Vahan portal of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. However, the amicus pointed out that instead of coming in batches, the Court may direct the civic agencies and police to file a consolidated list of such vehicles that can be considered at one go.So far as the application for registration of CNG vehicles and BS-VI diesel vehicles were concerned, the bench clarified that these vehicles can be registered by the transport authorities as they met with the permissible emission standards.With regard to BS-IV diesel vehicles, the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “If the purchase had been made on or before March 31, 2020 and these vehicles are BS-IV compliant, such vehicles necessary for the Municipal Corporation to carry essential public utility services should also be registered…. EPCA shall scrutiny the pending cases and submit a report to this Court so that a common order could be passed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-public-utility-bs-4-diesel-vehicles-should-be-registered-says-sc/story-TLvAvMphnGuFLXjyHXL0SP.html
18-09-2020||City||Govt takes measures to protect CCTVs from theft, damage||New Delhi: In the light of instances of theft and damage to CCTV camera systems, the Delhi government has directed the public works department to take additional measures such as installing additional lock systems and adding alarm devices in CCTV boxes.The directions were issued on Friday by the office of Delhi’s home and urban development minister Satyendar Jain, after complaints of theft and damage of CCTV cameras at least 75 locations across the city. The names of the locations were not mentioned in the order, said a senior Delhi government official who did not wish to be identified.The Delhi government had started installing 1.4 lakh CCTVs in public places and residential areas in January 2019 but the process has not been completed yet. PWD minister Satyendar Jain attributed the delay to the assembly elections and the Covid-19 pandemic.Apart from the cameras, hard disks containing recorded footage and SIM cards attached with the CCTVs were stolen in some places, said the government official, citing Friday’s order.Jain’s office instructed the CCTV wing of the department and the vendor Bharat Electronics Limited, which is getting the cameras installed, to equip them and the associated devices with an “additional lock system.” Officials have been asked not to grant permission to anyone other than confirmed personnel from BEL to carry out repair work.According to the standard operating procedure, the ownership of the cameras lies with the PWD, a portfolio under Jain’s domain. Their feed is provided to representatives of resident welfare associations (RWA), local police and deputy police commissioners concerned.RWAs have been instructed to ensure no one touches the cameras in the absence of any representative from the associations. Under the new rules, apart from the RWA, the feed will be available to the owner of the household from where the cameras draw power. Such households are reimbursed by the government for the power consumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-takes-measures-to-protect-cctvs-from-theft-damage/story-jvBul2WNP587sk4zEzfLFI.html
18-09-2020||City||Farm bills dominate Day 1 of PAU’s first virtual Kisan Mela||The passing of three controversial farm bills dominated the inaugural proceedings of first-ever Virtual Kisan Mela at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Friday. While inaugurating the two-day event virtually, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said, “Farmers of Punjab, with their toil and sweat, and the men of genius at PAU did their best to make the country food secure. Their outstanding contributions during the last 55 years (since Green Revolution) remain unsurpassed. But, the small state, which feeds the nation, has not been treated well. The ongoing river disputes and the two farm bills passed in the Lok Sabha are going to hit Punjab and Haryana the maximum.”“Destiny brought Covid-19, and even during the challenging times, the godowns of Punjab were full,” he said while congratulating Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.“Already there is a shortage of water and landholdings are shrinking in Punjab. Agricultural fields as well as dairy farming need water. Future generations need food to eat. We need to think of the future of Punjab and its coming generations,” the CM stressed. Referring to paddy crop in the current season, he hailed its average yield of 65 quintals per hectare. “Sara Punjab thauda dhanwadi hai (whole Punjab is thankful to you),” the CM said to PAU, while adding, “You have done your best.” Sunil Jakhar, president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, congratulated PAU for being a big gift to the farming community. “Punjabi farmers and research institutes like PAU removed the ‘kalank’ (smear) of being dependent on foreign nations for food grains and transformed the country from food-deficit to food-surplus,” he said. “For the wheat production of 1.28 crore tonnes during Covid-19 times, I salute the farmers,” he said, while calling upon the Punjab CM to ensure financial security of farmers. “With black clouds hovering over Punjab and disruptive mentality forcing the farmers to protest, we need to work on financial security of farmers of Punjab,” he added. “If there is no wheat, no rice, no pulses, what will people eat? Let us not take anything for granted,” he observed. Sharing details of the mela, PAU vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon said this year, the fair’s theme was “Veera saad na parali, mitti-paani vi sambhal, apne Punjab da tu rakh lai khiyaal (Dear brother, don’t burn paddy straw, conserve soil and water, take care of your Punjab).” Addressing the farmers virtually, he advised them to make judicious use of pesticides, adopt subsidiary occupations like mushroom cultivation, beekeeping, poultry and dairy farming, etc.; connect with PAU on WhatsApp groups and through the Facebook programme every Wednesday.He said after excellent response to the PAU Facebook programme, which helped the varsity connect to nearly 50,000 farmers, the university decided to hold the Virtual Kisan Mela via www.kisanmela.pau.edu.Via technology, farmers will be educated about recommended varieties of wheat, pulses, vegetables, etc., and their production and protection technologies. Urging farmers to shun paddy straw burning and adopt straw management practices, he said, “Sanu apna ghar aap hi sambhalana pau (Setting our house in order is our responsibility).”While welcoming the farmers and farm women, Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of extension education, PAU, said the mela was designed keeping in view farmers’ interests. “Even amid the pandemic, we hope to make this mela a big success,” he said, while sharing that more than 5,000 queries had been received from the farmers on Day 1.GADVASU vice-chancelllor Dr Inderjeet Singh said, “Animal husbandry was intensive. Farmers should form farmer-producer organisations to reduce cost of production and get good returns for their produce.” He also highlighted the new diploma courses and other facilities being provided by GADVASU for the benefit of youth as well as farmers. WEBSITE GLITCHES CONTINUE Meanwhile, PAU officials kept receiving complaints about glitches in connecting to the website www.kisanmela.pau.edu early in the day. “We faced glitches in the morning due to heavy traffic, but fixed the problem by afternoon. We received an overwhelming response on Day 1. More than 1 lakh farmers and farm women of Punjab and adjoining states participated in the mela through social media (Facebook, YouTube) as well. Farmers interacted with experts regarding paddy straw management and direct seeded rice technology,” said TS Riar, additional director communication, PAU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-bills-dominate-day-1-of-pau-s-first-virtual-kisan-mela/story-zHlML1OI8YQKyFh5RuJoXL.html
18-09-2020||City||Three of five held for thrashing tax consultant in Kharar||A day after a tax consultant was seriously injured by five miscreants who allegedly beat him up with cricket bats, the Kharar police on Friday arrested three of the five suspects.Those arrested were identified as Akashdeep Singh, alias Pannu, of Kharar, Harinder Sahota of Salora village, Ropar, and Jasjit Singh of Morinda, Ropar. Those who are still at large were identified as Baljit Chaudhary and Bhavjit Gill, both residents of Kharar.On Thursday, the accused beat up Arun Sharma after barging into his house near Janta Chowk. The miscreants had also fired several rounds to terrify him. The two parties had an old dispute regarding court cases, which led to the attack after which Sharma was admitted to Indus Hospital.ALSO READ: Shots fired, accountant assaulted at his Kharar house in midnight attackInspector Bhagwant Singh, station house officer of Kharar City police station, said, “Two suspects are yet to be arrested. We are conducting raids at the houses of their friends and other possible hideouts. Their mobile phones are switched off but we are following other leads. We will nab them soon.”Meanwhile, the victim’s kin on Friday protested against the police and alleged that a resident of Bhagomajra named Aman was also present when the firing took place, but police due to political pressure were not including his name in the FIR.The SHO said, “They are pressuring us to include the name of a person in the FIR. We will add his name only after verifying the facts. During preliminary investigation, it came to the fore that he was not present at the crime spot, which was recorded in the CCTV footage.”A case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 450 (house trespass), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-of-five-held-for-thrashing-tax-consultant-in-kharar/story-Gksc0IFcAalsPQXdkrvVSK.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Demarcation of Buddha Nullah : Ludhiana MC to act against 650 encroachments after revenue dept analysis||After identifying around 1,600 encroachments in the initial survey conducted for demarcation of Buddha Nullah, the municipal corporation (MC) will now get the records of 650 of these authenticated from the revenue department. A meeting in this regard was held under the chairmanship of mayor Balkar Sandhu at his camp office on Thursday evening where deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal were also present. Municipal town planner (MTP) Monica Anand said, “Firstly, action will be taken against around 650 encroachments whose land record is available with the revenue department. The revenue department has been directed to authenticate the findings of demarcation survey, following which notices would be served to the owners of the other buildings. Authentication process might take around a week.”In the initial survey, over 900 encroachments were found on the basis of records of the irrigation department. Officials said that notices would be served to the building owners after the revenue department authenticates the findings of the initial survey. Earlier, the special task force constituted to clean the nullah had directed the MC to conduct a survey to remove encroachments and beautify the nullah. The demarcation process commenced on July 8 to remove encroachments along the nullah so that its width can be increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/demarcation-of-buddha-nullah-ludhiana-mc-to-act-against-650-encroachments-after-revenue-dept-analysis/story-AleQ60QI6UhtgavsQzdzaP.html
18-09-2020||City||Ludhiana jeweller shoots himself dead, two booked for abetment to suicide||A 45-year-old jeweller allegedly shot himself in the head with his licensed revolver at his house in Panchsheel Colony, Barewal road, on Friday.Police have booked two men for abetment to suicide following a complaint by the deceased’s wife.The deceased, who owned a jewellery store near Fountain Chowk on the Mall Road, was found dead by his mother when she went to his room. Shocked to find him lying in a pool of blood, she raised the alarm, following which neighbours rushed to their house and informed the police.The jeweller’s wife, who was away with their kids to Delhi, returned to Ludhiana on getting the tragic news.She told the police that her husband had a monetary dispute with two men, named Rohit and Sandeep, and that they had been threatening him. Her husband had revealed the matter to her only a few days back. Besides, he was also depressed due to losses faced amid the Covid-19 outbreak, she stated.“The amount involved in the dispute is not known, but police have booked Rohit and Sandeep under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code following a complaint by the deceased’s wife,” said sub-inspector Madhu Bala, SHO, Sarabha Nagar police station.Police have initiated an investigation to nab the duo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-jeweller-shoots-himself-dead-two-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide/story-rhSHrQDyzuyFjJE21UdGSO.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||₹17-crore project to cover open drain in Ludhiana gets off the ground||MLA Surinder Dawar and mayor Balkar Sandhu on Friday inaugurated the project to cover the open drain (now nullah) running from Transport Nagar to Shingar cinema road. The project has been hanging fire for over four years and residents have been complaining of foul smell and broken boundaries for a long time. Calling it his dream project, Dawar said the 1.4-km long nullah would be covered at a cost of Rs 17.85 crore within 18 months (by March 2022).“I had promised residents of wards 55 and 57 in the 2017 legislative assembly elections that I will get the nullah covered and I have fulfilled my promise now,” the MLA said.He added that a central verge would also be established at the roads and all electricity poles, street lights and transformers would be installed there only.The project has been prepared by experts from IIT Roorkee and will come as a major relief to residents of Shivaji nagar and New Shivaji Nagar as the nullah moves through these areas.Amanpal Singh, a resident of Shivaji Nagar, said, “We are irked by the foul smell which emanates from the nullah, which was once a drain. Also, the boundary walls are broken and many accidents have taken place because of this. During the monsoons, the nullah overflows and sewer water accumulates on streets.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “A board regarding specifications of the project and contact numbers of the contractor and MC officials concerned have been put up at the site so that residents can complain about any anomalies in the project. The deadline has also been specified.”Cong, BJP get into war for creditWhile MLA Dawar inaugurated the project in the morning, BJP leaders distributed sweets in the afternoon and felicitated former cabinet minister Satpal Gosain for initially taking up the project in 2016. Former councillor Inder Aggarwal said, “It was Gosain who had got the project approved in 2016 and Rs 6 crore was also approved by the state government. Tenders were floated twice but the process could not be completed due to technical reasons.” The BJP leaders also slammed Congress for not inviting area BJP councillor Manju Aggarwal for the inauguration ceremony. Social distancing went for a tossDespite restrictions imposed on political gatherings, a large number of Congress leaders and supporters participated in the inauguration ceremony. Social distancing went for a toss and many of them were also not wearing a masks. MLA Dawar said that they did not invite any one, but the nearby residents gathered at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-crore-project-to-cover-open-drain-in-ludhiana-gets-off-the-ground/story-ABEI8aGkygKOxNFSrc1Q6N.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Three juveniles held for teen’s murder in Dadumajra Colony||Three juveniles, who were on the run after stabbing a 19-year-old man to death due to old rivalry, have been arrested, the police said on Friday.The friends of the deceased had helped identify the accused—Gaurav, alias Goru, Harsh, alias Nati, and Raman Chadda, all residents of Dadumajra Colony. Gaurav is a relative of a former BJP mayor.After committing the crime on Wednesday night, the trio had left for Ludhiana on an auto-rickshaw. They, however, returned to the city after police started raiding their possible hideouts in Ludhiana, and were arrested on Thursday night at around 11pm.ALSO READ: Trio on the run after stabbing 19-year-old man to death in Dadumajra ColonyPolice said the deceased, Karan, and the accused had been at loggerheads since 2018. “The juveniles are illiterate and used to pick fights to spread fear in the locality,” said Chiranji Lal, station house officer, Maloya police station.The trio were booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-juveniles-held-for-teen-s-murder-in-dadumajra-colony/story-g7T77Wrrj3q5a7UqeoGtJK.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Teachers’ Association to hold staggered elections on September 25, 26||The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections will be held in a staggered manner over two days, September 25 and 26. This is the first time that time slots will be allotted department-wise for teachers to cast their votes.As per a notice sent out by returning officer professor Vijay Nagpal, voting will be carried out at two venues, English auditorium and evening auditorium. The different departments will be allotted one of the four time slots—starting from 8.30am to 11.30am and going up to 3.30pm to 5pm to prevent overcrowding. The voting stations will be sanitised thoroughly in between voting.On September 26, from 9am to 1pm, teachers of the departments of chemical engineering, University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management (UIHTM) will cast their votes at the English auditorium. Counting will be done from 1:30pm onwards and the PUTA annual general body meeting will be held at 3.30pm.Any teacher unable to cast their vote will have to contact returning officer professor Nagpal and his decision in this regard will be final.As per the final list of candidates, Mohammed Khalid of the department of evening studies will be contesting for the post of president against Mritunjay Kumar, who was the vice-president of PUTA for the 2019-2020 academic session.In view of the pandemic, the annual subscription fee will not be taken from existing PUTA members. Teachers who could not enroll last year will be given a chance to become members, however, retired faculty will cease to be members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-association-to-hold-staggered-elections-on-september-25-26/story-CkVoIEFunJ5L4BzrjG3b4H.html
18-09-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Jagraon Bridge project expected to finish by Oct 2||Expected to be completed by September 15 after missing five deadlines, the project to reconstruct the historical Jagraon Bridge has been delayed further by two weeks.Setting its seventh deadline, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has now announced that the project will be completed by Gandhi Jayanti on October 2.After discovering that the girders of the 132-year-old bridge were badly corroded, the damaged side of the bridge (which leads to Bharat Nagar Chowk) was closed for heavy vehicles in May 2016. Two months later, in July, it was closed for all vehicles except two-wheelers.A major traffic lifeline of the city, the bridge has now been closed for over four years, hitting the movement of traffic on the Railway Station Road, Jagraon bridge, Lakkar bridge and nearby areas.Conceived in 2016, the project to repair this damaged portion of the bridge stayed in limbo for two years as the railways refused to pool in money for it. It was only after the municipal corporation (MC) handed over Rs 24.3 crore to the railways that construction finally began in 2018, with a deadline of June 30, 2019. This was extended to December 2019, when MC took over the project and announced it will be completed by March 2020. However, roadblocks caused by the Covid-19 lockdown pushed the completion to June. The fourth deadline was revised to August 15 and then again extended to September 15. Now, the railways is expected to take another week to complete the construction of the damaged bridge, which has been serving the city since 1888, following which MC will complete work on the approach road.Mayor Balkar Sandhu and councillor Rakesh Prashar visited the construction site on Thursday.“The railways will complete its end of the job by September 22, following which MC will construct the approach road. The project is expected to be completed by September 30 and opened for traffic by October 2,” the mayor said.Prashar said, “Trees will be planted on both sides of the bridge for its beautification.”A railways official said the project was delayed due to the closure of bitumen plants amid the Covid-19 lockdown, besides other hiccups.Amid the project missing multiple deadlines, residents have written to government authorities several times and also observed four ‘death anniversaries’ of the bridge as a symbolic protest against the delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-jagraon-bridge-project-expected-to-finish-by-oct-2/story-Cncv5cgCnPPICCG5SroSaJ.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Only 15 students per class as Chandigarh schools reopen from September 21||With schools set to partially open from September 21 onwards, the district education officer (DEO) has written to the principals and heads of all government, government-aided and private recognised schools to ensure that only 15 students are allowed to sit in a classroom.Deputy director of school education, Alka Mehta, who is also holding the charge of DEO, said, “It will be important to maintain 6-foot distance among the students. Since some classes are smaller, the number can be reduced to 10, but the number shouldn’t exceed 15 even in bigger classrooms. Desks will also be arranged in a way to ensure social distancing.”Student-teacher interactions are to be carried out in outdoor spaces wherever possible and if the weather permits.As earlier reported by the Hindustan Times, students will be allowed to come in batches of two hours each from September 21 onwards, with a gap of one and a half hour in between to sanitise the classes.Consent forms from parents neededStudents will have to get a consent slip from their parents and will be assigned spots to visit the teachers for guidance. Students and teachers from containment zones won’t be allowed to visit, and all students and staff will be thermally screened on entry.Activities like assemblies will be strictly banned and canteens will remain closed as well. Students will be encouraged to bring their own water bottles although drinking water will be provided in the school. Washrooms will have running water and liquid soap well-stocked. Online classes will continue as per schedule.Inspection teams of higher officials including the DEO, director school education and UT education secretary will make rounds on Monday to ensure all rules are being followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-15-students-per-class-as-chandigarh-schools-reopen-from-september-21/story-Yb3qSaazm0KO2Enh6onrmN.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid snuffs out 10 more lives in Chandigarh tricity||A 15-year-old girl from Chandigarh was among 10 people whose death was confirmed due to Covid-19 in the tricity on Friday. As many as 754 fresh cases also surfaced, with Mohali recording the maximum 337.Chandigarh reported four deaths, which took its toll to 110. With 260 new cases, the tally has climbed to 9,506, of which 2,978 remain active. The girl who died was from Sector 52 and was “a case of sepsis”. Other decease have been identified as two women, aged 60 and 71, from Sectors 43 and 30, respectively, and a 70-year-old man from Sector 46. Meanwhile, 353 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 6,415. Mohali recorded three deaths and 337 fresh cases. The total stands at 7,989, of which 2,538 cases are active, while the death toll has reached 155 in the district.As many as 5,296 people have recovered, 277 of whom were discharged on Friday. Those who died have been identified as two women, aged 52 and 60, from Dera Bassi and Motamajra, respectively, and a 54-year-old man from Phase 7. The fresh cases include 125 from Mohali city, 70 from Gharuan, 52 from Kharar and 50 from Dhakoli. Three deaths were reported in Panchkula district, while 157 people tested positive.Those dead include two men, aged 55 and 73, from Sector 26 and Raipur Rani, respectively, and a 68-year-old woman from Sector 2.The total has reached 4,765, of which 1,222 are active, as 3,486 have been cured while 57 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-snuffs-out-10-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-IRSoCAXERSjkkHFqpftOKL.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid tally to double in a month, predicts Centre||Confirmed Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh will be around 14,500 by mid-October, leading to a requirement of more intensive care unit beds and ventilators, projections made by the central government have suggested. The projections have been made for October 13 using mathematical modelling based on trends on September 13. The exercise has been carried out by the ministry of health and family welfare to assist states and Union Territories in augmenting the available infrastructure.There were 7,480 Covid cases in Chandigarh on September 13, which are projected to reach 14,376 on October 13, with 4,160 being active. The UT administration had earlier predicted that around 1% of the total population will be infected, and at the pandemic’s peak, 3,600 people will have active infection. The projected numbers are way beyond this figure. 30% shortfall in ICU beds, 10% in ventilatorsThe model suggests 15% (624) of the active patients will require oxygen support and 5% (208) will be admitted in ICUs, of which 50% (104) will require ventilator support on October 13.Though oxygen beds are in surplus with 820 available on September 13, there are only 160 ICU beds and 95 ventilators, with the shortfall in ICU beds being as high as 30% and in ventilators 10%, according to the projections.A patient who is having mild respiratory symptoms requires low-level oxygen supply that can be provided in general wards with beds having oxygen supply, said Prof Pankaj Malhotra of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, while explaining three different levels of clinical management for Covid-19 patients depending upon there oxygen saturation levels. ICU beds are for patients requiring high-flow oxygen supply through advanced modes. Patients with pre-existing disease, such as renal failure, are also admitted to ICUs, where a few patients may also require ventilator support, he said. ‘Requirement will be lesser than that projected’Questioned about the shortfall in infrastructure for critical cases, UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that taking into account the present trend, the requirement will be less than that shown in mathematical projections made by the ministry. Of the present 3,200 active cases, just around 5% need oxygen support and only 2% are in ICU, he said.The Centre in its report has said that states may appropriately modify the estimates by factoring in variables, such as local surveillance, positivity rate, the extent of testing and hospitalisation data. It has added that comprehensive plans should be made and steps may be taken for augmentation of facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-tally-to-double-in-a-month-predicts-centre/story-43VwZZz3xpdECHN9VfDp7M.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh teacher’s murder: Victim died due to head injury inflicted by blunt object, says autopsy report||Three days after a government schoolteacher’s decomposing body was found at her Sector 23 house, her initial autopsy report has shown that she was hit by a blunt object on the back of her head that resulted in her death.Social science teacher Jyoti Rani, 40, was hit on the head by her husband Mandeep Singh, 42, who is a prime suspect in the case, police said on Friday.Mandeep is a fine arts teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 47, Chandigarh.The preliminary autopsy report attributes Jyoti’s death to “cerebral injury” inflicted by a blunt object. The complete report would be available after the viscera examination. “The victim was hit on the head and the post-mortem report suggests that the injury was caused by a blunt object and led to her death,” said SSP Vineet Kumar.The police are yet to trace the accused and his 9-year-old son, who was in the car when Mandeep had pushed his 13-year-old son on September 14 night in Neelon canal.Meanwhile, five different teams continued raids at possible hideouts of the accused in Punjab as the vehicle in which he had left the city with his two sons was spotted in the neighbouring state.The couple’s teenager son, who was saved from drowning, is with his paternal grandfather Surmukh Singh, who came down from Fatehgarh Sahib after Jyoti’s murder was reported. Anxious about his younger brother’s well-being, the teenager is praying for his safe return.On September 13, Mandeep had asked the two boys not to go to their mother’s room on the first floor as she had tested positive for Covid-19 and was in isolation. The next day, he took them in a car to Ludhiana. After paying obeisance at a gurdwara, Mandeep gave them a medicine, claiming it would protect them from coronavirus infection, but it made them vomit.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) have been registered against Mandeep after Jyoti’s body was found wrapped up in a blanket on a blood-stained bed at their government accommodation. The body was found on Tuesday when a police team from Ludhiana had come knocking at their door to drop their elder son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-teacher-s-murder-victim-died-due-to-head-injury-inflicted-by-blunt-object-says-autopsy-report/story-LbrXi0c9uy5o6L6MsyVIUJ.html
18-09-2020||City||Six booked for assaulting cops on Airport Road in Mohali||The Balongi police have booked six persons for allegedly assaulting two policemen on patrolling duty late on Thursday evening near Airport Chowk at Ballomajra village.The suspects also tore the uniform of ASI Shinder Singh, who was with his partner in a PCR vehicle.In his complaint, the ASI said the suspects were drinking alcohol in their Hyundai i20 car, which they had parked on the wrong side of the road, and creating a ruckus. “When we asked them to leave, they turned violent and started hurling abuses at us. They also assaulted us and pelted stones on the PCR vehicle. We sustained some injuries and our vehicle also got damaged,” he added.In the meantime, a car passing by stopped to help the cops, but the suspects tried to damage it in the same manner and fled the spot.The ASI said, “We have noted the registration number of their vehicle. One out of the six suspects has been identified, through the video recorded on the spot. His name is Harjinder Singh, alias Jinna, of Ballomajra village. Raids are being conducted to nab him. Both the damaged vehicles have been kept at Balongi police station.”A case has been registered against Harjinder along with his five accomplices under sections 353, 186, 341, 506, 427, 148 and 149 of the IPC at the Balongi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-booked-for-assaulting-cops-on-airport-road-in-mohali/story-LlA1bJh9uAOk07MLRQzPWN.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Drug peddler accused in 17 cases held with heroin in Sector 45||A drug peddler accused in 17 criminal cases and declared a ‘bad character’ by the police, has been arrested with 35g heroin by the operations cell of Chandigarh Police.The accused, indentified as Sukhbir Singh, alias Rinku, 36, of Sector 45 was produced before a court here on Friday and sent to judicial custody.As per the police, Sukhbir was nabbed on Thursday at a checkpoint near Dev Samaj College, Sector 45. He was spotted while walking away from the naka by the cops, who later recovered 35 grams of heroin from his possession.During interrogation, Sukhbir told the police that he had procured the contraband from Delhi. He was on Friday produced before the court and sent to judicial custody. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him in at Sector 34 police station.Police said Sukhbir is a school dropout and has total 17 criminal cases, including burglary, theft, gambling and drug pedalling, registered against him at the police stations of sectors 31, 34, 36 and 39. He has also been declared as a ‘bad character’ by the Sector 34police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drug-peddler-accused-in-17-cases-held-with-heroin-in-sector-45/story-bBskifem670UxhVbiSzEZJ.html
18-09-2020||City||E-auction of MC properties: Last date of registration extended to September 28||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has extended the last date of registration for the e-auction of properties from September 15 to September 28.The e-auction which was earlier scheduled to be held on September 18, would now be held on October 1.While the civic body has cited technical reasons behind the extension, sources said that it is due to the low response received by the MC.The fund starved MC has decided to auction different properties of MC through e-auction and the registration process for the auction commenced on September 1.As per MC officials, e-auction would be held for five shop-cum-office sites (reserve price ₹1.5 lakh/sq yard) situated opposite Keys Hotel at Lodhi club road, 653 yards of land at Chandigarh road (reserve price ₹40,000/sq yard), 268.44 yards land situated backside Kailash Cinema (reserve price ₹38,000/sq yard) and 17 shops in bearing market situated below Jagraon bridge at old GT road (reserve price ₹1 lakh/sq yard).The auction would be held through the e-auction portal - www.tenderwizard.com/DLGP and the interested bidders can register on the website. MC joint commissioner, Kulpreet Singh said, “The last date of registration has been extended till September 28 due to some technical issues. The e-auction would be held on October 1 and MC superintendent (sale headquarters) would remain open on October 2-4 so that bidders could deposit the amount with the MC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/e-auction-of-mc-properties-last-date-of-registration-extended-to-september-28/story-RStx9YJ4IlzyPI2dz5oOQP.html
18-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Traders body gives 15-day ultimatum to govt for lifting Sunday lockdown||Members of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal have given an ultimatum of 15 days to the government to lift the Sunday lockdown or else they will take to the streets and intensify their agitation.The announcement was made during the meeting of the mandal held in Ghumar Mandi on Friday. Traders rued that most customers from nearby districts/states or villages visit the city markets on Sundays and businesses have taken a hit due to the imposition of Sunday lockdown by the state government. Vice-chairman Pawan Batra and state general secretary, Sunil Mehra said that the state government is also not releasing VAT refunds and putting extra burden on traders by imposing lockdown on Sundays. If the government fails to lift the lockdown restrictions in 15 days, then the beopar mandal will take to the streets.District president, Arvinder Makkar said that traders are raising a hue and cry over losses for a long time but chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has even failed to conduct a meeting with them to resolve their grievances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-traders-body-gives-15-day-ultimatum-to-govt-for-lifting-sunday-lockdown/story-FOwiV22dy9y468qrGrh7wO.html
18-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC chief reviews status of solid waste management projects||With the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) pulling up the civic body officials over improper solid waste management in the city, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Friday conducted a review meeting to check the status of different projects being taken up to deal with solid waste generated in the city.As per information, the NGT monitoring committee has set certain deadlines for the MC like November 30 has been set for completing a door-to-door collection of garbage and segregation of waste at source. Also, the civic body has been told to establish compost pits in over 800 parks in the city by the end of November. Sabharwal said, “Regular meetings are being conducted to monitor the status of different projects and focus is being given to segregation of waste at source. Also, the officials have been directed to issue challans against the use and trade of plastic bags. Awareness drives are being conducted to encourage residents for handing over segregated waste to garbage collectors. Challans would also be issued in the coming time.” Earlier in August, the NGT had directed the MC to submit ₹15 lakh as a bank guarantee in favour of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) over its failure in taking up proper solid waste management in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-chief-reviews-status-of-solid-waste-management-projects/story-ui5cykq3JIjEvgeydJOmNP.html
18-09-2020||City||Ambala ADC’s convoy attacked during drive against overloaded trucks||A group of 60 to 70 people armed with sticks attacked the convoy of Ambala additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Preeti during a drive to check overloaded trucks, police said on Friday.This comes a few days after the ADC had busted a gang which used to send details of locations of the road transport authority (RTA) staff to transporters on their WhatsApp group to help them pass their overloaded vehicles through the district.The incident took place on Thursday night when Preeti, who is also the secretary of RTA, was checking overloaded mining trucks on the Ambala-Naraingarh highway at a spot near the Haryana-Punjab border after being tipped off.She also impounded some overloaded trucks and challaned a number of vehicles. When she was returning towards Ambala city, along with RTA officials from Kala Amb, after conducting the raid, she got information that some of the overloaded trucks were parked near Haryana-Punjab border at Handesra village.When she reached there around 60 to 70 people who were armed with sticks attacked her convoy, police said, adding that they ransacked two vehicles of the RTA department and damaged them.The ADC was whisked away in her car from the spot after which she reached Panjokhra police station in Ambala district. After getting information about the incident, three DSPs and a sub-divisional magistrate rushed to the site along with heavy force.The ADC said the attackers threatened her with dire consequences if she did not stop her campaign against the transporters. “Police have booked four men, most of whom are transporters from Baldev Nagar. The matter has been briefed to Haryana home minister Anil Vij who has asked us not to worry about anything,” she said adding that it was a pre-planned attack as they had been challaning vehicles since early afternoon.DSP Sultan Singh said a case has been registered under relevant provisions of the law, including attempt to murder, against Boota Singh, Kulwant Singh, Rajiv Gadariya and Sachin Saini on the compliant of RTA additional secretary Rup Chand. The matter has been taken seriously and those involved would not be spared, he added.(With inputs from agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-adc-s-convoy-attacked-during-drive-against-overloaded-trucks/story-HdTMhhdJ4hE7VNpJaqcEeP.html
18-09-2020||City||Harsimrat Kaur kept SAD’s glorious legacy alive: Party leaders||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders hailed Harsimrat Kaur Badal for stepping down from the Union Cabinet in protest against three “anti-farmer” ordinances and legislation, which were approved by the Lok Sabha amid opposition protests. The leaders said that Harsimrat has kept the SAD glorious legacy alive and sacrificed her seat to stand with the farmers of the state. SAD legislative party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillion, who is currently battling Covid-19, congratulated the former Union minister for thinking about farmers’ welfare before anything else. “We are proud of Harsimrat Kaur Badal as she did not bother about her position and left the portfolio for the farmers and their interests,” said Dhillon. While party spokesperson Maheshinder Singh Grewal said that Badals have yet again proved that nothing is more important to them than the people of Punjab. “Our party has always taken up the issues of farmers and whenever the need arises our leaders have never hesitated to sacrifice. Harsimrat Kaur Badal has yet again proved that only SAD could fight for the rights of farmers,” said Grewal. SAD MLA from Dakha Manpreet Singh Ayali said that the next course of action will be discussed in the core committee meeting. “Harsimrat Kaur Badal has sought time from the minister to discuss the issues concerning the farmers union. But the government went ahead with the bill without even discussing it. We are proud of Harsimrat that she stood for the welfare of the farmers and gave up her position,” said Ayali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/harsimrat-kaur-kept-sad-s-glorious-legacy-alive-party-leaders/story-2OhGaStHcfhI8UDRZmiTyN.html
18-09-2020||City||GADVASU earns plaudits for animal welfare works||Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore congratulated the faculty members of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana on his Twitter account for the work done towards the welfare of animals.“I congratulate and commend the faculty of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, for setting up first-ever Dog Blood Bank in Northern India where blood, platelets, plasma are offered to ailing or injured dogs,” Badnore said in a tweet while tagging Maneka Gandhi. In response to this congratulatory message, the university said, “Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of GADVASU and the entire faculty is grateful to the governor of Punjab to acknowledge the work of the institute. We promise to continue to strive for providing world-class facilities to livestock owners and pet lovers.” Giving more details, Dr Inderjeet Singh said that Badnore is also the chancellor of the veterinary university. “So our responsibility increases manifold to meet the needs and expectations of the public,” he said adding that the varsity will continue to strive for the betterment of their services.The university is making strenuous efforts in the treatment of animals and small animals through state-of-the-art machines, advanced techniques and expert doctors. The university’s veterinary hospital treats more than 30,000 animals every year, including more than 20,000 small pets, the V-C said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-earns-plaudits-for-animal-welfare-works/story-9sr7P8Oa3OSnWlj3Q8yVSM.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rape-murder convict arrested for extortion bid in Chandigarh||The police here have arrested a 30-year-old Palsora resident for attempting to extort money at knifepoint from a chemist shop owner.The accused, identified as Bhagat Singh, alias Manga, is also a convicted murderer.He was arrested near Palsora police post on Thursday night and produced before the court which sent him to judicial custody on Friday. Police have also recovered the knife from him.In his complaint, Rahul Ghai of Palsora said that about two days back, the accused had walked into his shop and demanded ₹20,000 at knifepoint. He had threatened to kill him if he failed to pay up in two days.On September 17, the accused came to the shop again and threatened Ghai, following which he raised the alarm. On seeing people starting to gather, the accused fled.Police said Manga, who was out on bail, has two murder cases registered against him — at Sector 39 police station in November 2013 and Mohali Phase 1 police station in 2010.Manga was convicted and awarded life term for the rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl from Palsora village, whose body was found in a gunny bag dumped in a forest area in November 2013, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rape-murder-convict-arrested-for-extortion-bid-in-chandigarh/story-tchIH2179rpyU1gjqcsQUJ.html
18-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: 2 drug peddlers held with 22,000 intoxicant capsules||Dehlon police have arrested two persons for drug peddling and recovered a cache of intoxicant pills and capsules from their possession on Friday.The accused have been identified as Ranjit Singh of Preet Nagar and Damanpreet Singh of Nandpur in Sahnewal.ASI Hardev Singh said that the police have arrested the accused near the Marado police post following a tip-off. The accused were heading towards Shimlapuri in a Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire car. When frisked, the police recovered 22,000 intoxicant pills from their possession.The accused told the police that they procure intoxicant pills from different links and sell it among drug addicts.A case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at Dehlon police station. The police are assessing their past criminal records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-2-drug-peddlers-held-with-22-000-intoxicant-capsules/story-PHcRY6NbwdJPACaNTQsxZJ.html
18-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: 11 attempt Rs 35-lakh extortion by threatening man with guns||A railway employee and his friend had a narrow escape after they were intercepted by gun-wielding men demanding Rs 35 lakh from him near Jain Temple in Dugri on Thursday night. The victim, Amit Arora, 35, of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, identified the accused as Amrik Singh, alias Vicky Marado, Jaswinder Dhillon and Tony Tattoo Wala. Their eight accomplices remain unidentified.Arora told the police that he and his friend, Vishal Kumar, were headed somewhere in his SUV. As they reached near Jain Temple in Dugri, 11 men waylaid them.Amrik assaulted them with a cricket bat, while Vicky and the other men pointed guns at them. Demanding Rs 35 lakh, the attackers threatened to kill him and his family if he did not pay up.However, thinking on his feet, he quickly reversed his SUV and sped away from the spot. He drove straight to the Dugri police station and filed a complaintArora alleged that Amrik and his men had been demanding money and threatening him for several days.ASI Rajandeep Singh said on Arora’s complaint, they had lodged an FIR under Sections 323, 341, 506, 511, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. A hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-11-attempt-rs-35-lakh-extortion-by-threatening-man-with-guns/story-NgPcmtHWdb248zFz5vFyiN.html
18-09-2020||Election:||Election officials in Bihar told to fact check, call out fake news||Tackling the menace of fake news has emerged one of the top concerns of the state election department in Bihar, which has introduced a fact check concept where district magistrates and district election officers have been directed to post correct updates on the official websites immediately after detection of any fake news or rumours on various media platforms, especially social media.A template has also been attached with the letter sent by the election department to DMs for fact checking.“The idea of ‘fact check’ is to provide correct information about any development in case there is false news circulating in the social media. This is the first time such a system will be implemented during assembly polls in Bihar,” said an election officer.State’s additional chief electoral officer Ranjita said, “Checking fake news is one of the priority areas. Immediate action would be taken against those indulging in such activities.”The state election department has also started the process of shadow zone area mapping of booths to assess whether booths, especially located in rural and remote areas, have good mobile connectivity or not.Sources said telecom service providers would be asked to make necessary arrangements in areas of poor connectivity or provision would be made for satellite phones. Officials said the increased focus on checking the mobile connectivity near booths this time is because of the stress on digital mode of communication with polling personnel in view of the Covid-related safeguards.The vulnerability mapping of booths to identity polling stations where there is possibility of rigging or any other law and order problem has also begun.The two-member Election Commission team that visited Bihar a few days back has laid stress on encouraging voters turnout through SWEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Programme) and on ensuring minimum facilities at all the new auxillary booths set up to maintain Covid-19 related safeguards at the polling stations.“We have asked district officials to intensify campaign through SWEEP. We are also striving to ensure minimum facilities at booths for voters’ convenience,” said the additional CEO, Bihar.The EC team also laid stress on ensuring proper availability of vehicles and usage of various I-T applications, including e-nomination facility, for filing nomination papers by candidates with the option of making payments of necessary fees online, the first such initiative in this polls.In another first, the state election department has already issued directives to the DMs to ensure that voters come to booths wearing masks as a precaution against Covid infection and those flouting rules would be fined Rs 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/election-officials-in-bihar-told-to-fact-check-call-out-fake-news/story-s3mfJhMrwaC7Jr9M0Qyy9O.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Promote city as a great business destination||Promote Chandigarh as a business destinationI believe that Chandigarh has everything that a business hub requires, but it needs to be promoted in the right way. In the business world it is said that no matter how good your product or service you make, unless and until your customers are not aware of it, it will not sell. So our city authorities need to consistently promote the best features of the city. This could include marketing the UT’s strategic location among neighbouring states, established accessibility of railways, road transport and international airport. The cleanliness and standards of basic infrastructure should also be highlighted. Regular B2B trade events should be done in the city to promote business infrastructure and opportunities and for networking. Aishwarya Sharma Time for businesses to gear up tooThe administration should set up cells to guide and consult with local businesses/industries about Inter-state/international business options. Exhibitions and trade-fairs should be organised regularly. Hard work and success are two sides of the same coin. Businesses too should gear up in the post pandemic scenario to expand, push for exports and create more jobs.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliUrgently formulate of business-friendly action plans The city needs a full time administrator for taking quick decisions on policies to create an environment conducive to business/industry with a liberal policy to attract FDI/ investors and also improve employment rates. Collector rates of property should be fixed on the basis of sanctioned covered area of plot and building by-laws and lease conversion rates fixed after factoring in the needs of industries. Pending cases involving violations or misuse of building by-laws should be decided quickly to enable industries to work unfettered and allow others to set up business here. The need of the hour is to formulate action plans that are business-friendly with the involvement of traders and industrialists.Sukhpal Singh  Don’t expect changes in bureaucratic set-upChandigarh’s poor ranking in ease of doing business is shameful. The problem is that this is a bureaucratic set-up and bureaucrats come for a fixed tenure. No one takes the pains to compete with other states/UTs. To improve rankings the administration needs to consult all stakeholders to frame a new industrial policy resolving issues related to land, labour, investment, banking, taxation, and marketing to help industries.SK Khosla, Chandigarh. Convert land to freeholdLand rates need to be cheaper to encourage industries to flourish. Single window systems should be streamlined to provide all possible help to businesspersons. Lack of basic and civic amenities is also a hurdle. Demand of industrialists to convert leasehold land to freehold should be looked into on priority basis. An improved business environment will help generate employment and stop brain drain. Amanpreet Kaur Bains, Kurali Revive post of chief commissionerAffairs of the union territory (UT) are handled by the bureaucracy, a majority of them on deputation from Punjab and Haryana. Even the administrator of Chandigarh is the governor Punjab. Their main interests lie with their parent states, so any radical changes in the business environment cannot be expected. That said, the post of chief commissioner of Chandigarh should be revived with a bureaucrat cadre created especially for Chandigarh as officials will then keep the long-term interests of the city in mind. AK Sharma, Chandigarh Set up a body with city representativesBlame for all the ills of the city should be pinned on the political structure of our city. It has no representation. Our MP has to follow the party whip and we have no MLAs. The bureaucrats report to the home minister, who to be fair has a lot on his plate to deal with now instead of discussing the civic issues of Chandigarh. The UT needs a legislative body where representatives take decisions, not bureaucrats. Pondicherry with a population of only 2.5 lakh has its own governing body. Bureaucrats are here on fixed tenures, so there are no incentives for those who perform well. The IT Park still remains underutilised because companies need incentives to set up their base here. The environment isn’t good for business because of red tape. Kamal Passi City not planned for industriesWhen the city was planned there was no provision to attract big industries. Moreover, it would have affected the very character of the city, especially the green cover, the world-class infrastructure for education, health, art and sculpture. It is advisable to consult local industrialists and seek their suggestions to attract investors. The two Industrial Areas lack basic facilities and discourage investors, whose demands include conversion of industrial plots to freehold basis, easy availability of land, easy environment clearances, 24-hour power and water, relief from tax/duties, and single window facility to get approvals/guidelines. Usha Verma, Chandigarh Discuss benefits offered by Punjab, HaryanaAfter the trifurcation of Punjab states on November 1966, Punjab and Haryana developed their own Industrial Area at Panchkula , Mohali , Derabassi, Baddi, Parwanoo etc, where many units were set up or moved because of the attractive benefits on offer and less government interference. Meanwhile, UT’s second phase along with Industrial Area Phase 2 developed in the ’80s. Entrepreneurs did not get any benefits compared to neighbouring states and instead faced strict enforcement of building by-laws. Meanwhile, the neighbouring states allowed multistoried construction and use of part of building as residence. Demands for leasehold to freehold, additional FAR and permissions to carry out need based internal changes are pending. I suggest the matter be looked into. Open darbar should be held to look into problems of entrepreneurs and benefits and advantages offered by neighbouring states be debated. Joginder Singh Bhogal, Chandigarh No ‘will’ to improve thingsBusinesses and industries in the Smart City of Chandigarh need many changes in existing rules which our bureaucrats don’t permit due to reasons best known to them. Government jobs are limited - almost equal to nil. Many sectors are being privatised by our present government. The need of the hour is to create a conducive business environment for which our administration must offer some concessions to all players. This in turn will increase the earnings of the administration as well. Rules should be easy to follow and there should be no red-tapism, which slows down business and stresses out investors.Gurpreet S Malhotra, Kansal Develop city as a medical hubChandigarh is in imminent danger of losing its status of a planned, modern city. Given the pandemic and its outcome, it should be developed as a medical hub. The amalgamation policy announced recently can give a big boost to the city’s dwindling health facilities and yet save every inch of precious land for future industrial growth. Nursing homes in the city are governed as per residential bye-laws. Unless their amalgamation is facilitated with the adjoining residence on priority, even existing nursing homes may close and shift to neighbouring cities. About 28 nursing homes were regularised in 1999, half have closed down. Similar number should be allowed to function. In one step, amalgamation will boost health services for Chandigarh residents, increase the revenue from health industry, and save the city’s limited land for other industrial activities. Dr Ramneek Bedi, Chandigarh Administration has to act nowThose at the helm in the administration ought to accept the gospel truth that business is no charity and those in business are here for profits. Onus of promoting business lies with the administration as it has to boost Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for better employment, drive development and generate revenues/income for the government/civic administration to shape ease of living. Closing down business establishments to curb the spread of coronavirus is akin to stopping factories and vehicles to check industrial and road accidents. Healthy business orientation breeds progress and prosperity and intermittent jerks paralyse business. Implementation of business-friendly Chandigarh Industrial Policy of 2015 is overdue. Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula Develop industrial zonesChandigarh was good place for services and businesses, but with the development of the adjoining cites, some industries and services moved there because of low rental costs and developed business market. The Chandigarh administration should develop existing properties or encourage other private players to help develop industrial zones. Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh Focus on city’s design, not industriesWhen Chandigarh was planned by Le Corbusier it was not meant to be an industrial town and the focus was on its design. However, business and industry both are the soul of a city, without which a body cannot survive. Chandigarh’s industrial areas need to be converted to freehold properties, with tax relief for businesses running at a loss. Unnecessary harassment of industrialists by way of red-tapism should stop. Dr Devinder Garg, Chandigarh More incentives for new businessesThe Covid-19 pandemic has affected industries, but quick action will bring them back on track. As regards ease of setting up small scale industrial units in Chandigarh, people are not too keen to invest here because they don’t get any incentives. Even if a suitable plot somehow is available to start with, clearances and approvals take time. This has to changeSC Luthra, Chandigarh City requires better connectivityIndustries require incentives such as reduction in GST, subsidised power supply, reduced commercial property tax and increased FSI to get more space by going vertical as Chandigarh has limited space. Better connectivity to national and international destinations by increased number of flights is a must. Single window clearance, and liberal loans in view of Covid -19 epidemic should be accorded top priority. Col TBS BediRigid rules hinder growth Rules related to commercial properties in Chandigarh are too rigid as compared to other states. Non-conversion of leasehold industrial plots to freehold is the biggest hindrance in the development of old established industries and setting up of new ones. Collector rates are high as compared to Mohali and Panchkula. FAR is also less as compared to Mohali. Online single window system should be launched by the administration. There should be a redressal forum to listen to their grievances. More land should be allotted for new establishments. Fresh guidelines regarding pollution control, disposal of waste material, safety of workers, and fire safety norms should be issued. Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali Don’t have to make it a business hubChandigarh is business-friendly, but not for industrial development, and it should not be. It was never visualised like that. Why does a clean and green city require industry and ease of doing business? Only for polluting the environment through smoke emitting industrial establishments? It needs to be noted that the UT was basically established as a city-state and an administrative headquarter, not a business hub. The city does not require any business reform action plan. Its financial needs are taken care of by the Central government through grants-in-aid. There is no need to change the age-old rules and regulations, else the ‘clean and green’ character of the city will be destroyed. Let Chandigarh survive with its Anglo-French model of construction and operation. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurREADER OF THE WEEKSimplify licencing, tax systemThe local government should incorporate a licensing and tax system which is simple, comprehensible and can be easily complied with. Training and network programmes are imperative to get businesses up and running. The UT administration should create a culture of opportunity for all by creating low cost workspaces or incubators for innovation, eliminating red tape and proactively engaging small businesses for fostering economic vitality by attracting inward investment and creating new jobs. A committee to represent small business owners must be developed to voice demands and serve as a counsel to the administrators, municipal corporations and other local leaders on issues that count. Investor facilitation centres , a single window system, a one-stop centralised web portal and “Jump teams” must be initiated to provide streamlined and coordinated support to small businesses to understand the rules of the road. Komal Singh, Chandigarh READER OF THE WEEK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-promote-city-as-at-a-great-business-destination/story-UOX7ga15CMY2R0eLDnLCqI.html
18-09-2020||City||Two arrested for murder of Delhi cab driver, two still on the run||The Ghaziabad police late Thursday arrested two suspects in connection with the murder of a Delhi cab driver whose body was found in a car, left abandoned at the Mohan Nagar intersection on September 12. The police were searching for four suspects who had last booked the cab, and whom they believe had murdered the driver. The police had identified the body as that of driver Sikandar Paswan, 30, who hailed from Jharkhand and lived with his family in Sriniwaspuri, Delhi. Post-mortem reports indicated that Paswan had died of a severe head injury. Police since then have been on the lookout for the four men who had booked the cab and they arrested two of them from Naagdwar area of Sahibabad late Thursday. Police said they signalled the two men on a motorcycle to stop but they tried speeding away; however, their motorcycle skidded and they fell on the road. In the meantime, their two accomplices, who were on another motorcycle, fled the spot. Those arrested were identified as Ashu Sharma, a resident of Loni, and Sohan Pal, a resident of Karawal Nagar in Delhi. The other two who fled were identified as Ranjeet Kumar and Anshul Kumar. “The four men had planned to rob the cab driver. They met Paswan at Dhaula Kuan in Delhi and offered him ₹200 per person for a drop to Anand Vihar ISBT. They were planning to rob him of his car and valuables. Near Barapullah flyover, they made Paswan stop the car and overpowered him. One of them hit him on his head with a weapon,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). The police said the suspects later drove the cab, a Swift Dzire, to Mohan Nagar in Ghaziabad. Paswan had died by then. “At Mohan Nagar, the four heard a police van approaching and they fled, leaving the car behind. Paswan’s family lodged a case of murder and our teams tracked the four men using CCTV footage and also through electronic surveillance,” Verma said. The police said the two men on the run will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-murder-of-delhi-cab-driver-two-still-on-the-run/story-akjKuZ3nSp3tAee9DfKvHL.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||In Harsimrat’s resignation, SAD sees opportunity to regain lost ground||The Shiromani Akali Dal decision to make Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit the Narendra Modi cabinet is seen as a political course correction to retain its base among Punjab’s farmers, the SAD’s core constituency. Thursday’s decision was in protest against the passage of the three farm bills in the Lok Sabha. The bills are construed as anti-farmer by its opponents who fear it will end the minimum support price (MSP), the assured and open-ended procurement system for foodgrains in practice for 60 years. Many see the last-minute move by the SAD as “full of wisdom” because any further delay and the political game may have slipped out of the party’s hands. But the decision was not easy for the Akalis because it had been supporting the bills since their promulgation in June. It found itself pushed to the wall as the farmers’ protest gathered momentum across the state. The SAD’s credentials as a party of peasants was at stake. CONGRESS ON OFFENSIVE, SAD ON DEFENSIVE The Congress-ruled government in the state has upped the ante by announcing a legal recourse against the farm bills, terming them “a precursor to dismantling of the MSP system”. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh went a step further, saying all cases against farmers for violating prohibitory orders during the protests in Covid times will be withdrawn. On the contrary, SAD president and Harsimrat’s husband, Sukhbir Singh Badal, had been reiterating the Centre’s assurances that the reforms will have no bearing on the MSP. He did so at press conferences on June 25 and August 27 and even made public a letter by Union agriculture minister NS Tomar. The Panthic party panicked when efforts to touch base with farmers failed and party cadres conveyed feedback from the ground that it would be the end of the game for the Akali Dal if it continued toeing the BJP-led Centre’s line. Already on the backfoot since the sacrilege incidents of 2015 when it was in power, the Akalis can’t afford to lose more ground. U-TURN IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION? Party leaders such as Prem Singh Chandumajra and Sikandar Singh Maluka had been asking Badal to pull out its lone member from the Union cabinet. “I think now we are headed in the right direction,” Chandumajra said after Harsimrat’s resignation. It was as recently as on September 12 that the party’s core committee took a U-turn and for the first time announced opposing the farm bills in Parliament. On the first day of the monsoon session of Parliament, the SAD made a last-ditch effort to avert a flashpoint when it urged the Centre to refer the bills to a select parliamentary committee and take farmer organisations on board. The SAD subsequently issued a whip to its MPs in both Houses of Parliament to vote against the farm bills, a move that queered the pitch for Harsimrat’s resignation. “The SAD can’t be party to anything that is anti-farmer” she said, adding she was hurt that despite her and her party’s pleas, farmers were not taken on board. NOT WRECKERS OF THE ALLIANCE YET Harsimrat’s exit is a setback for the long-standing SAD-BJP alliance though she reiterated the continuation of the alliance. “We don’t want to be seen as wreckers of the alliance. We will wait for the BJP’s response,” a senior Akali leader said. Being an agrarian state, political stakes for all parties over this issue are high in Punjab. Farmers form a decisive group of the electorate. All parties have come out in their support. The Congress, the SAD and the AAP are convinced that farmers can turn the tide in their favour with the state going to the polls in 2022. The state BJP, however, sticks to its party’s central unit stand that in the long run, the bills will benefit farmers by eliminating middlemen and its alliance partner, the SAD, should have stayed on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-harsimrat-s-resignation-sad-sees-opportunity-to-regain-lost-ground/story-pI0sCy3xqM8DVyZkDuonhN.html
18-09-2020||Pune||Life-saving surgery on newborn at AICTS||Doctors of the Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences (AICTS), a super specialisation institute dealing with Cardio Thoracic Sciences based in Pune, carried out critical life-saving surgery on a newborn. A 14-day-old boy of a serving soldier after birth was detected with slow heart rate and diagnosed with complete heart block recently. The baby was referred to the team of specialists at AICTS for further medical and surgical management. It was found to be a rare case of complete heart block which occurs in one in 22,000 births and requires immediate surgical management, if medical intervention fails. “Since medical intervention could not increase the heart rate it was decided to provide mechanical stimulation to the heart by inserting a permanent pacemaker. “The child was operated by the doctors at AICTS and a permanent pacemaker was implanted in the upper abdominal wall of the child which is connected to the heart through a lead positioned surgically on the surface of the heart by opening the chest wall,” stated a note from AICTS. The child has been successfully operated and has been discharged from the hospital and is stable at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/life-saving-surgery-on-newborn-at-aicts/story-cuV30XfR0wB2b1R3imyajN.html
18-09-2020||Pune||Restaurants allow dine-in, locals complain||Even though the state government has not taken decision about reopening of restaurants for dine-in in light of growing Covid-19 cases, many eateries in the city are allowing customers to eat inside the premises. Some of the restaurant owners were found running their establishments throughout the day till late night violating Covid-19 guidelines, rules and regulations for safety measures. Residents of Rasta peth and Sarasbaug area claimed that despite repeated complaints, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and police department have not taken any action against such restaurants. When contacted, Pune city police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “The restaurant owners are not allowed to restart their operations for dine-in. Only parcel services are allowed in view of the Covid pandemic. I will check these spots and action will be taken against the violators.” According to locals, customers regularly come and dine inside restaurants without wearing masks and violate social distancing norms. One such hotspot is ‘Khau Galli’ in Rasta peth, which is located in front of KEM hospital which has Covid patients. Some of the snack centres and restaurants in this Khau Galli lane are illegally serving customers inside their restaurants. Daily food hawkers are also operating their business on the footpaths leading to a lot of rush and in violating social distancing norms. “Daily hundreds of people come here to eat food from the stalls set up by the hawkers and also inside the restaurants. Most of them even don’t wear masks and still no action has been taken against them. Some of us residents tried to tell the restaurants to keep the customer service closed as it is not yet allowed officially, but they didn’t respond to us. This is leading to the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection and police should take strict action against them,” said Ganpat Bhalerao, a resident of Rasta peth. A similar scene is witnessed at Sarasbaug Chaupati, where there are at least 50 hotels. It is located close to the Sanas Ground Covid testing centre and the quarantine centre for Covid positive patients. Restaurants here openly run their premises with customers coming in, sitting inside and food is being served to them. Sagar Abnawe, a resident of Sarasbaug area, said, “The number of Covid-19 positive cases are increasing in the city, and this is due to the careless attitude of the people. At Sarasbaug Chaupati, we daily see people coming here for lunch and dinner. Restaurants are running their business illegally and no action is taken against them. Sarasbaug Garden is closed, inside the temple is closed, but outside restaurants are open.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/restaurants-allow-dine-in-locals-complain/story-KdF7HIPYBQJnLPgKynsWqM.html
18-09-2020||Pune||CSIR-NCL conducts serological test for its employees||The CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune, conducted a serological survey for its employees and their family members, under which 400 blood samples have been being collected. The serological survey started on September 12 at NCL Medical Centre and concluded on September 17. The blood samples along with the health data will be sent to CSIR-IGIB for serological analysis. Serological test is conducted to see if a person has developed antibodies to coronavirus. Presence of antibodies can indicate that the person has been exposed to the virus. The initiative is a part of the pan-India project named ‘Phenome India initiated by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and led by Delhi-based CSIR- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology and Dr Shantanu Sengupta from CSIR-IGIB is coordinating the study. The CSIR-NCL team comprises scientists from the biochemical sciences division and doctors from the medical centre. “The research study involves testing of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 in the people working in the CSIR labs and their family members. The CSIR-NCL and CSIR-URDIP represent the western region. Blood samples are being collected from those who are willing to participate. The test is voluntary and open to all CSIR staff, including pensioners up to the age of 70, students, contractual staff and their families,” said Prabhakar Ingle, media advisor at CSIR-NCL, Pune. “About 400 blood samples have been collected from CSIR-NCL and CSIR-URDIP employees and family members for a serological test. The health parameters such as temperature, height, weight, oxygen level and blood pressure are noted in addition to collecting the blood sample,” he added. According to Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, a separate survey is being undertaken by Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital and Sassoon General Hospital with larger sample size in order to assess sero prevalence in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. “The sample size of the first sero survey done by IISER was small, hence, another bigger and wider survey is being undertaken by YCM and Sassoon in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune. In this survey the sample size will be increased so that we can know more about both the cities’ sero prevalence,” said Rao during press conference last week. Pune’s first sero surveillance report was carried out in July and its findings were released on August 17. The survey revealed that 1.5 per cent people of total 1,664 persons from five highly-affected areas in Pune city have seroprevalence of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/csir-ncl-conducts-serological-test-for-its-employees/story-azUPdZeYIpBDkojOPhHdHO.html
18-09-2020||City||After 6 months, Himachal tweaks guidelines to revive corona-hit tourism||Shimla Six months after it imposed a clampdown to contain the covid-19 pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh government has now relaxed curbs imposed on tourism activity, which contributes 6.6% to Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Travel restrictions in the wake of the corona crisis had dealt a severe blow to the industry. Experts estimate that industry has suffered a loss of around Rs 4,000 crore over the past eight months. Now, the government has amended some of the guidelines issued. There will be no requirement of registration for interstate movement of persons. No separate permission or approval of prior covid-19 testing will be required for such movements. The maximum number of guests permitted in banquet halls for a family or social gathering shall not exceed the number as the chairman, National Executive Committee, National Disaster Management Authority-cum-Union home secretary, prescribe from time to time. Interstate public transport buses movement shall as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the transport department. Minimum duration of stay required is now reduced to two nights spread over multiple locations.Tourists may get TruNaT, CB, NAAT test report done, if needed, while exiting the state borders within 96 hour from the state borders. The period of 96 hours have to be from the border of the state and not for any internal checking points.Tourists will have to fill a form at the hotel. The state IT department shall modify the e-pass software to generate a separate consolidated list of applications under the tourist category. The district administration shall scrutinise the uploaded documents within 24 hours of the submission of the applications and give their opinion, else it will be deemed to be approved and the software should automatically forward a reply of approval to the applicant, immediately. As on date, about 2,907 hotels with a bed capacity of about 81,514 are registered with the department. In addition, there are about 1,220 Home Stay units registered in the state with about 7,044 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-6-months-himachal-tweaks-guidelines-to-revive-corona-hit-tourism/story-kRTCfJLArG2NE4eYvQzWzN.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Dust on their face, but they keep cleaning the mirror’: Sidhu lashes out at Govt over farmer bills||Punjab MLA and former state minister of the Punjab cabinet Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday expressed his unhappiness with the recently passed farming and agricultural bills. The cricketer-turned-politician while describing farming as the “soul of Punjab” said that “Punjab, Punjabiyat and every Punjabi” will stand alongside the peasants and those protesting against the passage of the bills. Sidhu wrote on Twitter,”Farming is the soul of Punjab, the wounds of the body can heal but an attack on our spirit, our existence will not be tolerated. The war trumpet says Inqilab Zindabad, Punjab, Punjabiyat and each Punjabi are with the farmers.”किसान पंजाब की आत्मा, शरीर के घाव भर जाते हैं पर आत्मा पर वार नासूर बन कर सदा रिसता है,हमारे अस्तित्व हमारी आत्मा पर वार बर्दाश्त नही| जंग की तूती बोल रही है - इंकलाब जिंदाबाद|पंजाब, पंजाबियत और हर पंजाबी कंधे से कंधे मिलाकर एकजुट होकर किसान के साथ| pic.twitter.com/l7b6rxIpg1Sidhu accused the government in a separate tweet where he wrote, “Governments keep committing the same mistake, the dust was on its face, but it kept cleaning the mirror.”सरकारें तमाम उम्र यही भूल करती रही,धूल उनके चेहरे पर थी, आईना साफ करती रही, 1/2The Punjab Congress leader broke his silence on Twitter, to come out in support of the protests against the passage of farm bills, after more than a year. He was not included in the state cabinet after Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh reshuffled the portfolios in June 2019. The Lower House passed the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill on Thursday.PM Narendra Modi on Friday while virtually inaugurating a railway bridge in Bihar said that the bills will introduce reforms that are under the best interests of farmers. He also accused ‘detractors’ of misleading the farmers. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Lok Sabha MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Govt over the passage of the farm bill on Thursday. . Farmer organisations protested against the bills earlier and plan to hold another ‘Rail Roko’ rally on September 26 and 27. Farmers are apprehensive that these new legislations will hurt the minimum support system and government procurement of food crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dust-on-their-face-but-they-keep-cleaning-the-mirror-sidhu-lashes-out-at-govt-over-farmer-bills/story-mECx9PiUXxfcmCZatlitAL.html
18-09-2020||City||Four men posing as customers try to rob jeweller at gunpoint at Ludhiana village||Four masked men tried to rob a jewellery store owner at gunpoint after posing as customers in the main market of Gujjarwal village on Thursday. The accused made good their escape as the shopkeeper raised the alarm, but took an empty box while fleeing.Deepak Saida, 32, said his family ran a jewellery shop in the main market of Gujjarwal. On Thursday afternoon, his father, Durga Das, went home, leaving the shop in his care. Meanwhile, four men visited his shop looking for gold bracelets, but one of them stood outside.As he turned to make a call to his father to ask for the sample pieces, one of three men inside brandished a double-barrel rifle at him, when the man waiting outside also stepped in.Alarmed, he screamed for help, prompting the robbers to flee, but not without a small, empty box from the shop. He alerted the police soon after, following which a team reached the spot and initiated investigation.ASI Gurmeet Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said on Sharma’s complaint, they had lodged an FIR under Sections 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of the theft) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Jodhan police station. He said they were scrutinising CCTV footage to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-men-posing-as-customers-try-to-rob-jeweller-at-gunpoint-at-ludhiana-village/story-9U5q0ekD07JpT4dk1Iy9gO.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||After being sent on leave over Wadhawans’ Mahabaleshwar trip, Amitabh Gupta is Pune Police chief||Amitabh Gupta has been named as Pune police chief months after he was sent on compulsory leave for facilitating the visit of scam accused businessmen Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan, and their 23 family members to Mahabaleshwar even as non-essential travel was barred as part of measures to check the Covid-19 spread in April. The elevation came as part of a shuffle in the Maharashtra police with the transfer of 40 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers on Thursday. Gupta will replace K Venkateshan, who has been named additional director general (special operations), as the Pune police commissioner.A fact-finding committee, which was formed to look into the permission granted to the Wadhawans to travel from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar, found Gupta exceeded his jurisdiction and had no authority to issue a letter to them for it. Gupta then maintained he issued the letter on humanitarian grounds. He was reinstated as principal secretary (special) home department over a month later.Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, the Diwan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters, are accused of money laundering in the multi-crore Yes Bank fraud case. Yes Bank is alleged to have invested Rs3,700 crore in short term non-convertible debenture of DHFL between April and June 2018. Its promoter, Rana Kapoor, allegedly received Rs600 crore as kickbacks from DHFL in terms of loan advanced to two firms, DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited. Kapoor’s three daughters hold 100℅ stakes in DOIT and his wife controls Morgan Credits.Also read: Auditor flags fraudulent transactions worth Rs 17,394 cr in DHFL case The Wadhawan family travelled to Mahabaleshwar, bypassing sealed district borders after Gupta issued the letter on his letterhead as the principal secretary (special), home department. The outrage over the facilitation despite the national lockdown to ensure social distancing prompted the Maharashtra government to order an inquiry against Gupta. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in April called the letter “uncalled for and inappropriate” and added such permission could have given only in case of an emergency and promised stringent action.The family was detained from the Diwan farmhouse after locals raised objections to them staying there amid the pandemic for violating the prohibitory orders of the nationwide lockdown in April. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had them issued non-bailable warrants against the two in connection with the scam.The Maharashtra government drew flak from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party for allowing the Wadhawans to holiday in Mahabaleshwar with official permission.Neither Deshmukh nor additional chief secretary (home) Sitaram Kunte responded to calls or messages for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-being-sent-on-leave-over-wadhawans-mahabaleshwar-trip-amitabh-gupta-is-pune-police-chief/story-iAbSHDuRWtOqIHu69bZqgJ.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Akal Takht acting jathedar publicly punishes SGPC chief over missing Guru Granth Sahib saroops||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh publicly punished Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal and executive committee members on Friday for failing to check the misappropriation in its publication department that led to 328 Guru Granth Sahib saroops going missing. The SGPC chief and executive members appeared before the highest Sikh temporal seat with folded hands to apologise for their negligence. It was a rare occasion when the jathedar has pulled up incumbent office-bearers, who appointed him, in the presence of devotees. As Longowal sought forgiveness, the jathedar said, “How shameful it is that employees used to give the saroops illegally to the sangat (community), as has been found in the inquiry, and pocket the money at the place where the saroops are published. The SGPC is not aware of this misappropriation? Is it not a blunder? The SGPC office-bearers never checked the records. Is it not negligence?” “Yes, it was our mistake,” Longowal replied. Pronouncing the punishment on the spot, the jathedar said, “Do parkarma of Darbar Sahib sarovar (Circumambulate the holy tank) right now, chanting Satnam-Waheguru and then be present here again. Don’t talk to each other and fold your hands while doing so.” RELIGIOUS PUNISHMENT, NO PUBLIC GATHERING FOR A MONTH On their return, the jathedar awarded the remaining religious punishment. “You are directed to hold one Akhand Path (non-stop recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib for pashchatap (regret and remorse) for the 2016 fire incident that led to saroops getting burnt. Hold another Akhand Path at Akal Takht. When that Akhand Path would be going on at the Takht, the SGPC office-bearers and executive members will sweep the street leading to Darbar Sahib from Saragarhi Serai to Ghantaghar Chowk,” he said. Without mentioning the SGPC’s U-turn by revoking its resolution to file criminal cases against staffers indicted in the inquiry, the jathedar said, “Reversing decisions is not fair and it has hurt the reputation of the SGPC. The Akal Takht Sahib directs it to take decisions after consulting Sikh intellectuals and scholars.” Accompanied by four other Sikh clergymen, including Takht Kesgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh and Takht Patna Sahib jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh, Giani Harpreet Singh banned the office-bearers and executive panel from addressing any public gathering for a month except on September 28 when the budget session is scheduled. SGPC OFFICE-BEARERS IN 2016 REMOVED FROM POSTS FOR YEAR Taking note of the SGPC task force’s act of using force against agitating Sikh activists to disperse them and tossing the turban of a nihang, the jathedar termed the incident a “sacrilege of the turban” and summoned the employees involved. Giani Harpreet Singh ordered the SGPC to remove senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta from all the posts for a year. The Akal Takht issued this direction for all those who were office-bearers and members of the executive committee in 2016 for not organising pashchatapsamagam (function to express regret and remorse) after the sacrilege of the saroops in a fire at the SGPC’s publishing house in May that year. On being summoned, all former office-bearers and executive members appeared before the Takht. Mehta was an executive member at that time. They were also directed to do sehaj path of Guru Granth Sahib. THREE GET TANKHAH FOR PARDON TO LANGAH Earlier, the jathedar asked them to face the sangat (Sikh community) and admit that they had committed a mistake. For playing a role in granting pardon to former Akali minister Sucha Singh Langah, who was excommunicated for an immoral act by Takht, the Sikh clergy awarded tankhah (religious punishment) to SGPC member Gurinderpal Singh Gora, Rattan Singh Zaffarwal, the husband of an SGPC member, and Damdami Taksal media adviser Sarchand Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akal-takht-acting-jathedar-publicly-punishes-sgpc-chief-over-missing-guru-granth-sahib-saroops/story-LPhn1lIm8VqF9UGOGbOZMO.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Ambedkar memorial: Thackeray postpones event after controversy over invites||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government in Maharashtra, comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, has postponed the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the 450-foot (ft) statue of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar after a row was sparked off over not inviting opposition party leaders and the family members of the social reformer. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was to preside over the ceremony at Indu Mills in Dadar on Friday. As per the invite accessed by HT, the dignitaries invited included deputy CM Ajit Pawar, urban development minister Eknath Shinde, tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and other cabinet ministers of the Thackeray government. Also read: Monsoon withdrawal delayed by one week according to IMDDr Ambedkar’s grandson Prakash did not receive any invitation for the event. While his other grandson Anandraj got a last-minute invite. Former Maharashtra CM and a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, also of the BJP, were not invited for the event. Anandraj Ambedkar, who has raised several objections in the past over the quality of construction work of the project, has accused the state government for the alleged snub.“I have been raising objections about the quality of the construction work. I got an invite at the last moment on Friday,” he said. He also questioned the timing of the event because the state is facing several challenges, including the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Prakash took on the state government and asked whether it has the authority to decide who all should attend the event. Darekar, the leader of opposition in the Maharashtra legislative council, accused the state government of arrogance. “It seems the MVA has become arrogant and does not take cognisance of others,” he alleged. In a statement released on Friday afternoon, CM Thackeray said that the event would be held soon and all the leaders would be invited. “There is no need to politicise the issue. Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has made all preparations to revise the design of the statue following the Cabinet approval,” the statement read. “An important ceremony like this needs everyone’s participation and I have instructed MMRDA to do the needful,” he added. In January, the Maharashtra Cabinet had given its nod to raise the height of the statue to 350 ft from 250 ft, along with a 100 ft pedestal. The total height of the structure, to be made in bronze, will be 450 ft. The project cost has also escalated owing to delayed implementation and changes in the initial plan. At present, the total cost of the project is at Rs 1,089.95 crore, as compared to the earlier estimate of Rs 763.05 crore. Though the groundbreaking ceremony for the project was done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October 2015, the construction work is yet to gather momentum. The project is expected to be completed by April 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ambedkar-memorial-thackeray-postpones-event-after-controversy-over-invites/story-ELESsh5KyUhnpHZfjVpHaK.html
18-09-2020||Dehradun||In a first, passes to be issued for Mahakumbh in Haridwar next year||For the first time ever, the number of people who can attend Mahakumbh in Haridwar next year will be restricted due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The state government will issue passes to attendees. Before the pandemic, the authorities were expecting over 12 crore people to attend the Mahakumbh. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, while speaking at a press conference here on the completion of three and a half years of his government, said Mahakumbh will be held on schedule next year, but in a restricted manne,r and passes will be issued to attendees. He said the decision was taken after a meeting with the members of Akhada Parishad, an organisation of Hindu saints. Listing the achievements of his government in the last three and a half years, Rawat said good governance, development, employment and zero tolerance to corruption have been their main focus. He said he has fulfilled nearly 85% of the promises he’d made before coming to power. Also Read: Uttarakhand to bring bill to make wearing face masks in public compulsoryRawat said the government is focusing on creating employment opportunities in the state. “Between April 2017 and September 2020, 7.12 lakh people were provided employment in the state. Of these, government jobs were provided to 16,000 people, contractual employment to 1.15 lakh people, and self-employment and jobs in private investment projects to around 5.80 lakh people,” he said, adding recruitment process is currently underway for over 7,200 posts. The CM said under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, employment was provided to 6 lakh people in the state. “This year, over 2 lakh more people were provided employment under this scheme for which Rs 170 crore extra expenses were incurred,” he said. Rawat said under CAMPA (Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority), over 40,000 people will be provided employment in the next three months. The CM said that the creation of Garsain as the summer capital and setting up of the Char Dham board have been some of his government’s major achievements in the last three-and-a-half years. He also announced that a world-class science college will be set up in the state. Also Read: Haridwar: Pilgrims throng Har-Ki-Pauri on Pitra AmavasyaRawat, while addressing a query about the Char Dham road project, said “A road with 5.5m width won’t work from a strategic and security point of view in the sensitive bordering areas of the state.”Stressing on the need for a wider road in the strategically important border areas, Rawat said he will urge the Central government to look into this matter.The all-weather road aims to connect the four shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri via an 826km-long road. On September 8, 2020, the Supreme Court had ordered that the ministry of road transport and highway’s (MoRTH) circular of 2018 to be followed for the construction of the Char Dham road. The MoRTH circular says that the roads in the hilly and mountain terrains are to be built with 5.5m width (18ft) with two-lane structures (23ft).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-a-first-passes-to-be-issued-for-mahakumbh-in-haridwar-next-year/story-mmhAZPyYV8pNrp8suCf16H.html
18-09-2020||Education||Delhi schools to stay shut for students until October 5||The Delhi government on Friday said all schools in the national Capital will remain closed for students until October 5. The announcement has put an end to speculations around the partial reopening of schools in Delhi for students of classes 9 to 12 (as per the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines) from September 21.The Unlock 4 guidelines, issued on August 30 by the Union ministry of home affairs, said schools will continue to remain closed till September 30. At the same time, it stated, “Students of classed 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside containment zones only, on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers.”Also Watch | Covid: Delhi schools to remain shut till October 5 amid spike in cases Also Read: Provide gadgets, Internet to poor students for online classes: Delhi HC to schoolsIn an order issued on Friday, the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE), said, “It is informed that all schools will remain closed for all students till October 5. However, online classes and teaching-learning activities will continue as usual and Head of Schools (HoS) are authorised to call teachers/ staff (as per requirement) for smooth conduct of online classes, teaching learning activities and any other work.”Schools across the country have been physically shut since March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Classes are conducted online, and links to study material are sent via WhatsApp, emails and SMS.A senior official at the government’s education department said that the decision has been taken after reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the national Capital. “The department has also taken feedback from the parents of both government and private schools and a majority of them do not want to send their children to schools right now. We have also reviewed the situation and concluded that it’s not suitable for the students to visit schools in Delhi for another few weeks,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/delhi-schools-to-stay-shut-for-students-until-october-5/story-Q5yppJvTMIhy7mUQsWnFPK.html
18-09-2020||City||Goa: German woman found dead by daughter in her flat||A German woman was found dead in her flat at Canacona in South Goa. The body of 53-year-old Stephanie Hisser was found only after her daughter flew down to Goa and broke into the apartment after she stopped receiving her calls. Hisser stayed alone in Canacona in South Goa. Her daughter, who had been trying to get in touch with her for the past few weeks, flew down to Goa and reached her flat only to find the door latched from inside. On September 16, when she broke into the flat with the help of her friend, by shattering window panels, she found her mother lying dead. “Himani Hessar, 20, came down to Goa as her mother was not responding to her calls,” the Goa Police said in a statement. The daughter told the police that Hisser had been suffering from depression and asthma for the past few years and was under medication. The police have registered the case as an unnatural death and have informed the foreigners’ office. The police are conducting an inquest under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which sets out the procedure to be followed in case of an unnatural death and has made no comment on the cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-german-woman-found-dead-by-daughter-in-her-flat/story-kvQbEdyuomsnDFwYwybxoK.html
18-09-2020||Pune||Monsoon withdrawal delayed by one week according to IMD||With the rain still continuing in most parts of the country, the monsoon withdrawal which was expected to start on September 17, will get delayed by at least seven days according to the India Meteorological Department, Pune (IMD).“As per global forecast system of IMD, the new normal starts its withdrawal from northwest, India around September 17 against the normal date in past years – September 1,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head IMD department, Pune.“Since it is still raining at many places, the withdrawal activity will at least be delayed by seven days,” added Kashyapi.Pune which saw surplus rain this season, has so far received 729.5mm rainfall while its normal rainfall is 487.6mm.“From September 18-23 , the city is expected to receive light to moderate rain very likely while September 20-21 ghat areas is expected to receive heavy rains,” added Kashyapi.On Thursday, although the sky was filled with black clouds, the city hardly received any rainfall. The maximum temperature of the day was 28.9 degree Celsius while minimum temperature was 22.7 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monsoon-withdrawal-delayed-by-one-week-according-to-imd/story-DrjO6eNoemSYfXzuzHnZMJ.html
18-09-2020||Pune||Garbage menace continues in Wagholi amid absence of processing plant||As one passes through Wagholi, near Bakori road and Kesnand Phata, the roads are littered with garbage. Residents in the area say locals and even outsiders are dumping garbage on the roadside leading to health hazards.Similarly, residents have complained about garbage accumulation at important internal road junctions across the old and new areas of the suburb.Sanjeev Kumar Patil, director, Wagholi Housing Societies Association, said, “Garbage management seems to be miracle or illusion in Wagholi. Despite continuous requests and so many protests, the situation on the ground is the same and garbage litter continues to be a major issue for the area and its residents.”“It is ironic that real estate developers get building completion certificates without the garbage management system at the society level. Residents are ready to cooperate for the segregated waste system has to show willingness. We hope that the garbage disposal plant will get operational, but still, nothing concrete can be said until the plant gets functional,” he said.Vasundhara Ubale, Wagholi Gram Panchayat Sarpanch, said that the garbage problem was due to indiscriminate dumping by outsiders in the area. “The district collector is yet to sanction land for garbage processing unit of the gram panchayat and the decision is expected in the next few days. Once, the new facility comes into force, garbage will be effectively managed and processed in Wagholi itself. It will make Wagholi clean and green,” she said.Anita Rege, a resident of Wagholi, said, “It is the biggest and richest gram panchayat in Haveli, but it is disheartening to see such a basic issue of garbage dumping could not be resolved so many years, even after having a good mix of experienced and young enthusiastic representation in the governing body.”“As per the latest update the ZP CEO and district collector were very positive about allocating the land and setting up a processing plant but the issue created by the elected ward representatives of not allowing the garbage processing plant in their respective wards has created a deadlock lock situation leaving Wagholi in a pathetic condition. All the ward representatives should come together and solve the issue mutually,” she said.Citizen activist Santosh Lokhande said, “Garbage dumping and burning is a common sight in Wagholi which is done openly without any fear. There is no collection of garbage done from homes neither any provision for disposal and recycle.”“The garbage plant has been a distant dream for residents here for so many years due to bad administration and poor town planning,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/garbage-menace-continues-in-wagholi-amid-absence-of-processing-plant/story-CeC8ojcHVikgyGEX7ZaXfL.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi man held for creating fake FB profile to harass friend’s employer||Enraged because his friend was “reprimanded and humiliated” by her employer for stealing clothes from her boutique, a 25-year-old man created a fake social media profile of the boutique owner, “projecting her as a sex worker” and uploaded the woman and her mother’s cellphone number, police said on Friday after arresting the man. Senior police officers said that the boutique owner and her mother were flooded by inappropriate calls. As the frequency of such calls increased, the boutique owner approached the police and filed a complaint. A case of sexual harassment was registered at the Greater Kailash police station and its investigation led to the arrest of the friend of a 24-year-old woman employed in the boutique. The arrested man has been identified only his by first name as Suraj alias Shivam, a resident of Jahangirpuri who is working in a private firm, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur. “During the interrogation, Suraj told us (police) that he wanted to settle a score with the boutique owner for scolding his friend for stealing dresses from the boutique and frequently reprimanding her thereafter,” said DCP Thakur. According to the police, Suraj had met and befriended the 24-year-old woman on social media around two years ago. Before the lockdown, the woman’s employer (the boutique owner) caught her stealing in the shop. “The owner scolded her but did not report the theft to the police. The matter was settled amicably,” said DCP Thakur, adding that when the woman’s friend learnt about it, he decided to harass her employer. “He created a fake social media account (on Facebook) and uploaded some obscene pictures along with mobile numbers of the owner and her mother,” he added. DCP Thakur said they are probing the role of Suraj’s friend to ascertain if she was aware the fake social media profile he had created.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-held-for-creating-fake-fb-profile-to-harass-friend-s-employer/story-AFK20tfAFetx0pDyEgFZEI.html
18-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to catch stray monkeys, house them in open forest enclosures||Uttarakhand government will create four open forest enclosures spread over 70 hectares (ha) with a capacity to house over 25,000 monkeys to check the growing simian menace in the Himalayan state. The initiative is touted to be the country’s largest project to catch monkeys and shift them to open forest enclosures.Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat made the announcement during a press conference on Friday on the completion of three and a half years of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government. He said that many wild animals such as monkeys, wild boars and elephants have been raiding agricultural fields and damaging crops and vegetable gardens, much to the dismay of the aggrieved farmers. Rawat said the state government has decided to take some concrete steps to check the menace. “We are setting up four rescue centres, or open forest enclosures, where around 25,000 monkeys will be kept. These enclosures will be ready for inauguration on the occasion of the state formation day on November 9 (Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh on this day in 2000),” the CM said. Rawat said in a bid to check wild boars, the state government would erect around 25-kilometre (km)-long fencing in various parts of the state. “Elephants will be prevented from raiding farms and damaging crops by digging a 250-km-long trench. There will be a 13-km-long wall to block the invading pachyderms. A 15-km-long solar fencing will also be erected to contain the stray elephants,” he said. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand, said four open forest enclosures for monkeys would be constructed spread over 70 ha in Haridwar, Nainital, Almora and Pithoragarh districts. “This is the largest project in the country to catch and shift monkeys to such open enclosures. The enclosures in Haridwar and Nainital districts will be spread over 25 ha each. These facilities will have a capacity to keep around 10,000 monkeys each. The enclosures in Almora and Pithoragarh districts will be spread over 10 ha each. The enclosures will have the capacity to house 2,500 monkeys each. Altogether, the four enclosures will have a cumulative capacity to accommodate 25,000 monkeys,” he said. Suhag said the state government had written to the Centre earlier this year, seeking permission to declare monkeys as vermin in the hill state but the approval is still pending. “This is the third time that Uttarakhand is seeking permission to declare monkeys as vermin. However, the Centre has asked the state government for the details of the simians killed in the past when the permission was given. As no monkeys were killed, the Centre is questioning the state government the reason behind declaring the simian as vermin,” he added. Qamar Qureshi, a scientist at Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in Dehradun, who is working on developing an immuno-contraceptive for monkeys, said the proposed enclosures are a good move as killing monkeys by declaring them vermin would not work in the long run. “In these open forest enclosures, monkeys can at least live the way they do in their natural habitat. This move will help check the menace in areas, where it has become a major problem. In areas, where the menace is still relatively less, the authorities should use sterilisation for birth control of monkeys,” he said. The man-monkey conflict is increasing in the Himalayan state because the authorities have failed to come up with an effective long-term solution to curb the menace. Monkeys often stray near human habitations, roads and tourist spots in search of food, leftovers. They also raid kitchen gardens and small hill farms, as a large percentage of the hill state is under forest cover.Farmers consider monkeys as an evil force because there is limited scope for agriculture in the hill state. In the past, farmers in some areas of the Kumaon division had started agitations against the growing monkey menace. The state government has been conducting sporadic campaigns to catch monkeys and sterilise them. Each sterilisation procedure costs the state exchequer around Rs 700.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-to-catch-stray-monkeys-house-them-in-open-forest-enclosures/story-KGgKcpVFDYIQq2PbbgZGJK.html
18-09-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP returnees take to mushroom farming||Mushroom farming, one of the most profitable agri-business, is turning out to be an alternative means of livelihood for many migrants, who came back to Uttar Pradesh (UP) after being rendered jobless during the 68-day-long coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced nation-wide lockdown restrictions that were enforced from March 25.Officials of the state horticulture department and Krishi Vigyan Kendra, which is a part of National Agricultural Research System (NARS), said they were flooded with queries and applications related to mushroom farming.The trendPerhaps, Lucknow is the first place in UP to witness the “unusual” trend, according to agricultural experts. “We are flooded with queries related to mushroom farming. Though it has always been a profitable venture but never before have we witnessed such enthusiasm among people. And what is common among the query seekers is that a majority of them are youths and many of them are migrants,” said Meena Maurya, district horticulture officer.State horticulture department officials said around 140 among the query-seekers have got themselves registered for the mushroom farming training programme, which would start from Monday (September 21).“Mushroom season lasts between September and March. By the time we will be starting our training session, I am sure many more will apply for the training programme that aims to impart correct technique to the mushroom farmers in a bid to help increase their yield to the maximum,” said Dr SK Chauhan, an official of the state horticulture department. Besides Lucknow, mushroom farming is done in almost all its neighbouring districts, including Sitapur, Hardoi, Sultanpur, Faizabad, Barabanki etc.Only ray of hopeSankalp Kumar, a migrant worker, who belongs to a remote village in UP’s Bareilly district and had returned to his native place from Gujarat in May because of the viral outbreak, said: “It’s been over four months since I returned to my village after I had left by job in Ahmedabad. In such a situation when there is no job, mushroom farming, which is quite common in my village, seems to be the only option to explore. I have heard that profit in this farming activity is quite high, while the investment is very low.”Other migrants, who live in rural parts of Lucknow and in the adjoining districts, also said that the mushroom farming was the only ray of hope for them to earn their livelihood amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Cab owners, traders also among applicants Others who suffered losses in the contagion such as cab, travel agency owners and garment traders have also applied for mushroom farming training programme, said state horticulture department officials.The authorities at Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Lucknow, confirmed the discernible trend. “The enthusiasm is going to take mushroom farming to another level. We have received around 250 applications and expect more by the time the training programme starts on Monday,” said Deepak Rai, a subject matter expert (SME) at KVK, Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR)-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research (IISR), Lucknow.Why mushroom farming?“When compared to other crops, mushroom farming is not only cost effective but it also gives much more profit,” said Rai. In UP, farmers largely deal in three variants of mushrooms — button, oyster and milky. Of them, oyster mushrooms are the cheapest .“Any person, who has a 10 feet (ft) by 10 ft room can start oyster mushroom farming with zero investment. A crop can yield mushrooms for up to 25 days. A kilogram (kg) of oyster mushroom is sold for Rs 300 or more depending on its demand in the market,” Rai added.Milky mushroom is also in great demand but the investment in the trade is a little higher, as compared to oyster mushroom. While the button mushroom farming is the costliest affair as it entails an initial investment of up to Rs 2 lakh.“But at the same time, it is sold at a much higher price. One kg of button mushroom costs between Rs 400 and Rs 500,” he added.Health benefits of mushroom*Checks Cholesterol Levels: Mushrooms are full of lean proteins and have negligible fat or cholesterol. They are a great source of chitin and beta-glucan that are fibres which keep a check on a person’s cholesterol levels*Maintains Bone Health: Mushrooms contain abundant calcium, an essential nutrient to maintain strong bones*Boosts Immune System: Out of the many antioxidants present in mushrooms, ergothioneine is an antioxidant that is effective in protecting a human body from any free radicals. Mushrooms also contain natural antibiotic and anti-fungal properties that help get rid of various infections *Good for Diabetics: “Mushroom is a superfood for those suffering from blood sugar. Mushroom is a good source for chromium, which helps maintain blood sugar levels, and keeps a check on insulin,” said Dr Simran Saini. Besides, mushroom is low on both carbohydrate and fat*Helps in Weight Loss: Mushrooms contain a lot of fibre that helps in improving digestion and keeps metabolism in check. *Button mushrooms are very low in calories: They offer essential protein and amino acids, sufficient levels of mineral, vitamins and fibre. They carry vitamin D in the form of ergocalciferol. Vitamin D is an essential fat-soluble vitamin required for bone growth and calcium metabolism. It contains excellent levels of selenium, copper, phosphorus, zinc, and potassium||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-up-returnees-take-to-mushroom-farming/story-APNhcKTW5z0Xa3DtXF8H5O.html
18-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to bring bill to make wearing face masks in public compulsory||The Uttarakhand government will table a bill in the upcoming state assembly session to make wearing facemasks in public compulsory and impose penalty on violators. A decision to this effect was taken during a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in Dehradun on Thursday.The assembly session starts from September 23. The decision was taken amid the soaring Covid-19 cases that have crossed 37,000-mark in the state on Thursday.However, no media briefing on the cabinet decision was held by the government citing the upcoming assembly session, because as per tradition, important policy-related decisions taken by government days before any assembly session have to be revealed in the House only.According to a senior government official privy to the developments, 32 proposals were discussed in the cabinet meeting out of which 30 were approved.“The government will bring a bill before the House to make the wearing of masks in public a law amid the ongoing pandemic. Under the bill, a violator of the same will have to pay a fine,” said the official.Also Read: Covid-19: 73 prisoners test positive in Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj jail The government had earlier passed an ordinance on the same during the lockdown. He said, “Apart from this, the government will also bring a bill related to the issue of regularisation of slums in the state on which it had earlier passed an ordinance.”The official said the government also decided to waive-off the house tax of ex-servicemen below the rank of Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) or their widows in the urban units.Also Read: Uttarakhand CM lists why Char Dham road widening is important: It’s strategic“It also decided to waive-off the taxes of commercial vehicles in the state for three more months citing the pandemic. Another proposal was passed to increase the remuneration of contractual engineers from ₹15,000 to ₹24,000,” said the official.Besides, the cabinet approved the proposal to give the ownership of alternative land to the people whose land was taken by the state government in the Kedarnath shrine restoration and beautification project.People, who had to give their land under the project, were given another land at an alternative place but were yet to receive the ownership rights legally. The cabinet gave the approval on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-to-bring-bill-to-make-wearing-face-masks-in-public-compulsory/story-NSGBLwYp5IznXq2BEuvfxO.html
18-09-2020||City||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, schools in Assam to reopen from September 21||High and higher secondary schools in Assam are set to reopen from Monday after a gap of six months, despite a surge in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the state.A standard operating procedure (SOP) was issued by the secondary education department on Wednesday to maintain social distancing norms and other precautionary measures against the viral outbreak.Schools in Assam have remained closed since March 15 because of the Covid-19 pandemic and students have been attending online classes. Also read: ‘No quarantine for those who leave state and return within 96 hours,’ says Assam govtFrom Monday, classes will resume for students between Grade IX and XII for the next 15 days following which the situation will be reviewed. While all government schools will start functioning, private school authorities have been asked to take a call on their own. “Our SOP is meant for all categories of schools. It is for the private school authorities to decide when they want to resume their classes,” said Phanindra Jidung, director, secondary education department, Assam. “Students’ attendance in schools is not mandatory. Parents and guardians need to give their consent in writing following which students will be allowed to attend classes. The situation will be reviewed after 15 days taking into account all issues,” he added. The SOP stated that while students from Grade IX to XII would attend schools, all other classes would remain suspended. Classes for Grade IX and XII students would be held on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while Grade X and XI students would attend on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, it added. Students’ strength in each classroom should not be more than 20 at any time. If any class has more than 20 students, they should be divided into two batches. The first batch of students will attend school from 9 am to 12 noon, while students from the second batch will have their classes between 1 pm and 4 pm. The SOP stated that the total number of teaching and non-teaching staff should not exceed 50% and students with co-morbid conditions have been exempted from attending their classes. Schools will be in constant touch with district authorities for regular monitoring, random testing of teachers and students on a weekly basis. “The government has assured that all necessary precautions, including Covid-19 tests of teachers, have been taken. Our teachers will be resuming classes from Monday,” said Syed Anisur Rahman, general secretary, Assam higher secondary teachers and employees’ association. Prior to reopening of schools, government teachers underwent Covid-19 tests across the state and only those found negative and not having any other health complications will be allowed to take classes. Classrooms are also being sanitised. “We have planned online tests between September 25 and October 19. There won’t be any classes in our school until the Durga Puja, which starts on October 22. Any decision on resumption of classes will be taken after that,” said Geeta Dutta Barua, the principal of Guwahati-based Srimanta Sankar Academy, a private school. Jonali Das, the principal of Modern English School, another Guwahati-based private school, said they would start holding regular classes for Grade IX to XII students from September 25. But online classes would simultaneously be held. “I am not comfortable with the idea of sending students to school at this time. We will wait for a few more weeks before taking a decision on whether to send my son for his regular classes,” said the father of a Grade X student of a private school in Guwahati. Assam has recorded 1,50,349 Covid-19 positive cases to date, including 1,21,610 recoveries and 528 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-schools-in-assam-to-reopen-from-september-21/story-aiOQoazI8AaFW05gvvQG3M.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB detains four persons from Mumbai, Thane||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has said it detained four people from Mumbai and Thane and seized drugs and cash worth Rs 4.36 lakh on Thursday as part of its ongoing probe into alleged drug angle to the Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.The accused were detained after their names cropped up during interrogation of arrested accused Ankush Arenja alias Arneja, said NCB officials.Also read: Bombay HC to hear bail pleas of 3 accused in drugs case“One suspect Rahil Arafat Vishra alias Sam has been detained in connection with alleged drug angle to Sushant Singh Rajput case while other three suspects Rohan Talwar, Nogthoung and Vishal Salve have been detained in separate cases of NDPS [Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances] Act,” said NCB’s deputy director, KPS Malhotra.“Based on Arenja’s statement that Rahil had supplied hashish to him, a team of NCB officials raided his residence in Versova on Thursday, and seized 928 grams of hashish and cash worth Rs 4.36 lakh.”Arenja’s questioning led NCB to Rohan Talwar. “Rohan Talwar is involved with Arenja, and raids were conducted at Talwar’s residence in Powai. We recovered 10 grams of marijuana,” said Malhotra.Talwar’s questioning led NCB to Nogthoung who was intercepted in Thane. NCB officials allegedly recovered 370 grams of marijuana from him. Nogthong revealed the name of another suspect Vishal Salve who was also intercepted in Thane and NCB allegedly found 110 grams of marijuana in his possession, said Malhotra.“We have detained Rahil, Rohan Talwar, Nogthong, and Vishal Salve, and are questioning them to get more information regarding drug syndicates in the city and also to find out who are the main supplier of drugs,” said Malhotra.NCB has till now arrested 18 accused in the case. They include Rajput’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and his friend Suryadeep Malhotra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-detains-four-persons-from-mumbai-thane/story-UVT10Uui9pwOMHufVTUcJL.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s farmers fear new regime will end assured procurement under MSP||Ever since two farm bills and an amendment in the Essential Commodities Act promulgated by the Narendra Modi-led cabinet in June, there has been simmering discontent among farmers in Punjab. Much to the anger of the farmers, the three bills were debated and passed in the Lok Sabha this week. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), a party with a predominantly rural base in Punjab and one of the oldest allies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), withdrew its sole representative in the Union cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who held the charge of food processing industries. Know more about the issue that threatens to snowball into a political agitation. WHAT ARE FARMERS OPPOSING?Farmers see the three bills, namely the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Protection and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020; as detrimental to their interest. Farmers fear the amendments will destroy the farm produce procurement system in agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana. WHY ARE FARMERS UPSET? With the passage of the bills, mandis or grain markets will become redundant, which means market forces will take over. Farmers fear exploitation, says agriculture expert Devinder Sharma. 70% of the mandis in Punjab are dependent on income from the sale of agricultural produce. The impact is visible as basmati exporters are demanding cut in taxes such as mandi fee and rural development fund. Next in the line would be cotton ginning mills that would seek waiver from taxes. The new regime will bring an end to assured and open-ended procurement that means the system of minimum support price (MSP) will see a burial. WHAT IS THEIR LINE OF ACTION NOW? Farmer outfits in Punjab are united and have planned long-drawn protests to mount pressure on the government to revoke the bills. They plan protests till October. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, farmers are coming out in large numbers to protest. Political parties have joined the agitation with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh even ordering the cancellation of cases against farm activists for violating prohibitory orders by protesting against the bills. After Shiromani Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal quitting the Union cabinet, the Akalis are expected to launch protests, too. WHY ARE THE POLITICAL STAKES HIGH?  Being an agrarian state, political stakes for all parties over this issue are high in Punjab. Farmers form a decisive group of the electorate. All parties have come out in their support. The Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party are convinced that farmers can turn the tide in their favour with the state going to the polls in 2022. The state BJP is sticking to its party’s central unit stand that in the long run, the bills will benefit of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-farmers-fear-new-regime-will-end-assured-procurement-under-msp/story-HHyTadlLupGU4QdnQ6kXbJ.html
18-09-2020||Dehradun||CM Rawat says Haridwar Kumbh will be numerically restricted, entry passes to be issued||The 2021 Haridwar Kumbh will be held with a restriction on the number of people congregating for the event, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Friday. “Passes will be issued to devotees as the congregation will be numerically restricted due to the coronavirus pandemic,” Rawat told reporters here at a virtual interaction. Rawat said he had discussed the matter with saints and seers and they were in agreement with the idea of reducing the scale of the event numerically owing to the coronavirus pandemic.It will be for the first time in the history of Kumbh Mela that passes will be issued to devotees for entry to the religious congregation, arguably the largest of its kind in the world. “A numerically restricted Kumbh makes it necessary that devotees are allowed entry into the Kumbh fair on the basis of passes,” Rawat said.   The chief minister who was interacting with the media on completing three and a half years in office also said the limit of 5.5 metres imposed recently by the Supreme Court on the width of the Chardham all weather road was not enough from the strategic point of view.  “From the strategic or national security point of view we can’t make do with a 5.5 metre wide all weather road which passes through several border districts located in the hills. The smooth movement of troops by a road with this kind of limit is not possible,” Rawat said. The chief minister said he had drawn the attention of the Centre to this aspect of the apex court’s order and emphasised on the indispensability of a wider all weather road. Rawat described the constitution of the Chardham Devasthanam Management Board as the biggest reformative step taken during the last 3.5 years. “The board has been constituted after a lot of thinking and everyone including tourists, visitors and teerth-purohits are bound to benefit from the decision,” he said. Rawat also highlighted the declaration of Gairsain as the summer capital of the state as a major achievement of his government as it fulfils a long cherished aspiration of the people who fought for statehood.  “By declaring Gairsain the summer capital we have proved that we are a decisive government capable of resolving issues hanging fire for long,” Rawat said.  “In the last three and a half years we have accelerated development by delivering a blow to corruption and giving a clean and transparent government to people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/cm-rawat-says-haridwar-kumbh-will-be-numerically-restricted-entry-passes-to-be-issued/story-Qrti7wDz4ZIA4Rp4VTYthL.html
18-09-2020||Bangalore||Yediyurappa discusses state’s development with PM Modi, invites to inaugurate Bengaluru tech summit||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and discussed various developmental issues pertaining to the state. He also invited Modi to inaugurate the Bengaluru Tech Summit virtually. The meeting at the Parliament House lasted for 15 minutes, an official release from the state information department said. During the meeting, Yediyurappa extended an invitation to Modi to inaugurate Bengaluru Tech Summit on November 19 on a virtual mode, it said. The state government’s flagship ‘Bengaluru Tech Summit’, actually scheduled in September this year, was postponed to November in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This year’s BTS is expected to focus on leveraging technology to tackle challenges brought to the fore by the pandemic and there will be symposiums and tech-related talks by experts and technologists. Ahead of his meeting with Modi, the Chief Minister said, he will discuss all the issues concerning the development of the state, also regarding the state cabinet expansion. “... discussion also has to happen regarding the cabinet expansion, I will bring it to his notice and take clearance and leave for Bengaluru tomorrow,” he said, adding that he will meet BJP national President J P Nadda in the evening. According to release, the CM during today’s meeting appealed to the Prime Minister to expedite the release of funds from the National Disaster Response Fund. He also made a plea to revise the items and norms of assistance from the State Disaster Response Fund or National Disaster Response Fund for the current year itself to ensure timely and adequate financial assistance to the distressed people. Yediyurappa further urged Modi to declare irrigation projects like Upper Krishna Project Stage-III and Upper Bhadra Project as “National Projects”. He also made a request for necessary action for early approvals and clearances for irrigation and drinking water projects including Mekedatu and Kalasa Banduri Nala to utilise the precious water resources allocated to the State, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/yediyurappa-discusses-state-s-development-with-pm-modi-invites-to-inaugurate-bengaluru-tech-summit/story-0nyGXBA1rJwqczK8PMlJwN.html
18-09-2020||Lucknow||Village pradhan shot dead in UP’s Jaunpur; SO among 4 suspended||A village head (pradhan) was shot dead, allegedly by two bike-borne miscreants, in Amari village under Sarpataha police area of Jaunpur district of Uttar Pradesh on Thursday night, police said. Four persons were taken into custody for interrogation in connection with the incident, a police officer said. Jaunpur superintendent of police Raj Karan Nayyar suspended station officer, Sarpataha police station, Pankaj Pandey and three constables posted at the station for laxity, said circle officer Jeetendra Dubey.As per the police, Basant Lal Bind, 48, was sitting in front of his house when two bike-borne assailants appeared at around 9pm and opened fire, killing him on the spot. The men fled the scene. Circle officer Jeetendra Dubey and station officer Pandey reached the spot. Later, SP Nayyar also inspected the site. Dubey said some old enmity appeared to be the reason for the incident.The SP had constituted a team led by Dubey to look for the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/village-pradhan-shot-dead-in-jaunpur-so-among-4-suspended/story-2AqC2HXCeUMyuE9GoZvwVO.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||How many farmers benefitted from loan waiver: HC asks Maharashtra||The Bombay high court, while directing Maharashtra to inform it how many farmers have benefitted from the Mahatma Phule Loan Waiver Scheme which was implemented in 2019, has also sought an explanation as to why the scheme has not been implemented in its entirety for the 3.5 million beneficiary farmers, as alleged by BJP leader and MLA Ashish Shelar in a public interest litigation. Though the state opposed the PIL stating that the BJP leader had recourse to the Right to Information (RTI) Act to know the exact number of farmers who had benefitted from the scheme, the court directed it to file an affidavit enumerating the same and posted the PIL for hearing on October 15. A division bench of justice J K Tated and justice N R Borkar, while hearing the PIL, was informed by senior counsel Rajendra Pai representing Shelar that though there were more than 15 million farmers in the state, the scheme was to benefit around 3.5 million lakh farmers who had a loan amount of up to Rs 2 lakh. Pai informed the court that after it came to light through media reports that only around 1.5 million farmers had benefitted from the scheme since its implementation, Shelar had sought to know why all the beneficiary farmers had not got the benefit and hence raised the question in the state assembly on numerous occasions. However, as he did not get a satisfactory answer on the number of farmers benefitting from the scheme, he was left with no other option but to approach the court. Additional government pleader Geeta Shastri however submitted that being an MLA Shelar, could easily have got the information by applying before the concerned department under the RTI Act and there was no need for him to approach the HC. She further added that the PIL was based on media reports and not actual figures which were available with the concerned department. After hearing the submissions the court said that even though the figures quoted in the PIL were based on media reports, the state could inform the court and the petitioner as to the actual number of farmers who benefitted from the scheme since its implementation. It also directed the state to submit the same in an affidavit and allowed Shelar to file a rejoinder to the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-many-farmers-benefitted-from-loan-waiver-hc-asks-maharashtra/story-khRRljH36nUPD7GaENlszO.html
18-09-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: SC/ST hostel to stay; UP’s first detention centre to come up in another location||The Ghaziabad district administration in Uttar Pradesh (UP) said late at night on Thursday that it has scrapped the proposal to convert the hostel earmarked for the Scheduled Caste (SC)/Scheduled Tribe (ST) students into the state’s first detention centre for illegal foreigners.The government officials said that a hunt is for a new place for the proposed detention facility. The hostel was constructed in 2010-11 when Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)-led government was in power. The hostel is located adjacent to Raj Nagar Extension Master Plan road and is a part of the Nandgram locality. On Thursday, BSP chief and former UP chief minister Mayawati tweeted that it was unfortunate that the multi-storeyed Dr Ambedkar SC/ST Hostel would be converted into UP’s first detention centre for illegal foreigners. She described the decision as painful and condemned the Yogi Adityanath-led government’s move.Also Read: No ‘exclusive’ detention centres, government tells Parliament Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate (DM), Ghaziabad, announced late at night on Thursday that he has scrapped the bid to convert the hostel into a detention centre for illegal foreigners. “The building will continue to be used as a hostel for SC/ST students. It was proposed to convert the building into a detention centre for foreigners, who are living illegally in the state without valid visas etc. We will find a new suitable place for the proposed centre,” the DM said. Initially, students from western UP and other districts in the state were staying at the hostel, but of late it has been lying vacant. Officials said the decision to convert the facility into a detention centre was taken by the Ghaziabad district authorities in 2017. Later, the state social welfare department had issued a notification to this effect following which the police’s housing development unit started the preparations to turn it into a detention centre. Earlier in June, the hostel students had also submitted representations to the district administration when the facility was proposed to be converted into a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) care centre (CCC) because of a spike in the viral outbreak cases in Ghaziabad.However, the bid to convert the hostel into a CCC was rolled back later. The hostel has 250 beds and SC/ST students, who are pursuing college education in the district, are allowed to stay at the facility for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-sc-st-hostel-to-stay-up-s-first-detention-centre-to-come-up-in-another-location/story-WYEvbB6nQYC99AKuWPnxKK.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Flyover repair work to impact traffic near Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan area||Motorists coming from Ashram, who plan to use the Ring Road towards Sarai Kale Khan, have been advised to avoid the route due to the ongoing repair work on the 150-metre-long flyover in front of the Sarai Kale Khan ISBT, the Delhi Traffic Police said on Friday.“We have closed the left carriageway of the flyover—from Ashram towards ITO (Income Tax Office),” said SD Mishra, additional commissioner of police (ACP), traffic, (southern range), Delhi Police.Vehicular movement on the opposite carriageway would remain unaffected as the road is not part of the flyover. Also Read: Delhi Metro’s Phase 4 stations to accept ‘one nation one card’: All you need to knowA senior PWD official, privy to the development, said that they are repairing the expansion joints of the flyover. “We are changing the expansion joints of the flyover, as it has developed gaps. The work started from Friday and is likely to continue for a month,” the official said.SD Mishra said that during this fortnight, commercial vehicles coming from Ashram would be diverted to the Delhi-Noida-Delhi (DND) flyway in a bid to ensure a smooth flow of vehicular movement to the Ring Road via Mayur Vihar and Akshardham. The commercial vehicles coming from DND flyway towards the national capital would be diverted towards the Noida-Akshardham route, he added.Also Read: Road accidents in India down by 35% this year“We are advising private vehicles to avoid this route due to congestion. We have deployed sufficient staff at this stretch to handle the situation. We are also handling the traffic signal below the flyover manually during this period,” said Mishra.The traffic police have also advised motorists to avoid Ashram due to the ongoing construction of the underpass.“Vehicles coming from Moolchand on the Ring Road and headed towards Faridabad should take Captain Gaur Marg from below the Lajpat Nagar flyover. Those vehicles coming from Sarai Kale Khan and headed towards Faridabad can take a left on the CV Raman Marg to get to the Mathura Road,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/flyover-repair-to-throw-traffic-out-of-gear-for-15-days-in-delhi-s-ashram/story-oPr3tydX3p5f9h2Yk9DB0M.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: HC asks Maharashtra if it was willing to make medicines available for critical patients||The Bombay high court on Friday directed Maharashtra government to disclose on affidavit if it was willing to make available the medicines required to support critical Covid-19 patients at government and private hospitals, wherever such patients were being treated.The bench of justice K K Tated and justice N R Borkar has directed the government to file an affidavit disclosing its stand on the issue by October 2.The directive came on a public interest litigation filed by a non-profit organisation complaining about black marketing of medicines for treatment of critical Covid-19 patients.In his plea, Jayesh Mirani, president of All Maharashtra Human Rights Welfare Association, has sought a direction to the state government to make Remdesivir 100 , Actimera 400 injections and Fabiflu tablets available at the government and private hospitals assigned for treatment of Covid-19 patients and also at medical stores. His counsel, advocate Prashant Pandey, claimed that the medicines were available only with six suppliers in Mumbai.Besides, people are forced to pay exorbitant amounts for these medicines, Pandey said. For example, he said, Remdesivir 100 injection has the maximum retail price of Rs 3,000, but is being sold in black market for over Rs 30,000, and therefore it was necessary that the injections and the tablet is made available directly at the Covid care centres.Government pleader Purnima Kantharia said one of the prayers of the petitioner was to also make the medicines available over the counter at medical stores and it will have to be seen if it was permissible and feasible.The bench posted the PIL for further hearing on October 6.Mirani has said in his PIL that Maharashtra is the worst affected state in India, both in terms of Covid-19 infections and the number of deaths caused by corona virus. But, the state authorities did not place orders for these drugs approved for sale in India on June 22, 2020, and bulk of the doses have gone to Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Assam and private hospitals which had placed advance orders for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-hc-asks-maharashtra-if-it-was-willing-to-make-medicines-available-for-critical-patients/story-Y3bLf11edESGQYBBSAstFO.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers’ agitation prompts Navjot Singh Sidhu to break silence on Twitter||Former Punjab minister and Amritsar East legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu broke his silence on Twitter on Friday to express solidarity with farmers agitating against the passage of the three agriculture bills in Parliament. “Farming is the soul of Punjab. Wounds on the body can heal but wounds of the soul will not be tolerated and condoned,” he tweeted, almost a year since his last post on the social media platform. Sidhu last tweeted in July 2019 after vacating his official bungalow following his resignation as a Punjab cabinet minister. “Sarkaarein tamaam umr yehi bhool karti hain, dhool unke chehre par thi aaeena saaf karti hain,” Sidhu tweeted, urging farmers to fight for their rights. He said farmers are the pride and identity of every Punjabi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-farmers-agitation-prompts-navjot-singh-sidhu-to-break-silence-on-twitter/story-3H6bpLuCQbuf8f0A1qCGlM.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||High court dismisses plea seeking direction to Punjab Police to book Kangana for social media post||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed a plea seeking direction to Punjab Police for the registration of a criminal case against actor Kangana Ranaut for her alleged social media post on the promotion of beef consumption. The plea was filed by a Ludhiana resident, Navneet Gopi, who had told the court that he had submitted a complaint to probe her social media posts. But Ludhiana police had not acted on the same. He claimed that he was being threatened by her supporters. He said that she had outraged the religious feelings of a section of society by intentionally putting a post on social media to promote beef consumption. He demanded the registration of an FIR against her under the Punjab Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955, Sections 66 and 67 of Information Technology Act, 2000 and Section 295-A Indian Penal Code, 1860 (deliberate act to hurt religious feelings). The court on Thursday observed that her post does not prima facie suggest that it amounts to commission of an offence punishable under Section 295-A of the IPC, in any manner. “On the contrary, the post describes the person as vegetarian, therefore, it cannot be construed at all, that it promotes consumption of beef much less by way of an advice,” the bench added. As of threats to the petitioner, the court observed that it has not at all been described as to how and in what manner the alleged threat was extended to him. “The petition is vague and misconceived,” the bench said, dismissing it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-dismisses-plea-seeking-direction-to-punjab-police-to-book-kangana-for-social-media-post/story-XPmPDX4PKzx3ZvG1JnLTxN.html
18-09-2020||City||Maharashtra to set up 1,000-bed Covid care centre in Nagpur after high court rap||The Maharashtra government has agreed to set up a 1,000-bed Covid care centre at Mankapur stadium in Nagpur. The centre would have 400 beds with ventilators and 300 oxygenated beds. The state government informed the decision to the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday since the latter, in an earlier hearing, had expressed shock at the inaction on the government’s part.Nagpur municipal corporation had, on August 19, submitted a proposal to the state government to set up a 1,000-bed hospital at Mankapur stadium.Also read: ‘Need to reprioritise spending on health,’ says N K SinghDuring the course of hearing on a bunch of petitions concerning lack of infrastructure for treatment of Covid-19 patients in Nagpur region, the corporation had informed the Nagpur bench of the high court on September 15 that the state government had not taken a decision on the proposal.In its order of Sepember 15, the bench of justice Ravi Deshpande and justice Pushpa Ganediwala had said, “We are surprised as to how the State Government is not responding to such proposal.”“The situation in Nagpur is dreadful. The death rate is increasing day by day. Mortuaries are full. There is a queue in crematoria. The patients are not getting ventilators and oxygenated beds. The situation is becoming ferocious,” it said. The bench had then directed the state government to take appropriate decision on the proposal within a week. The judges had also directed the chief secretary to personally appear before them if the government failed to decide the proposal.On Thursday, the bench was informed that the proposal had been accepted by the government.The court has now directed the divisional revenue commissioner as well as the Nagpur municipal commissioner to submit to it a detailed plan in respect of the facility and also to start the work for setting up the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-to-set-up-1-000-bed-covid-care-centre-in-nagpur-after-high-court-rap/story-eet3DUkU1N0d6XZ9eIK0oM.html
18-09-2020||Lucknow||Biennial security audit planned for UP jails after 2 prisoners escape||The UP prisons administration and reform services department is preparing a proposal for a security audit of each jail in the state after every two years. This, they hope, will plug security lapses that creep in with time, said senior prison officials.The proposal follows the daring escape of two under-trials from the Rae Bareli district jail. Prison officials said that the security audit proposal will soon be sent to the state government for clearance.Director general (prisons) Anand Kumar said that prison officials are carrying out a survey across 72 jails in the state before finalising the security audit proposal.“Although no changes could be done in the design and layout of old jails, some constraints, which develop with time, can be removed by making small changes,” he said.Kumar added that most jails in the state are housed in old buildings, making it likely for any weakness to appear. He said a regular biennial audit may help strengthen security in jails.Another prison official privy to the development said the security audit mainly comprises checking the drain passages to see if it can be used to escape, checking the strength and height of boundary walls and availability of any instrument that could be used to dig a tunnel.Also Read: Hindu Yuva Vahini leader found stabbed to death in UP’s BareillyHe explained that the drain passage often widens due to the flow of water or plaster and bricks of drain walls get removed, making it susceptible to further weakening to plan an escape.“18 to 22 feet high boundary walls are a routine feature in jails but the height decreases with the rising ground level inside and outside the premises. We have to measure the ground level after a certain time period to ensure the height remains the same,” the official emphasised.He added that the security audit also inspects if dust or mud is collecting alongside the boundary walls or if there is any possibility of collecting bricks inside the premises. Other mandatory features like the security drill, deployment of jail guards, video surveillance and erecting of watch towers and no-man’s zone alongside the jail walls will also be checked during the audit, the official said. Also Read: ‘Acquit all in Babri case for unity’: Muslim litigant Iqbal Ansari There have been three daring escapes from jails in UP in the past 5 years. The most recent one was carried out on September 15 this year when two under trials escaped from the district jail of Rae Bareli after crawling out of a barrack through a toilet and then scaling two walls that were 18 and 20 feet in height.Last year on July 7, two convicts escaped from Etawah district jail by cutting the iron rods of their cell and scaling the boundary wall with the help of bed sheets.On December 1, 2015, an under-trial escaped from Lucknow district jail after scaling two boundary walls measuring 18 and 22 feet in height.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/biennial-security-audit-planned-for-up-jails-after-2-prisoners-escape/story-CMFWAiQAtXirImJrFQsAKL.html
18-09-2020||Patna||Covid-19: Dussehra Committee plans virtual Ramleela in Patna; seeks govt nod for Ravan Vadh||The Ramleela and Ravan Vadh Samaroh, organised every year by the Dussehra Committee Trust in Patna, will be streamed live this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic.While both the events will have only a limited number of people in attendance, in keeping with the social distancing norms, they will be streamed live on Facebook as well.Also read: Ayodhya readies for grand Ramleela over 9 days, Bollywood stars to performOrganisers said that picking a ground for Ramleela won’t be an issue as only 100 people will be allowed to be present. It is for the Ravan Vadh event, which has always been held at the Gandhi Maidan, that the committee has sought permission from the government. In a letter to the Patna divisional commissioner, the committee has requested to allow the event at the ground for, they said, it has been planned the way the Independence Day function was held there with a limited number of participants.The Ravan Vadh Samaroh has been held at Gandhi Maidan for the past 64 years and always had 20,000-25,000 people attending. “This is the 65th year of the event and we wanted a grand show. But the Covid-19 pandemic has dealt a big blow to our planning,” Dussehra Committee Trust secretary Arun Kumar said.Now the committee is planning a virtual show of Ravan Vadh Samaroh. “For samaroh at Gandhi Maidan, we need government permission. We know big gatherings cannot be allowed. But only recently ,the Independence Day function was held there...We want Ravan Vadh Samaroh there in the similar way. All the norms and protocols of Covid-19 pandemic will be followed,” he said.Tilak Raj Gandhi, other member of the trust committee, said Ravan Vadh Samaroh has remained a big attraction. “We need the ground for the event even though huge crowds will not be allowed there,” he said.Dhananjay Kumar, yet another convener said the event has also remained symbol of national integration and harmony as the effigies for the show are created by some Muslim artisans. “That’s why we are expecting an approval from the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-dussehra-committee-plans-virtual-ramleela-in-patna-seeks-govt-nod/story-UFtgpGLBMdR9mAuCz6YZsL.html
18-09-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: Jharkhand reports record 78% recovery rate||Jharkhand has registered a 78.69% Covid-19 recovery rate that is slightly higher than the national average of 78.60%, according to the state health department’s bulletin on Thursday. The state, where the pandemic has claimed 590 lives, has so far reported 67,100 cases. They include 13,703 active cases and 52,807 recoveries.Jharkhand has been reporting a steady surge in Covid-19 cases since early July as the state has ramped up testing. Over 1.44 million tests have been conducted in two and a half months. On August 3, the state’s recovery rate dipped to 35.50% from 76.90% on July 2.Also Read: With 96,424 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally surges past 5.2 millionRK Jha, a former medicine department head at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, said it is a good sign to see improvement in overall recovery rate. “...the recovery eventually should go up to 94-96% when mortality is 1-2%.”Jha said the recovery rate is inversely proportional to mortality rate and length of hospital stay suggesting serious and difficult management issues and directly proportional to the number of mild and moderate cases. “It is also influenced favourably by a better understanding of management issues.”Also Read: Vaccine by next year, but will take time to reach all: Harsh VardhanIn May and June, when migrants left jobless by the pandemic began returning to the state, the number of active cases was higher than the number of recoveries. The trend changed from mid-June.On June 14, the state had 900 active cases and 816 recoveries. The next day, the active cases went down to 848 while recoveries climbed to 905. The recoveries were higher than active cases till July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-jharkhand-reports-record-78-recovery-rate/story-qmqrI9clHh40yqM88wiAsK.html
18-09-2020||City||Police arrest three suspected of robbing cash-filled vehicle, killing man||The police arrested three persons Friday, suspected to be involved in robbing an ATM cash loading vehicle in Manipur, which led to the killing of a cash replenishment agency’s security personnel.The police said the three arrested persons are employees of Writers Safeguard Group (WSG), a cash replenishment agency sub-contracted by State Bank of India for cash management.The police identified them as V Thangkhanmuan (40) of V Munhoih village, Churachandpur, K Somen Singh (36) of Khuga Tampak, Zoveng, Churachandpur, and Kongkham Brojen Singh (40) of Bamon Kampu, Imphal East. The police suspect them of being involved in siphoning off money and killing the security personnel.The police have recovered Rs 20 lakh from the possession of one of the arrested persons, they said.On September 4 around 10.30am, armed miscreants robbed an ATM cash-loading vehicle in Churachandpur and fled with about Rs 1.15 crore after shooting Arambam Ranjan (37), a security personnel who was sitting alone in the vehicle. The victim was a resident of Khuga Tampak, Zoveng in Churachandpur.Protesting against the incident, residents of Khuga Tampak and other areas have been demanding justice. The police had announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh to anyone who could provide information leading to the arrest of the culprit(s).Condemning the incident, state chief minister N Biren Singh had also said that the government will take steps to provide all necessary assistance to the victim’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-arrest-three-suspected-of-robbing-cash-filled-vehicle-killing-man/story-M1lheQfAS5RqpuAmKqaGwN.html
18-09-2020||Kolkata||Two, including a minor, killed in a clash in south Bengal||Two persons, including a 14-year-old boy, were killed and at least three others, including a minor girl, were injured when a clash broke out in West Midnapore district in south Bengal, late on Thursday night. Keshpur in West Midnapore district, where the clash took place around 11 pm on Thursday, had remained the hotbed for political violence for several years with violent clashes between the CPI(M) and the TMC claiming dozens of lives in the past. “Two persons including a minor boy were killed. Three others have been injured. We are investigating,” said Dinesh Kumar, superintendent of police of West Midnapore district. Crude bombs were hurled and villagers said that a few shots were also fired. A few houses were also ransacked. The dead have been identified as Sheikh Mazhar and Sheikh Nasim. Both died on the spot. The injured were rushed to the state-run hospital with splinter injuries. Also Read: BJP, TMC pay homage to dead workers in grim reminder of Bengal political violenceEven though police didn’t comment anything on whether it was a political clash, villagers said that it was a clash between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party. While local BJP leaders denied any involvement and said that it was an internal clash between two factions of the ruling TMC, the TMC said it was a family feud which turned violent with alleged incitement by the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/two-including-a-minor-killed-in-a-clash-in-south-bengal/story-wrdsgJCmddwexgLSFbPCKP.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra state buses to operate at full capacity from today||Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) authorities have eased travel restrictions from Friday for commuters travelling between Mumbai and Pune and other places by intercity air-conditioned (AC) and non-AC buses. MSRTC has started operating its buses with full passenger capacity as part of the easing of restrictions amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Earlier, the buses were operated up to a 50% passenger capacity. Also Read: With 96,424 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally surges past 5.2 millionMSRTC runs buses across Maharashtra, except for Mumbai and Pune that have their own transport facilities. MSRTC is also operating buses from Nalasopara in Palghar district to Thane and Mumbai as part of the state government’s Mission Begin Again campaign that was rolled out since early June following the suspension of the suburban trains since March 22 because of the viral outbreak. The state government has given its permission to MSRTC to operate buses with 100% passenger capacity. “The buses will be operated with full passenger capacity. Passengers will be required to wear masks and carry hand sanitisers. All seats will be made available for reservations,” stated a press release by MSRTC. Also Read: Mumbai sees sharpest 1-day Covid case spike; Maharashtra tally now 1,145,840Though the state-owned MSRTC has 18,000 buses, it is operating 5,000 vehicles and has a daily ridership of 5.5 lakh passengers. In Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) runs the city bus service. BEST buses are being operated with a maximum capacity of 30 passengers, including 25 and five sitting and standing, respectively, in a bid to comply with social distancing norms during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-state-buses-to-operate-at-full-capacity-from-today/story-G6r8fgF2YslOsXfTGHCl6J.html
18-09-2020||Kolkata||BJP, TMC pay homage to dead workers in grim reminder of Bengal political violence||A day after the Kolkata Police cited violation of social distancing norms during Covid-19 pandemic to stop a religious programme where the Bharatiya Janata Party’s state and central leaders were to pay homage to workers killed in political violence, leaders of both BJP and Trinamool Congress (TMC) held similar programmes in the districts throughout Thursday. After he and other leaders had to leave the banks of the Hooghly river on Wednesday, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said, “Mamata Banerjee does not forget Friday rituals and Muharram. But she is always against the Hindus. Is it a crime to observe Hindu rituals in West Bengal?” The picture changed on the occasion of Mahalaya on Thursday when millions of people across the state assembled at riverbanks to take part in Tarpan, a Vedic ritual Hindus hold to pay homage to their forefathers. Politicians followed them in the poll-bound state without any hindrance.BJP state women’s wing president Agnimitra Paul led members of the Mahila Morcha in a ritual held on the banks of the Mahananda river in Siliguri. “I paid tribute to 112 party workers who have been killed by the TMC since 2011,” she said. Also Read: Will ensure fair polls in Bengal, says governor Dhankhar. TMC respondsThis did not go down well with the ruling party. Tourism minister Gautam Deb said, “This was a political Tarpan.” At Bankura district in the western part of the state, deputy minister and local legislator Shyamal Santra took part in a ritual on the banks of Dwarakeswar river. BJP state vice-president Raju Banerjee offered prayers in waist-deep water in another part of the district. “We paid homage to all TMC workers killed over the decades,” said Santra. “They are killing our workers and offering Tarpan at the same time. People can see and understand everything,” said Banerjee. While the rituals were on, allegations of violence continued to make news. Also Read: TMC to challenge ban on Chhath puja at Kolkata lake, BJP supports moveAt Mathabhanga in Cooch Behar district, Ganesh Sarkar, a TMC worker was found murdered. Partha Pratim Roy, TMC district president, said, “BJP workers carried out the attack.” Malati Rava Roy, BJP district president, dismissed the allegation. “The killing was the fallout of a family dispute. TMC is spreading misinformation. BJP has nothing to do with this,” she said. Celebration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday led to trouble at Patashpur in East Midnapore district. A blood donation camp the BJP organised on the occasion was allegedly ransacked by TMC workers. Posters with Modi’s photographs were torn, alleged Ashis Das, a local BJP leader who organised the camp. Kanishka Panda, TMC’s local unit president, denied the charge. “BJP workers ransacked their own camp to be in the news. Tearing posters is not part of TMC’s culture,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-tmc-pay-homage-to-dead-workers-in-grim-reminder-of-bengal-political-violence/story-mmzfghGjNg5mf8IqbuGsWI.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi constable’s body found hanging at Malviya Nagar home||A 37-year-old Delhi police constable allegedly ended his life by hanging at his house in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar on Thursday night. Police are yet to ascertain the reason behind the alleged suicide. The constable has not left behind any suicide note, police said.The matter came to light when a call was received at Malviya Nagar police station around 11.30 pm reporting that the constable’s family had found him hanging from the ceiling of his house.The policeman was then brought down and was rushed to Max hospital where the doctors pronounced him dead.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said preliminary enquiry revealed that the constable was posted in central district as a driver.“His family said that on Thursday, he returned from work around 10 pm and went to his room. After sometime, the family members saw him hanging. Initial enquiry did not reveal why the man took the extreme step. We are waiting for his autopsy report to probe further,” Thakur said.Police said the constable’s colleagues and relatives are also being questioned to know if he was facing some financial problems, family issues or any other reason that may have led him to death. Autopsy will also reveal if he was ill, an office said. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-constable-s-body-found-hanging-at-malviya-nagar-home/story-MhpsIIJIoZSxByo2QSPc6K.html
18-09-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar reviews construction work of Pune Metro||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday morning reviewed the ongoing construction work of Pune Metro. Pawar is in Pune to attend the weekly review meeting on Covid-19 that will be held later today.Ajit Pawar visited construction sites in the early hours on Friday and took stock of the work from Metro officials.The Pune Metro project, which was expected to start the operation of its first five-km stretch by April 2020, had missed the deadline due to the unforeseen lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus across the country.Maha Metro Rail Corporation had resumed work on the Pune Metro rail project in May after receiving approval from the state government and civic bodies following the easing of Covid-19 lockdown restrictions.The work on Pune Metro project, which comprises of two lines of 32 km, had started in December 2016 and was expected to finish by the end of 2022. However, work was halted for over a month due to the lockdown imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ajit-pawar-reviews-construction-work-of-pune-metro/story-qYZ8vtl2rg5YiJ64uGdHDP.html
18-09-2020||City||Covid-19: 73 prisoners test positive in Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj jail||Seventy-three prisoners and a staff member of Central jail Sitarganj in US Nagar district of Uttarakhand tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, said officials. Following the development, jail administration went into a tizzy with these fresh cases as they had restricted the entry and exit in jail premises. Jail administration is now searching for a safe place for isolating these infected jail inmates, officials said. Earlier on September 9, 51 jail inmates and one jail staffer of Nainital district jail had tested positive in the RT-PCR test for the Covid-19 virus. “73 inmates and a jail guard have tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. Infected inmates have been isolated in jail premises till they are shifted to isolation centres,” said Dadhi Ram Maurya, superintendent, Central Jail Sitarganj. He said samples of 112 inmates were collected on Sunday from the jail. “The inmates were suffering from viral fever and cold. Around 700 inmates are housed here,” he said. He said when they observed some inmates were suffering from viral fever, cold and cough. , they were isolated from the rest of the inmates and health officials were called for collecting samples as a precautionary measure. Maurya said, “It is a matter of probe that when the entry and exit from jail premises is absolutely banned how the infection spread in the inmates. The health department must look into the matter.” He informed that despite the inspector general (IG) jail’s instructions that those inmates who are Covid-19 negative, should be permitted two meetings in a month with their relatives, jail administration is not permitting inmates due to fear of the Covid-19 outbreak. DS Panchpal, chief `medical officer, US Nagar said, “Since these are jail inmates they will be isolated in a secure place. We have informed the administration about it and wherever administration suggests we will shift them,” Notably, 5 inmates in Sitarganj jail had tested positive in May and June. Later six more inmates and four staff members tested positive in temporary jail in Sitarganj on August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-73-prisoners-test-positive-in-uttarakhand-s-sitarganj-jail/story-CGycvCydkP5rx6SvPI9jlK.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||After no response from Gujarat, Maharashtra approaches Telangana for two pairs of lions||Maharashtra forest department, which has been rebuffed by Gujarat for the past three years for the transfer of Asiatic Lions from its Gir National Park, has decided to turn to other states such as Telangana to increase the lion population at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Borivli, Mumbai. The department will send a proposal to the Telangana forest department next week requesting the authorities concerned for two pairs of lions to be sent to SGNP from Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad.The Hyderabad-based park has 15 lions, including two African cubs born in April. Also Read: Centre to launch projects for lion, dolphin conservationForest officials said Telangana authorities have given a positive response and asked for a proposal. “I have spoken to the Telangana principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF). Lions can be brought from Hyderabad. They have asked for a proposal. SGNP authorities were asked to submit their requirements. We will be sending our proposal to the Telangana officials by next week,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF (wildlife), Maharashtra.G Mallikarjuna, conservator of forests, SGNP, said they sent the proposal to the PCCF’s office in Nagpur on Wednesday.“The public can enjoy the lion safari more if the animal’s population in the park can be increased. Perhaps, an in-house breeding programme will help increase the lion’s population,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF) (wildlife-west).Also Read: Indian Navy develops Mumbai’s largest Miyawaki urban forestAt present, SGNP is home to three lions — a male, Ravindra (17); its brother and sister Jespa and Gopa, who are both nine years old. Forest officers said all three hybrid lions -- a cross between Asiatic and African -- and their parents were brought to the park from abandoned circuses. The Central Zoo Authority (CZA) does not allow inbreeding of wild cats and has also directed states to ensure that breeding of hybrid lions was phased out. “In such circumstances, the park needs at least two pairs of lions to have a healthy population,” said Mallikarjuna.In August, Maharashtra minister for forest Sanjay Rathod had submitted a proposal to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to request Gujarat and the Centre to expedite the process of transferring at least one lion to SGNP, preferably a female. “We are still pursuing the case with the Gujarat authorities, but they have not responded positively so far,” said Kakodkar.Though transfer of lions from other states was planned earlier, it proved to be a non-starter, In July 2018, then Karnataka forest minister R Shankar had visited SGNP to view facilities and also discussed the possible exchange of lions and rusty spotted cats from Bannerghatta National Park and Mysore Zoo. Shankar had then told HT they had agreed for the transfer but subsequently when a final proposal was sent, Karnataka rejected it as SGNP did not have required animals to offer in an exchange programme.Limaye said SGNP authorities had also requested Kakodkar that sub-adult tigers from Chandrapur district, which is prone to human-animal conflict and accounts for 56% of Maharashtra’s tiger population, be sent to the national park in Mumbai.“This could help us improve our tiger population. Nagpur’s Gorewada Rescue Centre has reached its capacity and releasing these big cats at other sanctuaries may not be a safe option. They can be rehabilitated at SGNP. The PCCF has agreed to our proposal,” he said. SGNP is home to five Royal Bengal tigers, including four females, who are aged between eight and 10 years and are called Mastani, Bijlee and Laxmi. The other tigress Basanti is 20 years old. Sultan (4) is the lone male tiger. “The tigresses are dominant and steer clear of Sultan or don’t allow it to come close to them. As a result, translocation of sub-adult big cats is essential for the park and the future of safaris,” said a forest official requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-no-response-from-gujarat-maharashtra-approaches-telangana-for-two-pairs-of-lions/story-2Y0xYoH9YnMvytpvpgwNxI.html
18-09-2020||Kolkata||Noted Kolkata fashion designer Sharbari Datta found dead in bathroom||Noted fashion designer Sharbari Datta was found dead inside a washroom at her residence late on Thursday night in Kolkata. Police say it found no foul play during preliminary investigation. The body has, however, been sent for autopsy. It would be handed over to the family members later in the day. “I had last seen my mother on Wednesday. I didn’t see her throughout Thursday. I thought she was busy and had gone out for work. It is nothing unusual. Both of us remain so busy that we don’t get to meet every day,” said Amalin Datta, son of Sharbari Datta. Amalin is himself a fashion designer. Also Read: Couple found dead in Kolkata flatPolice said that the body was found in the washroom of her residence at Broad Street, a posh residential colony in south Kolkata around 11:30pm. After discovering Datta’s body, family members called up the family physician who advised them to inform the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/noted-kolkata-fashion-designer-sharbari-datta-found-dead-in-bathroom/story-aW6zvX9IrubNiBxsKzGHdN.html
18-09-2020||City||J&K: PDP leader Naeem Akthar released from house arrest||A day after PDP was allowed to hold its first meeting in Srinagar, former minister and party’s senior leader Naeem Akhthar was released from house arrest on Thursday.Akhtar was booked under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) which was revoked in June, but he was put under house arrest even as some officials claimed that PDP leaders were “free”. Akthar announced his release on social media on Thursday. Also read: Lt Governor Manoj Sinha rolls out J&K grievance redressal system“After 407 days of detention, am informed that I am free to move about. Thank you rulers for small mercies while you inflict larger tragedies on our land,” he tweeted.After 407 days of detention am informed that I am free to move about. Thank you rulers for small mercies while you inflict larger tragedies on our land.Last week, PDP wanted to hold its first meeting since nullification of Article 370. However, party’s senior leaders like Akthar were not allowed to come out of their homes. A video of Akthar being stopped by the security forces at the gate of his house went viral on the social media. On Wednesday, PDP was allowed to hold its first meeting in Srinagar since Article 370 was nullified in August 2019. The meeting was attended by several top PDP leaders and former ministers.Meanwhile, after his release, Akhthar said there was no politics left in Kashmir other than that of unity with the political leadership. Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti is still under detention under PSA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-pdp-leader-naeem-akthar-released-from-house-arrest/story-CA13dHMA3KPoiHgdThsBkI.html
18-09-2020||Kolkata||TMC to challenge ban on Chhath puja at Kolkata lake, BJP supports move||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday ruled that Chhath puja will not be allowed under any circumstance at Kolkata’s famous Rabindra Sarobar lakes which are considered to be the lungs of south Kolkata. Amid Opposition allegations that Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee was eyeing the votes of Hindi-speaking people, the Kolkata Municipal Development Authority (KMDA) recently appealed to the NGT to relax its order banning Chhath puja rituals at Rabindra Sarobar in south Kolkata. The KMDA appealed for relaxation in the ban for only a day in view of people’s sentiments. The KMDA also told the court that it would take measures to control pollution at the lakes. The puja will be held on November 19 and 20. Despite the ban, hundreds of devotees broke open the gates of Rabindra Sarobar in November 2019 to perform the rituals. They even busted crackers and played drums at the Sarobar although the government had earmarked alternative water bodies in the city for conduct of the rituals. The incident made headlines and triggered a huge controversy. The word Chhath means six. The festival is dedicated to Lord Surya (Sun God) and Chhathi Maiya, who is known to be the sister of Lord Surya. This festival is celebrated mostly in the states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Eastern Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Delhi. Devotees express their gratitude towards Lord Surya and perform important rituals over a span of four days. “We will move the Supreme Court,” said West Bengal’s urban development minister Firhad Hakim on Thursday afternoon, drawing strong reaction from political parties and environment experts. Interestingly, TMC got support on this issue from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which has a substantial vote bank in areas dominated by Hindi-speaking people. “Performing the puja is a fundamental right of the people. There can be restrictions on dropping flowers etc in the water but nobody can ban the ritual entirely,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. The Congress attacked the chief minister saying she has politicized religious festivals to get votes. “Mamata Banerjee has politicized the festivals of Bengal. Did the Bihari people ever tell her that they would not vote for TMC unless they were allowed to pollute the waters of Rabindra Sarobar? They never did that. Similarly, Muslims never asked her to stop immersion of Durga idols to allow Muharram processions. Banerjee is doing these proactively. She thinks this will help her secure Muslim and Bihari votes,” said West Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Coronavirus pandemic: Forests in West Bengal to open for tourists for festive season, guidelines to be issuedCovering 192 acres of artificial lakes and with 7,000 trees, some of which were badly damaged by cyclone Amphan in May, Rabindra Sarobar is a birders’ paradise. At least 200 species of resident and migratory birds have been sighted here by the city’s birders. It is also home to numerous types of fish and animals. The NGT passed an order in 2018 banning Chhath puja at Rabindra Sarobar after environment activists and wildlife lovers started a movement. The petition was moved by noted environment activist Subhas Dutta. Also Read: Will ensure fair polls in Bengal, says governor Dhankhar. TMC responds“The urban development minister says the relaxation is required for only a day. I would like to ask can someone survive without air for even a minute,” Dutta said on Thursday after Hakim said that the government would move the Supreme Court. On Monday, the TMC launched an all-new three-tier Hindi cell while India observed Hindi Diwas. The cell will have separate committees at state, district and community block levels. The BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The TMC’s tally came down from 34 seats to 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-to-challenge-ban-on-chhath-puja-at-kolkata-lake-bjp-supports-move/story-wvlPuCpfl4gZgdBkpnIUpI.html
18-09-2020||Kolkata||Couple found dead in Kolkata flat||Police on Thursday recovered the bodies of a couple from their flat in Charu Market area of the city.Arijit Dutta (34), an app-cab driver, and his wife Suparna Dutta (31) were found dead in their rented apartment, they said A suicide note was also found in the room, a senior police officer said.“Going by preliminary investigation, it seems that the couple was depressed since their child died a few months ago. They were also going through a financial crisis because of the lockdown,” he said.Further investigation is underway.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/couple-found-dead-in-kolkata-flat/story-RWp0o26g9M5AzTvYZf3hvM.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||From rail blockade to shutdown, Punjab’s farmers intensify agitation to mount pressure on Centre||The farmers’ agitation in Punjab against the passage of the three agriculture bills in Parliament is set to intensify in the coming days. Here is the line of action to mount pressure on the Centre to revoke the legislation. September 19: Ten farmers groups, including Left-backed organisations, factions of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and Kul Hind Kisan Sabha are meeting in Ludhiana to chalk out the course of action. Hundreds of farmers have already been protesting for the last four days by taking out a march in tempos, buses, tractor-trailers and two-wheelers. The Kisan Sangharsh Committee laid a three-day siege to three bridges on the Beas and Sutlej rivers in Punjab’s Majha belt. In Malwa, farmers organisations are holding dharnas, blocking traffic, taking out protest marches at various places. September 24: The KSC, which has a support base in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts, has announced a rail roko (rail blockade) protest on September 24. The agitation will be launched in Amritsar and Ferozepur districts next Thursday. September 25: Farmer organisations will observe a statewide shutdown in protest against the passage of the three bills. Market labour and commission agents will join the farmers’ stir during the Punjab Bandh. The KSC and Sikh organizations, which gathered at Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs, on Thursday announced support the bandh call. September 26: The rail roko protest will be carried out in Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Jalalabad and Tarn Taran districts. No train will be allowed to ply by farmers through these districts. During the rail roko andolan (rail blockade agitation), KSC activists will burn effigies of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre in villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-rail-blockade-to-shutdown-punjab-s-farmers-intensify-agitation-to-mount-pressure-on-centre/story-BaBLD2RegfVxRxBculBVSM.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Remembrance of friendship past||The year is 1985. Place: Departure terminal, Rome airport. They knew they would not meet ever again. Moghul was flying to his home in Lahore, Pakistan, and Pramod Kumar Padhy was returning to Delhi. Government employees in their respective countries, both were part of a scholarship programme organised by the Italian government in the mid-80s, in which 50 participants from 30 countries stayed together in a hotel in Naples. Six months later, all went back to their places. Decades rolled along and the Italian sojourn became a distant memory. Mr Padhy retired as a senior bureaucrat in the central government in 2013, and settled down with wife, Usha, at their 12th floor apartment in Noida’s Sector 121. He did mention the Naples friendship to his family, once or twice, but never extensively. “It had become a dead chapter of my life.”Mr Padhy, 67, is chatting on WhatsApp video.And then the coronavirus pandemic arrived, forcing the couple to stay cooped at home. “I started writing about stories from my life,” says Mr Padhy. And one of the stories that surfaced was about… you guessed it!The first reader of ‘Down the memory lane: An Unforgettable Encounter’ was his wife, who convinced Mr Padhy to share the account with their daughter, Priyanka, who lives in Sarita Vihar. She, in her turn, convinced her father to share it within the extended family’s WhatsApp group. The story is moving. Two people from traditionally hostile nations strike a friendship in a foreign land. Mr Padhy was in his early 30s then, and his friend in his early 50s. Often missing their home while in Italy, they would find consolation in each other by talking of their families. The ghazals of Chitra Singh and Jagjit Singh were a common passion. A scene from the story’s finale is particularly poignant: “As the moment to part finally arrived, Mr Moghul gave me a tight embrace and wished customary ‘Khuda Hafeez’ in a voice choking with emotion. Then he said something in a whispering tone which is still reverberating in my mind after all these years. Said he and I quote ‘Pramod, I am a Muslim and do not believe in rebirth. But you are a Hindu and you believe in rebirth. If there is something like rebirth, I would like to have you as my younger brother in my next life.’”Mr Padhy says he never got in touch with his friend after returning from Italy. “Somewhere, the friendship lives inside me. Maybe it is too late now to think of meeting him again. He must be in his 90s. But if we happen to meet, I’m sure he will instantly recognise me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/remembrance-of-friendship-past/story-UbE2rhWG62S2gp1tvBiWSL.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||17-year-old girl gang-raped in north-east Delhi, three suspects arrested||Three men allegedly gang-raped a 17-year-old girl at knife-point in front of her brother-in-law while the duo was returning to their home in north-east Delhi after visiting a relative’s on Tuesday night, the police said. The three suspects were arrested on Wednesday morning after the police identified them through CCTV footage, said Alok Kumar, joint commissioner of police (eastern range). Police said the girl’s brother-in-law suffered cuts in his palm while trying to fight off the alleged rapists, but the injury was not serious.The crime took place around 10pm on Tuesday. “They got off a bus near Mandoli Jail and were walking through a deserted street when the three suspects accosted them and harassed the girl,” said another senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified.“When the girl admonished them, they pulled out knives and forcibly led the duo to an under-construction building nearby where the three raped the teenager,” said the officer.Her brother-in-law tried to put up a fight by reaching out for the knife of one of the suspects, but he suffered a cut to his hand. “While leaving the crime scene, the suspects also took away the girl’s purse,” the officer added.As soon as the suspects fled on a motorcycle, the victims raised an alarm, drawing the attention of a police team patrolling nearby.“Based on the description provided by the survivor, the police team immediately began hunting for the suspects and soon spotted them not far from the crime spot. The police launched a chase that lasted three kilometres before the suspects found themselves cornered. They abandoned their motorcycle and ran into the streets and disappeared,” said JCP Kumar.The police recovered the survivor’s robbed purse from the spot where the motorcycle was left abandoned. Tracking registration of the bike, the police got to know that it had been stolen. “We then checked CCTV footage from the crime spot to the point they left their motorcycle. One camera had captured the suspects. We showed the images to local residents and people with criminal records. That helped us identify them,” said JCP Kumar.The officer identified the suspects as Rajeev, Shehzad and Ikram – all aged between 25 and 30 and residents of north-east Delhi and Ghaziabad.While Rajeev had once been arrested under the Arms Act by the south-east Delhi district police, the other two men had no criminal antecedents.The police have registered a case of gang rape, robbery and assault at Harsh Vihar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/17-year-old-girl-gang-raped-in-north-east-delhi-three-suspects-arrested/story-UvQxSkpwaoOhC1HV3Ye1yH.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman’s murder: Diary may hold crucial clues, nine-year-old son still untraced||A day after the decomposing body of a government school teacher was found at her Sector-23 house by the police and her 13-year-old son, police are now searching for a diary that victim Jyoti Rani had confided in her sister about.As per police, Jyoti had asked her sister in case of “an unfortunate happening with her family” to look for the diary “in the locker”. Police are scanning her bank lockers and wardrobes.Meanwhile, there is no trace of her husband, the prime suspect, and their 9-year-old son, even as three police teams were sent to Punjab.The statement of the 13-year-old boy was recorded before the magistrate, in which he reiterated that he was pushed into Neelon canal by his father. The teen, who is now with his paternal grandfather at Fatehgarh Sahib, told the police he was worried about the well-being of his brother. “My nine-year-old brother was sleeping on the back seat of the car when I last saw him,” he told the police and has been enquiring about his sibling time and again. PUSHED INTO CANAL, LEFT FOR DEADIt was his birthday on September 15 and his father Mandeep Singh, 42, had told him that they will be celebrating his birthday at the gurdwara when they left the city a day prior. Mandeep had driven the two brothers to Ludhiana after telling them their mother had contracted Covid-19 and had to be isolated. He had then drugged the boys and pushed his elder son into the Neelon canal late that night. “I shouted for help but there was no one around. After flowing along the stream for some distance, I managed to catch hold of a tree branch,” he told the police. The child was rescued on September 15 on his birthday by some people at Gurdwara Katana Sahib and police were informed.The murder of 40-year-old Jyoti Rani came to light on September 16 when the Ludhiana police came knocking at her Chandigarh house to drop her son. Ranis decomposed body was found wrapped in a blanket on a blood-stained bed at her government accommodation.WELL-BEING OF CHILD PRIORITY: POLICE “The well-being of the nine-year-old is our priority. Police teams are raiding different places in Punjab and Chandigarh to trace Mandeep Singh and his younger son,” said Ram Rattan, the station house officer (SHO) of Sector 17 police station, Chandigarh. As per police, on September 14 before leaving the city with the children, Mandeep paid Rs 10,000 towards a monthly kitty (committee) to a colleague in Sector 35. His mobile phone’s last location was recorded in Sector 40 on September 15 and was since switched off. He had got fuel filled from a pump opposite ISBT-43 and then again from another petrol pump on September 15, before driving towards Kharar. He had used his debit card to make the payments. The police have secured the CCTV footage of the pumps. The registration number of the vehicle has been shared with Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh police departments.Mandeep is a teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 47, while Jyoti taught social science at the government school in Karsan, Ram Darbar.Mandeep is facing a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-chandigarh-woman-s-body-found-raids-being-conducted-in-punjab-to-arrest-her-husband/story-v1bf9XrhDPqnGx953Np1XK.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sexual harassment at CLTA: UT Police put on notice on complaint of minor girl’s father||A local court has put the Chandigarh Police on notice, seeking the status report on a complaint by the father of a minor girl, who was allegedly sexually harassed by five trainees at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) complex in August 2019. The father has sought an FIR against 17 persons, including officers of the CLTA, Sector 10, Chandigarh Academy of Rural Tennis (CHART), All-India Tennis Association, the then Sector-3 SHO and the UT SSP, alleging that they failed to act as per the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. In August 2019, five CHART trainees at CLTA were booked for allegedly outraging modesty, sexually harassing and stalking three minor tennis players. In a fresh complaint filed on September 15, a 48-year-old Mohali resident, complained that his minor daughter was among the three girls sexually harassed and stalked by at least five trainees. The complainant said the issue was brought to the notice of CLTA officers, but they gave “false assurances” and acts of sexual harassment did not stop. “On July 22, 2019, the aggressors molested my daughter,” he said. He said that several complaints were given to these persons, who are seniors IAS officers of Punjab and Haryana cadre, but they “failed to act and discharge their duties” as per law. “These persons have gone to the extent to shield the aggressors, who violated self-respect of my minor daughter, entailing molestation, sexual assault and harassment,” the complainant said. Seeking a fair investigation, the complainant said these “highly influential” persons were “responsible for criminal conspiracy to commit the offence of cheating and forgery apart from their failure to report and act as per the provisions of section 19 and 21 of the POCSO Act.” He said he had filed a police complaint in February and July, but received no response, hence he moved the court. The complainant has sought an FIR under Sections 17 (abetment), 18 (attempt to commit an offence) and 19 (reporting of offences) and 21 (failure to report or record a case) of the POCSO Act, and Sections 415 (cheating), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 463 (forgery), 465 (forgery) and 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The case will next come up for hearing on October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sexual-harassment-at-clta-ut-police-put-on-notice-on-complaint-of-minor-girl-s-father/story-2FoU9KkfaX6r1eQGn7HmBN.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC asks Chandigarh admn to probe allegations against Sector 48 housing society management||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Chandigarh administration to probe allegations against the management of a Sector 48 housing society. The bench of justice HS Madaan was hearing a plea from Surinder Singh and other residents of Silverton Co-operative House Building Society-I, Sector 48-B, against the management of the society. It was alleged before court that the management committee has indulged in misappropriation of funds and undertaken unnecessary civil works to favour suppliers and contractors. The court was told that on June 30 a complaint was filed with the registrar of UT cooperative societies but no action had been taken so far. The administration told court that complaint had been received by the registrar’s office and was listed to be taken up on October 7 as due to Covid-19 outbreak the functioning of the office has been hampered. The administration will look into the matter and if it finds that some action is required to be taken, then it will be at the earliest, it was informed. The court, while disposing of the matter, asked the registrar to look into the complaint and take a decision within two months. The bench said that, if aggrieved, the petitioner can approach the court again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-asks-chandigarh-admn-to-probe-allegations-against-sector-48-housing-society-management/story-qIFMkUsPim5VYNL3fLpspJ.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Upstaged by Covid: Ramlila troupes await word from Chandigarh administration on shows this year||By this time of the year, Ramlila troupes in the city get ready with the warpaint and glittering costumes to stage episodes from the epic Ramayana for 10 days prior to Dussehra, which falls on October 25 in 2020. This time, however, with the Covid-19 outbreak, no rehearsals are taking place as the city’s regular Ramlila organisations await word from the UT administration on plans for the festive season. “Around 25 Ramlila organisations from the city have already applied for permissions to the Chandigarh administration to stage shows, but we are yet to hear from the officials. We are waiting for relaxations to be announced on September 21, which will bring more clarity on Ramlilas this year,” says Bhagwati Prashad Gaur, president of the Chandigarh Kendriya Ramleela Mahasabha, the umbrella organisation of the city’s Ramlila troupes.Gaur feels festivities should be allowed for a welcome distraction from the suffering caused by Covid-19. “We are ready to follow all safety related instructions by the government. It won’t be fair to cancel the shows because many people in the city are not following basic precautions.” However, even if the shows are cancelled, aarti will be done every day at the spots where performances take place. “The annual function to adjudge the best Ramlila of the year can be held online,” suggests Gaur.Banking on online performancesAshok Chaudhry, advisor to the Joint Ram Leela Sangh, well known in the city for the role of Ravana he performs every year for the Azad Dramatics Club in Sector 20, says in case the shows are not allowed, most troupes are open to live stream their performances online during the Navratras. “Although we have applied for license, we are already thinking of hosting 30- to 45-minute Ramlila web episodes. We will cover some of the main events with a few old actors who already know all the lines so rehearsals won’t be necessary,” he adds.Shorter showsJyoti Bardwaj, chief organiser of the Sector 29 Ramlila, says show timings can be cut short or allowed for one day before Dussehra. “A two- to three-hour function with social distancing rules imposed strictly can be held and main episodes from Ramayana staged then.” Some troupes, however, have chosen to sit this one out. “Even if permission is granted it will be tough to maintain social distancing. We don’t want to be responsible for a breakout of Covid. There have been no rehearsals till now and it is very likely we won’t organise a Ramlila this year,” says Deepak Kaushik, general secretary of the Panjab University Ramlila.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/upstaged-by-covid-ramlila-troupes-await-word-from-chandigarh-administration-on-shows-this-year/story-baBNzpxOccaviZexDe3kFJ.html
18-09-2020||City||Panchkula MLA inaugurates garbage disposal plant in Sector 23||Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta inaugurated a waste disposal plant at the dumping ground in Sector 23 here on Thursday.The plant came up at a cost of Rs 38 crore and will dispose of 2,000 tonnes of waste daily. Experts say within a year, the entire waste of the dumping ground will be disposed of and a green park will be developed.Gupta said people of the area, who had been complaining of a pungent smell emancipating from the dumping ground for the past 16 years, will heave a sigh of relief. The MLA also looked into the work of bio-mining, segregation, and disposal that will take place at the site.He said that Panchkula generates 150 tonnes of garbage daily and due to no disposal system in place, trash piled up. “With this plant, waste disposal will never be discontinued and manure will be made by segregating waste. Within one year, waste will be disposed of and beautification of the area will be done,” Gupta added. With the help of the bio-mining plant, organic fertilisers will be prepared. The dry waste will be sent to a cement factory and the leftover waste will be collected and lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-mla-inaugurates-garbage-disposal-plant-in-sector-23/story-umP47oqseyI86jeLrY12TJ.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University, Chandigarh, conducts first online exam||Nearly 75,000 students took the first ever online examination conducted by Panjab University, Chandigarh, on Thursday. A total of 47 exams were slated for Day 1 and conducted in three slabs of 9am to 11am, 10am to 12pm and 2pm to 4pm. All colleges/departments downloaded the question papers at the scheduled time from the PU website and official email IDs were provided to them. The question papers were further distributed among students through electronic modes. Students of undergraduate/post graduate/other professional courses, including University School of Open Learning (USOL)/private, appeared in the exams. Vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, who visited the examination branch on Wednesday to check on arrangements, was in touch with the controller of examinations, Parvinder Singh, and his technical staff on Thursday for the smooth conduct of the first online exams. He appreciated the efforts of the technical staff under the guidance of CoE for setting up the online exam control room. Singh said the control room resolved many queries of principals, chief coordinators and chairpersons. Emergency packet of question papers were also made available at the 40 nodal centres in affiliated Colleges of PU. As many as 86,616 students will be taking exams over 17 days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panjab-university-chandigarh-conducts-first-online-exam/story-LdwROWdgRVN2ReNrg7wDVN.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||2017 Maur blasts: HC orders Punjab Police’s SIT to arrest main accused in 2 weeks||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday gave two weeks to the Punjab Police’s special investigating team (SIT) to arrest the main accused in the 2017 Maur blasts, saying the probe into the case so far has been unsatisfactory. The twin blasts that occurred on January 31, 2017, ahead of the Punjab assembly elections had left seven persons dead. The high court was hearing a petition by Gurjeet Singh Patran who is demanding that probe be handed over to the National Investigating Agency (NIA) or the Central Bureau of Investigation. Since the names of some Dera Sacha Sauda followers have cropped up, the probe has slowed down, he alleged. The case, which was filed in May 2018, was disposed of by the high court in September 2018 with the court expressing satisfaction over the probe. But in the fresh application, the petitioner demanded revival of the plea alleging that main accused have still not been arrested. “All-out efforts should be made to arrest the accused within two weeks,” the bench of justices Rajiv Sharma and Arun Palli said giving liberty to the petitioner to approach a trial court. The court, however, refused to revive the petition. As per the petitioner, the vehicle used in the blasts was assembled in a workshop of the dera in Haryana’s Sirsa and two of those identified as accused were close associates of sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is undergoing a jail term in the neighbouring state in two rape cases. The petitioner has also questioned the role of SIT as it failed to interrogate Ram Rahim in the case. He has alleged that the blasts were part of a deep-rooted conspiracy to get sympathy votes in the assembly polls. The SIT has concluded the probe and challan was filed in the trial court on January 29 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/maur-blasts-hc-orders-sit-to-arrest-main-accused-in-2-weeks/story-zpyEspTTvrSY4IgVQg3F1M.html
18-09-2020||City||Shots fired, accountant assaulted at his Kharar house in midnight attack||A group of five men fired 12 shots in the air and assaulted a chartered accountant with bats and sticks after barging into his house near Janta Chowk in Kharar in the wee hours of Thursday. “Around 3am on Thursday, five men broke into victim Arun Sharma’s house and thrashed him. They also fired 12 rounds in the air to terrify him,” said Ravjot Kaur Grewal, superintendent of police (Rural).They also threatened Sharma’s son and vandalised his car before leaving. “We have identified three of the five accused. The attack seems to be a fallout of old enmity. No bullet hit Sharma. We are scanning the CCTV footage,” she said. On the victim’s complaint, a case under Sections 307 ( attempt to murder), 450 (house-trespass ), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shots-fired-accountant-assaulted-at-his-kharar-house-in-midnight-attack/story-4A3ZlNYhjWIo7XorfSaviI.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Government schools in Chandigarh begin preparations to partially reopen from September 21 onwards||After receiving fresh guidelines from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), city schools are set to partially open from September 21 onwards for the first time since mid-March, and have already begun preparations to ensure that order can be maintained come Monday.The MHA guidelines state that all states/Union Territories have been permitted to call 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff for online teaching, tele-counselling and related work from September 21. The students of Classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit the schools on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers, subject to a written consent from parents/guardians.Principal of St John’s High School, Sector 26, Kavita C Das said, “Along with facemasks, we have made face shields to cover the eyes mandatory as well.”Around 40% of the students had their parents’ consent for coming to school from Monday: “Along with sanitising the students and checking their temperatures, we will also check their blood oxygen levels using oximeters to screen for asymptomaticity. An isolation room will also be allotted within the school in case any student or faculty member feels unwell,” added Das.Admn yet to release detailed SOPThe local administration is yet to release a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools to follow even though the reopening is right around the corner. President of the Independent School Association and chairman of Vivek High School, Sector 38B, HS Mamik said, “We have given the administration our suggestions, but we are still waiting for the official directions.”Mamik added the administration will need to ensure their directions are applied to all schools. “In some schools, there may be only 20-30 students in a class while the number may go up to 50 in others. Instead of saying only 50% of students will be allowed in a class, a numerical limit should be set to ensure the rules can be uniformly followed,” he said.They will wait for parents’ consent before resuming school bus service, he added.Meanwhile, it is still not clear what the timings for schools will be on Monday. Speaking about this, director of Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, Atul Khanna said, “We plan to only allow students in the afternoon as classes are already going on in the mornings. We don’t want students not coming to school to suffer any disadvantage. In the afternoon, we will have two batches of students for about an hour each with half an hour of gap in between for sanitising the classes.”Khanna added that different days will be kept for different subjects like mathematics on Mondays and Hindi on Tuesdays, and students will have to seek an appointment before they are allowed to visit and ask the teachers their doubts. He added that around 25% students had volunteered to follow this norm.UT Education department holds meeting over preparations1. The UT education department held a meeting regarding the preparations on Thursday under deputy director school education Alka Mehta in which all principals and heads of all government schools participated.2. The schools have been instructed to provide for thermal screening along with preventing overcrowding and maintaining social distancing. Students and teachers residing in micro-containment zones will not be allowed to visit the schools.3. Mehta who is also acting as district education officer (DEO) said, “Canteens will remain closed and students will come in two batches of two hours each with a two-hour gap in between. Although drinking water facilities will be functional in the school, students will be asked to get their own drinking bottles to avoid touching the taps too much.”4. Director school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar added that the department will submit a detailed proposal to the competent authority soon and a decision regarding the date and plan of reopening schools will be taken by them.5. The government schools had been asked to collect consent from parents through Google forms and WhatsApp/text messages by September 15. Around 25,000 students from 90 government schools (around 50% of the total) have submitted the consent forms. The department will prepare a slot-based timetable for students before September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-schools-in-chandigarh-begin-preparations-to-partially-reopen-from-september-21-onwards/story-0yRtXVKAnejLjk4dXKJLsK.html
18-09-2020||City||Chandigarh’s Covid tally breaches 9,000 mark, toll rises to 106 with five fatalities||The Covid-19 tally in Chandigarh surpassed the 9,000 mark with 288 fresh cases on Thursday. The death toll also climbed to 106 with five residents succumbing to the virus.On the bright side, Thursday also saw 379 patients being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 6,062.Of the 9,256 confirmed cases so far, 3,085 remain active. The 288 cases reported on Thursday included 180 men and 108 women.The latest fatalities include an 18-year-old woman, from Sector 42, who tested positive after her death at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.A man from Sector 55, aged 81, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. He had diabetes, hypertension and coronary artery disease.A 57-year-old man from Sector 30 had Type-2 diabetes mellitus. He also died at GMCH-32. A 61-year-old man from Manimajra died at a private hospital in Mohali, while a woman from Sector 28, aged 48, who suffered from sepsis and acute respiratory distress syndrome, died at GMSH-16.FOUR DEAD IN MOHALI, 278 TEST POSITIVEFour more people lost the battle against Covid-19 in Mohali on Thursday, taking the district’s toll to 152. As many as 278 residents also tested positive, which took the tally to 7,652.Those who died on Thursday included a 55-year-old man from Kharar. He was suffering from kidney and lung disease and admitted at a hospital in Sohana.A 60-year-old woman from Badana village in Dera Bassi died at the Ambala civil hospital. She had diabetes and hypertension. An 80-year-old diabetic man from Desumajra in Kharar died at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. A 62-year-old man from Chhat village in Zirakpur also died at the same hospital. He had hypertension.Among the 278 fresh cases, the maximum, at 73, were from Mohali city, followed by 71 from Dhakoli, 69 from Gharuan, 26 from Kharar, 21 from Kurali, 21 from Kurali, 14 from Dera Bassi and four from Lalru. Also 236 patients were discharged on Thursday, bringing down the number of active patients to 2,481. A total of 5,019 patients have recovered from the disease so far.SECTOR-12A MAN PANCHKULA’S 54TH FATALITYA 54-year-old man from Sector-12A became Panchkula district’s 54th Covid-19 fatality. According to health officials, he was suffering from comorbidities, including chronic kidney disease, hypertension and diabetes mellitus.The district also confirmed 112 new infections on Thursday. Panchkula now has 4,608 positive cases, of which 3,339 have been discharged, leaving 1,215 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-s-covid-tally-breaches-9-000-mark-toll-rises-to-106-with-five-fatalities/story-S5rMn1cByhQNNzTsWKan6J.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid impact: PEC postpones its academic audit to 2021||Punjab Engineering College (deemed to be university) has postponed its academic audit by a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The institute had planned to go for an academic audit to apply for National Assessment and Accreditation Council’s (NAAC’s) re-accreditation after it was graded B+ in 2019 for the next five years. An institute can apply for its review even earlier. Punjab Engineering College (PEC) had performed poorly during the NAAC team’s visit.It had last year applied for accreditation for the first time and got a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 2.71. PEC’s board of governors (BOG) in a meeting in October 2019 had decided that the institution should apply for re-accreditation after one year.According to NAAC, academic audit is a method of reviewing the quality of educational process in an institution. It is related to quality assurance and enhancing the standard of academic activities in higher education institutions (HEIs).PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “The academic audit that we had planned cannot be done virtually. It needs to be done on the ground, but it has been postponed now due to Covid pandemic.”PEC, which offers eight BTech courses and 14 MTech courses to over 3,000 students, has been graded lower than Panjab University and its 10 affiliated colleges in the city, which were ranked in the past.The pandemic has also slammed brakes on the preparations for PEC’s centenary celebrations scheduled for next year.NAAC is an autonomous body funded by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to assess and accredit HEIs in India. The grades are given on the basis of seven categories, including curricular aspects, teaching, learning and evaluation, research-innovations and extension, infrastructure and learning resources, student support and progression, governance leadership and management, and institutional values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-impact-pec-postpones-its-academic-audit-for-1-year/story-MRLX3GJjFQkyA7nSJwDnhN.html
18-09-2020||City||Sohana cops on hunt for buffalo thieves||After catching dreaded criminals and snatchers, Sohana police are now on the lookout for buffalo thieves. In the past one week, 27 buffaloes have been reported stolen from the Sohana police’s jurisdiction.On Wednesday, five thieves had turned up in a canter and entered the property of one Kuldeep Singh at Sekhan Majra village in Aerocity and took away five animals. They had also thrashed Kuldeep and stole his mobile phone. Last week, thieves had struck at a house in Naglian village from where they took away eight buffaloes while 12 animals were stolen from a house in Durali village. Police have registered first information reports (FIRs) against the unidentified thieves in all three cases under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 457 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).As per victim Kuldeep Singh, at least five unmasked men had come in a canter when he was sleeping in his cattle shed. “I got up on hearing some noise and one man, who was near me, hit me on my head with a rod. He brazenly threatened to kill me. They said it was their third attempt to steal my animals,” he added.Kuldeep said the miscreants left with all of his four cows and one buffalo. The cost of one buffalo is around Rs 1 lakh. Handiwork of one gang: PoliceSohana station house officer (SHO) Daljit Singh said, “It seems there is one gang active in the area which targets buffalos. Before committing the crime, the gang members conduct a recce in the area. We are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras at toll plazas and are hopeful of arresting them soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sohana-cops-on-hunt-for-buffalo-thieves/story-yuAN03NtVXuylvGjjGRtcK.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays appointment of BB Goyal as UBS head||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed appointment of BB Goyal as the head of Panjab University’s University Business School (UBS). The high court bench of Chief Justice RS Jha acted on the plea of Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, a professor of the same department. The court, while issuing notice, has posted the matter for hearing on December 9. Goyal was appointed as the head of UBS upon the expiry of term of Deepak Kapur on June 30. Sharma had argued that PU violated high court order passed in 2016 in this appointment and that Goyal was not to be considered for the headship on rotation basis. He had told the court that a representation was submitted to the varsity, but his claims were not considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-appointment-of-bb-goyal-as-ubs-head/story-60td7iSzBaecXwhDhomdrN.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGI employees’ body, administration at odds over ‘poor’ risk management||The employees’ union and administration of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are at loggerheads after a number of staffers contracted Covid-19, blame of which the former pinned on ‘poor’ risk assessment. “The steep rise in Covid-19 positive cases and PGI administration are directly responsible for creating a mess that has endangered lives of institute’s staffers,” the union said in a release. The administration has refuted the allegations, stating that it is fully aware of its responsibility towards the health, safety and security of its workforce. There have been instances, the union said, where heads of department ‘forced’ those who came in contact with infected patients to continue with their duties, instead of sending them for timely risk assessment and testing. “There is no care or follow-up of patients under home quarantine. No call is made and no treatment is prescribed, no status is taken and no sanitisation is done at areas where staffers are tested positive. Similarly, 50% staff strength policy is not being followed and employees are performing duties in small and poorly ventilated rooms, despite the fact that workload is less,” the union mentioned. The employees’ body alleged that staffers and their family members were being harassed while undergoing Covid-19 test. “There is no separate screening facility for more than 15,000 employees, students and their family members,” it added. However, the institute has said that in view of some of the issues flagged by PGI Employees Union (Non Faculty) president Ashwani Kumar Munjal, it is extremely vital to share the correct information in this context and put things in perspective to allay the fears and misconceptions being spread due to these false claims. “The institute has formed a risk assessment committee comprising a senior professor from the School of Public Health. She is 24×7 available for the service and it is the result of her tireless efforts that the incidence of Covid-19 is comparatively low. Very few PGI staffers have been home quarantined and most of them have been treated in NHE and other wards designated for the staff. The requisite treatment has been provided on a case-to-case basis,” the institute spokesperson said.The areas are sanitised periodically and on demand from time to time as per the guidelines, the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgi-employees-body-administration-at-odds-over-poor-risk-management/story-gVCQfbtvf1q0Y96SevsQdJ.html
18-09-2020||City||Public dealing in full swing at Mohali bank despite manager tests +ve||The manager of Bank of Baroda branch in Mohali’s Phase 9 had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 15, but the authorities have neither closed the branch nor sanitised it. Even on Thursday, the branch was fully opened and public dealing was going on in full swing.The staff members have now lodged a complaint with the Bank of Baroda regional officer. “We got to know that our manager has been tested positive for Covid-19 and he was present at the branch on September 11 and interacted with few staff members. Two employees were also with him when he went for an inspection, so they need to be tested and other staff members and customers need to be protected in such cases. However, no action has been taken by the regional office and branch operated with full staff on Thursday also,” their complaint read. As per the Union health ministry’s directions, the entire office building needs not to be closed if one or two cases of Covid-19 are reported there and work can resume after it is disinfected as per the protocol. The guidelines state that any staffer reportedly suffering from flu like illness should not attend office and seek medical advice from local health authorities. Such persons, if diagnosed as a suspect or confirmed case of Covid-19, should immediately inform office authorities.As per the norms of Disaster Management Act, samples of all employees should be taken, limited staff should be called to the office and the premises should be completely sanitised, which, in this case, were not followed.When contacted, the branch manager said, “I tested positive on September 15, but standard operating procedures are yet to be followed by the regional office.”Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “It is against the Disaster Management Act. We will get it verified and action will be taken accordingly against the authorities concerned.Zonal head of Bank of Baroda, Mohan Lal, said, “I am not aware of the issue, but will definitely look into it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/public-dealing-in-full-swing-at-mohali-bank-despite-manager-tests-ve/story-GOzlWLc0ApIu66brREVyhO.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Over 40 IPS officers shuffled in Maharashtra police force||In second major internal shuffling of senior Maharashtra Police officers, the state government on Thursday transferred over 40 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. Senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta is now Pune’s new police commissioner, replacing additional director general (ADG) Dr K Venkateshan, who is now ADG special operations. Maharashtra State Security Corporation (MSSC) chief Vinit Agrawal will take Gupta’s place in the home department. ADG Anup Kumar Singh has been given a posting in Home Guards, ADG Sandeep Bishnoi in railways (police) and ADG Vinay Kargaonkar will hold the post of ADG civil rights protection. This post was upgraded from IG rank to ADG rank. Previous IG at this post Kaiser Khalid has been transferred, but is yet to get a new posting. IG Brijesh Singh who was waiting for a new assignment after being transferred from state cyber police chief’s post, has been given the charge of special IG administration’s office. Shivdeep Lande, who was the DCP anti-narcotics cell of Mumbai Crime Branch, has now been posted in the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). Former additional commissioners of Mumbai police, Manoj Sharma and Nishith Mishra, have been moved to MSSC and Protection and Security branch (Mumbai police), respectively. DCP ATS Vikram Deshmane is Thane Rural SP, while IPS Sachin Patil is the superintendent of Nashik Rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-40-ips-officers-shuffled-in-maharashtra-police-force/story-AgXebTOhlIgJSqCwnrtAFJ.html
18-09-2020||City||MNS workers carry out mock funeral of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in Navi Mumbai over “Covid failures”||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) party workers, on Thursday, performed a mock funeral of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) at Ghansoli creek to symbolise the failure of the government in handling Covid cases. MNS workers claimed that many had been losing their loved ones to the deadly virus due to government’s failure.“We did the last rites thrice since three parties are involved in MVA to show that the government is practically dead after many people have died due to Covid. If not for Covid, many families would have held last rites of their loved ones only after a decade or so. They had to do it now because the government couldn’t control Covid,” Sachin Achare, secretary of the party in Navi Mumbai, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mns-workers-carry-out-mock-funeral-of-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-government-in-navi-mumbai-over-covid-failures/story-BOD7ZI85q5sgVWHd8wbQGK.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Can Mumbai’s landfills be a thing of the past, NGO Praja asks||Landfills have been the go-to answer for garbage disposal of cities in India. However, these can be source of diseases, cause frequent fires and overall an archaic way of disposal of solid waste. The pandemic has brought to forefront the importance of sanitation and hygiene as a key determinant of health. It is therefore an opportune time now, for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to streamline its solid waste management (SWM) practices and change directions to look at alternatives. Current status of SWM in Mumbai In spite of a huge budget allocated to solid waste management over the years (₹2,906 crore in 2020-21), BMC has been lagging in the nation-wide rankings under Swachh Sarvekshan. Mumbai’s 2019 rank was 49 among 100 cities (with more than 1 lakh population) fallen from 18 in 2018. The fall can be attributed to the change in methodology, which added weightage for certifications such as Star Rating. Under the Star Rating for Garbage Free Cities, Mumbai had a two-star rating in 2019, and in response to its application for five-star rating for 2020, lost all its stars, after not meeting the criteria of 100% sweeping of public areas in the third-party survey. In terms of meeting targets under the Municipal Solid Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2016 (MSW rules) as well, Mumbai has been lagging behind. While the MSW rules provide for 100% segregation of waste at source it is noticed that only 83% segregation was done in 2018-19 (includes waste not segregated at source). BMC claims that 100% door-to-door collection was done in 2018-19. However, data shows that in 2019, of 17,116 SWM complaints, 36% were related to garbage not being collected. Apart from that, waste recovery and timely solving of complaints also requires attention. 73% of solid waste is food biodegradable BMC’s Environment Status Reports show that 73% of solid waste composition in Mumbai is food biodegradable waste. What is evident from a four-year trend is reduction in this food biodegradable waste through various policies that incentivise composting, have reduced the overall waste generation of the city from around 9400MTD in 2016-17 to 7450MTD in 2018-19. For example, the policy of not collecting biodegradable waste from bulk generators (units generating more than 100kg per day) started in January 2018, saw almost half (49%) of such units compost their waste by March 2019. BMC therefore needs to focus on further reducing biodegradable waste being collected and going to the landfill by incentivising and strictly implementing such measures for all waste generating units. BMC should set a 1-year target of reducing waste generation from around 7500MTD to 2000MTD by adopting a zero food biodegradable waste policy that mandates decentralised composting. This will not only enable the city government to meet its MSW rules’ target of 80% recovery of waste, but also increase the waste to compost tonnage under Swachh Bharat Mission. First, it needs to involve people in the waste management process through a mix of awareness, incentives as well as punitive measures. The need for segregation of waste, not just into food waste and dry non-biodegradable waste, but the latter into toxic waste, medical waste and recyclable waste is important, even more now with households generating medical waste due to the pandemic. Second, it needs to set up the required infrastructure and networks within six months for enabling decentralised composting. Ward 189 in F/South, Mumbai is a successful example of decentralised composting within the ward, with door-to-door collection and segregation through community involvement. BMC can look to develop constituency-wise SWM plans spearheaded by the local elected representatives and prepared with public involvement taking into consideration the demography, land-use and other constituency specific issues. Third, BMC should stop collecting food biodegradable waste from residential and commercial units in a phased manner from the eighth month, while promoting recovery of food waste. Fourth, strict monitoring of its implementation and regular reviews of the performance of individual units, non-government partners and of the constituency plans.What remains to be seen is whether BMC is able to implement radical changes in the coming years that send landfills the way of the tram – for people to remember of it as a thing of the past. Co-authored by Jennifer Spencer, project co-ordinator, Souradeep Roy, communications officer and Milind Mhaske, Director at Praja Foundation, Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/can-mumbai-s-landfills-be-a-thing-of-the-past-ngo-praja-asks/story-TV29vn2GNCqw6Kg7XPiDHK.html
18-09-2020||City||22-yr-old arrested for stealing bikes in Kalyan, 4 others on the run||A 22-year-old man has been arrested by Khadakpada police in Kalyan on Thursday for stealing 16 two-wheelers. The man used master keys and innovative techniques to steal bikes.Police said that the accused, Sidharth Kamble, 22, a resident of Ambivli, stole bikes from Kalyan-Dombivli and hid them on the outskirts in Ambivli, Baneli and Mohna villages.A police official said, “The accused worked with four others to steal these bikes. They have stolen all these bikes by breaking handle lock or tampering wires of the bike.”The other accused are on the run. They are identified as Raju Wagh, Faruq Irani, Innu Irani and Hasan Irani. “The team worked in different areas to steal bikes. They had mechanical knowledge of the bikes. The bikes stolen were further used for crimes of chain and mobile snatching by history sheeters,” the official added. Police are searching for the other four accused. Kamble is new in this work and was trained by other four accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-yr-old-arrested-for-stealing-bikes-in-kalyan-4-others-on-the-run/story-VKIbYbDaoTMNorJZITrjfO.html
18-09-2020||City||Raigad daily wage labourers lose jobs during lockdown, take to robbing bikes||Raigad police have arrested two men for vehicle thefts during the lockdown period owing to unemployment. The accused have been identified as Amol Ramchandra Tuntune (24), a resident of Sahangoti in Alibag, and Shiv Subhash Mali (30), a resident of Dhavar in Alibaug.Senior police inspector, KD Kolte, of Alibag police station, said, “Acting on a tip-off, we nabbed the duo from Alibag. Their modus operandi was to start the ignition of the bikes parked on road by joining the wires and run away with them.”The duo used to work as daily wage employees at brick kiln. After losing out on employment, they started stealing two-wheelers. They’d steal bikes mostly after dark. Due to lockdown, the accused could not sell the stolen bikes and had hidden them at various spots, which the police recovered post their arrest.Around four two-wheelers worth ₹1.20 lakh have been recovered from the accused. It has been found that the accused had four cases registered against them with Alibag police and the police are investigating further to find if they had committed similar crimes outside Alibag as well. The accused have been kept in police custody till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/raigad-daily-wage-labourers-lose-jobs-during-lockdown-take-to-robbing-bikes/story-Ji1YTB928FFmdMi9rfzPzL.html
18-09-2020||City||Dombivli elderly couple gets ₹1.47 lakh power bill, MSEDCL says it accurate||A senior citizen couple in Dombivli, who used to pay around ₹4,000 monthly, has received ₹1.47 lakh as their electricity bill this month.The bill has come as a huge shock to the couple who live with their son in Milapnagar, Dombivli MIDC. They’ve registered a complaint with Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) on the exorbitant bill.Complainant Gajanan Chaudhary, 67, and his wife Gouri, said, “I receive an average bill of ₹4,000 every month. The September bill is for ₹1.47 lakh. I checked with MSEDCL. They said that the bill was correct and I could pay them in three instalments. It is not that we have not paid anything in the last six months. We’ve been paying as per the average reading.”Chaudhary said his meter was replaced in December. However, MSEDCL did not carry out any reading since January. “All my bills were cleared till December last year. After the replacement of the meter, they did not note any reading and used to charge us for average usage. Even during lockdown, there was no reading done.”MSEDCL officials, however, claimed that the bill provided to the consumer was accurate.“The electricity bill provided was accurate according to their electricity usage and meter readings. Three officers, on Wednesday, inspected the electricity meters of the consumer and found it to be accurate,” said Vijay Dudhbhate, public relations officer, MSEDCL.Dudhbhate added, “Furthermore, their meter readings were not taken until August after lockdown. The meter readings were taken on August 4. At that time, they had used 10,260 units of electricity. The unit was divided into 7 months and 5 days and they were given an accurate bill. Also, the amount paid by the customer was deducted from the total bill.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dombivli-elderly-couple-gets-1-47-lakh-power-bill-msedcl-says-it-accurate/story-dQL82S1YhCap5i8ePWzK0J.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Construction of Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor to create 90,000 jobs: National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited||The Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train corridor will create 90,000 direct and indirect jobs during the construction of the high-speed railway line, the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which is building the project, has claimed.NHSRCL has stated that more than 51,000 technicians, skilled and unskilled workers, would be required for the construction of the railway lines.“NHSRCL is exploring the possibilities of providing training to unskilled labourers in various construction-related disciplines such as bar bending, tile and concrete laying, construction electrical works, plastering, among others, to improve their chances of employability and earnings,” said NHSRCL spokesperson Sushma Gaur. The construction works for the high-speed railway corridor project will include 12 stations, a 460-km long viaduct, a 7-km undersea tunnel, 26-km-long tunnels and 27 steel bridges.NHSRCL said 64% of land needed for the construction of the project has been acquired, most of which is from Gujarat and few from Maharashtra. However, the authorities have stated that the deadline for the project, which was earlier set for December 2023, would have to be reassessed, as the land acquisition process has met several roadblocks owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. “The timeline for land acquisition for the project will be rechecked due to the spread of Covid-19 in the country. Important construction-related tenders are expected to be opened and finalised in a few months. These tenders are for the design and construction of civil and building works involving viaducts, bridges, maintenance depots and station buildings,” said a senior NHSRCL official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/construction-of-mumbai-ahmedabad-bullet-train-corridor-to-create-90-000-jobs-national-high-speed-rail-corporation-limited/story-HzQlJVtgtLxxz6Ravh0LRI.html
18-09-2020||City||Drizzle likely in Noida; may only increase humidity and discomfort, says weatherman||Noida: Noida and its adjoining regions of Western Uttar Pradesh and the national capital region may see light rain or drizzle in some areas on Friday and Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.However, with the region already experiencing warm skies, the change in weather, along with cloudiness followed by drizzle, may further worsen conditions due to higher humidity and only a marginal drop in mercury.“Due to favourable weather conditions, the region of western Uttar Pradesh, including NCR, are likely to receive easterly winds, which may increase the moisture content and lead to cloudiness resulting in drizzle or very light rain in parts of Noida and Ghaziabad. However, this will drop the maximum temperatures only by one or two degrees. The rise in humidity will make the weather further uncomfortable,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added that there are, however, chances of light rainfall on September 22 and 23, which may bring some respite from the heat.Noida, along with its neighbouring areas, has been experiencing maximum temperatures higher than the season’s average since the past week due to drop in monsoon activity.The last time heavy rains were recorded in the city was on August 28, which was measured to be around 70mm. The maximum temperatures started rising after September began, from 33.2 degrees Celsius in On September 1 and 37 degrees Celsius on September 17.So far, Noida has seen an average rainfall of 68.3 mm against the expected 524.4mm, which is 87% deficit.Thursday’s maximum temperature was three notches above the season’s average against 37.9 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 27.1 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier.The humidity oscillated between 75% and 48%, with the day getting drier by noon.“Due to extra moisture that is set to enter the region, the humidity may increase from 75% at present to around 85 to 90% by Friday and Saturday. This will lead to further discomfort to the people,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drizzle-likely-in-noida-may-only-increase-humidity-and-discomfort-says-weatherman/story-dq0oREPPqp4BLanBambE7N.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Make action plan to attract more investment into Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tells state’s industries department||In order to boost economic activity in the state, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday directed the state’s industries department to prepare an action plan to attract more investment into Maharashtra. A senior official said the department would focus on online systems and “perception building” measures will be adopted to project Maharashtra as a suitable investment destination. Thackeray, who held a review meeting with officials at his official residence Varsha on Thursday, said that ease of doing business was key to attract investments. In the press release issued by the CM’s office, the CM said, “Maharashtra has been the preferred investment destination in the country and ease of doing business (EoDB) plays an important role in helping the state maintain this. Our state should remain a step ahead in EoDB. For this, the department should prepare an action plan.” The statement went on to say that Maharashtra has been “the first choice for foreign investment” in the past and this should continue to be the case in the future. “For the state to flourish, more and more investors should be attracted to come to Maharashtra. The state needs to work on making ‘ease of doing business’ effective,” said the CM in the statement. With a nationwide economic slowdown and the challenges posed by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, large-scale investment is necessary to turn the wheels of Maharashtra’s economy, said officials from the industries department. An official said, on condition of anonymity, that the state needed to be ready for tough competition once the economy opened up. “We have to strengthen the online systems and make it much more effective. Our aim is to make the physical touch points almost negligible. We have to work on the reforms for the current year. Another important aspect that we will work on is perception building,” said the official from the industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/make-action-plan-to-attract-more-investment-into-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-tells-state-s-industries-department/story-DPRcInKPY1VHoXLX6AQ18K.html
18-09-2020||City||Activists complain of encroachments in Airoli||With most authorities busy fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, illegal constructions have mushroomed all over the city in the last six months. One such plot is the Cidco plot in Sector 20, Airoli, where over 200 hutments have come up under the high tension cables.Cidco anti-encroachment department had taken action in the area around two years back. However, the shanties have again come up in the area spread over around 800sqm. While the MIDC areas of Navi Mumbai have several slum colonies, this area in Airoli too has been witnessing increased encroachments. There is a huge demand for the shanties here due to its location. Apart from residences, there are also shops and markets in the area and even a nursery that has come up.Krishna Suryavanshi, 38, a social worker, said: “The shanties on this plot have a lucrative sales value and, thus, are set up regularly despite action. Several residents have proof of residing in the area for the past several years. There could soon be demand to regularise this colony. Following the demolition action in 2018, Cidco had enclosed the area with a wired fence. However, the slumlords soon took over and started constructing hutments. The slums have increased further in pandemic.”Cidco PRO, Priya Ratambe, said, “We will look into the issue and if there is encroachment, Cidco will act in the matter soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/activists-complain-of-encroachments-in-airoli/story-z7rIYiCEjoUsG9vE2BraJM.html
18-09-2020||City||Two bodies recovered from Greater Noida; one of woman and another of a boy reported missing||A woman, believed to be in her late 20s, was found dead, with severe injury marks on her face and neck, in Greater Noida’s Surajpur on Wednesday. It appears someone attacked her with sharp objects and dumped the body in a field, said the police. The woman had on a kurta and salwar. According to Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, the police received information from a passerby about a body, after which a police team along with forensic experts soon reached the spot and launched the investigation.Jitendra Deekhit, in-charge of Surajpur police, said the body was found in a field. “The body was sent for a post-mortem and medical reports ruled out sexual assault. The report revealed that she was killed sometime on Monday night. The killer used a sharp object to first attack her neck and throat, and later smashed her face with a hard object. We took a suo motu cognizance of the matter and registered a case against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) and Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of IPC,” he said.Police have formed three teams and launched an investigation into the matter. The Greater Noida police are also communicating with its counterparts in Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr and Hapur and other neighbouring districts to see if there is a missing complaint registered there that fits the description of the woman. In another case, a 14-year-old boy, who had gone missing from September 14 from Badalpur area, was found dead in Kherli canal in Dankaur on Wednesday. DCP Chander said the boy was a resident of Bambawad village in Badalpur. “He had gone to the local market on his bicycle on September 14 but never returned home. Next day, the family filed a missing person’s complaint and the police launched a search,” the DCP said.“On Wednesday, his bicycle was found abandoned near a canal in Dankaur. Divers launched a search and the same day, the victim’s body was recovered from the canal,” the senior officer said. The boy was a student of class X in a government school.Chander said that the police have registered a case under Section 363 (kidnapping) against unknown persons and launched an investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-bodies-recovered-from-greater-noida-one-of-woman-and-another-of-a-boy-reported-missing/story-2jXaSVVLAUtuNGeJHrRy9O.html
18-09-2020||Noida||UP government orders probe against two Greater Noida officials over ‘work irregularities’||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday ordered a probe against two senior officials of the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) for alleged irregularities in work. These two officials were earlier posted at the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), where the charges of alleged irregularities first came up.Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary of the Uttar Pradesh government, on Thursday issued two separate orders for a probe into the matter. One of the officials is a general manager while another one is a senior manager.Kumar’s letter, issued for a probe into the general manager’s role, states, “The government has ordered a probe after indicting them in primary investigation. The general manager is accused of not taking interest in departmental works, and not executing the works on decisions taken in the Authority’s meetings. The official had also proposed the wrong proposal of some projects to higher officials. The government had also received some complaints from allottees against the official.”Meanwhile, as per the second letter, the senior manager is also accused of allegedly not taking an interest in official works, and allegedly taking a lot of unplanned leaves. “The official is held accountable for not taking an interest in official works, doing no contribution in work,” the letter says.The actions have been initiated under Section 7 of the UP Government Servant (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1999. Section 7 talks about disciplinary action and penalties imposed against officials if found guilty. The two officials were not available for a comment. The government has asked Noida Authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari to probe the matter. Maheshwari confirmed Thursday that she has received the order for the enquiry. “We do not have more information about the matter as of now. The enquiry will be done as per norms,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-government-orders-probe-against-two-greater-noida-officials-over-work-irregularities/story-uDxKQ3E6pCKXL01Kfl8pJM.html
18-09-2020||City||Panvel civic body sends evacuation notices to 150 buildings in Kharghar, Taloja||The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has issued evacuation notices to thousands of residents in more than 150 buildings in Kharghar and Taloja. These buildings are reportedly in dangerous condition. The corporation has asked the owners to conduct immediate structural audit of the buildings and submit a report on its condition.The notices have come in the wake of the collapse of a five-storeyed building in Mahad recently in which several lives were lost. The notices have been issued by PCMC to many buildings including those constructed by City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) ten years ago.Those issued notices include 10 buildings in KH2 of Vastu Vihar in Sector 16 of Kharghar, 11 buildings in KH4 of Celebration Society in Sector 17 of Kharghar, nearby villages and also buildings in Taloja.Dashrath Bhandari, PCMC ward officer for Kharghar and Taloja, said, “Over 150 notices have been issued to the dilapidated, dangerous buildings in Kharghar and Taloja. The residents have been asked to vacate the buildings immediately. They have been asked to submit structural audit report of the buildings within 3 days, if they believe that the condition of the buildings is good enough to reside.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-civic-body-sends-evacuation-notices-to-150-buildings-in-kharghar-taloja/story-deuCeU1sOLt2RiDumIYB0K.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||MES employee held in honey trap case||An employee of the Military Engineering Services (MES), Jaipur, was arrested from Rewari for allegedly spying and passing on sensitive information to a Pakistan operative on Wednesday. The Special Task Force (STF) Haryana and military intelligence conducted the joint operation after receiving inputs that the suspect had been “honey-trapped” on social media. Honey trap refers to enticing a person into divulging sensitive information. The suspect, identified as 28-year-old Mahesh Kumar from Rewari was employed as a ‘multi tasking staff’ (MTS) and his duties included cleaning and carrying the office post. Police officers familiar with the investigation said that Kumar had established contact with the woman over Facebook in 2018 who allegedly introduced herself as a government employee in the Indian state of Punjab. Investigators claim this woman was an operative of the Pakistani intelligence. “The two had been regularly in touch over texts, chats and audio/video calls. He had also received two payments of ₹5000 each from the handler’s local intermediary in the past year. In preliminary probe, he confessed to be in touch with the woman over WhatsApp,” said a senior STF official, requesting anonymity. In June, the military intelligence based in Lucknow received inputs that information was being passed from a mobile number in Jaipur to an operative in Pakistan. Over the next couple of months, an investigation revealed that he was staying in Dharuhera, Rewari. These inputs were shared with STF Haryana and a joint team was formed for the raid. Officials said that Kumar had access to certain files and routine documents, whose copies he may have shared with the intelligence operative over WhatsApp. Police said he was booked under Official Secrets Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code in Dharuhera. His phone has been sent for forensic examination. “Our probe has revealed that the woman had asked him for details of serving Army personnel in Jaipur. He had passed on information related to some senior officers, posting orders of civilian MES staffers, pictures of documents meant to be posted and a diagram of a field formation,” said the official cited above.B Satheesh Balan, Deputy Inspector General, STF, Haryana, said, “Kumar was arrested for passing classified information to a Pakistan-based intelligence operative, whom he claimed to have befriended on social media two years ago. After the initial lead from Lucknow, we worked on the case and it was a joint operation. As per initial questioning, he was in contact with one woman, who was using two WhatsApp numbers. We have handed him over to the local police for further questioning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mes-employee-held-in-honey-trap-case/story-9Qtzzgdg1Sb5rMbcUVgGHN.html
18-09-2020||City||Three warehouses gutted in fire in Dadri; shop owners allege foul play||A major fire gutted three scrap dealing warehouses in Chhitehra village in Dadri early Thursday morning. No one was injured in the fire, but the owners of the warehouses said they suffered losses to the tune of ₹8-10 lakh.The owners – Irfan Saifi, Zakir and Sohail (both identified by single names), who were running the shops on rented premises, alleged foul play and have lodged a complaint against unknown persons for setting the warehouses on fire.According to the complaint lodged by them, the incident occurred at around 1am on Thursday. “I received a call from soome neighbours who said that the three warehouses had caught fire in a row. I reached the spot and informed police and fire department officials. The warehouses were already up in flames,” Saifi said in the complaint. He said he suspected the role of some miscreants behind the incident.Arun Kumar, chief fire safety officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that six fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the blaze. “The firefighters doused the fire in one hour. There was no injury to anybody. As far as what led to the incident, the police will investigate it, while our primary work to respond to the call and douse the fire,” he said.Meanwhile, the scrap dealers said that the warehouses were set on fire on purpose. “Some people are trying to disturb the communal harmony in the area. We suspect that someone deliberately set the warehouse on fire,” he said.Zakir, one of the scrap dealers, said that the situation in the village has been tense since a man was murder on September 8. 25-year-old Sheru Bhati was stabbed to death allegedly by three persons—Jamshed, Shoeb, and Wasim— over a personal rivalry in Chhitehra village in Dadri. Jamshed and one of the alleged accomplices were arrested on September 10 while the third was arrested a day later.“The situation became tense after a group of people had held a meeting on September 13 and vowed to take ‘revenge’. I had even stopped going to the warehouse for safety concerns,” he said.The police had arrested 10 persons for attending the meeting and giving provocative speeches.Zakir said that late Thursday night a caretaker informed him that a major fire had broken out his warehouse. “I feared for my safety and did not visit the shop at night. In the morning, I found that most of the warehouse was gutted in the fire. We have suffered loss worth ₹3 lakh,” he said.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said a police team and firefighters reached the spot after getting information about the fire. “Two caretakers were sleeping in the warehouse, who escaped unhurt, but they did not see any outsider at the spot when the incident took place. It is likely that the fire occurred due to a short circuit. We have received the complaint from the shop owners and are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said.Pandey said that last week some people tried to polarise people using the September murder case, however, the police swiftly made arrests and defused the tension.An FIR as registered in the matter by Thursday evening. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO Dadri police station said based on the complaint, a case was filed under case under Section 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house, etc.) of the IPC. “We have launched a search to identify the suspects,” he added.Meanwhile, local people in Chhitehra said that some miscreants had set another warehouse of scrap materials on fire Thursday evening. Jeeshan, the shop owner said, “Some people torched my warehouse in the evening around 7pm.I suspect the warehouse was set on fire on purpose, but I don’t know by whom,” he said.“A fire tender reached the spot on Thursday evening and doused the flames. The scrap dealer had dispatched a lot of material from this warehouse in the morning, and some materials were damaged in the fire. We will register another case once a complaint is filed on this incident,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-warehouses-gutted-in-fire-in-dadri-shop-owners-allege-foul-play/story-idzZTxNwIgpat4Gq1rO9MN.html
18-09-2020||City||Fight between actors Kangana Ranaut and Urmila Matondkar takes political turn||Controversial Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut’s objectionable remarks against another actor Urmila Matondkar took a political turn, as state Congress unit criticised Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders for supporting Ranaut, which according to them, has led to the latter’s relentless remarks against Mumbai and now Matondkar. The party has demanded an apology from the actor as well as the BJP. On the other hand, the BJP said Ranaut was responding to verbal attacks on her and there was no reason for the party to support her. Ranaut called Matondkar a “soft porn actor” on a news channel, which led to another controversy. Many on the social media slammed her remarks. She was responding to Matondkar’s criticism where she called her “Rudaali”, a professional mourner hired in certain areas of Rajasthan after the death of a relative. Earlier, Ranaut had compared Mumbai with Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (PoK). Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said BJP’s support has emboldened Ranaut to go to an extent of using such detestable words for Urmila. He also alleged that BJP has been revengeful against the state since they lost power last year. “Strongly condemn reprehensible remarks of @kanganateam against urmilamatondkar ji. BJP has been revengeful to Maharashtra since they lost power. Urmila ji has given us award winning masterpieces. We are proud of Urmila ji who truly represents culture of Maharashtra. A woman from a Marathi middle-class background & a complete outsider in film industry, Urmila ji became a successful star solely by her talent and hard work,” Sawant said in a series of tweets. “BJP called Kangana Jhansi ki Rani, gave her Y category security, facilitated meeting with governor and extended full support even though she kept abusing Mumbai, insulted 13 crore Maharashtrians, 106 martyrs on the BJP’S script. She boasts of BJP support & a guarantee of BJP ticket,” he added. State BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari said, “Ranaut is being attacked physically and verbally and she is responding to it. Whatever she said about Matondkar is her response to what the former has said about her.” “Ranaut was given security considering the threat she was getting over coming to Mumbai and she has also made a demand. People call her “Jhansi ki Rani” because she has played her character in a movie just like Amitabh Bachchan played a character named “Shahenshah”. There is no reason for the BJP to support her. It also doesn’t suit the Congress to support the people who are attacking her [Ranaut],” said the BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fight-between-actors-kangana-ranaut-and-urmila-matondkar-takes-political-turn/story-zp62bdjx1lFRX0gexW78CJ.html
18-09-2020||City||Vikram Tyagi abduction case: NHRC notices issued to UP Police, seeks action-taken report||The National Human Rights’ Commission (NHRC) has sought an action taken report from the Uttar Pradesh police chief within four weeks in connection with the ongoing investigation into the alleged abduction of 36-year-old Raj Nagar Extension resident Vikram Tyagi in June. Tyagi, a project director with a realty firm, went missing on the night of June 26 under mysterious circumstance. A day later, his car was found in Muzaffarnagar district, about 100kms from Ghaziabad, with blood stains inside. After the Ghaziabad police began investigation, the case was transferred to the UP special task force (STF) in July following protests from the family.The petition with the NHRC was filed by lawyer Vishnu Kumar Gupta. “Since I also live in the same locality, I saw his family deeply disturbed by the incident. As there has been no progress, I decided to move the NHRC. In my petition I have sought monitoring of the case by additional director general (Meerut zone) and if there is no result within a time frame, the case should be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI),” said Gupta. “Vikram has small children and his family still has no clue about his whereabouts.” Tyagi’s family suspects that he may have been a victim of a robbery. However, all attempts to trace Tyagi or any suspected gang behind the incident has not yielded any results. The NHRC on Thursday directed: “Transmit a copy of the complaint to the concerned authority calling for a report within four weeks. In case, the report is not received within the stipulated time, the Commission shall be constrained to invoke coercive process u/s 13 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 for personal appearance of the concerned authority.” Tyagi’s abduction case was lodged at Sihani Gate police station and officials said that apart from UP STF, teams from Ghaziabad police were also aiding investigation. “We have no leads on his whereabouts," said Sanjay Tyagi, Vikram Tyagi’s uncle. “It seems that he could have been a victim of some carjacking or a robbery. He may have given chase to the robbers after which they held him captive and took him away. The front portion of his car was damaged which suggests that he probably crashed his car onto the vehicle of the robbers. Such incidents have often been reported from Raj Nagar Extension area. We still feel that the district police are capable to handle the case but all investigation has drawn a naught so far. In between we also moved Allahabad high court in a petition.”The high court in its order on September 1 directed that senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad should supervise the case. “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties, we direct the investigating officer of the present case to conclude the investigation of the present case and submit a police report before the magistrate concerned expeditiously preferably within a period of six months from the date of production of a copy of this order. Investigating officer is also directed to make all the efforts to recover the victim within the aforesaid period,” the court in its order, said. Kalanidhi Naithani, SSP Ghaziabad, said that apart from the STF, they are also aiding investigation. “We are working on some leads in the case and all efforts are being taken up in investigation. The blood that was found in victim’s car was his. A DNA test was conducted and it matched with his parents,” SSP added. The investigation also found that a policeman had stopped Tyagi’s car at a check point in Khatauli (Muzaffarnagar district). There were allegedly two men inside who told him that they were from the police. When the policeman saw blood inside the car, he tried to stop the vehicle, but the men drove away, said a police officer. The car was discovered 50 km from this check point. Tyagi’s family said that they have not received any ransom calls. RK Mishra, deputy superintendent of police (UP STF), said that STF teams from Noida and Meerut are involved in the investigation of the case. “We are scanning all active gangs in western UP but we have not found their involvement so far. Police from Ghaziabad and other districts are also helping in case investigation,” he added. During investigation, the cops had also suspected to the role of Ashu Jaat who is allegedly involved in the abduction and murder of Greater Noida-based executive, Gaurav Chandel. Chandel was a victim of a carjacking incident and was murdered on January 7 while he was on his way home to Gaur City in Greater Noida West. On September 5, Ashu Jaat who was absconding since the incident was traced by police in Mumbai and brought to Hapur on remand. “We also questioned Ashu when he was brought to Hapur but his role in Vikram Tyagi’s case was not established. Tyagi’s case if one off case where things are taking time but the police is working actively to crack it,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vikram-tyagi-abduction-case-nhrc-notices-issued-to-up-police-seeks-action-taken-report/story-zhW69dnMEu7Ih6aOYZjy2L.html
18-09-2020||City||No plans for complete lockdown in Kalyan-Dombivli: Civic chief||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, has clarified that there were no plans to implement complete lockdown for the moment.For almost a week, messages of a complete lockdown in Kalyan-Dombivli have been doing the rounds on social media as cases in the twin cities were increasing exponentially. This led to panic and confusion among the residents.Suryavanshi said that messages circulating on social media about complete lockdown were not true.He said: “As of now, we have no plans to implement a lockdown in KDMC. We have seen several shops not following the social distancing norms. There is a request from the civic body to not violate norms or else strict action will be taken.” KDMC recorded 560 new positive Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 40,220, which is the highest in entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region.Savita Das, 45, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan (W), said, “I’ve got a message on my social media account that there will be complete lockdown in Kalyan-Dombivli on Saturday and Sunday. This actually caused worry as my mother needs to be taken to hospital for her dialysis treatment. I kept asking my relatives if the message was true.”On an average, the KDMC is recording 400-500 new Covid-19 cases daily, higher than any other municipal corporations in MMR. The civic body claimed that the relaxations on lockdown and also the increased number of tests have led to the rise in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-plans-for-complete-lockdown-in-kalyan-dombivli-civic-chief/story-paRstkk2IJ2nuUteF2BRlK.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||Six-acre pond in Subash Nagar to be revived by next monsoon||A six-acre water body in Subhash Nagar, sector 16, is next on the Gurujal initiative’s list of reviving it as a pond for the public.Both administrative and financial approval for the project have been granted, and work tenders are expected to be floated soon by the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG).A Gurugram administraion initiative launched last year, Gurujal aims to address the city’s water scarcity issue through measures, including restoration of ponds and nearby areas as parks. This will be the second body that the initiative will restore.The Subhash Nagar water body is located behind Guru Dronacharya College in Bheem Nagar, close to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority water boosting station.There are currently multiple outlets carrying wastewater into the pond from around 110 households, and also a major sewage line. Locals said is almost always filled with sewage, and non-native, invasive species of vegetation.“The area of the water body itself is about 2.7 acres, and it has been encroached on mainly by informal housing. The encroaching tenements will be removed and recycled sewage water will be fed to a catchment area of about six acres, which we have identified,” said Shubhi Kesarwani, programme manager, Gurujal. “In the Mahabharat, it is believed that Bheem once stopped at this pond for a drink, which gives the place a religious significance as well.” The water body has a depth of about four meters, according to an ecological assessment of the area by a Gurujal team. The assessment also states that “various animals, especially wild boars are seen in the periphery of the pond.”Sayani Halder, a wastewater treatment consultant with Gurujal, explained, “The pond has mainly three sources of water, including rain, runoff, and wastewater. The underlying water table is quite low, at 30 metres below the ground. By diverting untreated sewage away from the pond, and pumping in recycled water, we will also be able to replenish the groundwater. The water body is fairly large and has the ability to support biodiversity and influence micro-climate in the immediate vicinity.”The revival will include not just restoring the water body, but also landscaping the area with a tree garden, seating areas, shaded pathways, a sports arena, an open-air library, and even an amphitheatre space, according to a layout plan shared by the Gurujal team. The project will be the second such project to be facilitated by the MCG, after work on restoring a smaller water body in Sukhrali was completed earlier this year.Jasleen Kaur, MCG nodal officer in charge of pond revival, did not respond to request for comment.Gurujal has also completed drafting detailed project reports (DPRs) for six other water bodies lying within Gurugram city limits, including two in Dhanwapur, two in Badshahpur and another two in Ghata village.While specific details pertaining to the remaining projects were not provided, Kesarwani said, “The restoration of Ghata’s water bodies will be the most challenging task, given how the area’s hydrogeology has changed in recent years. Just in terms of their sheer size and the scope of work involved, it will be a more challenging project than Subash Nagar, or any of the other ponds we are in the process of reviving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/six-acre-pond-in-subash-nagar-to-be-revived-by-next-monsoon/story-Xtf2Wg22uwKa7f3gi7VY0I.html
18-09-2020||Noida||Milkman among three arrested in Noida for a dozen burglaries||Three persons, including a milkman and a suspected criminal, were arrested by the Noida police on Thursday morning for their alleged involvement in a series of burglaries in areas under the Sector 24 police jurisdiction.The suspects were identified as Akash (identified by a single name in police records), 25, who is from Greater Noida, Sonu (single name), 30, who is from Delhi and lives in Khoda colony, and Mukesh Kumar (38), who is from Aligarh and also lives in Khoda.According to police officers, Akash worked as a milkman and conducted recces of houses in various residential areas to identify potential targets. “While working, Akash would keep an eye on houses that had been vacant for a while. Being a regular in the residential areas, no one questioned his movement which gave him a good cover. The three would then break into these houses and decamp with valuables in an Alto car which was registered on Akash’s name,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.The police said that the three suspects were involved in multiple theft, robbery, burglary, and arms act cases, while more cases in which they could be involved are being identified.“Their gang leader, Sonu, is wanted in a murder case lodged in Surajpur and has a bounty of ₹25,000 on him. The gang had also burgled a house in Sector 52 on July 25, and on July 27 strike at another house from where they had decamped with jewellery, laptops, and other valuable items. Another burglary had occurred in the same sector on September 3 as well,” said the DCP.Police officers said that following an investigation into the burglaries, the car’s license plate was caught in a CCTV camera footage which led them to trace the suspects. The gang leader, Sonu, had been in Assam for a while and the three had gathered on Tuesday to sell off some of the stolen goods, said police. They were nabbed by the Sector 24 police near the Morna bus stand following a tip from an informant. The police said that the suspects tried to escape and were arrested after the police personnel gave them a chase during which Sonu was also injured.The suspects had been active for months and were responsible for at least a dozen burglaries in the city, the police said.The police recovered a country-made pistol from them, tools used to break into houses, luxury wristwatches, gold chains, anklets, multiple rings among other jewellery, ₹11,500 cash, 18 silver coins, and a stolen Santro car.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/milkman-among-three-arrested-in-noida-for-a-dozen-burglaries/story-yrSDvUrfcA1hjX76MkrI9N.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||25 illegally constructed warehouses demolished in Sector 94||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Thursday carried out a demolition drive, in which around 25 illegally constructed warehouses in Sector 94 were demolished. DTCP officials said that these warehouses were allegedly constructed on a land, which was marked as an open space in the master plan of the city. These warehouses — built on plots ranging between 500 to 1,500 square yard — had no permission for construction and change of land use, said DTCP officials. RS Bhath, district town planner, who heads the enforcement wing, said that the demolition started around 11am and continued till late in the evening. “There are around 45 such illegal warehouses that have come up in Sector 94 near Hayatpur village in violation of rules. Around 25 such structures were demolished as these are under ‘open spaces’ as per the final development plan of Gurugram. The structures were demolished by the enforcement team with the support of around 200 police staff. This drive will continue till action is completed,” he said. DTCP officials said that warehouses were rented out to different firms for anywhere between ₹50,000 to ₹1.5 lakh per month. The team also razed a road network that was constructed illegally in the area. The action against the illegal warehouses in Sector 94 comes following a complaint by a city-based RTI activist, Raman Sharma, who had alleged that due to inaction by DTCP officials, various land grabbers had built warehouses, factories and other structures in Sector 94 in violation of rules. Sharma had alleged that Sector 94 had been notified by the DTCP as an ‘open space’ and all kinds of construction was banned by the department without its permission. He had alleged that all constructions were in contravention of law and even sale deeds were registered in violation of rules. Following his petition, a lower court in Gurugram had also issued directions for registration of a criminal case but the Punjab and Haryana High Court had given a stay in the matter after the order was challenged. “The violations should be probed properly and relevant action should be taken as per the law,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/25-illegally-constructed-warehouses-demolished-in-sector-94/story-LFc1yQc5KlJ6D67ld7qTvK.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Will provide practice papers for all final-year students: Maharashtra education minister Uday Samant||Practice question papers will be made available for all final-year students — fresh and repeater candidates, said state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Thursday. In a meeting held at the Fort campus of University of Mumbai (MU), Samant assured government assistance to all state universities.“Every university is taking efforts to ensure no student is left out of the examination system, and MU itself will be catering to over 2.47 lakh students, so dates for exam registration have been extended till September 20,” said Samant in a statement released on Thursday evening. He explained that of the 2.47 lakh final-year students, 1.7 lakh are fresh candidates and the rest are repeater candidates. “The exam will be conducted online in multiple-choice question (MCQs) format and the university will conduct offline exams in case of differently-abled students and those who cannot appear for online exams,” added Samant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-provide-practice-papers-for-all-final-year-students-maharashtra-education-minister-uday-samant/story-MKzF6egzidGluXM2Et8mzO.html
18-09-2020||City||Man thrashes woman in public: Attempt to murder charge added to FIR; local post in-charge shunted||The police on Thursday said they have added additional, stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code to the ongoing investigation in the case of a 47-year-old woman being brutally thrashed allegedly by her neighbour in publicly view on a road in Razapur locality of Ghaziabad on Saturday evening. Officers also said that the local police post in-charge has been sent to police lines in connection with the incident.The police action came after a video of the CCTV footage of the incident went viral over social media, in which the man was purportedly seen thrashing the woman, including hitting her with a chair. Later, the suspect, 45-year-old Sunil Chaudhary, a resident of the same locality as the woman, had been arrested following a first information report (FIR) under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation).According to police, the suspect is a storekeeper at a private engineering college on the Delhi-Meeru Road. He lives in own house with his wife and two children in the locality.“We have now added IPC sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 307 (attempt to murder) to the investigation. Apart from this, we have also sent the local post in-charge to police lines for delay in action in the case. A departmental inquiry will be undertaken against him,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city).According to the FIR, the incident took place around 5.15pm Saturday when the woman was on her way to the local market and the suspect allegedly made some offensive comments about her. When she objected to this, videos on social media purportedly showed Chaudhary landing multiple punches and kicks on the woman and beating her up mercilessly even as the public remained mute spectators.The videos purportedly also show him picking up a metal chair and hitting the woman with it till she fell unconscious. Chaudhary then purportedly leaves the spot and another man helps the woman up, who helps her sit at a nearby shop before leaving.The victim’s family had been alleging laxity on part of the police in making arrests and said she had suffered severe injuries to her body, and that more stringent sections should be levied against the suspects.“Section 354 of the IPC is added to the investigation after the suspect misbehaved with the victim. In case the family gives any further complaint, it will be made part of the investigation,” the SP added.In his complaint, the woman’s husband alleged that the suspect would often abuse his wife and their 26-year-old daughter. He alleged that this has been going on for one-and-a-half-years. The family, meanwhile, also alleged that they had earlier complained twice to the local police in-charge and once to officials at the Kavi Nagar police station but then withdrew the complaint. “It was due to intervention of elderly persons and requests from the suspect’s family that we took back our complaints. The man is of an aggressive nature and often misbehaves with women in the locality. It was only after I came across the footage that I came to know of the severity of injuries to my mother. The chair weighed about 12-15kgs and he banged it to her head and chest. The injury to the chest is severe and she is taking up daily treatment at a hospital,” alleged the son of the victim.“After the incident, when we approached the police post in-charge, he did not take the matter seriously and told us that it was a simple case of altercation,” he added.Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said the post in-charge has been sent to police lines and the suspect will face more action.“We will recommend levying the Goonda Act against him once the chargesheet is filed in the case,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-thrashes-woman-in-public-attempt-to-murder-charge-added-to-fir-local-post-in-charge-shunted/story-89fIn98gKdOsU8yHzozVOJ.html
18-09-2020||City||Milk distributor assaulted with spanner, robbed of ₹1.5 lakh||Gurugram: Four unidentified men allegedly assaulted a milk distributor with a spanner and robbed him of ₹1.5 lakh in cash in Jataula, Farrukhnagar, on Tuesday night. Police said the victim suffered injuries and was undergoing treatment at a hospital, but his condition was stable. The victim, Pawan Kumar, lodged a police complaint on Wednesday. According to the police, the incident took place when Kumar was on his way home from Bhora Kalan in Pataudi. In the police complaint, Kumar said, “I closed my shop at 8.15 pm and headed home in my auto. I had reached near Jataula underpass when I noticed that two motorcycles came up on either side.” “One of the suspects started banging the vehicle with a spanner, prompting me to stop. Two men, whose faces were covered, walked up to me and hit me with a rod. They snatched my bag, which had ₹1.5 lakh cash, and my phone and escaped,” he said. Police said the victim borrowed a phone from a commuter and informed his family members of the incident, who then arrived and took him to private hospital in Pataudi. A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “In the statement, he said that four suspects had attacked him. His phone was recovered from Rampura road in Pataudi area shortly after the incident. Several crime teams are working to trace the accused persons.” A case was registered under sections 379 B (snatching), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Farrukh Nagar police station on Wednesday. In another incident, four unidentified men allegedly robbed ₹33, 000 cash from a 54-year-old man after offering him a lift in a cab from Iffco Chowk on Wednesday. According to the police, the incident took place around noon when the Delhi-based victim, who works in a private hospital, was waiting to catch a bus to the civil hospital. Police said, a car, with four occupants, stopped and offered him a lift to civil hospital. After driving a while, the suspects allegedly manhandled the victim and robbed him. They let him off at the U-turn near Iffco chowk flyover and fled. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “We are checking the CCTVs in the area to trace the suspects. No arrests have been made so far.” An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at sector 29 police station on Wednesday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/milk-distributor-assaulted-with-spanner-robbed-of-1-5-lakh/story-7HfG1jmAVOkzorWoasEEiP.html
18-09-2020||City||Thane civic body begins door-to-door survey to find Covid patients||Though the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has claimed to have screened 24.5 lakh residents (equivalent to the population of city), the corporation has to begin the entire survey afresh as per the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ guidelines.The corporation has begun fresh screening on Thursday with more than 450 teams carrying out the survey across the city.The corporation had initiated door-to-door survey of residents to check for any Covid-19-related symptoms for early detection and isolation of cases from July. Moreover, under the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ guidelines, the corporation will also have to carry out a fresh survey for which the TMC has increased its manpower.Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner, said, “As part of our extensive testing and tracing practice, we had a team of 150 people who went door-to-door and checked temperature, oxygen levels as well as residents with co-morbidities or symptoms, and updated them real time. As per the state government guidelines, Thursday onwards we started the survey for a second time.”For the new survey, 450 teams have been formed across the city with each team consisting of two or three people that include a medical representative. “Unlike earlier, we have only 20 days to complete this survey; hence we have included many teams and additional equipment. The state government has asked us to complete 50 households in a single day, so we need additional manpower,” said Sharma. Currently, TMC has around 12,000 people in institutional quarantine, some of them are those found with symptoms during the door-to-door survey.The door-to-door screening survey includes staff from Thane Municipal Transport, various government departments, contractual staff from TMC and teachers, volunteers from social organisations and members of political parties as well. This team focusses on containment screening and surveillance; all of which are updated in real time.A senior TMC official said, “Around nine per cent of the people, surveyed in the last two months, had influenza-like mild symptoms. RT-PCR were conducted on them and those with symptoms were isolated immediately. Our strategy remains the same of testing and tracing, as per the State guidelines,” added a senior TMC officer.The activists are, however, sceptical about the survey. “With the kind of population that Thane city has, it would be difficult to complete the survey in 20 days. The civic body will require a lot of manpower, especially in slum areas. Despite working for two months, they have not been able to complete screening the entire city. This is going to be a humongous task even for those on the field conducting the survey,” said Sanjiv Datta, activist, Thane||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-civic-body-begins-door-to-door-survey-to-find-covid-patients/story-bfJLCPsi5T1LaEA1i0bznL.html
18-09-2020||Noida||With rising number of Covid-19 cases, demand for oxygen goes up in Gautam Budh Nagar||With the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases surging in the district, oxygen demand in the hospitals of Gautam Budh Nagar has more than tripled. Currently, the total number of oxygen cylinders needed per day in the district’s hospitals is 300, compared with 100 cylinders in pre-Covid times, the officials said.District magistrate Suhas LY admitted that demand for oxygen cylinders has gone up after coronavirus cases came up in the district. “However, it is not a matter of concern for us as the only factory that supplies oxygen to the entire national capital region, including Delhi, as well as western Uttar Pradesh – Inox Air Products Limited – is located in Gautam Budh Nagar itself. The state government has already ordered the factory to ensure uninterrupted and ample oxygen cylinder supply to Gautam Budh Nagar and other districts on top priority. The manufacturer has been asked to allow two working shifts in the unit, so that around 1,200 cylinders daily can be filled up, instead of 700 cylinders being readied currently in a single shift,” he said.The DM further said that the factory ships oxygen in liquid form to some hospitals such as the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and Sharda Hospital in tankers, which is then converted into gas and piped directly to beds. “Other Covid-dedicated hospitals use steel and aluminium cylinders which store oxygen in gas form. They change the cylinders for each bed as per need,” he said. District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that to fulfil the rising demand of oxygen cylinders, the district drug department has been asked to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals. “Despite rising demand, we have never witnessed any paucity of oxygen cylinders in any hospitals,” he said.According to Dr Saurav Srivastava, the head of Covid-19 ward at GIMS, “If doctors working in different Covid-dedicated hospitals are to be believed, about a fifth of coronavirus patients require help with breathing, while a few of them appear in no apparent respiratory distress, but are found to have alarmingly low oxygen levels - a condition called silent hypoxia. The demand for oxygen has gone up three times after the outbreak of Covid-19, as oxygen is a must for these critically ill patients.”Echoing similar views, Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, the medical superintendent of Sharda Hospital, said: “The average daily demand for oxygen in Sharda Hospital, which was 10,800 cubic metres from November 2019 to April 2020, went up to 17,000 cubic metres after June 2020. In September as well, the average daily demand stands at 17,000 cubic metres so far,” he said. Gautam Budh Nagar reported its first coronavirus case on March 8. By September 17, the total number of cases reported so far in the district were 10,908, including 48 deaths and 2004 active cases. So far, 8,856 patients have been cured.District drug inspector Vaibhav Babbar confirmed the exponential rise in demand for oxygen after the Covid-19 outbreak. “We have asked oxygen manufacturers to cut supply of industrial oxygen to factories to a minimum in the district. The overall production capacity of this factory is 34 tonnes per day, of which around 30 tonnes per day is being produced at present. Since life is more important than livelihood, the manufacturer has been told to make ample supply of medical oxygen to hospitals in the state,” he said.When contacted, the head of medical supply in Inox Air Products Limited, Akash Kumar, refused to divulge the details of oxygen supply in the district. “We are very much busy in ensuring critical supply of oxygen to our clients, so it is impossible to give the break-up of the figures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/with-rising-number-of-covid-19-cases-demand-for-oxygen-goes-up-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-ReXduOlJu2jCdDMfMyBa6O.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||MCG uses GIS technology to map dengue and malaria hot spots across Gurugram||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has for the first time mapped the prevalence of dengue and malaria in the city, using geographic information system (GIS) technology in order to undertake targeted anti-larvae and fogging measures for the prevention of vector-borne diseases, said officials on Thursday.The civic body has mapped 69 hot spots for dengue and four areas for malaria on the basis of this year’s data available till September 15. MCG officials said that mapping these hot spots will help them analyse the geographical pattern of vector-borne diseases and identify target areas.As per officials, the exact locations from where the vector-borne cases and large concentration of mosquito-breeding spots have been reported have been marked on the map on a sector-wise basis.As per MCG’s map, five dengue hot spots were found in Sector 46, which is the highest for any sector, followed by four in Sector 49, and three each in sectors 12, 28, 43, 106. In Sector 52, there were two dengue hot spots and one malaria hot spot.“MCG is using GIS technology to map every case of dengue and malaria reported in all health facilities in the district, including government and private hospitals, as well as spots where mosquito breeding has been reported. This information will be used to analyse the geographical pattern and identify areas for anti-larvae activities and fogging. We will be allocating our resources accordingly,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG. Geographic information system (GIS) is a type of software that uses satellite images to relate data with an exact geographic location.At least 22 cases of dengue and 15 cases of malaria were reported in the city in 2019 — the lowest in five years. As per Dr Ram Prakash Rai, district epidemiologist, 28 cases of dengue and three cases of malaria have already been reported this year so far. Dengue and malaria cases are usually reported during the monsoon season between June and September.MCG officials said that due to the rise in the number of vector-borne cases in the last two months, the MCG has decided to use GIS mapping and accordingly allocate its anti-larvae operations.“Now that we have a clearer picture of the hot spots, MCG officials will be accordingly sent to these locations to carry out fumigation and anti-larvae operations so that these areas are given more importance than the rest of the city,” said a senior MCG official, deputed in its health wing. “The diseases are still at a stage where they can be contained. With the outbreak of Covid-19, we don’t want to put any additional pressure on the already heavily burdened health sector. All steps are being taken to reduce vector-borne diseases to a minimum,” he said.The district health department and the MCG have together formed teams comprising 171 officials, who have 49 fogging machines at their disposal.The commissioner said that the GIS map has also been shared with the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city. RWA representatives have been asked to check the locations near the hot spots and alert the MCG if pools of stagnant water are found near them.In his message to the RWAs, Singh has also listed two MCG helpline numbers, 7988735682 and 9467469994, on which RWAs can alert the civic body or place requests for fogging and anti-larvae measures.“We received the order from the MCG commissioner earlier this morning, following which directions were issued to the society staff members to check all apartments for stagnated water as well as drains and parks across the society. We have asked them to give us a report on the matter on Sunday, on the basis of which we will take a call on the next course of action,” said Puneet Goyal, president of Tulip Violet RWA, on Thursday.Further health department officials said that between June 1 and September 17, 8.24 lakh houses were checked for mosquito breeding across the city, leading to 2,517 challans being issued against owners whose houses were found to have stagnant water for the third time.Health department officials said that if they find stagnant water at a person’s house, a notice is issued against them for the first two offences. A third-time offence leads to fine, ranging from ₹500 to ₹2,500, depending on the extent of water stagnation and mosquito breeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-uses-gis-technology-to-map-dengue-and-malaria-hot-spots-across-gurugram/story-4uq7RW6nJFLFm0GvqGxp0O.html
18-09-2020||City||In 16 days of September, Ghaziabad’s Covid-19 containment zones rise by over 80%||With a rise in the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Ghaziabad, the number of containment zones has also gone up substantially in the district, with the district admin reporting 615 zones on September 16, as compared to 336 on September 1 – an increase of 83%. According to experts, the rise in the number of containment zones also means that cases are spreading to newer areas and need better management.According to figures of the district admin on its official website, a sharp increase in containment zones can be seen in several areas marked by police station jurisdictions. For example, the Kavi Nagar station saw an increase of 57 zones in 16 days of September, while Sihani Gate and Sahibabad saw an increase of 46 and 49 containment zones, respectively, during the same period.Police station areas of Kotwali in Old City and Vijay Nagar have also seen an increase in containment zone numbers by 30 and 21, respectively. On the other hand, the Indirapuram police station area saw a decline of 22 containment zones from September 1 to September 16.“A substantial increase in the number of containment zones indicates that the cases have risen and there is a spread to new areas. It also indicates that zones are not properly contained and need better enforcement as the local population has started mixing with each other due to opening up of markets, offices, means of transport, etc., after the unlock mode came into effect,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “There are areas where slow growth in the number of containment zones has been seen, which indicates that containment rules are properly being enforced and the local admin has been able to contain the spread of the infection,” he added.In Uttar Pradesh, category 1 zones, which have a single Covid-19 case, are formed in a radius of 100 metres or a Mohalla, whichever is less, while Category 2 zones, which have more than one case, are created in a radius of 200 metres. They also have an additional buffer zone on their outskirts which is defined as per local assessment. Experts said enforcement and management of containment zones is a must to check the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. “In case there is a rise in the number of cases, proper attention should be given to better management of containment zones as well as allied activities like contact tracing, surveillance etc. As per the recent guidelines of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) there has to be 100% testing which needs to be taken up,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the ICMR.In contrast to the steep rise in containment zones in Ghaziabad in September, containment zones in the adjoining Gautam Budh Nagar did not rise drastically in numbers, even though its case tally rose significantly. The overall containment zones in Gautam Budh Bagar stood at 316 on September 1 and increased to 399 on September 16 – an increase of 83 zones, or roughly 20%. Officials of districts have been uploading the daily list of containment zones on their official websites. “We are taking up all activities in containment zones in our district which also include 100% testing. With better management, our testing per lakh of population is much better than other districts in the National Capital Region. Our case fatality ratio is also lower. In our containment zones, we are ensuring strict perimeter control,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.According to state control room figures, Gautam Budh Nagar had 8,058 overall cases on September 1 while the total tally stood at 10,705 cases on September 16.In contrast, Ghaziabad on September 1 had overall 8,465 cases while its tally stood at 11,532 cases on September 16, so far.When approached for comments over the issue, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that CP Tiwari, who earlier held the charge of additional district magistrate (city) and nodal officer for containment zones, will respond over the issue.However, there was no response thereafter till late Thursday night. Yashwardhan Srivastava, additional district magistrate (finance) said that containment zones are not under his jurisdiction.“We are ensuring better management of containment zones and also trying that 100% testing of people in such areas is taken up as per ICMR guidelines. We need more resources for which we have sent a proposal for hiring more lab technicians. The rise in containment zones is due to a sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in September,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-16-days-of-september-ghaziabad-s-covid-19-containment-zones-rise-by-over-80/story-etINCNNAgXRZXvi5YxiaYK.html
18-09-2020||Gurugram||29 oustees who lost their land for Dwarka Expressway to get relief after four years||Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to give alternative plots to 29 families in the villages of Kherki Daula and Bajghera, whose land was acquired by the authority for building the Dwarka Expressway. Although these families were given alternative plots earlier, they were unable to build their homes, as most of these plots were either under a high-tension power cable or found to be smaller in size. These plot owners, who have been waiting for relief for the last four years, will now get alternative plots. Proposal for the same will be sent to the headquarters for approval, said HSVP officials on Thursday.Most of these plots are located in Sector 37C and Sector 110A, said HSVP officials. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, Gurugram, said that after assessing the claims of the allottees and a site visit, the authority has decided to give alternative plots to the oustees. “We have sought permission from the headquarters to allot them plots elsewhere. Once the permission is granted, a draw of lots will be held and possession will be given,” he said. HSVP officials said that the lands of these ousteees were acquired for the construction of Dwarka Expressway, which connects the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway from Kherki Daula to Dwarka. In 2016, land was acquired in the villages of Bajghera and Kherki Daula for the construction of the expressway and, in the same year, the oustees were allotted plots in Sector 37C and Sector 110A as compensation. However, 29 families had raised objections and refused to accept the allocated plots, after these were found to be under a high-tension power line. A few had issues with the size of the plots allocated. Dilip Yadav, whose wife was allotted a plot in Sector 37C, said that the plot was under a high-tension power line and, as such, a house could not be constructed there. “I had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court and all the officials in HSVP in the last four years, seeking relief. After a long delay, our problems have been heard properly and steps have been taken to resolve the issue” he said. HSVP officials added that resolution of pending claims by oustees, land owners and allottees was also being taken up on a priority basis. Jitender Yadav said that possession of plots to oustees, whose land was acquired in Sector 49, would soon be given possession of alternative plots near Rosewood City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/29-oustees-who-lost-their-land-for-dwarka-expressway-to-get-relief-after-four-years/story-xCHivYKLJLDqEDkwLs1pJK.html
18-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbaiites may be able to go for overnight camps at Erangal beach in Malad||As part of its initiative to boost tourism along the city’s coastline, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) is planning to organise overnight camps at Erangal beach in Malad. MTDC owns an 18-acre plot at Erangal beach, which it plans to develop for tourism. Ashutosh Salil, managing director, MTDC, said, “There are plans to have an option for citizens to explore the beach with overnight camps organised at the Erangal beach. Along with the overnight camp, we also plan to have scooters [sand bikes] for tourists.” State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray visited Erangal beach last week, along with officials from the tourism department and MTDC. Later, Thackeray said, “The pristine place will soon have a place for Mumbaikars and tourists alike to enjoy eco-friendly outings.” The scenic Erangal beach is named after Erangal village, near Madh island, and is home to mostly Koli, East Indian and Roman Catholic communities. Among its existing attractions is the 16th-century St Bonaventure Church, which was built by the Portuguese. The real estate in the area around Erangal beach is expected to witness a boom as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned bridges to connect Madh island to Versova and Marve to Manori island. Salil said MTDC had not yet decided if Erangal beach would be developed using a public-private partnership model. “If we are planning to have overnight camps, we will require other supporting infrastructure. This all will be planned on the plot owned by MTDC. Now, whether we give our plot on lease or we adopt a public-private partnership model for such facilities is something that we will have to study, and we will also be seeking permission from the state cabinet for the same,” he said. On the other side of the coast, at Manori beach, MTDC plans to develop a resort on a 25-acre plot that the corporation owns. In 2018, Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT), which owns Kanhoji Angre island, had initiated plans similar to those proposed by MTDC for Erangal beach. These included constructing a semi-paved pathway, a trekking pathway, construction of bio-toilets and several other amenities along with camps to boost tourism. However, the plan has not materialised yet. Kanhoji Angre island is approximately 23km south of Gateway of India and is as an entry point to Mumbai’s harbour. Previously, also in 2018, the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) had planned to develop water tourism at Aksa beach, near Erangal, but the proposal was shelved because the coastline was deemed unsuitable for water sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-can-go-for-overnight-camps-at-erangal-beach-in-malad/story-M0a8XV8ZppLt7BTQIIosSK.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rain deficient September to be boon for paddy, maize growers: Ludhiana agri varsity||After two years of surplus rainfall in the month of September, the city has received merely 13.6mm rain this time (until September 17). As per the meteorological department, the normal rainfall for this month is around 102mm and the city usually records 50mm during this period. But this year, the city is set to see deficient rainfall in September.This, however, is good news for farmers of paddy and maize crop as it will ensure better yield. “Less rainfall is better for crops, especially for paddy as the moisture content will be less,” said Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of the department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University.She added that last year’s surplus rainfall (264mm) had led to delay in the harvesting of crops. “The incessant rainfall last year had damaged the crops and at places, rice seed was also broken,” said Dr Sidhu. Residents, meanwhile, are fuming due to the rising temperature and humidity. Gurmeet Singh, a banker, said, “This hot and humid weather gives us the impression that we are in the month of June. It’s getting more and more difficult to step out in morning hours. Even at home, one cannot sit without an air conditioner.” Dr Sidhu, however, said that light rain is expected on Friday which will provide respite from the rising temperature in parts of Malwa region. “We are expecting some rain in Ludhiana as well,” said Dr Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-deficient-september-to-be-boon-for-paddy-maize-growers-ludhiana-agri-varsity/story-TxYNgGuicyLISk2LbS6C7H.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||PoK missing from India map sent to class 4 students of North MCD schools, inquiry ordered||Several teachers and principals of schools run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North DMC) raised objections after an India map, excluding Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK), appeared in worksheets sent online to class 4 students on Tuesday. The civic body has now ordered an inquiry in the matter.India has always maintained that Kashmir is an integral part of the Indian Union and that Pakistan’s occupation of its land is illegal. The Survey of India – the Central government agency in charge of mapping and surveying -- only approves maps that show the entire Kashmir as Indian territory.Schools across the national capital continue to remain shut since March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and classes are being conducted online. Besides online classes, all schools run by the government, civic bodies and private establishments are also sending children worksheets, links to videos and audios of lessons on WhatsApp and as text messages. In a worksheet on environmental studies, sent to class 4 students of north DMC schools on Tuesday, students were asked to point out the differences between two India maps -- before Independence and after Independence. “The map of independent India excluded Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK). Some teachers pointed out the error and circulated the worksheet on WhatsApp groups. Some also posted the image of the worksheet on social media, pointing out the gaff. It’s shocking that the department did not carefully check the worksheet before sending it to schools which later forwarded that to students,” said a teacher of a north DMC school, requesting anonymity. Another teacher, who wished not to be named, said, “A special team consisting of mentor teachers are preparing worksheets on all subjects. Then the core mentors check these worksheets and send them to the education department for approval. Only then are these worksheets sent to the zonal WhatsApp groups and through them to the schools. How is it even possible that none checked the worksheet before it finally reached students?”Jai Prakash, mayor North DMC, said the error was brought to his notice. “It appears to be a fault on the part of the worksheet and map creator. We are looking into the matter and I have ordered an inquiry. Any kind of laxity will not be tolerated in this case,” he said.North DMC education committee chairperson Garima Gupta termed it an “inadvertent mistake”. “It’s a big mistake but not intentional. We are looking into it and strict action will be taken if anyone is found to be lax,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pok-missing-from-india-map-sent-to-class-4-students-of-north-mcd-schools-inquiry-ordered/story-7l4tSTTZObEuKbym7KXxgL.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Assess before you plan, residents caution DDA||Residents have questioned the way the next master plan for Delhi is being created, citing problems in the current blueprint which had to guide the city’s development till 2021. Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) have pointed out several issues with MPD-2021 such as rampant commercialisation due to mixed land-use policy, frequent amendments to the plan regularise “illegal” developments and lack of implementation of the provisions under the plan. They said the next master plan should take into account “ground realities” and provide real solutions to local problems.During a consultation session organised by the DDA with RWAs of plotted areas on Thursday, a majority of RWAs cited the problem of rampant commercialisation due to mixed land-use, which was allowed in MPD-2021. In the last 13 years, after the mixed land-use policy was implemented, residential areas have been commercialised leading to several problems such as congestion, parking and lack of security besides burdening the civic infrastructure. Rajiv Kakria, convener, Save Our City campaign and a resident of Greater Kailash-I, said, “It has destroyed the residential character of neighbourhoods. Today, safety and security has become our foremost concern due to rampant commercialisation of residential areas. We don’t know who is entering our areas. It has destroyed the social fabric.” A senior DDA official said, “A common concern expressed by most participants was regarding conflicts between commercial and residential uses and issues arising out of mixed land-use. The next MPD-2041 will look into these aspects.”The Save Our City campaign, a collective of over 70 RWAs and civil society members, has sought reply from the DDA on 17 key issues related to transportation, health, city planning, poor implementation of MPD-2021, etc. They have also questioned the expertise of the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which has been tasked by the DDA to prepare the MPD-2041. “What is their expertise in preparing the MPD-2021? So many provisions of the MPD-2021 have been challenged in the court. Will those cases become infructuous?” said Kakria.RWAs say that the DDA should first do an assessment of the impact of the current MPD-2021 on the city. “Over 250 amendments were made to MPD-2021. Instead of the city being developed according to it, the master plan was fixed as per ground realities. What’s the point of having yet another plan which is cut off from the ground realities? DDA should first do an assessment of the current plan,” said Pankaj Aggarwal, general secretary of Delhi RWA joint front.Dwarka, a master plan subcity, is a case in point. Residents of Dwarka say that they had to face harrowing time in the initial years and struggle for everything from road infrastructure to water. “This is the condition of a master plan sub-city, which today has a population of nearly one million. Till date, we don’t have a vegetable and fruit market. We had to struggle to get regular water connection. Development of new areas should be linked to availability of essential resources such as water,” said Rejimon CK, founder of Dwarka Forum.With waterlogging becoming an annual feature during monsoon season, RWAs also want the new master plan to focus on the sewer and drainage plan. While urban planners push for redevelopment, RWAs say, little attention is being paid to upgrade the age-old drainage and sewerage infrastructure. Atul Goyal, president of URJA, a collective of RWAs in the city, said, “We have demanded an audit of the ‘Infrastructure available for sewer and drainage system in developed colonies and underdeveloped colonies’. It is essential, but a neglected part of overall planning.”While several RWAs participated in the public consultation, they said that DDA should have issue-based discussion with residents. They said that issues of mixed land-use, transportation, redevelopment, development of unauthorised colonies, etc impact plotted colonies. They said that DDA should share their plan with RWAs and then ask for suggestions.A senior DDA official said, “The main concerns highlighted by participants were about disconnected sewerage and road network, encroachment in unused land parcels, air pollution and parking management….Representatives of some colonies also highlighted issues of lack of footpaths, under-utilisation of tot lots, parks and other open spaces, dumping of garbage and construction waste, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assess-before-you-plan-residents-caution-dda/story-zXRCbs0LIMhBBc9B43wrBK.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||NASA to set up community response forum to assess impact of stubble burning in northern India||A month before harvest season begins in Northern India —which also means the onset of an increased pollution load in Delhi on account of large scale crop residue burning in the region — the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) is rushing to set up a ‘community response forum’ to conduct a thorough analysis of the impact of stubble burning on the national capital and its neighbouring areas, while looking at possible solutions. NASA’s Universities Space Research Association (USRA) will work towards developing this community forum to cover multiple aspects of biomass burning and its impact on regional air quality in the Indian sub-continent during the winter months. Through the forum, NASA will also invite a panel of experts to share this knowledge with the public. Pawan Gupta, research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), USRA, said, “Air pollution season in India, usually associated with crop burning, will be starting soon. This year, we will be supporting satellite AQ (air quality) data analysis and forecasting through a community forum.” The first meeting of the forum will be conducted on September 24, after which the expert panel will meet twice every week starting October 1, till the end of the fire season.In addition, the forum will also be used to provide training sessions on how to use various earth observations and tools available to analyse fire, smoke, and air quality data. This is also being developed as a platform for researchers to share their data and solutions providing alternatives to farmers in the agrarian belt so that the problem of mass-burning can be dealt with. Every year NASA tracks fires in the agrarian states of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh in real time with the help of satellite data. Because of a change in the wind patterns and lowered wind speeds at the onset of winters — when stubble burning activity is at its peak — the capital witnesses a drastic dip in its air quality as plumes of smoke blow into the city from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Delhi government data shows that last year, stubble burning accounted for 44% of Delhi’s air pollution. It added that Punjab produces 20 million tonnes of crop stubble out of which 9 million tonnes was burnt last year. In Haryana, 1.23 million tonnes, out of 7 million tonnes, was burnt in 2019. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said the government was willing to explore all possible solutions to reduce crop residue burning in the neighbouring states. “We are conducting regular meetings with the state governments of Punjab and Haryana, which are the two main states from where pollutants enter Delhi. We are also encouraging experts and researchers to develop technology interventions that can help farmers find alternatives to burning,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nasa-to-set-up-community-response-forum-to-assess-impact-of-stubble-burning-in-northern-india/story-HNB3FhGxk0gwoOMdxAS73H.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Govt uses data, better training to ramp up ambulance service in Delhi||As the number of Covid-19 cases in the city continues to surge, the Delhi government is working on a three-pronged approach to ensure that the performance of its ambulance fleet is optimal.The fresh approach — which includes a full-time control room for data analysis, weekly rearrangement of deployment locations and training of staff — will also look at ways to augment the fleet size, a senior government official said. The official said nine ambulances were added earlier this month, taking the total strength to 603 compared to 164 around four months ago. Of these, 286 are reserved for Covid-19 duty, the official said.Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of the Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, an advisory body to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government, said: “We have a strategy in place for best performance of the ambulance fleet in the light of the spike in Covid-19 cases. And the whole programme is being closely monitored by the chief minister himself. First, we have set up a war room that analyses real-time data in multiple aspects of the ambulance service – from fleet size to response time – and a daily report is provided to the CM.”“Second, we have adopted a scientific approach towards the deployment of the ambulances. All Covid-19 related calls are analysed in terms of location and other aspects and the deployment of ambulances is re-arranged every week on the basis of the findings. Third, we have invested in thorough training of all ambulance drivers, paramedics and officials who attend distress calls,” Shah said.A think-tank named SaveLIFE Foundation will help the government.“Over the past five months, SaveLIFE Foundation has worked closely with the Delhi Government to manage the surge in demand for ambulances. By combining data science with the aggregation of private ambulances, staff training and smart deployment tactics, we have been able to bring response times of ambulances to an average of under 20 minutes. This, combined with several direct relief measures, has helped us serve the people of Delhi during the Covid crisis,” said Piyush Tewari, Founder and CEO, SaveLIFE FoundationGovernment records said the fleet size of the centralised emergency trauma services (CATS) – a free service under the government’s domain – was 164 on May 15. It was increased to 337 on June 1, to 569 on July 1 and 594 on August 15. On September 15, the fleet size had increased to 603, the records said.At any point, around 40% to 50% of the CATS ambulances were on Covid-19 duty.Covid cases in Delhi had dipped for around a month between mid-July and mid-August – a period in which the city recorded less than 1,000 new cases in a day on several occasions. The numbers, according to the chief minister’s office, started witnessing a spike from mid-August, prompting the state government to scale up testing.On Thursday, according to the state health bulletin, 4,432 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in 24 hours, as against 60,014 tests conducted, taking the total number of active cases to 31,721.Also read: Delhi reports 38 Covid deaths and 4,432 new cases; RT-PCR tests slip below 10,000The government, in order to increase its existing ambulance fleet, has in the past signed contracts with numerous small and medium-scale service providers and hired private ambulances from Delhi and also from neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Apart from the 603 ambulances in the government, there are around 800 ambulances that are run by private hospitals and service providers.The sharp increase in active cases over the last one month — from 11,068 recorded on August 18 to 31,721 on Thursday — has also led to increase in occupancy of hospital beds and institutional quarantine. As on Thursday, 9,251 patients were admitted in hospitals and quarantine centres, against 4,343 on August 18, government data showed.“With that, the load on the ambulance fleet has increased,” said an official in CATS .The government ambulances primarily ferry Covid-19 patients between hospitals and also from their residences to hospitals and quarantine centres. On Thursday, data said, they attended 1,535 Covid-related calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-uses-data-better-training-to-ramp-up-ambulance-service-in-delhi/story-hedyUhzHzvzXguRMReGz5H.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Two-week exercise to identify locations for EV charging infra in Delhi||Government agencies will conduct a ‘comprehensive planning exercise’ for two weeks to identify locations suitable for setting up charging infrastructure for electronic vehicles (EV), the Delhi government said in a statement on Thursday.The public works department (PWD), Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD), Delhi Development Authority (DDA), New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and other local agencies will take part in the exercise.On Thursday, the government had its first meeting of the ‘charging infrastructure working group’ that was set up under the capital’s EV policy, which was rolled out by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last month.“All government agencies in Delhi, including the three MCDs, NDMC, DDA, PWD, transport department, DTC, DMRC, DSIIDC, etc., will carry out a comprehensive planning exercise in the next two weeks to identify concessional locations within their jurisdictions for the purpose of setting up public charging stations. Through this exercise, the Delhi government will roll out a coordinated strategy to set up 200 public charging and battery swapping stations at prominent locations in the city within a year,” the statement said.It said, “It was agreed at the meeting that given the emphasis of Delhi EV Policy on mass adoption of EVs in the two-wheeler and three-wheeler vehicle segments, the charging infrastructure should focus primarily on setting up a large number of slow-charging stations consisting of AC-001 charging points (3.3 kW each) and limited number of DC-001 fast chargers (15 kW each), instead of setting up a few expensive fast-charging stations that cater primarily for premium four-wheelers. Additionally, developing a wide network of battery swapping stations was also identified as a key priority.”“In addition to public charging stations, establishing charging facilities in restricted public spaces such as malls, office complexes, group housing societies, hotels, education institutions, hospitals, etc., was also identified as a priority at the meeting,” the statement said.The Delhi government had notified the policy on August 7 with CM Arvind Kejriwal saying, “The policy has two objectives. First, to boost Delhi’s economy after the coronavirus pandemic. Second, to significantly reduce the pollution level and contribute to sustainable development.”The Delhi government, he said, would introduce financial incentives for people buying e-vehicles. A scrapping incentive, first in the country, for replacing the fuel-based vehicle with e-vehicles is one of the highlights. Interest on loans for the purchase of e-vehicles for commercial activities will be waived off and e-vehicles will be exempted from registration fees and road tax, the policy read.The Delhi cabinet had approved the Delhi Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy, 2019, last year with an aim to reduce air pollution by offering subsidies and waiving road tax and registration fee for electric vehicles bought in the capital. Delhi has around 83,700 electric vehicles out of over 11 million vehicles registered in the city. Of the total registered EVs, 75,567 are e-rickshaws. There are only 908 private electric cars and 3,703 e-two-wheelers in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-week-exercise-to-identify-locations-for-ev-charging-infra-in-delhi/story-H3AUJJMXVjopfbTJHRX1rO.html
18-09-2020||Pune||Man arrested for extorting money from petrol pump worker in Pune||PUNE: A man was remanded to five days in police custody on Thursday for extorting money from a petrol pump owner in Pune. The arrested was identified as Ayanul Anwar Khan (26), a resident of Sattar Khan chawl in Nana peth area of Pune. The incident took place at 8:45pm on Tuesday at the petrol pump. Khan was arrested on Wednesday and produced in a local court on Thursday. The accused visited the fuel station and threatened a 28-year-old worker to ask the petrol pump owner to hand over Rs 12,000 as extortion money, according to the complainant. He allegedly threatened to kill the worker if he did not hand over the money. “He claimed to be working for someone called “Sattar Bhai” and took Rs 4,000 that was collected that day by the worker,” said assistant police inspector RE Alekar who is investigating the case. A case under Section 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) was registered at Samarth police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-extorting-money-from-petrol-pump-worker-in-pune/story-SUr5uLj4ou3yfqY0oIsc5K.html
18-09-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrest two, recover 14 high-end motorbikes worth Rs 17.70 lakh||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch officials caught two persons and recovered 14 high-end stolen two-wheelers from their possession.One of the accused has been identified as Hemant Rajendra Badane (24), a resident of Bhorwada in Sanpur area of Nashik. He is booked in multiple vehicle theft cases in Nashik as well. He has a history of 35 known cases in Nashik and two in Thane police, said police.The second arrested person identified as Yogesh Sunil Bhamare (24), a resident of Gartad in Dhule, helped Badane sell the stolen bikes, according to the police.“The estimated value of the recovered motorbikes is Rs 17,70,000,” said senior police inspector Uttam Tangade of Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch.Two of the bikes recovered from Pimpri-Chinchwad were reported stolen in Nashik. Of the remaining 12, owners of two motorbikes are yet to be identified. Of the ten other bikes, three were reported stolen from Chakan, and one each from Hadapsar, Chatuhshrungi, Sahakarnagar, Bharati Vidyapeeth, MIDC Bhosari, Wakad, and Bhosari.Badane was arrested on September 11 while the police were investigating the theft of a motorbike based on the information received by Ganesh Sawant of unit 1 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch, according to a statement issued by the police.He was found loitering at the parking lot under a bridge in Bhosari and tried to escape when police approached him, according to the statement. The police nabbed him and his confession brought other cases to light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pimpri-chinchwad-police-arrest-two-recover-14-high-end-motorbikes-worth-rs-17-70-lakh/story-WeXf3RcKySX8wQqDmOuGJM.html
18-09-2020||Pune||Government order on oxygen supply for medical use affects industrial units in Pune||The state government’s decision to reserve 80 per cent oxygen supply to hospitals while keeping only 20 per cent for industrial purpose has adversely affected industries in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Chakan areas. According to industry representatives, the drop in oxygen supply has brought down production output by 25 per cent. Industrial oxygen is used in fabrication, plasma cutting, rubber and plastic cutting factories. To address the rising demand of oxygen for medical purposes in Covid situation, the government issued a notification on September 7 stating that priority shall be given to supply of hospital vis-à-vis industries in case need arises even if the proportion of medical oxygen goes beyond 20 per cent. The circular will remain in operation till December 2020. The circular by the government has also pushed oxygen prices. Industrial oxygen, earlier available at Rs 20 per cubic metre, now comes for Rs 60 per cubic metre. The Pimpri and Chinchwad small scale industries which have several such units where oxygen is used daily have written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on September 8 seeking help for the industry. Sandeep Belsare, president, Pimpri-Chinchwad small-scale industries association, said, “Around 25 per cent of work has been impacted in small scale industries and those who only run workshops of cutting different materials via oxygen are not able to process any work. “We completely agree that oxygen facility is needed for coronavirus patients, but many industries are not even getting the 20 per cent allocated oxygen quota.”. The letter sent to the chief minister by industry association requests administration to check black marketing of oxygen cylinders, increase oxygen production and reduce its cost. “We are diverting our stock to hospitals. We are unable to meet the demand of industry clients who need oxygen cylinders daily. We are obeying what the government has told us,” said Bhushan Sahani, Sahani Gas Industries, MIDC, Bhosari. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We have told manufacturers to increase the production of oxygen to continue the distribution smoothly in a ratio of 80% to hospitals and 20% to industries. Since Raigad district has an oxygen manufacturing plant we are also taking oxygen supply from them.” Aatmaram Bajaj, who runs an oxygen refilling centre at Bhosari that only deals in commercial supply, is facing difficulty in running the business. “I don’t have a licence to supply oxygen to hospitals. Hence, I am unable to do business since the last ten days as manufacturers are not supplying me oxygen citing the state circular as the reason,” said Bajaj, who has applied for licence for supplying oxygen to hospitals. Chakan-based oxygen manufacturers Inox and Taiyo Nippon were unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts to contact him on phone. SV Pratapwar, assistant commissioner Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Pune, said, “The 80:20 ratio is given by the government, but prior to that the district collector had given an order of distributing oxygen in the ratio of 80:20 in Pune district one week before and it was implemented on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-order-on-oxygen-supply-for-medical-use-affects-industrial-units-in-pune/story-0DuPgfBVSIfn0CkTn8GDPL.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Trio on the run after stabbing 19-year-old man to death in Dadumajra Colony||Police are on the lookout for three men who allegedly stabbed a 19-year-old man to death due to old rivalry in Dadumajra Colony (DMC) on Wednesday night. The three accused have been identified as Gaurav, alias Goru, Harsh, alias Nati, and Raman Chadda, all residents of DMC. Gaurav is a relative of a former BJP mayor.Police said the deceased, Karan, and the accused belonged to rival groups that often picked fights to prove their supremacy. The accused were identified by the friends of the deceased, who used to do menial jobs on daily wages. Police said Karan was arrested in an assault case in 2018, and the two groups had been at loggerheads since then. The complainant, Sanju Kumar, 20, a resident of DMC, told the police he and his friend, Ravi, were sitting below a tree when Karan approached them on his scooter and asked them to come along for a stroll. Their two other friends, Vishal and Ashu, also joined them and the five left on Vishal’s motorcycle and Karan’s scooter to the park near the community centre in DMC. “At the park, Karan saw someone approaching him, so he frantically jumped over the wall and went to other side. Soon after, we all heard his cries for help,” Sanju said. When they rushed to his aid, they saw Gaurav, Harsh and Raman assaulting Karan. “Gaurav was holding a sharp-edged weapon, while the other two restrained Karan by his arms. On spotting us, the trio fled and Karan collapsed on the ground,” Sanju added. The friends rushed an injured Karan on their two-wheelers to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead. Karan sustained a deep slash on the neck, which caused his death, the police said. Sanju said the accused had slapped Karan around two weeks ago and also threatened to kill him. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Maloya police station. Police have secured CCTV footage that has captured the accused running. Efforts are on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trio-on-the-run-after-stabbing-19-year-old-man-to-death-in-dadumajra-colony/story-Y8p1uWD4BIlx04i4aBhlSP.html
18-09-2020||City||Protecting Rafale: Ambala admn bans pigeon, kite flying near IAF station||District magistrate Ashok Kumar Sharma on Thursday imposed a ban on pigeon flying and kite flying in the areas near the boundary wall of the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Ambala Cantonment to protect Rafale aircraft from birds.The order will be valid within the range of 5 to 10 kilometres from the boundary wall of the station in Dhankour, Dhulkot and Baldev Nagar. Violators will face legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. As many as five Rafale aircraft that were formally inducted in the IAF last week are stationed at the airbase.Earlier this month, a senior official of the IAF had written to the Haryana government, highlighting the bird menace due to accumulation of garbage near the IAF station and pigeon flying. Thereafter, the state urban local bodies (ULB) department had asked the Ambala administration to clear litter near the airbase. Garbage leads to “high concentration of birds” in the 10-km zone, which has the potential to cause “very serious damage to the aircraft”, the department’s letter had said.Later, Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who is also an MLA from Ambala Cantonment and the ULB minister, also asked the officials concerned to take measures to check the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-dm-bans-pigeon-kite-flying-near-iaf-station/story-Yae2T7o9ZHCRQybJLp6VWM.html
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||Solan businessman killed, uncle injured as SUV rams into JCB on flyover near Panchkula||A 35-year-old businessman from Solan was killed and his maternal uncle seriously injured after their Mahindra Scorpio rammed into a JCB crane on a flyover on the Zirakpur-Kalka highway near Panchkula at 2am on Thursday. Ankur Singal, who was at the wheel, was rushed to the civil hospital in Panchkula, but was declared brought dead, police said. His uncle, Arvind Sherwan, was later taken to a private hospital in Gurugram with serious injuries.Dhakoli police post in-charge Narpinder Singh said Singal had a business of chocolates and went to Sri Ganganagar with his uncle for work. While returning to Himachal around 2am, they took the Zirakpur flyover and were moving at a high speed when their car crashed into a JCB crane coming from the wrong side without any headlights or indicators. The hook of the crane hit Singal’s head and he, along with his driver’s seat, was tossed out of the SUV. The hook then took off the vehicle’s roof. The crane driver, Pawan, fled the scene with his vehicle. Police said the streetlights of the flyover were also not functioning at the time of the accident.The deceased is survived by his wife and two-year-old son. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/solan-businessman-killed-friend-injured-as-suv-rams-into-jcb-on-flyover-near-panchkula/story-3PeHBcOpmdW2kg4EzVJqMK.html
18-09-2020||Delhi||Unlock 4.0: Young Delhiites throng nurseries to indulge their green thumb||“I had been stuck at home for months. So now when I got to head out in Unlock 4.0, I chose to go to a nursery because just the sight of greenery is a welcome change from the mundane walls that have engulfed my spirit during the pandemic,” says Prasoon Awasthi, a Delhi-based MBA student. Awasthi, whose parents also accompanied him to the recently reopened Sunder Nursery, adds, “There is so much open space, so social distancing isn’t something that was difficult to follow; it happened on its own. And we came back with flowering plants and seeds that we have planted in our house, which has finally become vibrant since the lockdown.” Many millennials in Delhi-NCR, who had nurtured their gardening skills while homebound during the pandemic, are heading to nearby nurseries now to indulge in their newly acquired hobby. Take for instance Nishtha Rathore, a Greater Noida resident, who shares that she recently visited a few nurseries in Delhi including Masjid Nursery at Pandara Road, and Royal Nursery, to look for certain plants of her choice. “The months of September and October are the best for planting flowering saplings. Petunia and Marigold were on top of my list of plants that I had to buy. I’ve even planted a few chilis in a pot near my window, and it’s such a joy to see them thrive. We also asked our landlord to put a few creepers in the balcony, so that it adds to the greenery,” says Rathore. Ajay Kaushik, assistant director (horticulture) at Delhi Tourism that maintains Garden of Five Senses, says the upkeep of gardens and nurseries in the Capital assumed a bigger role amid the pandemic. “Watering plants came under essential services and we rallied our workers to ensure it was done. We need plants for more oxygen levels in the city at this time.” He adds the flowering bushes in nurseries attract visitors at a time when stepping out is a luxury. “Plants like Champa, Hibiscus, Crossandra, Lantana, Verbena are in full bloom these days. Even seasonal ones like rainy season Lilies, Portulaca, Marigold and Cosmos have made public gardens and nurseries come alive and youngsters love to be in the company of this vibrancy,” explains Kaushik.Millennials don’t just view plants as plants anymore. Small shrubs can be the perfect home decor, or even an ideal eco-friendly gift. “Being surrounded by plants, trees was a refreshing experience,” says Ridhi Solanki, who works in Gurugram. She too made a trip to a local nursery recently, to purchase a succulent for her work station. “I roamed around the place for an hour, before I bought a small Jade Terrarium. It gives more colour to my desk,” she adds. Nursery owners and gardeners say the demand for small succulents, cactus, and flower plants has increased, even though business remains dull as compared to pre-Covid times. Vikram Saina, who runs the popular Masjid Nursery at Delhi’s Pandara Road, says, “There is a demand for seasonal plants, since flowering season is here. People have been coming to buy indoor plants, fertilisers and manure since many have taken to gardening at this time. Plants like Petunia, Chrysanthemums are top of the list because they are vibrant and add colour.”Vijay Pal, gardener at Sangeet Nursery in Shivaji Enclave, agrees with Saini. “Youngsters have been coming in for ceramic pots and small succulents which are hassle free. We have also been selling a lot of vegetable seeds since Delhiites have taken to organic farming and edible gardens,” he says. The owner of the nursery, Arun Singh Rajput, adds that oxygen producing indoor plants are also in great demand. “People have been buying Areca Palm, Snake plant, Aloe Vera and Tulsi to keep in their gardens.” However, he adds that since people did not step out earlier, the business has suffered losses. “Hum ₹100 ka plant ₹70 mein bech rahe hain. We are not even bargaining. So much of our produce decayed because we had no buyers. So as of now, we are just happy that people are stepping out to buy plants,” adds Rajput. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow Facebook and Twitter for more stories||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-4-0-young-delhiites-throng-nurseries-to-indulge-their-green-thumb/story-V29CQOTBQ97rNSViWXjI3J.html
18-09-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election: LJP to take call on alliance in key meeting today||A partner in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) is expected to take a call on whether it will remain on board as an ally for the upcoming Bihar assembly election or part ways at its state parliamentary board meeting on Monday. Elections in the state are expected to take place in October-November to elect a new assembly. Despite being a part of the NDA at the Centre and in the state, the LJP has trained its guns at the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar, alleging that the government failed to meet promises. On Sunday, LJP president Chirag Paswan, who has not shied away from criticizing the JD(U) leadership, shot off another letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar reminding him that the promises made to people from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes have not been met.The criticism has sparked speculation that the LJP is negotiating for more seats and other post-election agreements, failing which it could exit the alliance. If the LJP breaks ties with the NDA in Bihar, it will not be the first time that the party will be leaving a coalition. In 2005, it was part of the UPA-I but parted ways with the coalition ahead of the state assembly election, it however faced an electoral setback.“There are some issues that will come up for discussion. Leaders will be given a chance to put forth their concerns,” said an LJP functionary. Also read: Bihar Assembly Election - Half a dozen members of women commission in race for ticketsChirag, who earlier told HT in an interview that he was against the idea of having an election in the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic, could not be reached for a comment. He also said that during a meeting with the national president of the BJP, JP Nadda, he had raised the issue of deferring polls till the pandemic is controlled.BJP’s national media co-in charge and Bihar MLC Sanjay Mayukh said the NDA will “jointly” contest the 243 seat assembly poll and “win with a clear majority”. “The opposition has no vision and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development agenda is moving ahead with full steam,” he said.While the BJP has maintained a diplomatic stance on the issue, the JD(U) sees it as a ploy to wrangle more seats for the upcoming contest. “There is little doubt that the statements are posturing for more seats. However, the party should remember that seats will be decided on the merit of the candidate and also its performance in the last assembly election,” said a senior JD(U) leader.In the last assembly election, the LJP contested 42 seats but won only 2. It made for the electoral loss in 2019 by winning six Lok Sabha seats and is hoping to get 36 seats to contest in the assembly election.The LJP is also trying to woo the voters by presenting a “younger face” as against Nitish Kumar who is battling anti-incumbency. There is also speculation that the LJP could emerge as a third front in the state with Chirag as the CM candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-ljp-to-take-call-on-alliance-in-key-meeting-tomorrow/story-ROb7xWjHpdXer2olZoulJI.html
