19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Fall of a beloved bird||In an explosion of ugly smoke and sparks early on Thursday morning, a most beloved bird of the City Beautiful was lost to us. It was a juvenile Oriental Pied hornbill, a rare species that has captured the imagination of citizens like few birds have. The hornbill had perched on a transformer at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) residential quarters and was electrocuted. “My wife saw that happen. I had earlier seen the parents and the juvenile cross the same area 8 to 10 times in the past. While the mature parents never perched on the transformer, the juvenile probably committed a fatal mistake. After that, the anguished parents kept moving in the area and calling out to trace their child but unknown to them it was lying dead in the dense undergrowth at the transformer’s base,” Upendra Goswami, bird photographer and a senior physiotherapist at the PGIMER, told this writer.Its dapper black and white plumage distinguishes it from the duller Grey hornbill (Chandigarh’s State Bird). It is the male’s imposing casque on the bill that really conjures visions of an exotic bird that we expect to see from a NatGeo documentary on the Amazonian rainforests or a tribal chief from the North-east donning a hornbill hat rather than in the arboreal life of a staid Chandigarh. If the big bill and tail of the Grey hornbill attracts abnormal attention, the Pied hornbill amounts to pure fascination.Primarily, it is a species ranging in the Himalayan foothills eastwards of Chandigarh towards North-east India. A resident species at the Rajaji, Kalesar and Jim Corbett national parks, a specimen was first sighted at village Sanauli (Zirakpur) in 2011 by Narbir Kahlon. Since then, this migrant has settled down in Chandigarh and has bred successfully. None less than UT administrator, VPS Badnore, has wanted to photograph this rare species. When a striking pair staged an appearance at the Sector 4 residence of a thespian of renowned talents, Neelam Mansingh Chowdhry, she could not resist clicking a beautiful picture from her window. WILDLIFE CRIMES GO VIRALIn a chilling reminder of videos of wildlife killings that go viral and turn murderers into virtual heroes, a farmer, Vir Singh, fired two cartridges from a .12 bore double-barrel gun at a Rock python taking shelter amid the dried corn in a house. After shredding the writhing python with shotgun pellets at virtually point-blank range, the killer was cheered by the onlookers as if he had downed a fearsome enemy of the nation! The incident took place in Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh. Another video of a python shot with a double-barrel gun while perched high on a tree in a jungle also went viral. The videos bore a resemblance to those emanating from Punjab showing pigeon fanciers trapping and slaughtering a Shikra and migratory Peregrine falcons as they preyed on their pet birds.However, unlike Punjab where the forests and wildlife preservation department took two years to act against the falcon killers, Hamirpur divisional forest officer LC Bandana took immediate action when the python videos came to her notice. “We traced out the spot, recovered the python’s body and seized the gun of Vir Singh. We have lodged a FIR against him. The python enjoys the highest protection under the laws, equivalent to that applied to a tiger as it is a Schedule 1 species. However, Singh has not been arrested by the Police. I will be taking up the matter at the higher level with my department. We could not trace out the killer in the video of python shot on a tree,” Bandana told this writer.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-fall-of-a-beloved-bird/story-qOwG1HoN0vgszmyFbwN7wK.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Over 2K seats up for grabs in 2nd round of counselling at government schools||After the first round of counselling for admission to Class 11 in government schools, 2,123 seats still remain vacant, for which a second round of counselling will be conducted. Students can apply for it by Monday 5pm.As per the data, of the 2,123 seats, 380 are for science stream, 179 for commerce, 981 for humanities and 583 for other vocational courses. The seats kept reserved for the Kashmiri migrant category haven’t been included in this. After allotment of seats to reserved categories, any seats still left vacant will be converted into general category as a part of the second counselling.Director school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “We have received around 4,000 forms against the 2,123 vacant seats. It is likely that we will receive more forms till Monday.”As many as 14,726 students had applied for 12,815 seats in the first round of counselling which had started on July 20 and continued till August 3. A total of 7,547 students had applied for 6,420 seats in humanities stream, 3,675 applied for 3,080 seats in science stream (both medical and non-medical) and 2,257 students applied for 1,560 seats in commerce stream.Besides new students enrolling themselves for admissions, those who want to change their school or stream can also apply during the second round of counselling. This can be done on the website of UT education department www.chdeducation.gov.in.The new students will have to create an account and pay Rs 130 as registration fees. The list for the second round of counselling will be put online on September 25. After verification, students will have to deposit their fees and documents between 11am on September 29 and 5pm on September 30. Students of general category will have to pay Rs 1,500 while those of reserved categories would have to pay Rs 800 subject to final adjustment after the schools reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-2k-seats-up-for-grabs-in-2nd-round-of-counselling-at-government-schools/story-aCyo9Nv2nboAPB83YqzwbM.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Three cheers for Balbir Singh Junior, a hockey player not many know about||Hockey legend late Balbir Singh (Senior) who brought laurels to the country is a much admired figure in India. However, not many remember his contemporary Balbir Singh (Junior), an outstanding hockey player of the same era and a very media shy person. Balbir Singh (Jr) was born on May 2, 1932, at Sansarpur (Jalandhar), which is known as the nursery of hockey players in India. As was customary, he took to playing hockey from the early age of six and later became a player of national fame. While studying at Lyallpur Khalsa College in Jalandhar in 1951, he was selected to play for the Indian hockey team touring Afghanistan and was also a part of the Punjab state hockey team for the Nationals at Madras in 1951 as well as at Calcutta in 1952. Besides playing against Pakistan at Lahore during this period, his team also won the Dhyan Chand Hockey Tournament at Delhi in 1953-54. As he completed his graduation from DAV College in Jalandhar, the name of Balbir Singh (Jr) is inscribed on the roll of honour boards there as well as Lyallpur Khalsa College. He was the captain of the Punjab University team. They won an inter-university tournament at Sagar under his captaincy. His other team-mates were Balkishan, Prithipal, Charles Stephen, and Kulwant Arora, who went on to become Olympians later. At Sagar, a representative of the East Bengal League met and wooed him with an attractive package. Controversy arose when he played for Calcutta League and the Punjab Hockey Association objected on the grounds that he had not sought their permission and stopped him from playing. Balbir Singh (Jr) then met Ashwini Kumar, (president of the association), who was then the commandant of the Police Training School at Phillaur, for clearance to play. However, Ashwini Kumar instructed him to join the Punjab police team, which at that time was playing the Gold Cup Tournament at Bombay. When Balbir Singh (Jr) pleaded that the Calcutta League would suspend him if he did so, Ashwini Kumar retorted: “You deserve that.” Ashwini Kumar offered him a job as sub-inspector if he chose to join Punjab police, but Balbir Singh (Jr) chose not to accept because he felt there was lot of friction in the Punjab police team amongst some prominent players. He then returned to Calcutta and Bengal state selected him to play for them as centre forward in the National Games at Bangalore. By then his friend Sarpal Singh had joined Indian Railways, and on his recommendation Balbir Singh (Jr) joined the engineering wing of Indian Railways as an apprentice permanent way inspector (PWI). He represented the Indian Railways Hockey team on tours to various European countries such as the erstwhile Czechoslovakia, Spain, Switzerland and Italy as well as three test matches at Amsterdam in the Netherlands, and won most of the matches. During the National Tournament at Jalandhar in 1956, he played so well that people say he even overshadowed Balbir Singh (Sr) of Punjab Police. This player was instrumental in the success of the Indian Railways team, which won the National Hockey Championship for three consecutive years in 1957-1959. He was one of the 18 players selected for Olympics at Melbourne. His career took a turn in 1962, when he joined the Army as an emergency commissioned officer. He played for the Services hockey team at the National Hockey Tournaments at Delhi. While in the Army he played test matches against the visiting Kenyan Team. Balbir Singh (Jr) retired as a Major in 1984 and is now settled in Chandigarh. Post-retirement, he was an active golfer at the Chandigarh Golf Club. Now an octogenarian and a few health issues notwithstanding, he is basking in the glory of his career as a sportsman of national fame as well as a Defence officer, though he did not seek any limelight. wcdpsbajwa@gmail.comThe hockey player spoke to the author, who is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-three-cheers-for-balbir-singh-junior-a-hockey-player-not-many-know-about/story-MrcJ5RWf7P1tWfrYqTqu0O.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||ICICI Bank scam accused Deepak Kochhar tests positive for Covid-19; court allows plea to shift to private hospital||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Saturday permitted Deepak Kochhar, husband of former managing director of ICICI Bank Chanda Kochhar, to be treated either at Apollo Hospital or Medanta Hospital in Delhi after he tested positive for Covid-19.Kochhar tested positive for the virus while in Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody in connection with the ICICI Bank scam, following which he was taken to AIIMS Hospital. While his custody ended on Saturday, he could not be produced before the court. His lawyer moved an application before the special court to shift him either to Apollo Hospital or Medanta Hospital in Delhi. The lawyers claimed that ED’s decision to shift him from AIIMS Hospital to NCI Jhajjar was illegal and that the decision was taken without informing the court. ED denied the allegations and said while ED admitted Kochchar to AIIMS, the decision to shift him was taken by AIIMS authorities. The probing agency also asked the court to decide on Kochchar’s plea.The court, after hearing both sides, allowed the plea and directed Kochchar to submit his medical reports to ED office every day. Further, ED has been asked to place a guard for Kochhar, the cost of which would be borne by Kochhar.Kochchar was arrested by ED on September 7 in connection with money laundering allegations linked to ICICI Bank scam and was subsequently remanded in ED custody by PMLA court the next day. ED took up the probe into money laundering after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case of corruption against the Kochhars in 2017 following allegations that ICIC Bank had sanctioned credit facility of around ₹3,250 crores to various entities in violation of the rules. It was alleged that the couple received kickbacks for sanctioning the credits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/icici-bank-scam-accused-deepak-kochhar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-court-allows-plea-to-shift-to-private-hospital/story-1stTR9l66YQ0J7aqgyEYrI.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Former Maharashtra legislator Sardar Tara Singh passes away||Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Mulund legislator Sardar Tara Singh died on Saturday morning due to prolonged illness. The 81-year old leader was being treated at Lilavati Hospital in Bandra since the past one month.BJP legislator Mihir Kotecha, who succeeded Tara Singh in Mulund constituency, said Singh was suffering from multiple illnesses. “He was very sick and had been on ventilator support for a long time,” said Kotecha.Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted that Singh’s active participation during Assembly proceedings, commitment for his constituency as well as the common man would be remembered forever.A four-time legislator from Mulund, Singh was one of the most popular and accessible legislators in Mumbai. He started as a corporator in Mumbai civic body before becoming a legislator. However, he was denied a BJP ticket in 2019 due to his age and also the fact that his son Rajneet’s name cropped up in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-maharashtra-legislator-sardar-tara-singh-passes-away/story-jPHVFVvmh6uWxv7DQHo36I.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Boulder falls on railway track, hits goods train in Navi Mumbai||A boulder fell near Jasai railway station in Navi Mumbai and hit the engine of a goods train late on Friday. No injuries were reported.The incident took place around 10pm and impacted the freight train line towards Panvel railway station. The boulder was removed and the goods rail traffic resumed at 7.30am.“One boulder had fallen on one of the two goods lines near Jasai yesterday at 10pm. No casualties were reported. One railway line was operational. The fallen boulder has been cleared and the freight traffic is running normally,” said a statement from Central Railway.Railway officials said the boulder fell on the tracks due to rock cutting near the location. “Due to vertical rock cutting, the boulder fell on the railway tracks on Friday night,” said a senior Central Railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/boulder-falls-on-railway-track-hits-goods-train-in-navi-mumbai/story-NYx7eEw7iItH1AP2yI4FbL.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||GRP arrests 40-year-old bag-snatcher from Kolhapur||The crime branch of the Government Railway Police (GRP) along with the cybercrime officers arrested a 40-year-old bag-snatcher and recovered jewellery worth ₹2 lakh from his procession. According to GRP officers, the accused, Bajirao Maruti Khatkar, was wanted from December 2019. However, he evaded arrest and fled to Kolhapur when train services were shut due to the lockdown. Assistant inspector Hemraj Sathe from unit 2 of GRP crime branch said, Khatkar had, on December 27, 2019, stole a bag kept on the baggage shelf in a Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-bound train for Thane. The commuter, who alighted the train at Mulund station, reported the incident to GRP. The commuter said she had jewellery worth ₹2 lakh and a mobile phone in the bag. “We tried to track down the accused with the help of CCTV at Mulund station, but had not been able to identify him,” said Sathe. During lockdown, when the officers got in touch with informers who said most of the petty criminals had fled to their villages as local trains were shut. “With the help of the cybercrime police officers, we were able to get the call data record of the commuter’s mobile phone and noticed that several calls had been made to people in Kolhapur. We tracked the phone’s last location to Kolhapur,” added Sathe. On Friday, GRP officers reached Kolhapur and arrested Khatkar. “Khatkar was going to return to Mumbai once local train services resumed. We recovered the victim’s jewellery and mobile phone from Khatkar and are now verifying whether he was involved in other bag lifting cases as well,” said Sathe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grp-arrests-40-year-old-bag-snatcher-from-kolhapur/story-bh0QO1iNqGAk7eqaP4lLGN.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||20-year-old from Mathura booked for raping minor||Juhu police booked a 20-year-old man for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. The father, who runs a snack shop at Vile Parle, said the incident took place at their hometown in Mathura where they were living during lockdown. In his statement, he said that the incident came to light after they returned to Mumbai and his daughter started feeling uneasy. The minor was taken to a hospital where doctors informed them that the minor was three months’ pregnant. “The girl then told her father that this man from their neighbourhood in Mathura had promised to marry her, called her to his residence and raped her,” said a police officer. “We registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused and have transferred the case to Mathura police for further investigation,” an officer said. The accused has been booked under sections 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 (penetrative sexual assault), 8 (sexual assault) and 12 (sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-year-old-from-mathura-booked-for-raping-minor/story-enncBBXJAtVGDQKunSQV3H.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: In Covid times, cultivate kinship with plants||Most people are feeling stressed out and anxious during the Covid-19 pandemic because of its multidimensional effect on our routines. With people confined indoors, more cases of domestic violence and mental health problems are also being reported.This could be the right time to start a positive engagement with nature -- by taking care of plants and starting a kitchen garden. As Canada based writer David Hobson quotes, “I grow plants for many reasons: to please my eye or to please my soul, to challenge the elements or to challenge my patience, for novelty or for nostalgia, but mostly for the joy in seeing them grow.” This activity benefits both the body and mind, irrespective of age. A kitchen garden has many benefits. Historically, people in America were urged to establish gardens at their home to ensure self-sufficiency in vegetables and fruits during World War-II. They named these ‘victory gardens’ and contributed more than eight million tonnes of food during times of scarcity (equivalent to the country’s 40% fresh produce) from 20 million gardens. Learning from this admirable feat, you can use your backyard, terrace or balcony for kitchen gardening.You need to make a plan first, get the required materials and lay out the garden and enjoy watching plants grow and harvesting them. Vegetables can be given first priority as they make up the principal component of our diet. Growing plants will have following benefits:•Unique opportunity to have home grown, chemical free, freshly harvested vegetables. There’s a unique joy in watching plants grow. Nothing else can give us such exceptional happiness during this Covid-19 crisis•Working in the garden in open is healthy. It will give you an abundant amount of VitaminD• You won’t be breaking any social distancing rules. Your time will be utilised productively and your mind diverted from letting the pandemic situation overwhelm you • Gardening will improve your mental and physical well-being by providing a productive outlet. Likewise, with all the twisting/bending/stretching involved, you are bound to burn up those calories and give a boost to your spirits. • Growing plants will help your family bond as everyone should be encouraged to contribute their bit for the kitchen garden and get away from mobile phones and computers. A family can learn to care for each other in the wake of perceiving how nature grows and functions in the form of plants. • Cultivating/harvesting one’s own plants could be entertaining and instructive for children as an outdoor lab. It will encourage them to consume more vegetables and develop healthy dietary habits. •Consuming chemical free vegetables is great for one’s health.. •Could become a potential hobby. •This is the perfect time to experiment with your gardening skills as you will have ample time if you’re working out of home. It will also help you relax. To begin gardening, identify a small piece of land you will use. It could be your terrace. Get pots, soil, manure and select a spot which gets six to eight hours of sunlight. You can even use waste plastic containers and old drums. In case of apartments, put out containers, boxes and hang pots.Log into online sources for more information. One can start with leafy green vegetables. Try growing palak (spinach) due to its fast growing and high nutritional value. Apart from this, you can also try flowering annuals/indoor plants. With time and experience you can upgrade your skills and abilities. Urge your children to explore nature by nurturing plants. They will definitely love seeing little seedlings grow into plants and afterwards bear flowers and fruits. Who gets a chance to be close to plants, birds, squirrels, dirt, bugs, butterflies, insects and soil? Children will love it and so will you. During gardening, one can experience the delights of witnessing the germination of seeds, emergence of new leaves, conversion of a small bud into a beautiful and colourful flower and finally a fruit. As author Michael Pollan has said, “The garden suggests there might be a place where we can meet nature halfway”. hira@pau.eduThe writer is assistant professor at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-covid-times-cultivate-kinship-with-plants/story-qKy2cfagC7iwygkSxrWwcO.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||BMC to maintain Mumbai’s Carter Road Promenade||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to take over the upkeep of the iconic Carter Road, after it lay unmaintained for over 2.5 months since the agreement with Bandra West Residents’ Association’s (BWRA) to oversee the promenade, ended on June 30. The decision was taken in a meeting between Maharashtra environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is also the guardian minister for suburban Mumbai, Maharashtra fisheries and ports minister Aslam Shaikh, and officials from BMC on Friday. Aslam Shaikh said, “BMC and MMB (Mumbai Maritime Board) have agreed that BMC will maintain the promenade.” A formula will be worked out for sharing profit arising from advertisements, and other public activities that take place at the promenade. Officials said that no commercial exploitation of the space will happen. Asif Zakaria, Congress corporator from Bandra (West) said, “After two decades of maintaining the space, in March this year BWRA had expressed they cannot continue maintaining the promenade. However, MMB requested them to continue till June 30, until their agreement ended. After BWRA’s agreement ended, the association surrendered Carter Road to MMB, which owns the land. I urged BMC to take over its maintenance, as the civic body maintains the Worli and Marine Drive Promenade, and already has the expertise, being the local body.”Both Zakaria, and members of BWRA had urged MMB and BMC to hand over maintenance and upkeep of the promenade to BMC, via letters written in July, August and September. However, no decision could be reached between BMC and MMB regarding sharing of profit from revenue generated from advertisements, and regarding who will maintain the space, Zakaria said. After June 30, BMC has been sweeping and cleaning the space. Aaditya Thackeray took to social media on Friday and said, “Thankful to my colleague cabinet minister @AslamShaikh_MLA ji for a quick meeting over Carter Road Promenade. Officials from MMB and @mybmc met with us and have resolved the issue of maintenance. ...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-maintain-mumbai-s-carter-road-promenade/story-6GmtvWq9EUxtVgy8vX1MlL.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Mahul to get its own real-time air monitoring station along with 4 other ‘critically polluted’ sites in Mumbai by December: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will set up five continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) in Mahul village, Chembur; Shivaji Nagar, Deonar; Pant Nagar, Ghatkopar; Charkop, Kandivli (West); and Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan And Zoo, Byculla. The Mahul area in the eastern suburbs, which was described as a “gas chamber” by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) last month, should have an operational CAAQMS by December. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the proposal would be finalised by BMC’s environment department in the coming week. “Display boards with air quality index (AQI), weather information, and daily forecast will alert citizens about health risks of poor air quality. Mahul will be especially benefitted since it does not have a dedicated air quality monitoring mechanism,” said Kakani. For over two years, residents of Mahul-Trombay have complained of dangerous levels of air pollution due to refineries and thermal power plants in the area. These pose a health risk and several court orders have directed industries to reduce emissions. However, the area’s pollution levels remain high. Last month, NGT told four industrial firms to pay Rs. 286.2 crore as environmental compensation due to air pollution damages. Each CAAQMS will record levels of particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10), sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds (benzene, toluene, and xylene), hydrocarbons (methane and non-methane), carbon monoxide, ozone, and ammonia. “Data from all five stations with analyser-based models will be connected to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) servers as per mandates issued to the BMC under the National Clean Air Program,” said a scientist from BMC’s environment department. These five stations will be the first real-time network setup by BMC in Mumbai, apart from the 10 existing stations run by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) and another 15 by MPCB. In the first phase of BMC’s plan, the selected locations include five locations identified as critically-polluted by the Central Pollution Control Board in 2014. Tentative locations for the next set of stations are Love Grove pumping station in Worli; Hasnabad Municipal School in Khar (West); a municipal school in Tilak Nagar, Chembur; KMJ Phule Hospital in Vikhroli; T-Ward office in Mulund (West); and selected spots in Prabhadevi, Saki Naka, and Oshiwara. Kakani said the second phase will entail the installation of 127 sensor-based low cost air monitoring devices across select locations. “Our aim is to have a more dense spatial monitoring network to identify hotspots,” he said. Proposal for air purifying unit in every ward, BMC not convinced senior BMC official said a nagar sevak had recently submitted a proposal for the installation of air purifying systems in every ward similar to the Wind Augmentation and Air Purifying Units (WAYU) installed at Mumbai traffic junctions in 2017 by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute. “The proposal will be heard during our monthly general body meeting on September 28. This model did not help achieve clean air quality at junctions at the time, and it does not meet MPCB and CPCB norms. We need to first be aware about the concentration before implementing such models,” said a senior civic official. Kakani said he was not aware about it.Air quality monitoring mechanismAmbient air quality monitoring is done through a manual method (analysis of pollutants measured once every six days where data is transferred manually), continuous - CAAQMS method (automatic real-time data collection of pollutants measured), and real-time low-cost sensors (based on light scattering technology using small equipment). According to MPCB, manual monitors cost Rs. 8 lakh per station per annum while continuous ones cost Rs. 1.5 crore per station per annum. This includes purchasing cost, maintenance, and number of pollutants measured. Independent researchers said low-cost monitors are bought for Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2 lakh (including maintenance) based on the number of pollutants they measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mahul-to-get-its-own-real-time-air-monitoring-station-along-with-4-other-critically-polluted-sites-in-mumbai-by-december-bmc/story-KcTw9jORdYCAkbbOVU8gSK.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||IMD issues yellow alert in Mumbai for Monday, Tuesday||The weather bureau on Sunday issued a yellow alert - heavy rain warning across isolated areas - for Mumbai and Thane for Monday and Tuesday.The city and suburbs could expect rain with thundershowers on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.“Enhanced rain activity is expected between September 19-22 for various areas in Maharashtra due to the likely formation of a low-pressure area over northeast Bay of Bengal by Sunday. Under its impact, lower level westerly winds are likely to strengthen and its associated convergence is expected over the west coast,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.He added active monsoon conditions were expected over Konkan and Goa. “This could allow heavy to extremely heavy rain across isolated areas of south Konkan in the coming days while moderate to heavy rain in isolated areas is expected across interior Maharashtra and parts of north Konkan,” said Hosalikar.On Saturday, more rain was recorded towards the suburbs than south Mumbai and heavy rain over some areas in northern suburbs. The Santacruz weather observatory recorded 12.4mm rain while Colaba recorded 2mm rain between 8.30am and 5.30pm. Maximum rain was recorded at Bhayander at 89mm during the same time followed by Mira Road at 46mm. Malad recorded 29.4mm while Bandra 13.4mm.Cloud cover with the possibility of light to moderate rain or thundershowers has been predicted for Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-issues-yellow-alert-in-mumbai-for-monday-tuesday/story-wJ8azDzq57u5Hed2GF75wL.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police constable booked for ‘spreading disaffection’ among colleagues against seniors||The city police booked a constable on Thursday who allegedly tried to spread disaffection among other personnel against senior officers. The accused constable, Sachin Ambhiram Jaiswal, would make record audios or videos of police personnel on issues faced by them. He would then upload the clips on police’s WhatsApp groups and other social media platforms. HT tried to contact Jaiswal, but his phone was switched off. Action against Jaiswal was taken after deputy commissioner of police (DCP) of the quick response team (QRT) (an elite commando unit formed after the 26/11 terror attacks), Vasant Jadhav, registered a complaint against the constable at Worli police station. According to Jadhav’s complaint, on September 12, he received a call around 8pm from Jaiswal. “Jaiswal asked Jadhav why he did not relieve six commandos [from QRT], who are selected for the special protection unit (SPU) for training at Pune. When Jadhav asked Jaiswal if he was from QRT, the constable informed him that he is from the local arms division at Naigaon and called the DCP on behalf of the police union. Jadhav told Jaiswal that the commandos were not relieved based on the commissioner of police’s order,” stated the DCP’s complaint. Four hours later, Jadhav learnt that an audio clip of his statements was uploaded by a QRT constable on a WhatsApp group of the police. “Jaiswal uploaded the recorded conversation on WhatsApp groups with an intention of spreading disaffection among the personnel of QRT against their seniors and the government, and hence I have lodged a complaint against him,” Jadhav stated in the first information report (FIR) registered on Thursday. Worli police booked Jaiswal under section 3 of the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922. The charge is to penalise a person who intentionally causes or attempts to cause, or does any act which he knows is likely to cause disaffection towards the government established by law, among members of police force; or induces or attempts to induce or does any act which he knows is likely to induce any member of a police force to withhold his services or to commit a breach of discipline. An officer from Worli police station said the constable may be suspended soon as he went against the seniors and it amounts to indiscipline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-constable-booked-for-spreading-disaffection-among-colleagues-against-seniors/story-aSaUlQIFw8kGORM8byxauM.html
19-09-2020||Noida||Homebuyers of Jaypee Kalypso Court conduct ceremony to restart work on project||Homebuyers of Jaypee Kalypso Court in Sector 128, along with officials of Uttar Pradesh-Real Estate Authority (UP-Rera), conducted a pooja ceremony on the project site on Saturday, thereby paving the way for the recommencement of the construction work on the project, which has been stuck for the past nine years. This is the first time since RERA came into existence in 2016, that a homebuyers’ association has managed to take over the construction work of a real estate project after the developer failed to finish it.Jaypee Kalypso Court is a part of debt-ridden Jaypee Group’s Wish Town project, along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The project was launched in 2007 and was supposed to house 1,140 residential units. However, the developer, Jaiprakash Associate Limited, missed its 2010-2011 deadline, forcing the homebuyers’ association to approach UP-Rera in 2019.“This is a first-of-its-kind initiative, in which the homebuyers have taken over an unfinished project. They have been suffering for a long time. We hope that homebuyers now get the possession of their residential units within the new stipulated timeline. There are many other viable projects in the national capital region (NCR) where this model can be replicated. The authority hopes that many more stalled projects can be now be completed in this manner if the homebuyers’ association and the developer are able to mutually work together,” Balvinder Kumar member of the UP-Rera.The project has a total of eight towers, of which four have been completed and the rest are under construction. It has total of 304 units out of which 274 are sold out and the remaining are unsold. The 274 units are in towers 7, 8, 11, and 12. Under the provisions of Section 8 of the Rera Act, the authority can allow homebuyers to take over an unfinished housing project.“Jaypee Kalypso Court is the first such project under UP-Rera, in which the buyers’ association has overtaken the delayed project to finish the remaining construction work. The original developer of the project, Jaiprakash Associate Limited, has been rehired as the contractor of the project and has been told to infuse ₹45 crore into the project and complete the remaining development work within a period of 18 months, including three months for mobilising resources,” said Rajive Kumar chairman of UP-Rera.The authority will closely monitor the completion of this project through a project advisory and monitoring committee, under the chairmanship of Balvinder Kumar, who is a member UP-Rera. The committee will also consist of the CEO of Noida authority, the finance controller of UP-Rera, the technical advisor of UP- Rera, and others, said officials.Homebuyers present at the ceremony said they were thankful to the authority for their support. “After waiting for so many years and approaching several government officials for redressal of our grievances, we finally reached out to UP-Rera. We are now hopeful that the project will be completed by next year. We are thankful to the UP-Rera for their support,” Dr. SK Dubey a homebuyer of Tower 7. “A whole decade has passed and now I am over 65 years of age. I am grateful to all the officials of Rera to make this happen,” said Rajender Kumar, a homebuyer of Tower 11.The project requires a total of ₹103.3 crore to finish the remaining construction work. While the contractor has been asked to infuse ₹45 crore, the remaining money will come from the sale of the unsold units. The proposed completion date is January 2022, said UP-Rera officials.Ajit Kumar, advisor, Jaypee Group, said, “We are committed to work under the supervision of UP-Rera, along with the homebuyers to ensure that the residential units are delivered. We have already provided ₹6 crore in an escrow account, while ₹6 crore more will soon be released. Buyers would also contribute to fund the remaining construction work. We will fulfil our commitment to complete the project on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/homebuyers-of-jaypee-kalypso-court-conduct-ceremony-to-restart-work-on-project/story-a3CNN3sDAGQ66hxXd8crqM.html
19-09-2020||City||To boost growth and job creation, Greater Noida decides to allot land to IT, BPO, call centres||The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) on Saturday decided to allot plots for information technology (IT) businesses, IT-enabled services (ITES), business process outsourcing (BPO) and call centres in the city with an aim to create jobs and boost growth in the region.According to officials, if investment in any IT or BPO project is expected to be to the tune of ₹200 crore then the allotment will be done with special comfort to the investor.The authority has come up with this scheme to encourage setting up of IT-enabled units in this industrial town as economic growth has become stagnant and several jobs have been lost due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.“Uttar Pradesh secured the second position in ease of doing business across the country. Now, to further support investors, we have decided upon this scheme which can encourage entrepreneurs, who deal with IT businesses. We have multiple offerings for investors in different sectors,” said Deep Chandar, additional chief executive officer of GNIDA.The authority has 10,500 square metres of land at its disposal to be allotted for BPO units in sectors Knowledge Park-V and Techzone-7. For these, plots range between 500 and 1,000 square metres in size.For IT and ITES units, there are 175 acres of land in sectors Techzone, Techzone 2 and Knowledge Park-V, while plot sizes are in the range of 40,470 to 1,03,049 lakh square metres.If the project involves ₹200 crore of investment then as per the UP industrial policy-2017, the investor can approach the state additional chief secretary of ITES or IT or the Greater Noida chief executive officer. Projects under this category fall into mega, mega plus or super mega plus projects, said officials.“The authority will issue a comfort letter for such a big project so that the investor gets the allotment letter issued within 15 days without any hassle, provided the investor would put in ₹7 crore per acre for the project,” said the Chandar.For projects whose budget is less than ₹200 crore, allotment can be done via www.greaternoidaauthority.in without any problem, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-boost-growth-and-job-creation-greater-noida-decides-to-allot-land-to-it-bpo-call-centres/story-yZDqWt70teiWsfUr3zEsfI.html
19-09-2020||City||Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan, rest house meant for pilgrims, awaits govt nod to open||The Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s pet project, is complete and waiting for directions from the state government to start operations, officials of the UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, the construction agency, said on Saturday. The pilgrim centre is meant for stay of pilgrims taking the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, Kanwar Yatra and Sindhu Yatra. The new building -- which houses a basement, ground floor and four other storeys -- has come up at Indirapuram and can accommodate 280 people in 94 rooms. The project, spread over an area of about 9,000 square metres, is completed at a total cost of about ₹70 crore. “The construction of the building is complete and all the furniture, fixtures and other amenities have also been provided. We have now written to UP’s Dharmarth Karya Vibhag (department of religious affairs) to take over the project and decide accordingly about its operations. The construction cost of the building is about ₹57.99 crore while the rest expenditure is on furniture, fixture, etc,” said SK Tyagi, project manager of the UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, a UP government undertaking. “The building has beautiful architecture and we have also made use of sandstone in the construction,” he added. The project was scheduled to get complete in March this year, but got delayed due to the lockdown and last year’s ban on construction activities due to rise in air pollution. CM Yogi Adityanath had laid its foundation stone in August 2017. The project was initially proposed at Arthala near the Ala Hazrat Haj House. However, some environmentalists had filed complaints with the district administration maintaining that one of the major land chunks was registered as ‘Jheel’ – a water body – whose nature cannot be changed as per norms. The municipal corporation, on the other hand, claimed that the land was ‘banjar’ (barren) in their property records. HT had published several reports on the controversy. Later, the then district magistrate, Ministhy S, took cognizance and acted swiftly in the matter, and the land at Indirapuram was finalised by the UP government. In June this year, Anil Agrawal, Rajya Sabha MP from UP and also a resident of Ghaziabad, had written to the chief minister to dedicate some of the floors of Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan for healthcare facility. However, officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said that there is no such proposal by the government. “As per last known development, the Dharmarth Vibhag has sought suggestions from the tourism department and the Ghaziabad development authority about the operation of the Kailash Mansarowar Bhawan. The finalisation is to be done,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kailash-mansarovar-bhawan-rest-house-meant-for-pilgrims-awaits-govt-nod-to-open/story-Ki4tfVwOBfdB9ZQZbWed4M.html
19-09-2020||City||Amid opposition, corporation removes encroachment from land meant for UP’s first political training institute||The corporation officials on Saturday launched a massive encroachment on land earmarked for UP’s first political training institute in Nandgram. People who had built houses there opposed the move saying that they had documents to prove their legal nature, but official said they managed to remove around 20 of the 100 structures. The proposed institute is meant to train politicians and activists in public policy and other advanced political subjects, and is planned to come up on land owned by the Ghaziabad municipal corporation. Located near the Hindon Elevated Road, it measures a little over 3 hectares, but about 1.37 hectares was encroached with people constructing houses and boundary walls. “We have been able to remove a number of encroachers during the past year. Of the 101 houses constructed on the site, 11 are directly over the land meant for the institute, while the rest of the houses, their boundary walls etc are on its periphery. We have been meetings the encroachers and also served them notices,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. “The land belongs to the municipal corporation and will be freed up in graded manner. The project depends on it.” On Saturday, the officials said that they demolished about 20 different structures, including boundary walls and three houses. Encroachers opposed it, relying in claims of being legal and that they had been on the plot for over two decades. The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet had cleared the proposal in 2018 and the project is estimated to cost about ₹168 crore. Maya Devi, local councillor from ward number six opposed the move by the corporation, but the effort landed her in a private hospital. “My mother is in ICU with high blood pressure and high sugar levels after opposing the move,” said Tushar Kumar, the councillor’s son. “Those having houses on the land have proper registries and documents of ownership, and purchased the land 20 years ago. Locals told us that the eviction notices were pasted at the house on Friday night.”He said the councillor had pressed the municipal corporation for at least 15 days’ time for the residents.Municipal commissioner Tanwar, however, reiterated that the land belonged to the government. “The encroachers were probably duped by some people who claimed that the land belonged to them and issued fake documents,” Tanwar said. Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city), said that police were deployed for the drive on demand from the corporation. “We have not received any complaint so far from the corporation with regard to the protest,” he said. The institute is proposed to be constructed by Construction & Design Services, a unit of UP Jal Nigam, and part of the project approved by the UP housing department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-opposition-corporation-removes-encroachment-from-land-meant-for-up-s-first-political-training-institute/story-WC1H2Wzz3zKy15bmPA9LOJ.html
19-09-2020||Noida||Two men arrested in Noida for rape of two minors in separate cases||A 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl in Noida’S Sector 39 on Thursday. The suspect was identified as Nadeem, a resident of Sadarpur village.According to Sector 39 station house officer Azad Singh Tomar, the suspect is from Kasganj district of Uttar Pradesh. He lives in a rented accommodation in a village under the Sector 39 police jurisdiction. The suspect works as a barber.“The victim, 15, and the suspect live in the neighbourhood and know each other. On Thursday, the suspect called the victim to his rented accommodation and raped her,” Tomar said. The victim returned home and informed her family, who then filed a police complaint, he added.Tomar said a case under Section 376 (rape), Section 506 (criminal intimidation) and also under Section 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012 was registered against the suspect.“A police team conducted a search at his rented accommodation and found him absconding. The police, on Saturday, received information about him being present in Sector 37. A team reached the spot and arrested the suspect,” he said. Nadeem was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.Meanwhile, the Jewar police also arrested a person accused of allegedly raping of a minor girl in 2018. The suspect, Mohammad Furqaan, 30, is a resident of Jahangirpur in Jewar. Umesh Bahadur, SHO of Jewar police station said Furqaan was wanted in four criminal cases in Jewar. “He had been absconding for the past two years. A police team arrested him on Saturday from Jewar Kasba,” he said.Police also seized a countrymade gun and two cartridges. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-men-arrested-in-noida-for-rape-of-two-minors-in-separate-cases/story-uk6W1dBo7BPNdQoDaUu79K.html
19-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Two phone snatchers held after encounter in Sector 62||Two mobile phone snatchers were arrested on Saturday morning following an encounter as they were trying to flee on their motorcycle after a failed attempt of snatching in Sector 62, the police said. The suspects had snatched a mobile phone on Friday evening too and managed to escape, the police said. The suspects were identified as Ajay Kumar,30, and Vivek, 28, both residents of Kalyanpuri in Delhi. The police have recovered two countrymade guns, two live cartridges, two mobile phones and one stolen motorcycle from their possession. Kumar Ranvijay, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that a police team was alert as a snatching incident had taken place on Friday evening. “We had alerted four teams of Noida Patrolling Unit to keep a tab on such snatching incidents. A patrolling unit was moving near D-Park in Sector 62, when two suspects on a motorcycle tried to snatch a morning walker’s mobile phone,” he said. Ranvijay said that the victim raised an alarm and the police team chased down the suspects. “The suspects were asked to stop, but they tried to flee after opening fire at the police team. The police also opened fire in which the suspects received injuries in their legs and fell on the road,” he said. “Primary investigation revealed that the duo was wanted in four mobile snatching cases in Sector 58 police station area. Ajay was also wanted in a case of murder in Delhi Cantt police station area,” Ranvijay said. The police said that four cases of snatching were already registered against them in Noida. “A fresh case under Arms Act was registered on Saturday. The suspects were sent to district hospital for medical care. They will be produced in court once they are discharged from the hospital,” Ranvijay said. The police said that they are also urging people to install CCTV cameras outside their houses and remain alert to avoid such instances of snatching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-two-phone-snatchers-held-after-encounter-in-sector-62/story-g1ktlV7X0MlPy8x7IiN5pI.html
19-09-2020||City||UP to have e-reports of Covid-19 tests that patients can download||With the number of Covid-19 cases on the rise in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government has set up a facility to generate electronic reports of Covid-19 tests, which patients can download at their end and keep for further use. The state officials said chief minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to inaugurate the online facility Sunday. Currently, people undergoing RT-PCR tests have to visit test centres again after two to five days to collect reports manually. Manual collection of reports had led to crowding at the collection counters and had also posed the added risk of having Covid positive people in the queue. To resolve this, a fortnight ago, health officials had started sending reports as text messages to patients but these were not downloadable.E-reports, on the other hand, will be available as soon as the testing centres upload the result on the state portal. The e-report availability depends on how fast the reports are uploaded by the labs, even though the portal will be updated daily.According to officials, the state has tested 8,399,785 people till Friday and all efforts are being made to scale up the testing to 10 million by the end of September. Till Saturday, Uttar Pradesh has 348,517 Covid cases, which includes 66,874 active cases, 4,953 deaths and 276,690 discharged cases.The testing in the state include rapid antigen kits, TrueNat machines and RT-PCR and the e-reports are expected to benefit residents. An antigen test result is available within the hour, but symptomatic persons and those with co-morbid conditions who test negative on antigen test have to undergo RT-PCR testing. “From Sunday, a new facility is getting launched wherein the test report will be available online and can also be downloaded. People will be able to download the report from the state health department website, from under the tab ‘laboratory results’, using the mobile phone number given at the time of the test,” Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health), said. “Once the mobile number gets entered, an OTP will be sent to that number and (s)he can access the test report. The reports are updated daily. The new facility is to be inaugurated by the chief minister on Sunday and will be beneficial to people,” he said. “Once the online system starts, people will be able to get reports that they can download,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said. The district is testing about 4,000 samples daily and about 1,000 to 1,200 of these are through RT-PCR tests. Till Saturday, Ghaziabad has a total 12,153 Covid cases. This includes 1,933 active cases, 74 deaths and 10,146 discharged cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-to-have-e-reports-of-covid-19-tests-that-patients-can-download/story-JqZKUzmKC3fFBCPHiMLFMO.html
19-09-2020||City||EPCA chief directs Ghaziabad to control dust, burning of waste, ensure better traffic management||Chairperson of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) Bhure Lal on Saturday visited several spots in Ghaziabad and directed officials to strictly control dust, roadside parking, burning of solid and plastic waste, apart from ensuring effective traffic management.He said Ghaziabad needs to come up with a parking plan to prevent roadside parking of trucks and other vehicles which in turn cause traffic bottlenecks and lead to higher vehicular emissions. Lal, who is currently visiting different districts in western Uttar Pradesh, spent a substantial time in different areas of Ghaziabad conducting inspections. While driving on the NH-9 (Delhi-Meerut) stretch, he found the road shrouded in plumes of dust and directed the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) officials to penalise National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) which is currently taking up the construction of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME). “I found huge plumes of dust from the under-construction project and have directed UPPCB regional officer to impose a penalty on NHAI. In Kaushambi, there was a garbage dump and I have directed for its removal. At Bulandshahr Road Industrial Area, there was irregular parking and a major chunk of the green belt was filled with garbage and plastic waste. I have directed for the restoration of the green belt,” Lal said. Based on his directions, the UPPCB said it will impose a fine of ₹5 lakh on NHAI. “A penalty of ₹5 lakh has been proposed against NHAI for causing dust emission on NH-9. We have already prepared the winter action plan and it includes measures against dust emission, burning of waste and traffic management,” Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB, said. The NHAI officials said they have completed the black topping of the NH-9 section in question. “There are some patches where the work is ongoing, but motorists often weave in and out of the work site, throwing up more dust. In case a penalty is levied against us, we will also forward UPPCB our point of view. On our part, we have already deployed water tankers for sprinkling water at our sites as well as three anti-smog guns,” Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI, said. On the matter of garbage dumping in Bulandshahr Road Industrial Area, municipal commissioner MS Tanwar said he has directed his teams to clean the area. “The area has several garbage and construction and demolition waste dumps. All the waste will be immediately lifted. We have already deployed road sweeping machines to control dust emission and there is also a plan in the works to wash major roads during night hours, at least twice a week,” he said. Lal also raised four vital points concerning Ghaziabad, a district that has been reeling under severe pollution levels, especially during the winter, for the past several years. “The major problem which I feel need to be addressed is the issue of burning of solid waste and garbage. In many areas, such as Hindon Vihar, Pasonda, Tulsi Niketan and even Loni, burning activities take place. This year, we do not want any garbage burning taking place. The main problem in Ghaziabad is fugitive dust. Officials have been asked to put in place dust control measures,” he said. “The other two points are related to traffic. I have directed officials to come up with a parking plan and also to better regulate traffic as snarls lead to more pollution due to vehicular emissions,” the EPCA chief said. Lal also visited nearby districts of Hapur, Meerut and Sonipat and Panipat in Haryana. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said a winter action plan to tackle pollution is ready. “We will abide by all the directions of EPCA chief and all respective departments will implement air pollution abatement measures. We have already started executing the winter action plan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/epca-chief-directs-ghaziabad-to-control-dust-burning-of-waste-ensure-better-traffic-management/story-abOGDDgCWNpXZ1Jv8ZugZK.html
19-09-2020||Gurugram||Teachers to be tested for Covid-19 as schools reopen for guidance visits from Sept 21||With schools set to open on Monday for students of classes 9 to 12 who wish for guidance from their teachers, the district education and health departments plan to get government teachers tested for Covid-19. In co-ordination with the health officials, the education department will submit a week-long schedule, dividing the teaching staff to be tested at various Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs), according to the order issued by the directorate of secondary education on Saturday.Saturday’s order follows a September 16 direction from the directorate that mandated testing of all teachers at the schools. This, some health officials say, is against the Union government guidelines. “But this is against Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines,” said a senior health official on condition of anonymity. “It allows only asymptomatic persons (teachers, employees and students) in the school premises and only the symptomatic staff or student has to be tested. There is no such clause for testing the entire teaching staff. People can always contract the coronavirus even if they are tested negative for the first time.”The issue was raised in a meeting with the state officials on Saturday. It was thereafter decided that the education department will prepare a plan to test teachers in batches. Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said, “It is not possible to test all teachers in one-go. It has to be administered in a staggered manner. Teachers who will be joining the work will have to get themselves tested in the nearby Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC). Only those who are symptomatic will be tested through rapid antigen test and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR).”As per the MHA guidelines, part of the Unlock 4 plan, students who want to attend the school will also have to get a written consent from their parent or guardian. Only schools outside containment zones will be allowed to open. Also, teachers and students living in containment zones will not be allowed to attend the school. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that government schools expect many students to voluntarily come to school. “We have been asked to visit the nearest health center to get these tests done,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teachers-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-as-schools-reopen-for-guidance-visits-from-sept-21/story-Hf6xW5s9WjMHFziZ6wkihI.html
19-09-2020||Noida||₹1,304 crore to be spent on civic facilities in Noida||The Noida authority is set to spend ₹1,304 crore on developing civic facilities in the city in the 2020-21 financial year. The works include both that are ongoing and in the pipeline such as new water supply lines, sewer lines, horticulture and traffic services.“We have started work on some projects and tenders have been awarded for some out of ₹1,304 crore budget. We have made sure that all ongoing works are fast-tracked and the remaining works started at the earliest as we want to use up the budget this fiscal itself. These projects will help us in further enhancing civic facilities in the city and will benefit residents immensely,” Rajiv Tyagi general, manager, Noida authority, said.The authority will spend ₹ 635 crore on civil works, ₹13 crore on sewage treatment plant related works, ₹209 crore on electrical works, ₹97 crore on Noida traffic cell, ₹125 crore on horticulture works and ₹225 crore on water or sewer related works.The authority has already executed agreements with private parties for projects to the tune of ₹856 crore and these works are on in full swing. They include about 900 small works pertaining to civil, electrical, sewer, horticulture and water services such as pruning of trees and repair of sewer network. The work also includes changes in design of roads or construction of U-turns in order to address traffic congestion issues. Officials said several of these projects were taken up on the suggestions of residents, while some were initiated by the authority itself. Once the budget is sanctioned by the authority board, it starts the process of hiring a private contractor to carry out the requisite work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/1-304-crore-to-be-spent-on-civic-facilities-in-noida/story-sEmEAPFr2ZVhAkZy6HI2TL.html
19-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Health department will charge for Covid tests for work, travel purposes||Gurugram: The state health department on Saturday instructed civil surgeons in all districts of Haryana to set up designated centres for ‘non-medical’ Covid-19 tests, which will be chargeable at the same rates being levied by private laboratories. ‘Non-medical’ tests, health department officials explained, refer to those tests which are administered to individuals who require a Covid-negative certificate to return to work or for travel purposes. The development comes after several districts, including Gurugram, started witnessing a sudden influx of people seeking Covid-19 tests at primary healthcare centres (PHCs) since September 7, when the state government allowed walk-in tests (without a doctor’s prescription) for Covid-19. In Gurugram, the district health department will set up a dedicated facility for non-medical tests at Civil Hospital in Sector 10 in the coming week, confirmed Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. This is also the first time during the Covid-19 outbreak that the health department will charge for any test conducted as part of its public health response. As per the Saturday’s order (a copy of which is with HT), an RT-PCR test will be chargeable at ₹1,600, while a rapid antigen test will cost ₹650. An ELISA (enzyme-linked immunoassay) test, which is done to check for presence of antibodies, will cost ₹250. “Creating a separate facility for non-medical tests will take away some strain that our PHCs have been facing, ever since walk-in tests were introduced. The removal of the mandatory prescription rider has resulted in many individuals, in both blue and white collar jobs, seeking tests to prove to their employers that they do not have Covid-19, but that is not what we were trying to facilitate. I strongly advise that only those people who have had confirmed contact with a positive patients, or who have symptoms, seek a free test,” said Yadav, emphasizing that all tests conducted for medical purposes will remain free of cost. On Saturday, HT spoke to multiple people seeking non-medical tests to understand their reasons for doing so. Manish Yadav, who works at a private insurance firm in the city and was getting himself tested at a PHC in Wazirabad, said, “My job involves visiting people’s homes to verify their documents. My employer has called me back to work after two months, but said I will need a Covid-negative certificate. They are not paying for the test, so I came here because it’s free.” Manju Sindhu, a teacher who works at a private school in Delhi’s RK Puram area, approached the Gurugram health department’s office on Jharsa Road for an RT-PCR test over the weekend. “With the metro having reopened, I am expected to go to school two to three times a week, but not without producing a negative certificate. I came to know that we can get tested for free here,” she said. Nearly identical stories were narrated by a domestic help whose new employer had asked her to get tested before joining work, as well as an industry worker in Udyog Vihar whose employer declined to pay for his test.“This is the main issue, and it diverts testing resources away from those who may require it for medical diagnosis. Any employer who insists on a Covid-negative certificate should ideally be willing to pay for it as well. Our focus is to isolate positive cases, keep an eye out for symptoms, and prevent deaths,” Yadav said.On September 5, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had issued a revised testing advisory to all states, paving the way for walk-in tests. The revised criteria was implemented in Gurugram on September 7. According to estimates given by doctors and lab technicians across various PHCs in the district, the demand for non-medical tests has been rising with each passing day since then. “We were earlier getting 10 to 15 people in a day. Now, about 30 to 40 people come in demanding to be tested,” said Anantha K, a senior lab technician with the health department.Experts, on the other hand, were critical of the state health department’s decision to charge for Covid-19 tests. Malini Aisola, co-convener, All India Drug Action Network, said, “All public testing for Covid-19 should be free of cost. It is an unfair practice for the government to be charging for tests conducted as part of a public health response. It is evident from the health department’s own observations that a large section of the population, who require tests for so-called ‘non-medical’ reasons, are not able to afford them. In that sense, this policy is also an exclusionary one.”Echoing similar views, Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former head of the department of community medicine, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said, “Every single Covid-19 test administered by the government needs to be free. I don’t understand what is meant by a ‘non-medical’ test. Every test plays an important role in preventing the spread of Covid-19.” Non-medical tests can also be availed for interstate travel purposes, or “for joining any educational institution”, as per the health department’s order on Saturday. No fresh case in Bhondsi JailMeanwhile, 101 rapid antigen tests were administered to inmates at Bhondsi Jail on Saturday, and no new cases of Covid-19 were reported. A total of 42 prisoners have so far tested positive for the disease, with 35 patients having already recovered. Saturday marked the third testing drive in Bhondsi prison this month. “As of now, none of the patients have shown severe symptoms. All those who have tested positive have been made to undergo a period of 17 days’ isolation at a facility in Sector 9. Soon, such patients will be kept under observation at a community centre in Begumpur Khatola,” said Sanjay Kumar, assistant jail superintendent. Health department officials did not share any plan to conduct further testing inside the prison, but said they are keeping a close watch on inmates’ symptoms. “All prisoners who are sent outside for any purpose will be quarantined on return, tested and only then released to his usual barracks,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-health-department-will-charge-for-covid-tests-for-work-travel-purposes/story-1uKNjr7GUd3dwHvmh1qGzL.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Veteran Communist leader Roza Deshpande passes away in Mumbai||Veteran communist leader and former member of Parliament (MP) Roza Deshpande breathed her last on Saturday afternoon at her Dadar residence.The 92-year old communist leader was ailing for some time and succumbed due to advanced age. She was admitted in hospital recently, but was discharged and was at her house.Deshpande, a former MP from Mumbai played a heroic part in the Samyukta Maharashtra Andolan. Daughter of communist stalwart, Shripad Dange, who was a well-known trade union leader, Deshpande learnt her first ropes in politics from her father. She played an important role in the communist movement in India and was their leading lights.Several politicians including deputy chief minister have expressed condolences over the death.Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari tweeted, “She carried forward the legacy of social service inherited from late Shripad Amrit Dange. She had taken active part in the Samyukta Maharashtra movement and the Goa liberation struggle. My tributes to her memory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/veteran-communist-leader-roza-deshpande-passes-away-in-mumbai/story-SGYRvMjNiMDf5J41JGAQbP.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for selling Yakub Memon’s grave in Mumbai||The city police have arrested former trustee of Juma Masjid of Bombay Trust for allegedly selling the grave of Yakub Memon at the Bada Kabrastan in Marine Drive. Memon was buried at this grave in July 2015 after being executed at the Nagpur Central prison for his role in 1993 Mumbai serial bomb blasts.Parvez Ismail Sarkare, 54 was arrested on Saturday and would be produced in court on Sunday, the police said.According to the police, Sarkare was a trustee when certain Othhas (graves) at the Kabrastan were sold in an unruly manner last year. The Kabrastan is registered under the said trust.The graves at the Kabrastan are properties of the Waqf Board and it can not be sold to anyone. It can be only allotted to any family for maintenance, but after following a due process, the police said. Memon family has seven Othhas at the Bada Kabrastan. When the complainant, Mohammed Abdul Rauf Memon, cousin of Yakum Memon, early this year had gone to inquire about the annual maintenance fees for the Othhas he discovered that their four Othhas were sold to someone else. But the sale receipt had forged signatures.“Sarkare did not follow due process and sold Othhas meant for the burial of members from Memon families to one Merchant family (distant relatives of Memons only). It is found that Sarkare unlawfully sold the four Othhas for ₹5 lakh by using forged signatures,” a police officer said.Rauf then made the police complaint in March, but action could not be initiated against the accused due to lockdown. Now he has been arrested.The accused has been booked under sections 465 and 468 of Indian Penal Code. One more accused is named in the FIR and likely to be arrested in the case, another police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-selling-yakub-memon-s-grave-in-mumbai/story-UJ78S3mm766MUQ6kiUYYfO.html
19-09-2020||Gurugram||Man kills father, self over property dispute in Gurugram Sec 9A||A 32-year-old lawyer shot his 62-year-old father before turning the gun on himself in Sector 9 A on Saturday, said police. Police suspect that the incident could have been a fallout of a property dispute.Police said Rajveer Dahiya, who had retired from the Delhi Police ran a paying guest facility in Luxman Vihar since 2016.Assistant commissioner of police Preet Pal Sangwan said that a preliminary probe revealed that Rajveer’s son Ravinder Dahiya wanted the PG transferred to his name. “Ravinder took up the issue with his father several times, but Rajveer didn’t do it and instead chided him for being dependent on him financially,” he police.Sangwan said Rajveer used to stay at the PG facility and manage it too, and Ravinder helped him. The duo had employed a woman from a nearby eatery to cook meals twice a day and make tea between 3pm and 4pm.“She claims that when she went to the PG at around 3pm, she found the bodies lying in a pool of blood,” said Sangwan. The dead person’s family were soon informed who called the police, he added.Ravinder allegedly pumped two bullets into his father -- into his chest and another to his head -- before shooting himself in the head, said police.“The cause behind the incident is being probed. Both men had died on the spot. We are recording statements of the family members,” said Sangwan.Police said the PG was empty since the lockdown in March and Rajveer lived alone on the second floor, being estranged from his wife and two sons. The bodies were found on the first floor.Ravinder used to visit him daily to discuss the property and they fought daily too, family members told police.Manjeet Dahiya, Ravinder’s younger brother, told police that Ravinder was upset over marital issues too.Deputy commissioner of police Sumer Singh Yadav, along with a forensics team, arrived at the crime spot. He said that it seemed like the duo had a heated argument before the shooting.A case under IPC section 302 (murder) was registered against deceased Ravinder, and sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (common intention) against his in-laws at Sector 9 police station on Saturday late evening, but no one was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-kills-father-self-over-property-dispute-in-gurugram-sec-9a/story-1olS8yLJQQbz8HODLkT6QJ.html
19-09-2020||City||Biker refused fuel for not wearing mask, returns with mob of 10, assaults petrol pump staff in Vasai||Manickpur police on Friday booked nine persons for allegedly assaulting a Vasai-based petrol bunker owner and his staff after they were refused fuel for not wearing a face mask. The duo also vandalised the petrol pump. Mukesh Patel, the owner of the pump, in his complaint, said that at around 7.30pm, a rider drove into the pump to fill petrol. The staff told him that they were not selling fuel to those not wearing face masks as per the orders of the Palghar district collector. The biker refused to leave. The pump attendant then asked him to move aside as he was blocking the other customers, said Patel. The biker parked the bike and left, and soon returned with a mob of 10 to 12 men. “They damaged the fuel dispensing machines and office furniture and a woman attendant Pratiksha Rane alleged that the rider held her hand, dragged her a few metres and slapped her on the face,” said Patel. The other attendants were also assaulted by the rider and his friends. Patel was manhandled by the unruly mob.Police reached the spot and dispersed the crowd. We have registered a case under section 147 (rioting), 352 (assault) of the Indian Penal Code against nine men, including the biker. “The act has been captured on the CCTV camera of the pump, and we are probing further. No one has been arrested yet,” said senior inspector Rajendra Kamble of Manickpur police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biker-refused-fuel-for-not-wearing-mask-returns-with-mob-of-10-assaults-petrol-pump-staff-in-vasai/story-KiiIG9zSBVE4Srp8j9ujnK.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC calls for medical record of suspected CPI Maoist operative Kanchan Nanaware||The Bombay high court on Friday directed the medical officer at Yerwada central prison in Pune to immediately examine Kanchan Nanaware, alleged Maoist operative who was arrested by Maharashtra anti-terrorist squad in September 2014 along with her husband Arun Believe and submit a report to the court within a week.Acting on her application seeking bail on medical grounds, justice Bharati Dangre also directed additional public prosecutor Mankuwar Deshmukh to submit all her recent medical papers and ascertain when the suspect Maoist operative was last examined or taken to Sassoon Hospital for a medical check-up.The judge further directed that the woman be immediately examined by the medical officer at Yerwada central prison, where she has been lodged if she has not been medically examined recently, and submit a report to HC.The directives came to be issued after Nanaware’s counsel, senior advocate Gayatri Singh pointed out that the 36-year-old has already undergone open-heart surgery twice in the past and has been advised to undergo one more open heart surgery.Singh said Nanaware suffers from congenital heart disease and menorrhagia. She added that the alleged Maoist activist has been continuously under treatment at Sassoon Hospital at Pune and require immediate attention particularly, in the wake of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic inside the jail, the applicant being prone to the virus.Nanaware and Bhelke, who also have offences registered against them in Vidarbha, are accused of working in cities to indoctrinate urban poor, especially slum dwellers from Mumbai and Pune, to join the banned movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-calls-for-medical-record-of-suspected-cpi-maoist-operative-kanchan-nanaware/story-C2iALmANBK8X3kQckBQuJO.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Woman booked for slapping, abusing traffic constable in Mumbai||A 46-year-old woman was booked by Bhoiwada police for slapping and abusing a traffic constable after she slipped from her bike at Parel TT Junction on Thursday. The woman identified as Priti Khot, a resident of Parel village, was riding pillion with her daughter Megha on her motorbike when 42-year-old Harish Urankar stopped them for jumping the signal at Parel TT. “When Urankar attempted to stop them, Khot’s daughter lost balance and fell. The constable then rushed to help them, but Khot held Urankar responsible for the fall. She slapped him and abused him,” said a traffic police officer from Bhoiwada traffic division. “Following the incident, Urankar and other traffic officers took them to Bhoiwada police station for legal action. Urankar then filed a complaint against Priti for violating traffic rules, abusing and slapping an on-duty policeman. Police also fined her for traffic signal violation,” added the officer. “We recorded Urankar’s statement and registered a case under section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code against Priti. We allowed her to go after serving her notice under section 41 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, 1973,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-booked-for-slapping-abusing-traffic-constable-in-mumbai/story-8xjTsW2NLDsCaMvy8ITq0M.html
19-09-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid tally breaches 16,000 mark, toll reaches 658||The Covid-19 tally in Ludhiana surpassed the 16,000 mark with 347 residents testing positive for the virus on Saturday.The district also recorded 12 more deaths due to the virus – for the third consecutive day – taking the total count to 658.While the cases were 14,184 on September 14, these climbed to 15,372 within three days on September 17, and thereon, it took merely two days for the case count to cross the 16,000 mark.Of the 16,051 confirmed cases in Ludhiana now, 13,558 people have been discharged, leaving 1,832 active cases.The positive cases reported on Saturday include 139 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness, 72 were referred by the out-patient departments and 36 are contacts of positive patients. These include 16 healthcare workers, two cops and a pregnant woman.Among the 12 fatalities reported on Saturday, seven are females.The deceased include an 82-year-old woman from Aggar Nagar, a 70-year-old woman from Islam Gunj, four 65-year-old women from Sandhu Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Ayali Kalan and Haibowal Kalan, a 62-year-old man from Guru Nanak Nagar, a 55-year-old woman from Nandpur village, a 55-year-old man from Model Gram, a 50-year-old man from Arjan Nagar, a 49-year-old man from Ispura and a 32-year-old man from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-tally-breaches-16-000-mark-toll-reaches-658/story-Cq4if9HqXAB20uR0kHAAaL.html
19-09-2020||City||Cash-strapped Ludhiana MC spent ₹12.08 crore on fuel in 17 months, reveals RTI||The fund-starved Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC) spent a whopping Rs 12.08 crore on fuel for its official vehicles in the 17 months since January 2019. This information, which has been revealed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, comes in the backdrop of mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu’s efforts to rein in fuel theft in the corporation. Activist Rohit Sabharwal, who had filed the RTI application, has sought an inquiry into the matter as MC, on an average, has spent around Rs 71 lakh a month on fuel alone. As per information, the civic body’s expenditure on fuel in 2019 was Rs 8.96 crore, while another Rs 3.12 crore were spent on it till May 31 this year. The fuel was purchased against 55 vehicles for officials, 79 tractors, 53 Tata ace, 43 tippers, 22 tankers, jetting machines and trucks, 19 JCB cranes and loaders, 14 road rollers, and nine Tata 407 and cranes.The mayor had recently marked an inquiry after it was suspected that some employees got fuel allocated for defunct tractors. A sanitary inspector was removed from field duty till the inquiry was completed. MC had also decided to auction around 70 vehicles, mostly Hindustan Ambassador and Maruti Gypsy cars that are 15 years old to save expenditure on fuel and repairs. Sabharwal said besides an inquiry into the misuse or theft of fuel, it should be looked into whether the entire machinery was at work during the lockdown and how much fuel was issued against the vehicles during that time. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “I am keeping an eye on fuel consumption in MC, but the expenditure is anyway on the higher side as the civic body utilises a large number of vehicles. Inquiries were marked in the past wherever any theft or manipulation was suspected and the staff concerned were also penalised.”“Besides, no fuel is allocated on Sundays to avoid misuse and unnecessary movement of vehicles has been restricted. I do not even take my pilot car to every place I visit in routine to save the expenditure,” he added. Heavy vehicles being driven by sweepers, beldars The RTI response also revealed that most of the MC vehicles, including heavy vehicles like cranes, JCB machines, tippers and road rollers, were being driven by Class-4 employees, including sweepers, sewermen, beldars, etc. Sabharwal said MC should check whether these employees have valid driving licences for heavy vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cash-strapped-ludhiana-mc-spent-12-08-crore-on-fuel-in-17-months-reveals-rti/story-hQgFTtt7UH5ivNkbJS9qTN.html
19-09-2020||City||Woman among three end lives in separate cases in Ludhiana||Three persons, including a woman, died by suicide in separate incidents in the city on Friday.Police said a 22-year-old man immolated himself using petrol after being thrashed by his live-in partner and her family members.The woman, Cheenu, of Civil Lines, her brother, a cousin and another aide were booked for abetment to suicide after the youth succumbed to his burns at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Friday.The youth’s father, a resident of Threeke village, complained to the police that the woman, who had a three-year-old son, had separated from her husband and established a live-in relationship with his son six months ago. His son, who was a security guard, lived with the woman near Prince Hostel in Civil Lines.He alleged that on September 12, Cheenu’s brother, cousin and another aide assaulted and humiliated his son.Upset by the treatment meted out to him, his son sprinkled petrol and set himself on fire outside the woman’s house. Cheenu and her relatives doused the flames and rushed him to ESIC Hospital, where doctors referred him to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. From there he was sent to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he died during treatment on Friday.ASI Dharmveer Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had lodged an FIR under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused at the Division Number 8 police station. A hunt is on for their arrest.36-YEAR-OLD MAN ENDS LIFE OVER WIFE’S INFIDELITYDisturbed due to his wife’s infidelity, a 36-year-old man hanged himself at his house in Haibowal on Friday. The Haibowal Police have booked his wife and her paramour for abetment to suicide on the complaint of the deceased’s younger brother. The complainant told the police that his sister-in-law had developed an extramarital relationship with a neighbour. When his brother discovered this, she apologised and agreed to stop seeing her lover.But, she continued meeting him. On Friday, his brother locked himself in the store room and hanged himself from the hook of the ceiling fan.ASI Dilbagh Singh said they had booked the deceased’s wife and her paramour under Sections 306 and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. They will be arrested soon.UPSET DUE TO DOMESTIC DISCORD, WOMAN HANGS HERSELFA 30-year-old woman ended her life by hanging herself in Ghawaddi village, Dehlon, after harassment by the wife of her brother-in-law. The accused has been booked for abetment to suicide on the complaint of the deceased’s mother.The woman stated that her daughter got married five years ago and her husband was away in Dubai due to work for the past six months.Meanwhile, the wife of her husband’s elder brother used to frequently quarrel with her over petty issues. On Friday, the sisters-in-law again had a quarrel, following which the accused left for her parental house in Chandigarh.In her absence, her daughter hanged herself in the house. ASI Ranjit Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said the accused had been booked under Section 306 of the IPC. No arrest has been made yet.The bodies of all three deceased were handed over to the families after autopsies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-among-three-end-lives-in-separate-cases-in-ludhiana/story-HToLOnZd79NaQvDwVEdhmK.html
19-09-2020||City||Debtor murdered 25-year-old Ludhiana grocer with hammer, say police||The 25-year-old man found murdered in Dhamot village, Payal, on September 3, was murdered by a man who owed him money, police said on Saturday.The accused, Baljit Singh, alias Kala, 26, of Lehal village, was arrested for the crime on Saturday. “He murdered the victim, Satwinder Singh, also a resident of Lehal village, who ran a grocery shop, as he suspected him of having an affair with his sister and also because he did not want to pay back some money he owed him,” said Manpreet Singh, superintendent of police (SP, investigation), Khanna.“The accused has confessed to have murdered Satwinder by bludgeoning him with a hammer,” the SP said.Body was found near canalAfter the victim’s body was found near a canal in Dhamot village on September 3, police had registered a murder case on the complaint of his mother, Surinder Kaur.During investigation, the SP said, the police zeroed in on Baljit as he had a monetary dispute with the victim and arrested him on Saturday.During questioning, the accused revealed that he had borrowed some money from Satwinder and his mother and did not want to return it. “But lately, Satwinder has been pressuring him to pay up. Besides, Baljit also suspected that Satwinder had a love affair with his sister. Therefore, he decided to kill him,” the police official said.On September 3, Baljit summoned Satwinder to the canal near Dhamot village after finding out that he had left the house to pay the electricity bill. As Satwinder arrived there, Baljit attacked his head with a hammer and fled after ensuring he had died, the said.Police will produce the accused before a court on Sunday to seek his remand, as the weapon used in the crime and the accused’s motorcycle has yet to be recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/debtor-murdered-25-year-old-ludhiana-grocer-with-hammer-say-police/story-lKUxZiQiwf0qrOI5Fg7mYL.html
19-09-2020||City||HP logs 5 deaths, 286 fresh Covid-19 infections||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded 286 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the state tally to 11,908. Of the new cases, 58 were reported in Solan, 52 in Kangra, 33 in Shimla, 30 in Bilaspur, 29 in Sirmaur, 24 in Mandi, 19 in Una, 16 in Hamirpur, 14 in Chamba, 10 in Kullu and one in Kinnaur. The death toll has reached 113 after five more people succumbed to the virus. One death each was reported in Kangra, Shimla, Una, Chamba, and Kullu. Kangra chief medical officer said a 65-year-old woman from Jogindernagar of Mandi district, who was admitted in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda died due to the virus in the morning. She was suffering from acute febrile illness with acute respiratory distress syndrome and had co-morbidities including diabetes and hypertension. Another 63-year-old man from Una, who was referred to RPGMC, died due to the virus. Active cases in the state stand at 4,308 while 7,457 people have recovered so far. With 2,624 cases, Solan is the worst-hit district in the state followed by Kangra where 1,811 cases have been reported. Sirmaur has 1,511 cases, Mandi 1,252, Una 1,076, Shimla, 859, Hamirpur 778, Chamba 691, Bilaspur 628, Kullu 443, Kinnaur 139 and Lahaul-Spiti has 96 cases. Top health official in self quarantine Special secretary, health, Nipun Jindal went has quarantined himself after his driver tested positive for Covid-19. Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman is also in quarantine. As many as four drivers have tested positive at the secretariat of which three were from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-logs-5-deaths-286-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-Q7bDaaAEBUncl2vO36lwYK.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||19-year-old becomes Ludhiana’s first dengue casualty this year||A 19-year-old boy who succumbed to dengue at SPS Hospital on Friday became the first confirmed casualty of the mosquito-borne disease in the district this year. The victim, Thakur Gangeshwar Singh, a resident of Maha Singh Nagar, had been unwell for two days. He was hospitalised on Thursday after his condition worsened. Medical superintendent Dr Rajeev Kundra confirmed Gangeshwar was suffering from dengue, which is endemic to tropical and sub-tropical regions. His father, Thakur Vishwanath Singh, was the former vice-chairperson of the Pravasi Bhalai Board, Punjab, and his mother Thakur Baby Singh is a former councillor. A few days ago, Gangeshwar had donated his platelets to his brother who was suffering from high-grade fever. Meanwhile, mystery continues to shroud the death of two teenagers — a 14-year-old from Khanna and a Class-9 student of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar. On being asked about the status of the cases, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said he was suffering from fever and was on leave while civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga also did not respond to the query. The health department has not made an official confirmation, however officials in the health department, requesting anonymity, said dengue cases have begun to shoot up in the district. “Around 20-25 dengue-affected patients are reporting to private hospitals daily,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-year-old-becomes-ludhiana-s-first-dengue-casualty-this-year/story-Q9URF3w8VUMyYCdLEIAEMJ.html
19-09-2020||City||Farmers to protest across Haryana against farm ordinances||Gurugram: Farmers in Haryana will block roads across the state on Sunday to protest the three agriculture ordinances and press for their withdrawal, alleging these are against their interest. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana (Charuni), Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Union and other groups on Friday said they will block roads from 12 pm to 3 pm in different parts of the state. The farmers groups, however, said they will use different modes to protest but ensure people don’t suffer. Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU, president, Haryana, who heads a large faction, said a state wide chakka-jam will be held in the state from 12 pm to 3 pm on Sunday, and if the government does not address the grievances of farmers, a nationwide protest will be held on September 25. “The government can register criminal cases but our resolve will not be broken and we have the support of multiple farmers organisations,” Charuni said. BKU leaders said the government needs to discuss the matter with farmers and clear their doubts. “Such important issues can’t be forced upon people,” they said. BKU Haryana (Charuni) is already staging state-level symbolic protests at all district headquarters in Haryana from 10 am to 4 pm since September 16.They said that a farmers protest in a limited manner will also be held in Gurugram. Dharmbir Singh, district secretary, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha said they will hold a protest in various parts of the state and burn the effigy of government as mark of protest. “We will block the road for a few minutes to protest against these policies,” said Singh. Asked if the protest will be held in Gurugram as well, Singh said that since the number of farmers was fewer in the city, they would hold a symbolic protest. The farmer leaders said the association of commission agents, rice millers and other stakeholders have supported their demand for withdrawal of these ordinances. Rattan Singh Mann, president, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Haryana said they are planning protests and will hold a mahapanchayat on October 5 to discuss the matters with farmers. “These policies are against the people and must be taken back,” he said. The three agriculture ordinances against which the farmers are fighting were passed in June. These are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and an amendment in the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.In view of the statewide road blockade call, the Haryana Government has issued directions to ensure law and order and minimise inconvenience to the people of the state.An official spokesman said all executive magistrates and police officers have been asked to remain present in the districts and they should not proceed on leave. He said the executive magistrates have been directed to remain stationed along with their police counterparts at all such places where congregation of protestors is anticipated. The police and district administration will also conduct patrolling of state and national highways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-to-protest-across-haryana-against-farm-ordinances/story-zXzZmMqJ8jgZu7OoG3uSxL.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 4,030 fresh positive cases, 55 deaths on Saturday||Pune district reported 4,030 fresh positive cases and 55 deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday as per the state health department.Saturday’s state data takes the progressive positive count in the district to 2,57409. Of these total cases, 1,72,732 have recovered from the Covid-19 infection, 5,188 were declared dead and 79,489 are active cases.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 1,745 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 1,39,907. PMC also recorded 39 deaths in the last 24 hours till Saturday evening which took the total death toll to 3,204.The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 919 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday taking the total Covid-19 cases to 67,226. PCMC also recorded four deaths in the last 24 hours till Saturday evening which took the total death toll to 954. Pune rural areas reported 1,366 fresh Covid-19 positive cases taking the total Covid-19 cases to 50,276. Pune rural areas recorded 12 deaths in last 24 hours till Saturday evening which took the total death toll to 1,030.The state health department reported that 23,501 patients were discharged on Saturday which took the final count of such patients to 8,57,933. The recovery rate in the state currently stands at 72.22 per cent. On Saturday 21,907 fresh positive cases were reported in the state which took the progressive count to 11,88,015. Also, 425 virus-related deaths were reported in the state on Saturday which took the final toll to 32,602. The case fatality rate in the state currently is 2.71 per cent. Of 57,86,147 laboratory samples, 11,88,015 have tested positive (20.53%) for Covid-19 until Saturday. Currently 18,01,180 people are in home quarantine and 39,831 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-4-030-fresh-positive-cases-55-deaths-on-saturday/story-0xRNiCTZeE3uqQG80snubJ.html
19-09-2020||City||CBSE sets up 7 centres for compartment exams in Ludhiana||The Central Board of School Education (CBSE) has set up seven centres for conducting its upcoming compartment examination in the city amid full precautions and strict adherence to Covid-related guidelines.The exams will begin from September 22 for both the board classes. No student will be allowed to enter the exam centres after 10am.As per the board’s instructions, the exam centre authorities will accommodate 12 students per room while maintaining social distancing among the students.The candidates have been asked to carry their own hand sanitisers and water bottles. They must wear face masks. Also, the parents will have to guide their wards about Covid-19 precautions and will ensure that their ward is not sick.CBSE’s city coordinator and principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, Paramjit Kaur said, “The instructions received from the board have been issued to the examination centres for strict adherence to social distancing norms.”The three-hour exam will be conducted between 10.30am and 1.30am.The seven examination centres are BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar; BCM School, Sector 32; Kundan Vidya Mandir School, Civil Lines; Green Land Senior Secondary School, Jalandhar Bypass; St Thomas Senior Secondary School, Brown Road; Bhartiya Vidya Mandir School, Kitchlu Nagar; and DAV Public School, BRS Nagar.Private candidates should contact the principal of their respective examination centres for date and time of practical examination before their theory examination is over. The practical exams should be completed before September 28. For regular candidates, the practical examination for all the subjects will be held at their own schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cbse-sets-up-7-centres-for-compartment-exams-in-ludhiana/story-q03e6sz5wEGP1cugIrlrBN.html
19-09-2020||City||Ludhiana college concludes week-long workshop on staying healthy amid pandemic||The week-long online workshop on physical and mental well-being during pandemic organised by the NSS unit of Doraha College of Education here concluded on Saturday.It was carried out under Union sports ministry’s Fit India initiative in collaboration with Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Civil Lines, Ludhiana. The theme of the workshop was ‘Reviving physical and mental health during pandemic: A challenge for all’.The opening remarks were given by the principal of Doraha College of Education, Dr Sandeep Sawhney, on the first day of the online workshop on September 12.The resource persons talked about yoga and mental health and also delivered practical lessons. The participants did exercises as per the instructions given to them. They said the yoga postures, pranayamas and meditation were effective in releasing their stress.Total 325 participants from 16 colleges in Punjab registered for the online workshop.Rakesh Malik, deputy director health and sports, Panjab University, Chandigarh, and Neeru Malik, fellow and associate professor, Dev Samaj College of Education, Chandigarh, joined the valedictory ceremony as special guests. They emphasised on the importance of physical and mental health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-college-concludes-week-long-workshop-on-staying-healthy-amid-pandemic/story-SsXzJyxSTdrd05JN78CRhI.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||PAU Virtual Kisan Mela: Event ends with tips to farmers on water-saving tech, allied occupations||Punjab Agricultural University’s first virtual Kisan Mela concluded on Saturday with an overall participation of over 2 lakh farmers and farm women. Vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon thanked the farmers and farm women for their massive participation in the Kisan Mela, which was organised virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On Day 2, Dhillon again urged farmers not to burn paddy straw and adopt straw management technologies for environmental protection. Saturday saw three panel discussions, which were showcased via http://www.kisanmela.pau.edu/.In the panel discussion on “Water-Saving Technologies”, SS Kukal, dean, College of Agriculture; GS Mangat, head, department of plant breeding and genetics; OP Choudhary, head, department of soil science; KG Singh, head, department of soil and water engineering; Ajmer Brar, senior agronomist; Rajan Aggarwal, principal scientist from PAU; Dr Rajesh Vashisht, joint director, agriculture, and Gurpreet Singh Aulakh, sub-divisional soil conservation officer, were the panel experts.Rakesh Sharda, principal scientist, extension (soil and water engineering), was the moderator of the discussion. A farmer, Hardeep Singh from Patran in Sangrur, also shared his experience with other farmers. During the discussion, the experts advised farmers to grow water-saving varieties of paddy recommended by PAU and also adopt water-saving technologies. Expressing concern over the declining groundwater table and its poor quality, they urged farmers to refrain from cultivating PUSA-44 as it required more water and stick to paddy transplanting time as recommended by the Punjab government.The area under direct seeded rice (DSR), which was a water-saving technology, had increased to 5 lakh hectares in Punjab, they disclosed. The experts advocated the use of drip irrigation system, which was water as well as labour-saving. Regarding subsidies, they said 80% subsidy was being provided by the state government on drip irrigation, 90% to small farmers and 60% on solar pumps. Underground pipeline system, which saves 30 to 40% of water, was also being promoted in south and central Punjab, they said. The second panel discussion on “Livestock Production and Allied Occupations” stressed on the adoption of subsidiary occupations like poultry, dairy and fish farming, etc., along with agriculture. Scientists from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University were the panel experts. In the last panel discussion on “Voice of Farmers,” AS Dhindsa, a flower and vegetable seed producer known for exporting seed to 100 countries; KBS Sidhu, an innovative farmer known for export of fresh vegetables; and progressive farmers Devinder Singh Mukshabad, Mohinder Singh Dosanjh, Jagtar Singh Brar and Balwinder Singh Tikka shared their experiences with other farmers. They stressed on making agriculture a precision agriculture linked with marketing, maintaining farm records and urged youth not to avoid farming. AS Dhatt, additional director of research (horticulture) and Kamal Vatta, head, department of economics and sociology, PAU, were the moderators of the discussion. TS Riar, additional director communication, said on a whole, the mela was a big success. Old memories of previous Kisan Melas were revived and songs on paddy straw management was another highlight of the mela, he added.Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of extension education, PAU, said the virtual Kisan Mela will be made a permanent feature, along with the traditional mela. “The seeds of all varieties will be ready within a week and farmers can contact their nearby Krishi Vigyan Kendras or get information on Farm Inputs App for purchase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pau-virtual-kisan-mela-event-ends-with-tips-to-farmers-on-water-saving-tech-allied-occupations/story-5ooE4GcDqrsw95iVzKWUTO.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Damaged supply line: Ludhiana’s Wards 29, 31 go without water for a week||After construction workers accidentally damaged a supply line at Giaspura Road, water supply to Wards 29 and 31 was cut off for a week. Water supply has been affected in Makkar Colony in Ward 29, and Prem Ashram Colony and Maha Singh Nagar in Ward 31. Residents are relying on water tankers.SAD leader Sandep Shukla said, “Residents of the affected areas have lodged a complaint with the MC but officials of the bridges and roads department and operations and maintenance cell are passing the buck to each other, while residents are bearing the brunt .” “The MC has been taking action against residents for wasting water but water is overflowing out of the broken water supply line at Giaspura road for days now, but no one is paying heed to the problem,” he said. A resident of Maha Singh Nagar says,”It is difficult to fill buckets from tankers, especially in this scorching heat. Also, the required number of tankers are not being sent to the area.” MC executive engineer Ranbir Singh said, “I only received a complaint on Saturday morning. I have directed the ground staff to have the contractor repair the supply line. If he fails to do so, the MC will have it repaired by the evening. The expenditure incurred will be deducted from the contractor’s account while issuing payment for the road construction project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/damaged-supply-line-ludhiana-s-wards-29-31-go-without-water-for-a-week/story-moe0yGI68EvCzOcpto4csM.html
19-09-2020||City||Centre’s team of experts arrive in Jammu to assess Covid situation||Amid spike in deaths due to Covid-19 in Jammu and a surge in infections, a two-member team of experts from the Union health ministry arrived here on a two-day visit to ascertain the triggers and suggest corrective measures to reverse the trend. On the first day, the team visited Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Jammu and held deliberations with principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra and senior faculty members for nearly two hours. In the evening, the team met financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo at the civil secretariat. Dr Vijay Hadda, a team member, said, “We are here to see how hospitals are combating Covid-19 and how are they equipped to tackle it. We will also assess how can we make them better and how the Centre can help improve the situation.” Dr Hadda said the team interacted with the medical superintendent, deputy medical superintendent, principal and other faculty members to know about difficulties faced by them in dealing with the pandemic. “We felt that there are certain areas where we can improve the facilities. We have also come to know about certain problems but I won’t be able to discuss them before the media. These problems certainly need a solution and we hope that all of us contribute in controlling the pandemic,” he added. “We discussed about ICU beds, per day arrival of the patients, death rate and trend of the infection. We have prepared a list of three to four major hospitals In Jammu where the team should visit. These are the hospitals that witnessed sudden spike in deaths and include government chest diseases hospital and the GMCH,” he said.Besides Dr Hadda, who is a professor at the department of pulmonary critical care, AIIMS, New Delhi, the team comprises Dr Ramesh an epidemiologist. A health team headed by Dr SK Singh, director NCDC, New Delhi, along with Dr Tanzin, joint director NCDC also visited Udhampur. The team visited the district hospital, where chief medical officer Dr KC Dogra gave a powerpoint presentation on the Covid-19 scenario in Udhampur. He also briefed about the steps taken to contain the spread of the virus in the district. The Centre on Friday had decided to depute a high-level medical team after Jammu district reported a rise in the number of new infections in recent days. Principal of the GMCH, Dr Nasib Chand Digra said the team discussed about facilities, reasons behind spike in deaths and surge in Covid infection. Dr Digra had recently written a letter to L-G Manoj Sinha opting for VRS. Dr Digra, in the two-page letter, had offered to opt for VRS because of the interference in working of the hospital by “extra-institutional officials.” He, however, didn’t name them in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-s-team-of-experts-arrive-in-jammu-to-assess-covid-situation/story-SoFVMPIo8LfdqbpCLGU0yI.html
19-09-2020||City||AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma slams Centre over agriculture bills||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former Himachal Pradesh minister Sudhir Sharma on Saturday said slammed the Centre over three agriculture bills stating that it was ‘acting like East India Company’. In a press statement issued here, Sharma said the country is already reeling under recession and the three bills will adversely affect farmers, horticulturists and other people associated with agriculture. He said the government passed the bills in Lok Sabha despite protests not only by farmers and opposition parties but also government’s allies. Sharma said the way in which the legislations were promulgated through ordinance in a hasty manner seems these are aimed at benefiting government’s corporate cronies. “It will be the farmer who will be hit by these,” Sharma said, adding that if farmers sell their produce outside the Registered Agricultural Produce Market Committee, the states will suffer a loss of revenue as they will not be able to receive duty. “It is feared that this may eventually lead to the end of the minimum support price (MSP)-based procurement system and lead to increased exploitation by private companies,” he said. “This law is designed to suit the big industrialists who wish to dominate the Indian food and agribusiness,” he said, adding that it will weaken the bargaining power of the farmers. Besides, large private companies, exporters, wholesalers and processors will get control, he added.Sharma said the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill proposes to exclude agricultural commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onions and potatoes from the list of essentials except under extraordinary circumstances like war, famine, extraordinary price rise and natural calamity. The limit of stock applicable to such items will also be eliminated. “This will allow big companies to have storage of these agricultural products so that they can impose their will on farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aicc-secretary-sudhir-sharma-slams-govt-over-agriculture-bills/story-Y3VusoQwnMhfF64nxdTEfP.html
19-09-2020||City||Declare medical emergency in Jammu: Rana||National Conference Provincial president Devender Singh Rana on Saturday sought declaration of medical emergency in Jammu in view of steep hike in Covid-19 positive cases and inadequate infrastructure to tackle thesituation.“The overall scenario is quite grim and there is no room for complacency that can prove catastrophic unless an emergent and proactive response is not taken to save precious lives,” Rana said.He referred to the reports coming in from hospitals where patients are either not finding beds for treatment or are hassled due to lack of oxygen and ventilators. He said that government should have anticipated such a situation and taken necessary measures by taking help from private hospitals and nursing homes, besides setting up of a thousand-bedded hospital.He drew the attention towards the paucity of beds, questioning how just 608 beds of the total capacity of 2,637 beds in Government Medical College and Associated Hospitals in Jammu will meet the current requirement. The situation is worse in semi-urban, urban and rural areas. Availability of oxygen is poor and dysfunctional ventilators are worrisome, he added.He called for installation of liquid oxygen plant, oxygen generation plant and others in hospitals to cater to the need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/declare-medical-emergency-in-jammu-rana/story-SsXbROoHiZFbIQjPUB5ypJ.html
19-09-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad: 10 arrested for illegal water supply, get bail||The Faridabad police on Friday arrested 10 people for allegedly digging borewells illegally, supplying overpriced drinking water via water tankers across the city. However, they later got bailResidents in Faridabad and even Gurugram have long since complained of “water mafia” that controls the supply in certain sectors. They allege that these people making windfall gains by stopping supply from the government authorities and leaving with residents with no choice. According to the police, Friday’s arrests came following raids at different locations located close to the bank of river Yamuna. Adarsh Deep Singh, assistant commissioner of police and the district police’s public relation officer, said that they had been receiving many complaining against “water mafia”. “The suspects arrested include private contractors who dug the illegal borewell in areas near Yamuna. They were produced in the court and were granted bail,” he said. Singh said FIRs were registered under Section 188 Indian Penal Code (IPC) at different police stations. Singh said the abandoned borewells were a cause of concern for the safety of people, especially that of children, as well a source of contamination of groundwater. “We have directed the station house officers to keep a check in their area and have also asked residents to share leads if they have any, their credentials will be kept secret,” he said. Police said farmhouses near the Yamuna dug illegal borewells. “The permission for borewells are given only for drinking water purposes, not for commercial activities. We are taking steps to ensure no illegal activities is carried out in farmhouses,” Singh said. Police said areas under scanner are –Sector 17, Palla and Kheripul from where these illegal connections were sealed. According to a study conducted by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), Faridabad’s water table is shrinking by 1-3 metres due to unchecked extraction. The units were found supplying drinking water campers without any clearance and permission. They also had machines to fill 20 litres campers and large bottles, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-10-arrested-for-illegal-water-supply-get-bail/story-FiCMmxi8cjQ7QKtajyp0pO.html
19-09-2020||City||Factory bus crushes 19-yr-old employee after dropping her||A 19-year-old woman was crushed to death by her factory’s bus moments after she got off from it at EWS Colony on Chandigarh Road on Friday night. The deceased, Neetu, was a resident of Kishore Nagar. Her father, Raj Nandan, told the police said his two daughters, Neetu and Nisha, 18, worked at Joginder Spinning Mills in Katani Kalan. A factory bus used to pick and drop them from EWS Colony. On Friday night, the bus dropped both sisters home. As the duo was crossing the road in front of the bus, the driver failed to notice them and accelerated, hitting Neetu, while Nisha had a close shave. Instead of attending to Neetu, the bus driver fled the spot, leaving the vehicle on the spot.Raj Nandan said he, along with onlookers, rushed Neetu to a local hospital, but she succumbed to her injuries.ASI Resham Singh, who is investigating the case, said the bus driver, Charanjit Singh of Katani Kalan, was arrested on Saturday.He has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/factory-bus-crushes-19-yr-old-employee-after-dropping-her/story-zZSCxRPT1Qd7aQ32EjnD0J.html
19-09-2020||City||GNDEC Ludhiana kick-starts international conference on sustainable innovation||A three-day online international conference on ‘Sustainable Development through Engineering Innovation’ was started at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) here on Saturday.The conference, which was inaugurated by IIT Ropar director SK Dass, aims at highlighting innovative solutions to various engineering problems.In his welcome address, GNDEC principal Sehijpal Singh stressed the need for innovation to build a sustainable society. He said the college is promoting a culture of innovation with support from industry.Giving details, co-chairperson H S Rai said the three-day multi-track conference will comprise four parallel sessions each day. He stressed upon connecting within the nature which is necessary for sustainable development.The organising secretaries informed that over 250 papers were received from researchers from around the globe, out of which 115 papers have been accepted for publication. The papers have featured in the lecture notes series of a well-know publisher ‘Springer’.Professor R S Bhatti from Mount Royal University, Calgary, Canada, one of the keynote speakers said the world is facing drastic climatic change and there was an urgent need to adopt new business to survive. He gave examples from real life of water saving by Scotland using sensors in pipes leading to conservation of 2 trillion gallons of water.Mukhinder Singh, one of the distinguished industrialists of Punjab and managing director of SECO, said that innovation was the tool with technology as raw material. CII Punjab vice-chairman and GNDEC alumnus Rahul Ahuja expressed fear that our current developments will not make us survive in the next century. He said now is the exciting phase and is challenging for people who seek sustainable development through innovation. He cited 3Ps — planet, people and profit — as necessary pillars of sustainable development and urged the students to develop innovative ideas from their daily experiences.Chief guest Sarit K Das said it was only in the last 30 years that sustainable development was being talked about. He stressed upon making an institution with innovative culture and research orientation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gndec-ludhiana-kick-starts-international-conference-on-sustainable-innovation/story-wrBIlJCWUZMMWzeVYHvt6J.html
19-09-2020||City||NIIFT Ludhiana starts admission for UG, PG courses||Northern India Institute of Fashion Technology (NIIFT) here has started the process for admission to its various undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programmes.The institute is offering courses such as BSc (fashion design knits), BSc (fashion design), BSc (textile design), MSc (garment manufacturing technology), MSc (fashion marketing and management), and two-year master of design (MDes) degree in fashion and textile.The interested candidates can download the prospectus and apply online at the institute’s official website www.niiftindia.com.Upon successful completion of the course, the passouts can start their own enterprises in textile, fashion and apparel sectors, or get recruited as design consultants, fashion designers, merchandisers, sourcing and product managers, fashion photographers, and stylists, among others.The state’s department of industries and commerce established the institute in 1995, comprehending and visualising the need of trained professionals in the arena of textile and garment industry. In 2013, NIIFT got affiliated to Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, for providing degrees to students, steering and supporting in admission procedure, faculty recruitment and training as well as curriculum scheduling and upgrading.Ludhiana, apart from being a significant textile cluster, is at its fruition in the production of hosiery, knitwear and readymade garments. NIIFT, in August 2008, achieved another milestone, by opening a new centre in Ludhiana, for providing the industry with trained professionals in the fashion business. Since then, NIIFT, Ludhiana has emerged as a premier institute and strives to impart knowledge comparable with international standards. The institute has grown with each passing year adding new courses and continuously evolving strong relations with the garment industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/niift-ludhiana-starts-admission-for-ug-pg-courses/story-OEQzsjC7mvGa8O0Pg9s0dI.html
19-09-2020||City||Students’ body voices concern over unemployment, new education policy at Ludhiana meet||The members of All India Students Federation (AISF) organised a meeting at Karnail Singh Isru Bhawan, Abdullapur Basti, here on Saturday to discuss the birth anniversary celebrations of Shaheed Bhagat Singh among other pressing matters.The issues of unemployment and new education policy were also taken up in the meeting.ENT surgeon Arun Mittra said unemployment is major concern in the current times as many people have lost their jobs and are going through financial hardships due to the Covid-related lockdown. The government must take it seriously and generate jobs for the unemployed people, he said.While addressing the students, Comrade Charan Singh Sarabha said by launching the new education policy, the central government has befooled them. “Students and youth are the future of this country and the government must focus on their welfare,” he added.Youth leader Sukhwinder Maheshwari threw light on the arrangements planned for Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary celebrations on September 28. He also discussed the Bhagat Singh National Employment Guarantee Act.Meanwhile, AISF Ludhiana formed a new committee on the occasion. Sourav Yadav was elected as its president, while Kartika Singh and Manpreet were chosen vice-presidents. Deepak Kumar is the committee’s secretary, Lalit Kumar and Rajiv Kumar are joint secretaries, Pardeep Kumar will take charge as treasurer and Pardeep Khera as joint treasurer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-body-voices-concern-over-unemployment-new-education-policy-at-ludhiana-meet/story-mGJgfhC4skFzCfRLwkIEWM.html
19-09-2020||City||BKU to block highways in Haryana against farm bills today||Intensifying their agitation against the three agricultural legislations passed in the Lok Sabha, farmers associated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) and other associations have announced to block the state and national highways in Haryana for three hours on Sunday. The road blockade call comes almost a week after agitating farmers were lathicharged by cops in Kurukshetra’s Pipli. According to information, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni had been going from district to district over the last two days to garner farmers’ support. According to Charuni, a total of 17 farmer organisations in the state are supporting Sunday’s protest and the farmers “are united despite the government’s efforts to divide them”. He said they will block the state and national highways from 12pm to 3pm and in each district, one or two spots will be picked, depending on the strength of the farmers. As per information, Charuni will lead the agitation from Yamunanagar, where farmers will block the Yamunanagar-Panchkula highway at Milk Majra toll plaza.Stating that political parties will be allowed to lend support, BKU (Charuni) state secretary Harpal Sudhal said, “Any political party can support the farmers’ protest but they will not be allowed to politicise it.”Meanwhile, a few political parties, including the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), have extended their support to the BKU. As per party insiders, INLD senior leader Abhay Chautala has issued instructions to all district level office-bearers to support the protest in their respective districts. The party has even cancelled all its meetings scheduled for Sunday in Baroda constituency.Meanwhile, the district administrations have also beefed up their security arrangements. Heavy police force will be deployed in the northern parts of the state, including Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Kaithal and Karnal, besides parts of Hisar and Sonepat where BKU (Charuni) is said to have a sizeable influence. Arrangements have also been made to divert traffic from the highway at the time of the protest, officials said. Meanwhile, farmers and commission agents continued protests at the district headquarters across the state on the fourth consecutive day on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bku-to-block-highways-in-haryana-against-farm-bills-today/story-W7f846leHJMXUxNGxZT6NK.html
19-09-2020||City||Clean your refrigerator at least once a month||When was the last time you deep cleaned your refrigerator? If you cannot remember, it’s time you set about doing just that because in the absence of regular cleaning , your refrigerator could well be harbouring disease-causing micro organisms.Before frost-free refrigerators made their way into the market, consumers were forced to defrost their refrigerators once a week. Since that required emptying out the fridge and switching off the machine , that was also the time the refrigerators were thoroughly cleaned with a detergent solution and wiped dry. The self- defrosting machines of today have freed consumers from that cumbersome job, but in the process, consumers have lost the habit of cleaning their refrigerators regularly.Several studies conducted in different countries have shown a variety of pathogenic microbes in the refrigerators, reinforcing the need to clean them frequently to ensure the safety of food stored. Samples taken from the base, shelves and sides of refrigerators in the district of Vellore, Tamil Nadu, for example, revealed the presence of bacteria that cause gastrointestinal infections, besides infections in the urinary and respiratory tracts, such as Citrobactor, Proteus, Salmonella and E.Coli . In their paper titled “Isolation of various bacteria pathogens from domestic refrigerators” published in the Asian Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research in 2012, the authors said there was an urgent need for consumer education on regular cleaning of the refrigerator , maintaining the right temperature, besides proper food storage and hand hygiene practices.More recently in 2019, the UK consumer Magazine ‘Which’, brought out by Consumers’ Association, analysed 10 refrigerators, for the presence of microbes. Five samples were taken from each refrigerator -- from the bottom shelf meant for storing meat, vegetable drawer, upper door rack, back wall of the refrigerator and the outer door handle. Analysis of the samples found that seven out of 10 refrigerators had harmful germs. Out of the 50 samples, 19 had high concentrations of Enterobacter cloacae and Klebsiella Oxytoca- bacteria that can cause respiratory and urinary tract infections. Another study published in the American Journal of Epidemology and Infectious Disease in 2017, revealed that all the 50 randomly selected household refrigerators in Calabar Metropolis, Nigeria, were contaminated with bacteria. In addition , 32 per cent had fungal and 28 per cent had parasitic organisms. So it is absolutely essential to regularly and thoroughly clean the refrigerator -- at least once a month, say food scientists. It is also extremely important to maintain the refrigerator at below 4 degree Celsius, freezer compartment at minus 18 degree C and not to crowd the refrigerator, so as to allow proper air circulation inside. And the cooked and ready to eat food should always be properly covered with a tight lid to prevent not only microbial contamination, but also the possibility of any worms or insects from raw vegetables (that may have been kept without cleaning) getting into food.Since the source of contamination is mainly raw food, it is always best to thoroughly wash and dry all fruits and vegetables before storing them in the refrigerator. Similarly, raw meat and poultry should be kept separately in tightly sealed containers. Always separate raw and cooked food and raw food on the bottom shelf and ready-to-eat food at the top .I must also mention that even though scientists say that there is no evidence of food borne transmission of Novel Coronavirus, they do say that the virus may survive for long periods in a refrigerator. Of course this is based on a 2010 study that used two surrogate viruses or viruses that were similar to SARS-CoV to examine the effect of temperature and humidity on its survival and found that at 4 degree C and a relative humidity of 20 per cent, for example, two-thirds of them survived for as long as 28 days. So do play safe and sanitise packets before you put them into the refrigerator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clean-your-refrigerator-at-least-once-a-month/story-tcvB0EzxQiNibDAj1eJ6QJ.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Driver robbed of cab at gunpoint in Chandigarh||Three men wielding a gun fled in a cab after attacking its driver with a hammer near Kishangarh on Friday night. Cab driver Manoj Kumar, 35, a resident of Manimajra, was parking his Swift Dzire outside his house when the trio allegedly approached him and asked him to drop them at the ISBT, Sector 43.As the cab reached the Kishangarh village turn, one of the men pulled out a gun and pointed it at him while the second one hit him on the head with a hammer, according to the complainant. They then took away his mobile phone and pushed him out before fleeing.Manoj was discharged from hospital after being administered first aid. Police have registered a case of robbery and are trying to trace the car using its GPS system and registration number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/driver-robbed-of-cab-at-gunpoint-in-chandigarh/story-OF8P4iEfwvGr0ucRxdMhzL.html
19-09-2020||City||PhD research, select PG classes to resume in Punjab from Sept 21||Chandigarh In compliance with the Centre’s directives for Unlock 4.0, the Punjab government on Saturday allowed the opening of higher education institutions for PhD scholars and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratories and experimental works from September 21. However, schools, colleges and coaching centres will remain closed. According to the detailed guidelines issued by special chief secretary (home) Satish Chandra, open air theatres will be allowed to function with strict adherence to social distancing norms. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will, however, continue to remain closed. As per the orders, online learning shall continue to be permitted and encouraged but schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students and regular classes. Chandra said 50% of the teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed to attend schools at a time for online teaching/tele-counselling and related work in areas outside the containment zones, only as per standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued on September 8, 2020, by the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phd-research-select-pg-classes-to-resume-in-punjab-from-sept-21/story-k3QzNXAcf9APVri4f3lGmM.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain warning for Mumbai, Thane; IMD issues yellow alert||The weather bureau on Sunday issued a ‘yellow alert’ - heavy rain warning across isolated areas - for Mumbai and Thane for Monday and Tuesday. The city and suburbs could expect rain with thundershowers on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.“Enhanced rain activity is expected between September 19-22 for various areas in Maharashtra due to the likely formation of a low-pressure area over northeast Bay of Bengal by Sunday. Under its impact, lower level westerly winds are likely to strengthen and its associated convergence is expected over the west coast,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD.Active monsoon conditions were expected over Konkan and Goa, he added. “This could allow very heavy to extremely heavy rain across isolated areas of south Konkan in the coming days while moderate to heavy rain in isolated areas is expected across interior Maharashtra and parts of north Konkan,” said Hosalikar.Also read: Stop selling fake Khadi products: Centre to Flipkart, Amazon, SnapdealOn Saturday, more rain was recorded towards the suburbs than south Mumbai and heavy rain over some areas in northern suburbs.The Santacruz weather observatory recorded 12.4 mm rain while Colaba recorded 2 mm rain between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm. Maximum rain was recorded at Bhayander at 89 mm during the same time, followed by Mira Road at 46 mm. Malad recorded 29.4 mm while Bandra 13.4 mm.Cloud cover with the possibility of light to moderate rain or thundershowers has been predicted for Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-mumbai-thane-imd-issues-yellow-alert/story-Aslu3EpP9cTEaSG7bDgbVM.html
19-09-2020||City||Patiala GMC principal, his deputy, medical supdt removed over poor performance||Decision taken 10 days after medical education minister OP Soni visited the facility and took note of high Covid death rate and mismanagementPatiala The medical education and research department on Saturday removed principal, vice-principal of Government Medical College, and medical superintendent of Rajindra Hospital over poor performance.Principal secretary DK Tiwari on Saturday issued three separate orders, removing Dr Harjinder Singh of urology department as principal, Dr Parmod Kumar of anesthesia department as vice-principal and Dr Paras Pandove of surgery department as medical superintendent.The decision was taken 10 days after medical education minister OP Soni visited the facility and took note of high Covid death rate, mismanagement, besides negative feedback from public about the facilities. Besides, the minister was also told that the three top officials were also not on good terms with one another, which was affecting the operations.The department has appointed Dr Rajan Singla of anatomy department as principal, Dr Raminderpal Singh Sibia of medicine department as vice-principal and Dr Harnam Singh Rekhi of surgery department as medical superintendent of the hospital.Soni said, “We have removed principal, vice-principal and medical superintendent of GMC Patiala and Rajindra Hospital over their lackadaisical attitude towards duty, low performance and high death rate of Covid-19 patients at the hospital. We have also received several complaints and negative feedback from public and their colleagues during my visit on September 9.”“They lacked coordination as they were not on good terms with one another. We also found dereliction of duties on their part. We want to improve the patient care and health care system. The decision was taken after discussions,” the minister said.Meanwhile, the local unit of Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association welcomed the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-gmc-principal-his-deputy-medical-supdt-removed-over-poor-performance/story-MtrKsEUzys2d2L77h7ss6O.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||ATM loot bid in Chandigarh’s Sector 34||Burglars made an unsuccessful attempt to steal money from an Axis Bank ATM in Sector 34 on Friday night.It was around 10:30pm that a group of youths with their faces covered with masks entered the ATM booth, said police. They first applied a tape on six CCTV cameras installed on the premises and then started to try and open the ATM. They ended up damaging the kiosk, ripping off its screen and breaking some wires, but could not get access to around ₹3 lakh stored in the ATM at the time, said police. Finally, they fled. Police were informed in the morning after the bank officials saw what had transpired. The CCTV footage is being checked to identify the miscreants.A case under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 34 police station. Officials privy to the matter said it appeared the accused had carried out a recce before striking at the ATM, which had no security guard posted outside, and were aware of all CCTV cameras installed inside.Past incidentsAugust 10: Three masked men make an unsuccessful attempt to loot an unguarded ATM in Subhash Nagar, Manimajra, around midnight June 24: Burglars try to steal money from an SBI ATM in the Sector-44 marketJune 18: Masked man flee with ₹7.6 lakh from a Union Bank of India ATM at KishangarhMay 31: Four people make unsuccessful bid to loot an ATM at Kishangarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/atm-loot-bid-in-chandigarh-s-sector-34/story-6jqYWIU7hHLI6etrg93NTM.html
19-09-2020||Noida||Bhim Army chief lends support to striking Noida sanitation workers||A day after six sanitation workers were arrested for creating a ruckus while protesting outside the Noida authority office in Sector 6, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, along with scores of his supporters, reached the authority office on Saturday and extended support to striking workers. He demanded the immediate release of the arrested persons, and pressed for the regularisation of workers’ jobs, and also flats for all staffers under the jhuggi-jhopri (JJ) scheme. Azad, clad in grey trousers, white shirt and blue scarf, reached Sector 6 in a Mahindra Scorpio around 1pm. He soon mounted the Scorpio to address the protesters. A number of police personnel were deployed at the spot, who had locked the main entrance gate to the authority office. Azad, holding aloft a copy of the Indian Constitution in one hand and a broom in the another, demanded that sanitation worker be given their rights as per “the Book (Constitution)”. He addressed the gathering of over 1,000 people and also sat in protest for some time with the sanitation workers. “The police crackdown on sanitation workers on Friday was not right. These sanitation workers are corona warriors. The government launches schemes like Swachh Bharat Mission with the support of sanitation workers. They have been working for over a decade and they still get a meagre salary. The workers have been cheated of their dues,” he said. He also said there was no unity among sanitation workers and, hence, their demands were being ignored. On behalf of sanitation workers, Azad put forward five demands to the Noida authority -- all contractual workers should be directly employed by the authority; they should get flats under the JJ Scheme; Noida farmers’ land issues should be resolved; kin of Anil Balmiki, a contractual worker who killed himself on Monday, should get compensation and job;and the Noida authority should also ensure jobs to the local youth.The Bhim Army chief also demanded the release of six arrested sanitation workers and said he would intensify the protest in the coming days if these demands are not met. Saveer Makhwana, a sanitation worker, said on Friday, the police registered a case against 20 named, and 100 unnamed sanitation workers. They were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 353 (assault or criminal force on public servant) of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “The police arrested six of our workers for demanding regularisation of jobs, and sent them to jail. The protest will continue till the arrested persons are released,” he said.Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty (OSD), Noida authority, said contractual workers are engaged for various works across the state and not just Noida. “We are not the only city which offers contractual jobs. We have informed higher authorities about the sanitation workers’ demands. We will also explore options to provide them flats under the JJ Scheme,” Singh said. Singh said Balmiki was a contractual worker and the contractor who employed him has given his family ₹1.10 lakh compensation and contractual jobs to two family members. Kumar Ranvijay, additional DCP, Noida, said the protest was peaceful on Saturday. “A police team was deployed at the spot to ensure that order was maintained. The six persons had created a ruckus and, hence, they were arrested. They will be released by the court following due process,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bhim-army-chief-lends-support-to-striking-noida-sanitation-workers/story-2OlMo8l47Q80ChZk0bkhFK.html
19-09-2020||City||Missing saroops: Morcha for criminal case against culprits enters day 6||Amritsar The indefinite morcha (agitation) being undertaken by members of some Sikh bodies, including the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee, outside the Teja Singh Samundri Hall, the headquarters of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), entered its sixth day on Saturday. Their demands in the case of missing 328 saroops of the Guru Granth Sahib have not been met yet.The agitators are seeking that the culprits in the missing saroops case to be booked under a criminal case, and that these be found. “We are firm on our demands. Till these are met, our morcha will continue. We are getting a good response from the sangat,” said Ranjit Singh, a leader of Sikh Youth Federation Bhindranwala, who is participating in the stir.Sikh activists visiting the Golden Temple are meeting the agitators and addressing them. A panthic gathering held on September 17 at the Akal Takht had also extended support to the sit-in. The dharna got major publicity after a nihang was injured on September 15, when the SGPC used force to disperse the agitators. The agitation was launched on September 14, when the SGPC executive committee, in a U-turn, resolved not to register a criminal case against its staffers indicted in an inquiry report into the missing saroops, claiming that it was competent to take action against them within the organisation.Without mentioning the SGPC’s U-turn, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh also referred to this on Friday, when SGPC office-bearers and executive committee members appeared before him at the Takht. The jathedar said, “Reversing decisions is not fair and it has hurt the reputation of the SGPC. The Akal Takht Sahib directs it to take decisions after consulting Sikh intellectuals and scholars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-saroops-morcha-for-criminal-case-against-culprits-enters-day-6/story-cHiRQ4lsMRrcEUhHE6pSTI.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||After Rohtang, focus shifts to Shinku La tunnel between Ladakh and Lahaul||With Atal Tunnel, formerly known as the Rohtang Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, set to be opened for traffic this month-end, the Centre has set the ball rolling for the construction of another high-altitude tunnel under the 16,730-ft-high Shinku La (pass) in Himachal Pradesh. The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) under the ministry of road, transport and highways has speeded up the detailed project report (DPR) work on the 13.5-km Shinku La Tunnel connecting the Union Territory of Ladakh and tribal Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh. The high-level team led by KK Pathak, managing director, NHIDCL, along with Sanjeev Malik, executive director, visited the north and south portals of Shinku La tunnel on Thursday. The team drove from Leh via Padum to the north and south portals of Shinku La in two days, travelling almost 12 hours a day. Though Shinku La has no glacier, it is prone to avalanches during the snow season that hampers vehicular movement. Three years ago, Border Roads Organisation (BRO) completed the 39.6 km stretch connecting Lahaul valley with Zanskar. The stretch connecting Darcha with Shinku La drastically reduces the distance between Manali and Leh. The road is not only of strategic importance as it provides easier access areas on the Indo-China border but also comes as a relief for the 15-odd villages in Zanskar valley where residents have to walk for five to six days to either reach Leh or Manali. The BRO has already conducted feasibility studies to bore a tunnel under the 11,575-ft Zoji La connecting Srinagar and Leh. Zoji La is the second highest pass after Fotu La on the Srinagar-Leh highway, which often remains closed during winter. In 1948, Pakistani raiders had laid siege to Zoji La in their campaign to reach Ladakh but it was regained by the Indian forces after a fierce battle. Anand Kumar Pahal, executive director at BRO’s regional office in Srinagar accompanied Pathak, who stressed on speeding up the project work before October 15 in view of heavy snowfall in the area. ATAL TUNNEL AWAITS INAUGURATION Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to dedicate the 9.2-km Atal Tunnel that connects Manali with Leh, the world’s longest high-altitude tunnel above 10,000 feet, to the nation by this mont-end. Work on the tunnel has been completed in 10 years, whereas the original estimated time was less than six years. The ₹32,000-crore tunnel will shorten the 474-km distance between Manali and Leh by 46km, which means the eight-hour journey will be cut by two-and-a-half hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-rohtang-focus-shifts-to-shinku-la-tunnel-between-ladakh-and-lahaul/story-v5HGeLhQ7FN5NoITch1nEI.html
19-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Over one-third of cases registered by Prayagraj police pertain to rules violations||The lockdown ensured a dip in the crime graph in Prayagraj, and, predictably, its relaxation saw a surge in crimes in the city. A large number of the pending cases pertain to violation of Covid guidelines. Of the12,000 cases pending with the Prayagraj police, over one-third, 4,610 cases, pertain to violation of Section 144 and Epidemic Act, registered during the lockdown and the subsequent unlock period.Also read: Covid-19 likely to become a seasonal disease, scientists call for public health measures to control virusWith people failing to follow guidelines issued by the government to keep coronavirus at bay, police had to register cases against assembly of people, not wearing masks and staging protest without permission. The FIRs were lodged under section 188, 260, 270 and the Epidemic Act. Police also got stricter after the high court admonished the administration for failing to enforce social distancing and making people wear masks and taking other precautions to stop the spread of coronavirus. Since lockdown, Prayagraj police has registered 4,610 FIRs against 10,461 persons for violation of guidelines and Epidemic Act in which 5,413 people were arrested. SP, crime, Ashutosh Mishra said in a bid to stop spread of coronavirus, FIRs were lodged against those violating guidelines. The action has increased the number of pending cases and investigations. However, steps will soon be taken to complete pending investigations and dispose of the cases, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prayagraj-police/story-a6k7rKJZVMI1zndFhihrtM.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara International School, college of education mark Ozone day||Chandigarh: To commemorate 35 years of the Vienna Convention and 35 years of global ozone protection, Chitkara College of Education in association with the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, ministry of environment, forest, climate change (MOEF) and environmental information system (ENVIS) celebrated Ozone day on Saturday. Teachers also participated in the poster-making competition. Chitkara International School students participated in an online quiz competition, ’Ozone-o-logy’. The day began with an expert talk on, ‘Ozone for life’ by Sumit Arora, who is working as a capacity building and institutional strengthening specialist under State Mission Management Unit of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation. The talk helped in sensitising the audience about minimising use of ozone depleting substances (ODS) and the consequences of damaging the ozone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-international-school-college-of-education-mark-ozone-day/story-w52f133ot9ds0NSeKpPW0K.html
19-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan prisoner complains of pain, X-ray reveals 4 mobile phones in rectum||A unique case of a 32-year-old inmate hiding four mobile phones in his rectum has surfaced from the Jodhpur central jail in Rajasthan.The inmate-- a native of Barmer who was convicted in a case of unnatural offence-- complained of intolerable pain in his stomach and rectum on Friday after which he was rushed to a hospital, leading to the discovery, said jail officials.“On Friday morning, the inmate identified as Deva Ram, who is lodged in Jodhpur central jail for the last 18-months, started suffering unbearable pain. When asked about the cause, he confessed to have forcefully inserted mobile phones in his rectum. He was immediately rushed to the hospital,” said Kailash Trivedi, Jodhpur central jail superintendent.Also Read: Raj govt to legalise mines supplying stone for building Ram Temple in AyodhyaWhen X-ray and Sonography tests of the inmate were done, the doctors found four small mobile headsets wrapped in plastic polythene inside his rectum.“After X-ray and Sonography, it was clear that Deva Ram had hidden four mobile phones in his rectum and they were taken out with the help of a small surgery,” the jail official added.Also Read: Rajasthan govt to provide free coaching to civil services aspirantsAs of now, the condition of Deva Ram is stable. Once discharged, the jail officials will quiz him to find out who supplied him mobile phones inside the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-prisoner-complains-of-pain-x-ray-reveals-4-mobile-phones-in-rectum/story-tySTv6IUIeuLZiJQgyCmAI.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s farmer leaders to burn copies of farm bills tomorrow||Representatives of 30 Left-backed and other farmer rights organisations on Saturday announced that they will burn copies of the three farm bills passed by the Lok Sabha in Punjab on Sunday besides observing a state-wide bandh on September 25. Jagmohan Singh, a member of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, said that the representatives who met at Moga agreed to extend support to the farmers’ agitation in neighbouring Haryana on September 20. “Tomorrow, Punjab farmer association members will burn copies of farm bills in the state as a mark of protest,” he said. On the Punjab bandh call given by Left-leaning farmer associations, he said besides shops and commercial establishments, railway and highway blockades would be part of the statewide protest from Friday morning till 4pm. Harinder Singh of Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal) said that the farmer leaders have decided to come on a single platform to oppose the passage of the bills and have resolved not to engage any political party in the agitation. He said the further course of action would be decided next week after bringing non-political fronts together in the interest of the agrarian community. “The meeting was organised to coordinate with other farmer organisations and forge a common platform to oppose the bills,” Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) BS Rajewal said earlier. The representatives met at Nachattar Singh Hall in Moga on Saturday afternoon. Harinder Singh said representatives of 13 farmer organisations had met at a gurdwara in Alamgir village near Ludhiana on Friday to discuss the course of action after the controversial legislation, including the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, were passed on Thursday. On Tuesday, the Lower House of Parliament passed a third legislation, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. “During the meeting on Friday, a five-member coordination committee was formed. It will coordinate with farmer unions of other states who are opposing the bills,” Rajewal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-leaders-of-punjab-meet-in-moga-today-to-chalk-out-protest-strategy/story-s6rrb0bOjqmaMUW91apjzL.html
19-09-2020||Lucknow||UP CM relaxes rules, gives Rs 10 lakh for IIT scholar’s cancer treatment||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has sanctioned Rs 10 lakh by relaxing rules for an Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee research scholar’s blood cancer treatment.A statement from the chief minister’s office on Saturday said Adityanath learnt through social media about the financial problems the family of Ashish Dixit was facing as he is undergoing treatment in Lucknow.It added that since Dixit was a son of a government employee and a beneficiary of a scholarship, it was difficult to extend financial help to him under the earlier rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-relaxes-rules-gives-rs-10-lakh-for-iit-scholar-s-cancer-treatment/story-wFOojw8V3aSlYvBzBcOVFP.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Sinhgad road, Karvenagar and Dhankawadi areas in Pune report spike in Covid cases in past seven days||According to data released by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for the past two weeks, the wards of Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road have shown a drastic improvement in terms of Covid-19 positive cases and on the other hand Sinhgad road, Vadgaonsheri, Dhankawadi, Sahakarnagar and Karvenagar have reported a spike in the last seven days. In terms of the number of positive cases reported, Sinhgad road has reported a 15.2 per cent spike, Ahmednagar road-Vadgaonsheri reported 16.6 per cent growth, Warje-Karvenagar reported a 15.8 per cent rise and Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar reported 15.6 per cent growth. According to experts, it would be too early to speak about herd immunity or the flattening curve in the population living in Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road areas without knowing the number of tests being done. In the past two weeks starting from September 2nd to September 8th and September 9th to September 15th, these two wards have shown the slowest growth percentage as compared to other wards. In the week from September 8th to September 15th alone, the Dhole Patil road reported 6.5 per cent while Bhavani peth reported 11.7 per cent. Both the wards, Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil road wards which are also one of the most congested wards were the hotspot in the city with most cases being reported from there. The samples for the first serosurvey conducted in the city by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC); Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) to determine the spread of the virus by detecting the antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 were collected from these areas. The survey had shown a higher percentage of antibodies in the samples indicating that the prevalence of the virus is higher in these places. The presence of antibodies hints that the immune system is capable of fighting the virus. Once a higher number of people in a given area develop antibodies against the virus, it could be called herd immunity. However, the experts who conducted the sero survey cleared that it needs to be studied further to understand if these places had developed the neutralizing antibodies capable enough to fight this virus. Aurnab Ghose, who was the principal investigator in the study said, “ We have also got the data that these areas are not reporting the least number of cases as compared to other areas. However, we need to see if the number of tests are the same as other areas. The infection does not consider administrative boundaries. If there are enough tests being conducted in these areas too, and the number of cases is still receding then we could talk about herd immunity or flattened curve. Also, it has to be noted that this dip in the numbers could be temporary too as it would be too early to say that the curve has flattened.” Initially, the PMC had taken excess efforts to ensure that the containment zone norms are implemented properly and also washing public toilets repeatedly. Assistant municipal commissioner Bankar Somnath Haribhau who was earlier the ward officer at Bhavani peth and is now the ward officer of Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward said, “When I was the ward officer at Bhavani peth, we provided masks and sanitizers to every household and ensured cleaning of all public toilets at least three times a day. Toilets were the super spreaders and so we had to control them. We also tested more people and isolated them as soon as possible. We will now be trying the same strategy in Hadapsar too which is also throwing a greater number of cases now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sinhgad-road-karvenagar-and-dhankawadi-areas-in-pune-report-spike-in-covid-cases-in-past-seven-days/story-6s5pFcLQO62DEZe8wD9q6J.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Suspected Maoist activist Kanchan Nanaware’s medical records summoned by HC||The Bombay high court on Friday directed the medical officer at Yerawada central prison in Pune to immediately examine Kanchan Nanaware, alleged Maoist operative who was arrested by Maharashtra anti terrorist squad in September 2014 along with her husband Arun Bhelke, and submit a report to the court within a week.Acting on her application seeking bail on medical grounds, justice Bharati Dangre also directed additional public prosecutor Mankuwar Deshmukh to submit all her recent medical papers and ascertain when the suspected Maoist was last examined or taken to Sassoon hospital for a medical check up.The judge further directed that the woman be immediately examined by the medical officer at Yerawada central prison, where she has been lodged, if she has not been medically examined recently, and a report be submitted to HC.Also Read: Abetting suicide requires intention, says Bombay HC, grants bail to Pune residentThe directives were issued after Nanaware’s counsel, senior advocate Gayatri Singh, pointed out that the 36-year-old has already undergone open heart surgeries twice in the past and has been advised to undergo one more.Singh said Nanaware suffers from congenital heart disease and menorrhagia. She added that the alleged Maoist activist has been continuously under treatment at Sassoon hospital in Pune and required immediate attention, particularly in the wake of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic inside the jail, since the applicant’s co-morbid condition made her susceptible to the virus.Also Read: MSRTC buses fail to attract passengers in Pune; safety measures not in placeNanaware and Bhelke, who also have offences registered against them in Vidarbha, are accused of working in cities to indoctrinate the urban poor, especially slum dwellers from Mumbai and Pune, to join the banned movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/suspected-maoist-activist-kanchan-nanaware-s-medical-records-summoned-by-hc/story-vDUs9qp2JCEwJhH2jOvuNK.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 4,041 fresh Covid-19 positives and 39 deaths||After weeks of reporting an increasing number of active Covid-19 cases, Pune district reported a decrease in the number from 81,540 as of Thursday, to 79,691 on Friday. On Wednesday, Pune district reported 4,041 fresh Covid-19 positives and 39 deaths due to the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the infection, as per the state health department. This puts the progressive positive count at 2,53,554, of which 1,68,730 patients have recovered. The death toll for the district, as per the state health department, is 5,133. While the Pune district health office reports 42,210 active cases as of Thursday, the discrepancy is attributed to data updated on the national portal, which is the source of information for the state health department. The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) in its Covid figures released on Friday, reported 1,875 fresh positives, taking the total number of cases to 1,38,268 with 28 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, till Friday evening. This puts the PMC death toll at 3,165. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 810 fresh Covid-19 positives, taking the total number of cases to 66,358, with four deaths in the last 24 hours. This puts the PCMC death toll at 950. Pune rural reported 1,356 fresh positives taking its total Covid-19 cases to 48,928 with seven deaths reported on Friday. The death toll for Pune rural stands at 1,018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-4-041-fresh-covid-19-positives-and-39-deaths/story-gFYrZF3sCpe8dUncPUR1EI.html
19-09-2020||City||L-G announces Rs 1,350 cr economic package for Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday announced a Rs 1,350 cr economic package for the business sector and a 50% rebate on electricity and water bills for a year for all sectors in the Union territory.“I have met almost 35 delegations from various sectors... a committee was framed which was headed by my advisor KK Sharma. The committee submitted its report on time...on the recommendations of the committee, the package [has been announced]...” said Sinha. “This is a beginning and more things are in the offing.”Also read: J-K govt forms committees for panchayat, block development council bypollsSinha’s announcement comes as businesses in the region are reeling under massive losses since August 2019 when a lockdown and communications blackout were imposed to prevent protests against the Centre’s move to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status and to split it into two Union territories. Mobile internet services continue to remain restricted in the region even as other restrictions have eased. Covid-19 and the lockdown imposed this summer to check its spread turned out to be a double whammy for the businesses. Restrictions on mobile internet have hurt e-commerce that has gained elsewhere in the world during the pandemic. Sinha said the package is apart from the Rs 1,400 crore announced for Jammu & Kashmir under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign). He said a separate package will be announced for transporters, taxi-drivers, autorickshaw drivers, houseboat and shikara owners who have faced problems. He added there will be stamp duty exemption till March 2021 for all borrowers. “From October 1, Jammu & Kashmir Bank will set up special desks for young people.”Sinha said the 50% rebate on electricity and water bills for a year is going to all sectors including common households, businessmen, industrial unit holders, farmers and others. “...for this, the government will be spending 105 crores. This has been done for all,” Sinha said. He added the Centre is also working on a new industrial policy for Jammu & Kashmir.Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Sheikh Ashiq said Sinha has kept his promise and announced the package and that the business community appreciates the gesture. “We are going through the components of the package. If there will be any shortcoming, we will again meet [Sinha]. We are really thankful.”He cited Sinha’s promise for more help and said they are hopeful that these initiatives will be helpful for the business community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/l-g-announces-rs-1-350-cr-economic-package-for-j-k/story-g3rGGYtFXQdM21HoEKFLuK.html
19-09-2020||Lucknow||LESA’s ‘Good Morning Team’ to check power theft in Lucknow||The Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA) has formed a ‘Good Morning Team’ as part of a campaign to check power theft and act against those involved in the practice to run heavy appliances at night in Lucknow.“The campaign is aimed at exposing consumers who pilfer power,” said LESA executive engineer Gyan Prakash. He added they were getting regular complaints of heavy line losses in areas like Zehra colony, Sonaron Wali Gali, Nanak Nagar, etc. “Here, line losses were touching 60%. Our staff was baffled when they were unable to find any power theft during the day time.” Prakash added that is why they roped in informers, and through them, got to know about residents stealing power at night.Also read: ‘Vasooli Bhabhi’: Meet Madhya Pradesh’s women recovery agents for outstanding power bills“During the last 10 days, we have conducted six raids in morning hours and surveyed 225 houses. LESA has lodged cases against 75 residents who, despite stealing power, were not ready to pay bills.”LESA superintendent BN Sharma said they have fined 225 residents around Rs 40 lakh. He added they have constituted two teams to conduct morning raids in the areas reporting maximum line losses.LESA officials have got special permission from authorities to conduct early morning and night raids.Mani Ram, a junior engineer, said night patrolling has been started to check power theft. “Soon our night raids, with help of police, will also begin. Teams will record power theft on camera, and carry out raids with proof. We are keeping our morning raids short and quick because we do not want to give power thieves the time to collect mobs, which often come to their rescue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lesa-s-good-morning-team-to-check-power-theft-in-lucknow/story-w9iGCzq3ykWgM4sxeX5MxI.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Four held for theft at Hanuman temple at Mundaghat in Shimla||Four persons were arrested for the theft at Shri Ganga Das Purana Hanuman Temple, Mundaghat, on September 11 and the stolen items were recovered from them, police said on Saturday. The thieves had struck at 3am and stolen four ancient idols, a 150-year-old ashtadhatu idol of Shaligram, copper and brass outposts, silver crowns, two silver umbrellas worth Rs 4.5 lakh On September 16, Kamlesh, 33, a resident of Kallar village in Arki tehsil of Solan district was arrested. Another accused, Rajendra, alias Kalu Ram, 34, of Banjani village was arrested the next day from Sharadaghat in Solan district. An idol was recovered from him. A leg and a hand of the idol were missing. While the leg was recovered, the statue’s arm is still missing. The idol was identified by the temple priest. Two other accused, Ashok, 29, of Banjani, and Hrithik, 20, of Gaian village in Sunni tehsil of Shimla district were arrested on September 17. Superintendent of police Mohit Chawla said investigation is on. The accused were sent in three-day police remand on September 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-held-for-theft-at-hanuman-temple-at-mundaghat-in-shimla/story-BWXhIaXgF7Y7JcCOaAWvTL.html
19-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad, Meerut farmers on dharna on Delhi-Meerut eway; stall construction work||Farmers’ indefinite dharna on Delhi-Meerut expressway entered its second day on Saturday. Farmers of 24 villages of Ghaziabad and Meerut have continued to protest over their compensation, forcing the construction company to stop further work. Land of farmers of 19 villages of Ghaziabad and five villages of Meerut district was acquired for the 4th phase of the expressway between Meerut and Dasna of Ghaziabad. The protesters have been demanding an equal compensation for all the farmers whose land was acquired for the expressway and service roads.Also read: Ghaziabad’s SC/ST hostel to stay; UP’s first detention centre to come up in another locationEarlier in the week, agitated farmers had taken out a three-day march from a Meerut-Ghaziabad boarder village which ended at the Ghaziabad district magistrate’s office on Thursday but the talks between officials and farmers eventually failed.Dr Babli Gurjar, convener of Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said, “We are demanding equal compensation for farmers whose land was acquired for the expressway and service roads. The talks concluded without any outcome and officials demanded 10 days to resolve the issue.”“ We have given them 10 days but won’t allow them to continue work on the expressway until they come out with a solution,” said Gurjar. While Ghaziabad farmers have sat on dharna at village Moradabad, another group of Meerut farmers have begun their protest at Achraunda village where construction of a toll plaza on the expressway is proposed.Families of farmers have also joined them, cooking their meals on the expressway and singing bhajans at the protest site.“ We had been raising the issue for over a year. We took out marches, met divisional commissioner Anita C Meshram... but received only hollow assurances,” said Gurjar. Later in the day, sub divisional magistrate, tehseeldar and circle officer of Modinagar (Ghaziabad) held a meeting with protesting farmers at the venue. After assurances from additional district magistrate (land acquisition) on telephone, farmers allowed authorities to restart construction but decided to continue their dharna. They also warned they will stop the work again if their demands were not met in eight days. At Achraunda in Meerut, farmers have come together under the leadership of Mahmud Ali and SP leader Oawan Gurjar. “ We have divided the protest at two places to mount pressure on officials of Ghaziabad and Meerut,” said Ali, explaining that they are also seeking equal compensation and construction of service roads.Meanwhile, jawans of Rapid Action Force and police have been deployed and officials have tried to convince the farmers to end their protest.Mudit Garg, project manager of expressway in Ghaziabad region, refuted the charges of unequal compensation and said, “It was given as per rule.” He alleged that the farmers were mounting pressure now because the construction work was in its last lap and the agitators hoped the authorities would buckle under the pressure and approve additional compensation. The deadline for the expressway has already been extended many times. As of now, 34% of the 4th phase is yet to be completed by December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-meerut-farmers-on-dharna-on-delhi-meerut-eway-stall-construction-work/story-g7BECLoAC18aZDtYpE8DXM.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||‘There was a time when govt listened to its allies’: Sena questions Centre’s policies||The Shiv Sena on Saturday questioned the Modi government’s policies on economy, trade and agriculture, and alleged that it was moving towards privatisation of airports, Air India and railways and giving the control of farmers’ lives to traders and private players.The party also alleged that the Centre introduced Bills on agriculture “without consulting” its allies,farmers’ organisations or opposition parties, and said the resignation of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has brought the issue to the fore.In an editorial in its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, the Sena said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) during the time of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and senior BJP leader L K Advani was “different” as they used to “treat the NDA constituents with respect and consult with them”.“Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) member Harsimrat Kaur Badal has resigned from the Union Cabinet. The Modi government brought two anti-farmers bills (in Parliament) and she resigned in protest. Her resignation has been accepted. The Shiv Sena has already walked out of the NDA and now comes the SAD’s move,” it said.“During the time of Vajpayee and Advani, the NDA allies used to be treated with respect, affection and trust. There used to be consultations on policy decisions and BJP leaders would hear out the views of the allies. In those times, spoken word had value,” the Sena said.“Like Maharashtra, Punjab is an agrarian economy. Hence, before introducing the farmers’ Bills, the government should have held talks with the representatives of farmers’ organisations and agriculture expertsin Maharashtra, Punjab and the rest of the country,” it added.The Bills propose to create a system wherein traders can purchase farmers’ products even outside ‘mandis’. The Congress, DMK and Trinamool Congress opposed this proposal.They think it is anti-farmer, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said.“The Centre is pushing for privatisation of airports, Air India, ports, railways, insurance companies, and also giving control of farmers’ lives to traders and private players. The Modi government’s policies regarding economy, trade, agriculture create doubts,” it alleged.“The government says that the new system would benefit farmers. Even if one believes it to be true, what was the harm in holding consultations with a few leading farmer leaders in the country? It should have at least held talks with NCP chief Sharad Pawar. But this government has nothing to do with the words ‘dialogue’ or ‘consultation’,” the Sena said.The Lok Sabha on Thursday passed the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill.Harsimrat Kaur Badal said her decision to resign from the Union Cabinet to protest the farm sector bills symbolises her “party’s vision, its glorious legacy and its commitment to go to any extent to safeguard the interests of farmers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/there-was-a-time-when-govt-listened-to-its-allies-sena-questions-centre-s-policies/story-Kmad37Naw5R7TyPep0DkhP.html
19-09-2020||City||Cop assaults physically-challenged rickshaw driver in Kanpur; probe ordered||A police constable assaulted a physically-challenged e-rickshaw driver while he was taking his pregnant wife to a hospital in Kanpur’s Saurikh Kannauj on Friday. He later took him to a police station and pushed him on the ground. Police superintendent Amrendra Prasad Singh said he has ordered a probe into police constable Kiran Pal’s conduct. Also read: Kanpur couple found hanging in bedroom, children asleep in next room: CopsSudip Yadav said he was on his way to the district hospital with his wife and a child on his e-rickshaw when the constable first abused him for stopping for some passengers and dropping them at Saurikh. He added the constable’s reaction was unprovoked and he assaulted him before his family in full public view.Then he was taken to the police station where he was harassed, he said. The assault was caught on camera.Station house officer (Saurikh) Vijay Bahadur Verma said the constable has been suspended and a departmental inquiry has been ordered following which action would be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-assaults-physically-challenged-rickshaw-driver-in-kanpur-probe-ordered/story-Qpi3WJmX61uGz5F3UwAe9I.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Murdered Navi Mumbai 3-year-old boy knew killer, say police||A boy, who turned three on September 5, was found murdered in a gunny bag hours after he went missing on Friday while playing outside his residence in Navi Mumbai. The police suspect someone known to the boy may have killed him.“He [the boy] resided on the first floor [of an apartment building] and had gone to the ground floor to play. His sisters aged six and nine were playing on the first floor. They saw him coming back to the first floor to their residence to change his pant after it got wet. After that the sisters do not know where he went...” said Giridhar Gore, a police inspector at the Rabale police station investigating the case.Also read: 5 arrested in Domivli murder casePolice were awaiting the boy’s post mortem report to know the cause of death. The boy is suspected to have died of suffocation caused due to smothering. “We are still interrogating the nearby residents and are yet to interrogate the boy’s parents as they are not in the state to talk,” Gore said.The boy’s mother had stepped out to buy chicken while his grandmother, who sells vegetables, and father, a painter, had gone for work when he went missing. “The building has no CCTV cameras and one which was there at one corner was not working. The accused probably would have known this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/murdered-navi-mumbai-3-year-old-boy-knew-killer-say-police/story-wVc90KB2Sbraj2ADs6MPQJ.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Postal department official found dead inside his car in Delhi’s Dishad Garden||A 50-year-old postal assistant allegedly shot himself dead inside his car near his home in East Delhi’s Dilshad Garden on Saturday. He was undergoing treatment for some illness at private hospital, police said.Also read: Delhi constable’s body found hanging at Malviya Nagar home“His family members have not suspected any foul play. The necessary legal action is being taken,” deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said. He added a preliminary probe did not suggest any foul play. “A country made pistol was lying on his chest and there was a gunshot injury on right side of his head. No suicide note was recovered from the spot,” said Sharma. He added the body has been sent for autopsy. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/postal-department-official-found-dead-inside-his-car-in-delhi-s-dishad-garden/story-ojnQ7jKtZAhXKqSgjvotGJ.html
19-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh police adds sedition to case against AAP MP Sanjay Singh, summons him||The Uttar Pradesh police have summoned Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) lawmaker Sanjay Singh to record his statement after adding charges including sedition to a First Information Report (FIR) registered on September 1 against him and directors of an agency hired for conducting a survey based on the state’s alleged casteism through pre-recorded voice calls.Singh, who is a Rajya Sabha member, reiterated his willingness to face the investigation and said he will visit Lucknow on Sunday to surrender. He added 63% of people surveyed called the government casteist and 29% did not. “In UP [Uttar Pradesh], cases of rape, murder, loot are increasing every day. Aren’t the people who do all these are anti-national or am I anti-national for raising people’s voice against these issues?”Also read: Why western UP farmers are silent on Centre’s new farm billsHe slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for the politically motivated case and added it has been filed against him for raising his voice to oppose alleged atrocities against Brahmins and Dalits.“Every section and community is unhappy with the Yogi [Adityanath] government. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party]-led government under Shri Yogi Adityanath is torturing the people of Brahmin community. Atrocities are going on against the people from Maurya community, Nishad, Bind, Kashyap, Jaat, Gujjar, Valmiki, Kurmi, Yadav and other communities.”He added he has also raised the issue of the government’s “massive corruption” in buying Covid-19 kits. “I have shown how the Yogi government is buying Rs 800 Oximeter for Rs 5,000 and looting the people. Similarly, thermometer which is locally available for Rs 1,600 was purchased at Rs 13,000 and I pointed out how in the time of Corona the Yogi government was doing corruption.”He said businessman Indrakant Tripathi in Mahoba produced a voice recording exposing how the district magistrate (DM) and police superintendent (SP) were allegedly trying to extort Rs 5 lakh from him. “When the SP and DM found that Shri Tripathi was unable to pay then the SP himself met him and threatened him to kill if he does not pay the money. Shri Tripathi was so scared that he made a video a week before his death where he urged... Adityanath to give protection to him. Shri Tripathi requested the CM’s [chief minister]’s support and described how the SP and DM are threatening him. But no action was taken. Few days back, he died after suffering from a bullet injury in Uttar Pradesh for not paying extortion money.”Singh said he exposed the corruption of the government and unmasked it. “First they registered a case under IT [Information Technology] Act but when in Rajya Sabha, I raised the corruption issue, the Yogi government filed the sedition case yesterday [Friday] evening against me.”The FIR was initially registered in Lucknow against unidentified people under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 501-A that pertains to “printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory” in this case to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and under the Information Technology Act for “misuse of electronic communication”.Singh accepted his involvement in the survey through a tweet on September 2 and said he was willing to face investigation.Anjani Pandey, the inspector in-charge of Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station, charges of sedition under IPC section’s 124-A have been added during the course of investigation along with 153-A (promoting enmity between different castes), and 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration). He said the names of Singh and the private agency directors involved in the survey have been included in the FIR after their role surfaced during the investigation. He said Singh has been sent a notice to appear before the police to record his statement.BJP spokesman Harish Srivastava said those who have done nothing should not fear. “But those who want to divide the society on caste lines or whip up communal passions for gaining foothold need to fear the law which will take its own course against such people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-police-adds-sedition-to-case-against-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-summons-him/story-2sG1aRXbqF0zviceMnCAcK.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Journalist spying case: Delhi Police makes 2 more arrests, including Chinese woman||The Delhi police on Saturday said that journalist Rajeev Sharma, who was arrested on charges of spying two days ago, was allegedly passing on sensitive information to Chinese intelligence agencies. They added a Chinese woman, Qing Shi, and a Nepalese man, Sher Singh alias Raj Bohra, have been booked along with Sharma under the Official Secrets Act after classified documents were recovered from their possession.Also read: NIA arrests key accused in Naval spy ring caseSanjeev Yadav, the deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said Sharma was allegedly in contact with a Chinese intelligence official named Michael and passed on to him classified information related to Indian army deployments in the China-Bhutan-India tri-junction including Doklam. Yadav said Sharma had also allegedly given him information related to India-Myanmar military cooperation and other details about the border between India and China.Police said Sharma was allegedly paid around $500 for each assignment and claimed that he had received around Rs 3 million since 2019. They did not specify how much he was allegedly paid before 2019. The payments, police said, were made through hawala, shell companies, and Western Union money transfers.ALSO WATCH | Amid border tension, China spy gang busted in Delhi, scribe held, say police Police said that between 2010-2014, Sharma wrote for the Global Times (China). “Observing his columns, one Chinese intelligence agent named Michael from Kunming city of China contacted Sharma through his LinkedIn account and invited him to Kunming, China, for an interview in a Chinese Media Company. The entire trip was funded by Michael. During the meeting, Michael and his junior Xou asked Rajeev Sharma to provide inputs on various aspects of India-China relations. Between 2016 to 2018, Rajeev Sharma was in contact with Michael and Xou,” Yadav said.The officer said Sharma had meetings with Michael and Xou in Laos and the Maldives once and briefed them. Besides these visits, Sharma was also allegedly in contact with Michael and Xou through e-mail and social media, police said.Detailing Sharma’s alleged role after 2018, the special cell officer said, “In January 2019, Sharma came in contact with another Kunming-based Chinese entity named George. He visited Kunming via Kathmandu and met George. George was introduced as a general manager of a Chinese Media Company. During the meeting, George asked Rajeev Sharma to write and inform about issues related to the Dalai Lama. For this, he was offered $500 per article. George told Sharma that they would send him money through his company’s sister concern based in Mahipalpur, South Delhi, being operated by Qing.”Yadav said Sharma was paid through shell companies. “Shell companies were operated by foreign intelligence to transfer funds to him. Two Chinese nationals -- Jhang Chang and his wife Chang-li-lia -- were running the companies MZ Pharmacy and MZ Malls, under fake names Suraj and Usha. They are both presently in China and on their behalf, Qing Shi and Bhora, a Nepali National (both directors of MZ Pharmacy) are presently operating the business from Mahipalpur.”WATCH | Amid border tension, China spy gang busted in Delhi, say policeSharma was arrested on September 14. Police said he was found in possession of confidential defence documents. He was produced before a court on September 15 and sent in police custody for six days. Sharma has filed a bail application, which will be heard on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/journalist-spying-case-delhi-police-arrest-3-more-including-chinese/story-K4B8tY4r99RUTmNfrzMIWL.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers refuse to allow Badal village protester’s last rites, demand relief, loan waiver||A day after a protester, Pritam Singh, 65, died after consuming pesticide at the native village of the Badals in Muktsar district, farm union leaders on Saturday said they would allow the last rites only after his family was compensated with Rs 3 lakh, a government job and loan waiver. Pritam Singh, a resident of Akanwali village in Mansa, consumed the pesticide during the protest outside the house of former chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on Friday morning. He was rushed to a private hospital in Bathinda, where he died in the evening. The protesters were demanding the revocation of the three farm bills passed in the Lok Sabha earlier this week. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahana) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann demanded that a state government representative visit the protest site and announce the compensation to Pritam Singh’s family. “The body is in a mortuary in Bathinda and we will not let the post-mortem examination till the demands are met,” Mann said. The farmers decided to extend the round-the-clock dharna outside the residence of the Badals till September 25. The protest that started on Tuesday was to end on Sunday.‘BADALS SHOULD SNAP TIES WITH BJP’ With the number of protesters swelling at the site, Badal was shifted to his farmhouse at Balasar in Sirsa district of neighbouring Haryana. His son and SAD member of Parliament Sukhbir Singh Badal is in Delhi to attend the Lok Sabha proceedings along with his wife Harsimrat Kaur, who resigned from the Narendra Modi cabinet after the passage of the bills on Thursday. Union general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said, “Instead of shedding crocodile tears now, if the SAD terms itself a party of and for the farmers, it should snap ties with the BJP.” “Harsimrat’s resignation from the cabinet is a political drama. The SAD leadership has been exposed. She was forced to quit because of the anger among farmers. The Badal family has played with the sentiments of farmers. Being a part of the Modi government, Harsimrat had been saying that the bills are pro-farmer. She did not raise any objection,” Mann said. ALL EYES ON MOGA MEET Meanwhile, representatives of Left-leaning and farmer associations are meeting in Moga on Saturday to form a common platform to oppose the bills. Jagmohan Singh Patiala, the working committee member of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), said efforts are being made to bring 25 farm associations of Punjab under one umbrella for a long-drawn fight against the BJP-led Centre’s move. “We should sink political differences in farmers’ interests. After Harsimrat quit, all political and farmers’ fronts, except the BJP, have stood against the new agricultural rules. We hope for a positive outcome,” said Jagmohan, a Left ideologue. Farm rights activist Ajmer Singh Lakhowal said pro-farmer organisations had contacted him to form a common platform to fight for the agrarian community. “Our five-member committee will meet representatives of the Left-leaning farmer fronts in Moga. Delegates will discuss the next plan to pursue a joint agitation to oppose the three bills,” said Lakhowal, who decided to stay away from Saturday’s meeting due to his medical condition. Meanwhile, Covid-19 guidelines are not being followed at the protest site as farmer leaders and protesters can be seen without masks and ignoring social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-refuse-to-allow-badal-village-protester-s-last-rites-demand-relief-loan-waiver/story-i5Jj8IHuD2rY9D9OvuZUyJ.html
19-09-2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Hanuman Garhi Naga sadhus perform ‘buddhi-shuddhi’ yajna for Champat Rai||Naga sadhus of Ayodhya’s Hanuman Garhi organised a “buddhi-shuddhi” yajna on Friday for “better sense to prevail” on Champat Rai while demanding his removal as the general secretary of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust formed to oversee the Ram temple construction in the town. They have been up in arms against Rai’s statement disapproving of opposition to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s visit to Ayodhya.The sadhus have supported Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut in her face-off with the Maharashtra government.“A buddhi-shuddhi yajna was organised at Hanuman Garhi today [Friday] for better sense to prevail on Champat Rai,” said Raju Das, who presided over the religious ceremony.“We also demand the expulsion of Champat Rai from Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Such people must not be given a position in such an important organisation.”Saints in Ayodhya have also demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the killing of two sadhus and their driver on April 16 in Maharastra’s Palghar and warned Thackeray against visiting Ayodhya.Thackeray visited Ayodhya for the third time in March after becoming the chief minister.“It remains to be seen who has the guts to stop Uddhav Thackeray from visiting Ayodhya,” Rai said on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ayodhya-hanuman-garhi-naga-sadhus-perform-buddhi-shuddhi-yajna-for-champat-rai/story-Wc6xxaA8pGKWVSaARLP26L.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Local derails near Atgaon station on Kalyan-Kasara route, services affected||One rake of a suburban local train derailed near Atgaon railway station on Kalyan-Kasara route in Maharashtra on Saturday morning around 7.28 am leading to suspension of some services on the route. However, no injuries or casualties were reported in the incident and a breakdown train had reached the site for clearing the track for resumption of train services. Also Read: Dombivli murder case: Five arrestedSenior officials of central railway (CR) also left for the site for supervision. “The cause of the derailment is under investigation. Due to the incident, the Atgaon -Kasara down line is affected while the Kalyan - Kasara up line is not affected. The local services between Asangaon - Kasara will remain cancelled till the restoration work is completed. Meanwhile the railway is running special trains from Titwala to CSMT (Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus) and Kalyan to CSMT,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.The derailed trolley was remounted on the track around 10:38 am, while the restoration work is underway. “The derailed trolley was re-railed and now the work to clear the route is underway, following which the train services will resume,” added Sutar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-derails-near-atgaon-station-on-kalyan-kasara-route-services-affected/story-jZKKkvvtf0vpVDlLL7WMsL.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Abetting suicide requires intention, says Bombay HC, grants bail to Pune resident||Reiterating that abetment of suicide requires intention and involvement on the part of the accused, the Bombay high court on Friday granted bail to a Pune resident booked for abetting suicide of an elderly woman.In order to sustain a conviction for the offence under section 306 of IPC, there has to be a clear mens rea -- active participation or direct act which leads the deceased, having left with no other option, to take the drastic step -- said justice Bharati Dangre while granting bail to Sachin Shinde.Also read: Delhi constable’s body found hanging at Malviya Nagar homeShinde was booked by Chikhali police in Pune district along with several others for harassing and driving Mangal, an elderly woman, to death by suicide.According to police, Shinde and several others were duped by Mangal’s son, Chandrashekar, who had lured them to part with substantial amounts of money promising to secure jobs for them. He, however, failed to fulfil the promise and also did not return the amounts.When the victims started demanding their money back, Chandrashekar absconded, forcing the unemployed people to accost his family members. They visited Chandrashekar’s house twice in January 2019 and threatened his mother in an attempt to recover their money.Eventually, on March 6, 2019, both Mangal and her sister, Alka Babar, consumed some poisonous substance and tried to end their lives. Alka survived, and on the basis of her complaint, police booked Shinde and others for abetting Mangal’s suicide.Shinde had moved high court for an anticipatory bail after his plea was turned down by the Pune sessions court on July 23, 2020.The high court, however, granted him pre-arrest bail after noticing that there was no proximity between the alleged incidents of harassment, which took place in January 2019 and the suicide in March 2019, and therefore “prima facie, the material on record cannot hold the applicant responsible for driving the deceased to take the extreme step.”Justice Dangre also noted the anguish of the cheated men. The judge said one can understand how difficult it is for a person to arrange a sum with a ray of frail hope that their kith and kin or they themselves would get jobs, but in this case, neither employment came nor the money was returned by Chandrashekhar. “He pushed them against the dead wall and therefore they sought their money back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/abetting-suicide-requires-intention-says-bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-pune-resident/story-0lTheI7oasouhtxLueHuWO.html
19-09-2020||City||Three LeT terrorists held in J-K’s Rajouri; Pak drone dropped arms||After a Pakistani drone dropped arms and ammunition across the Line of Control in Rajouri district, security forces nabbed three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists late Friday. The trio had come from Pulwama via Mughal road and had picked up the consignment before security forces swooped on it. It was the fourth such attempt by Pakistan since June to push arms and ammunition into J&K with the help of drones. The first such attempt was made at Rathua of Hiranagar sector in Kathua district on June 20. Also read: Police bust militant hideout in J&K’s Awantipora, recover huge cache of arms, explosivesThe Lashkar terrorists have been identified as Rahil Bashir alias Ayaan Bhai, 20, of Tickan in Pulwama, Amir Jaan alias Hamza, 25, of Kakapora in Pulwama and Hafiz Younus Wani alias Zubair,19 of Shopian. Recoveries include two AK-56 assault rifles, six AK magazines with 180 rounds, two Chinese pistols, three pistol magazines with 30 rounds, four grenades and Rs 1 lakh in cash. An FIR has been registered against the trio under the IPC, Indian Arms Act and UAPA. Addressing media persons in Rajouri, DGP Dilbag Singh said, “Pakistan has been continuing with its attempts to send weapons and narcotics by drones. Infiltration attempts and ceasefire violations in Rajouri and Poonch are also on but police and army besides other security forces are working in unison and remain active. This time, police and 38 RR did a commendable job on Friday. They caught a group which had come from Kashmir to this area to pick a consignment of arms and ammunition.” “The team found three men with bags in the area. The moment they saw the team, they lobbed a grenade which didn’t explode.. .They were overpowered. Arms and ammunition besides and rupees one lakh cash that was sent by Pakistan to fuel and sponsor terror activities were found from the bags,” said the DGP. “The three terrorists belonged to LeT and weapons were sent across by a drone from Pakistan,” he added. DGP further said that Pakistan was trying to revive terrorism in Rajouri and Poonch districts. He admitted that detecting weapon dropping via drones in hilly areas was a bit challenging.On the alleged fake encounter of three Gujjar men in Amshipora on July 18, he said police and army have launched parallel probes into it. “We are also working on it and we had taken DNA samples. Army has clarified in cleat terms that action will be taken,” he added. On Friday, army had said, “An inquiry has brought out certain prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the Do’s and Don’ts of Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened. Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed to initiate disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-suspected-militants-held-in-j-k-s-rajouri/story-GIEXQAZXOD82mGaLc5j6JJ.html
19-09-2020||Lucknow||Covid patients in UP’s capital wait 2-4 hrs in ambulance before admission||A long wait for an ambulance can be agonising for a patient, but it is even worse when an ambulance carrying a Covid-19 patient has to wait outside a hospital for up to 2 to 4 hours before the patient is admitted. A large number of patients in Lucknow have faced this situation at the time of admission of a Covid patient. The aim is to pick up Covid positive patients in ambulances, as soon as possible, to contain the spread of infection, but the lack of provision for their quick hospitalisation is creating problems. But hospitals say they have now introduced measures to tackle the issue. Sample this: On September 9, an ambulance transported a Covid patient from a private hospital in Gomti Nagar to a Covid facility in Chowk in about half an hour. But the journey was not over yet for Pradip, who had to spend the next two and a half hours just waiting outside the corona ward at the KGMU campus as the driver had instructions not to leave the patient outside the ward. In a nutshell, the time (over two hours), which could have been utilised to transport another patient, was lost. In another case, a 55-year-old woman in Alamnagar waited at the hospital gate for four hours. The authorities are now recognising this to be an issue that needs addressing.“The waiting time could be up to a few minutes to check a patient’s documents, verify patient-identity but not beyond that as information about the patient is given to the hospital in advance,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, IMA, Lucknow. The KGMU has now come up with a solution. “We have made a ‘May I Help You’ desk to address issues such as delay in admission. The staff at the desk facilitates correct and speedy admission,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. Also Read: Agra hotels set to welcome tourists as Taj Mahal reopens from September 21Dr Amita Yadav, Lok Bandhu hospital’s chief medical superintendent, said, “In several cases, patients come without proper referral. To tackle this situation, we have created one bed holding area with oxygen. If serious patients come without referral, we can keep them here and inform the Covid control room.” She added, “Limited staff at the hospital is another reason. Sometimes the staff is on a round when a patient arrives. In such a situation, the staff is informed and they reach out to the ambulance. But if the same staff is engaged in some procedure with a serious patient, it may take some time.” In all, 57 ambulances are on Covid duty in Lucknow. These include 48 from 108 fleet and nine advanced life support vehicles. Patients also keep ambulances waitingAmbulances are being held up not only at hospitals but also while picking up patients. In a recent incident, an ambulance had to wait for an hour at Mohalla Koriyana in Alambagh on September 12 since the Covid-19 patient was busy finishing his household and business work before he was taken to a hospital. The ambulance driver couldn’t do anything, but wait. Also Read: Yogi Adityanath orders land hunt for India’s biggest film city near NoidaIn another instance, when an ambulance went to pick up a woman from Sapru Marg on September 11, she said she wasn’t interested in going to the hospital. She had earlier agreed to hospitalization when officials of the Covid command centre spoke to her on phone an hour before. The ambulance driver had to wait for one hour outside her house before she finally made up her mind to go to the Covid facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-patients-in-up-s-capital-wait-2-4-hrs-in-ambulance-before-admission/story-kjqp9YTJmjjFL0BBVb6FlI.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: 26 former DGPs respond to Ribeiro’s letter, show support for police||After ten former IPS officers, including ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Julio Ribeiro, questioned Delhi Police’s probe into Delhi riots cases,and accused them of implicating anti-CAA protesters while being lenient to others associated with the ruling party, another group of ex-IPS officers has come out in support of the city police. In a statement issued on Friday, 26 retired IPS officers said that they were “surprised at the conduct” of a few fellow ex-police personnel who support such kind of “anti-India expression and communal narrative’. They referred to some controversial slogans allegedly raised by former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and other serious charges. Khalid’s arrest last Sunday in the riots case has been criticised by many social activists, who have accused Delhi Police of targeting anti-government voices. The 26 former police officers said, “The Delhi Police has every right and duty to investigate the role of any such persons, and custodial investigation is a part of due process of law. The accused has his rights under the law to seek anticipatory bail or regular bail, as the cause may be, and the right to a fair trial where he can prove himself innocent Former Delhi Police commissioner RS Gupta, former UP DGPs RN Singh and Bhanu Pratap Singh, ex-DGPs of Bihar SK Bhardwaj and Ramesh Chandra Sinha, former Maharashtra DGP Praveen Dixit, ex-DGP of Tripura BL Vohra and former Kerala DGP S Gopinath are among the 26 ex-IPS officers who have signed the statement. “A section of former police officers cannot usurp for themselves the office of Presiding Officers of the Courts to declare anyone innocent and try to put the police force in bad light. These officers have no right to suspect or question the integrity and professionalism of their successors in the Indian Police Service, and in turn demoralise them,” they said in the statement. They said that such “posturing and adverse commentary” may demotivate police officers and dilute their firm resolve to act against criminals, including those who incite communal divide in India by instigating riots. “We disapprove any statements or gestures by any motivated group of former police officers, which is aimed at defaming the police force and its serving officers, who are performing their duty day and night at great personal risk for the safety of general public,” they added. Last week, noted former IPS officer Ribeiro wrote a letter to Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava, requesting him to look into the North-East Delhi riots probe and make sure it was impartial. Riberio told the Delhi Police chief that police have failed to act against those who made hate speeches that led to the riots. Two days later, nine retired IPS officers, including AS Dulat, former OSD on Kashmir, Prime Minister’s office; K Saleem Ali, former CBI special director; Amitabh Mathur, former special secretary in the Cabinet Secretariat and PGJ Nampoothiri, former director general of Gujarat Police, wrote an open letter to Shrivastava, saying they were pained at the police implicating those who spoke and joined protests against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) but letting off the hook those who instigated violence and are associated with the ruling party. On Tuesday, Shrivastava responded to questions raised over the riots probe by Riberio and wrote to him, saying the investigation was being carried out without any discrimination on caste or religion, and was backed by documentary and scientific evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-26-former-dgps-write-respond-to-ribeiro-s-letter-show-support-for-delhi-police/story-i8ly2oUs68wdcP0sa1ZlSP.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Declare non-protected mangrove areas reserved forests, says Aaditya||Maharashtra’s environment minister, Aaditya Thackeray, has directed collectors of districts along the Konkan coast to identify and transfer mangrove areas under their jurisdiction within two months to the state forest department for their declaration as reserved forests.“Some mangrove land is currently not officially declared as reserved. It is anyway not developable and neither must it have human interference. Hence, we met today [Friday] to decide on the further course of action to officially tag them as reserved forests, and accord the necessary protection under the Indian Forest Act,” said Thackeray after a meeting with revenue, forest, environment departments officials. Mangrove forests are spread over 30,200-hectare land across Maharashtra, according to the Forest Survey of India. The Maharashtra government has notified 15,312 hectares of the land as reserved forest under the Indian Forest Act. The remaining is private land. Of the 15,312-hectare, 1,592.8 hectares is yet to be transferred from the revenue to the forest department for better protection as per the Bombay high court’s September 2018 directive.Principal secretary (forests) Milind Mhaiskar called the move important and timely decision considering the impact of increasing frequency of cyclones, extreme weather events, sea-level rise, and associated storm surge for coastal zones. “Mangroves act as the first line of defense against this while acting as a breeding ground for large marine biodiversity. “ He added the reserved forest status for mangroves around Mumbai’s Mahim Nature Park could prevent annual flooding during the monsoon.According to a 2017 National Aeronautics and Space Administration satellite study of Mumbai’s mangroves, the deposition of sediments narrowed creek channels and allowed mangroves to spread along its edges and expanded green cover overtime. “This is the foreshore land which is increasing and our intention is to protect these areas, especially in Mumbai suburbs and Thane even if they have sparse mangrove trees. These areas need to be mapped jointly by the forest and revenue department and protected after final notification,” said Konkan commissioner Annasaheb Misal.Misal said all inquiries, land identification, handing over, and final notification needs to be completed within two months. “Overall protection of these zones will be enhanced when their control would be completely with the forest department. Additionally, the district collectors have been told to undertake a ground survey to calculate the areas falling under the jurisdiction of various state agencies and ensure such lands are handed over to the forest department within two months as well.”Misal has proposed a declaration of newly-developed mangrove and mudflat patches due to excess sedimentation (foreshore areas) along creeks and estuaries as reserved forests.In September 2018, the Bombay high court said the destruction of mangroves “offended the fundamental rights of the citizens and hence it was a mandatory duty of the state and its agencies to protect and preserve” them. All mangroves in the state are to be declared as protected or reserved forests, including land belonging to government agencies, it added.The Mangrove Cell estimates that approximately 2,000-hectare mangrove areas fall under the control of agencies like the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. “This needs to be handed over and notified as reserved forest,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/declare-non-protected-mangrove-areas-reserved-forests-says-aaditya/story-umnQHxDtD2d5c4FEOPbSrL.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Dombivli murder case: Five arrested||A 25-year-old man was beaten to death and another person suffered serious injuries after a fight between two groups over an old feud in Dombivli near Mumbai on Friday, investigators said. The investigators added Mahesh Gunjal, 22, Nikhil Mane, 23, Jayesh Juwale, 22, Ashish Walmiki, 22, and Shrinivas Sugala, 23, have been arrested for allegedly killing Shivaji Khandagle, 25. Santosh Lashkare was seriously injured in the fight. The investigators said the complainant Raju Dhotre has said his brother-in-law law, Lashkare, and other members of their family were celebrating the birthday of the latter’s daughter on Thursday night before the attack. Around 2 am on Friday, when they were drunk, Lashakre told Dhotre that Gunjal had five months back abused him. Dhotre immediately called Gunjal and abused him.“Lashkare, Dhotre and Khandgale then went to Gujal’s place to teach him lesson. All the five accused who carried a hockey stick, iron rod, sword with them, beat up the trio badly. The accused hit Khandagle with the iron rod. He fell unconscious and later died before reaching hospital,” said an investigator.Senior police inspector Suresh Aher said the accused were arrested on Friday night and were due to produce them before a court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dombivli-murder-case-five-arrested/story-CiUCr1sbsfSuVmq5x2hV3O.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi to experience very light rain today; mercury to remain high||Delhi is likely to have very light rain or drizzle on Saturday, which may bring slight relief from the hot and humid weather being experienced by the city. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast partly cloudy sky and possibility of ‘very light’ rain/drizzle. Good winds are likely to prevail across Delhi over the next two to three days. However, the maximum (day) and minimum (night) temperatures are likely to remain high because of high moisture levels. On Friday, the day temperature was 38 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal while night temperature settled at 27.8 degrees C, also three notches above the season’s average. Also read: Monsoon withdrawal delayed by one week. says IMD“A drizzle may only increase the humidity levels. Delhi may get some reprieve because of strong surface winds over the next few days and a possibility of rain or thundershowers on September 23-24,” said a senior IMD scientist. With the good winds, the air quality is also likely to improve slightly over the next few days, however, the improvement may be short-lived, the scientist added. After a month of of relatively clean air with August seeing four ‘good’ (when air quality index or AQI reads 0-50) air days and remaining 27 days in the ‘satisfactory’ (when AQI is between 50 and 100) zone, the air quality slipped to ‘moderate’ category (when AQI reads 101-200) on September 5 with an AQI reading of 101. It improved to ‘satisfactory’ for a few days and again fell to ‘moderate’ on September 9. Since then, Delhi’s AQI has remained in the ‘moderate’ category. On Saturday at 6 am, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) the AQI was 106 in the ‘moderate’category. Over the past two days, with average wind speed remaining around 10-12 kmph, the AQI readings improved slightly though remaining on the lower end of ‘moderate’ category. As per CPCB data, on Friday the average AQI was 108 while on Thursday it was 120. During September 9-16, the AQI was recorded on the higher end of the ‘moderate’ category. “Such changes in meteorological conditions, like monsoon almost drawing to a close after which mostly calm winds are observed, are not favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Unlike last month, when the city saw clear blue and rain-washed skies on most days, monsoon withdrawal and slowing down of winds may lead to deterioration in air quality,” the scientist said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-experience-very-light-rain-today-mercury-to-remain-high/story-GASaBksAyPmQfNo7kXnxDL.html
19-09-2020||Bhopal||Father in custody battle ordered to meet son through video conferencing due to Covid 19||The Madhya Pradesh high court has directed a man to use his visitation rights through a virtual meeting as a physical meeting may not be in the interest of the child and her mother during Covid pandemic, as per the court’s order. The order was passed by the high court’s principal bench at Jabalpur on September 7, 2020, while hearing an application filed by the father seeking an interim custody of his 9-year-old son, subject to the high court’s judgement on a petition filed by mother of the child to challenge a family court’s judgement delivered on August 31, 2019, whereby her husband got a divorce from her. The boy is presently in the custody of his mother residing in Alwar in Rajasthan while the father is posted in Raipur in Chhattisgarh, as per counsels of the parents.Mother of the child in her reply, as per the HC order, said she complied with the court order and brought the child from Alwar to Bhopal on every first and third Friday of the month. During the lockdown and the extended lockdown periods, she ensured regular conversations between the child and the father through video calls, normal phone calls and WhatsApp. She denied the allegation that she didn’t allow the child to speak to his father on some pretext or the other. She said she was a doctor by profession and “during the ongoing pandemic, it was suitable for the child to continue to stay with her until travel within the country resumed normally as Alwar to Raipur (Chhattisgarh) is not only an inter-state travel but is also very far, which could be risky for the child’. Also Read: Woman held for dropping month-old daughter into water tank. She wanted a sonThe court observed that the custody of the child was handed over to the father for a month by an order passed on September 26, 2019. Later, the order was modified on November 5 to give custody of the child to the mother with visitation rights to the father. Also Read: Skeletons in MP hospital morgue: Ward boys suspended, action recommended against copsThe division bench comprising of chief justice Ajay Kumar Mittal and justice Vijay Kumar Shukla observed: “We find that it would not be advisable, at this stage, to change the custody of the child… A proposal was put to the counsel for the respondent-applicant that visitation rights can be conferred through video conferencing, as physical meeting of the child during Covid-19 may not be feasible in the interest of the child and the parties. Accordingly, it is directed that the respondent-applicant i.e. the father shall be entitled to have video conferencing with the child every fortnight for half-an-hour in an amicable environment and said this arrangement shall continue for the months of September and October, 2020.” Welcoming the order, Ruchika Gohil, the counsel for the mother, said, “I have not heard so far that any court anywhere else allowed visitation rights to a parent through video conferencing due to the Covid situation.” Ajatshatru Meena, counsel for the father of the child said, “We are not satisfied with the order and will challenge it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/father-in-custody-battle-ordered-to-meet-son-through-video-conferencing-due-to-covid-19/story-4lcgBL1heiK3KrisCjne4I.html
19-09-2020||City||Covid-infected Jammu health director admitted to private hospital||Jammu director health services, who has tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted to a private hospital in Reasi district. “She tested positive for Covid-19 and was hospitalised at the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Specialty Hospitalon Wednesday,” said an official of the hospital, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, nodal officer Bhupinder Kumar said the Centre’s team of experts will reach Jammu on Saturday.Following spike in Covid cases and deaths in Jammu, Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh had flagged the issue with the health ministry and had also spoken to L-G. He had said a team of experts will be sent immediately to Jammu to check the surge of Covid 19 infection.Patient care has been severely hit at GMCH Jammu, which has become a battlefield for senior doctors and incumbent principal Dr Nasib Chand Digra. Fed up with the ‘indiscipline and chaos’, Dr Digra had recently written to L-G Manoj Sinha opting for the voluntary retirement scheme.“Is this is how financial commissioner health Atal Dulloo has prepared for the Covid pandemic. It has almost been seven months but the hospitals remain underprepared,” he said. On Thursday, a video showing paramedics escaping from windows of GMCH’s isolation ward also went viral on social media sites. “The patients in the isolation ward were left at God’s mercy,” alleged one of the attendants, who shot the video on his cell phone.“There is none to provide treatment to Covid patients. All staff has fled the hospital and patients are at God’s mercy,” he said. A doctor at GMCH said the sorry state of affairs at the hospital could be gauged from the fact that the director health services,a former principal and influential people don’t rely on government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-infected-jammu-health-director-admitted-to-private-hospital/story-CUtYilZ3KUq4NyiBwMTjDO.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amshipora encounter: Have lost 3 nephews, want guilty to be punished, says victims’ uncle||The army found evidence that its troops violated its powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act during an encounter in Kashmir’s Shopian district in which three men were killed in July this year, the families of the three Gujjar men have demanded severe punishment for the guilty. The three young men hailed from Rajouri district. The family has also demanded that the ‘source’ who branded the three young men as terrorists to the army for ‘rewards and awards’ be exposed. The three men had been missing since July 17. Lal Hussain, uncle of Imtiyaz Ahmad, Abrar Ahmad and Ibrar Mohammad, said “ We have lost three young men. I demand that those involved in the fake encounter and the contact who branded my nephews as terrorists and passed on the information security forces be punished under the law of the land.” The three young men aged 21, 26 and 18 years had left Rajouri and reached Shopian via Mughal Road on July 2 and July 17 to work as labourers and had gone missing thereafter. On July 18, the army claimed it had killed three unidentified terrorists in Amshipora of Shopian. On August 14, a police team from Shopian collected DNA samples of three families in Rajouri to match them with those of three young men. Lal Hussain has been claiming that his nephews were innocent Gujjar boys, who had gone to Shopian to work as labourers and that they had nothing to do with terrorism. The army on Friday said, “The inquiry ordered by the army authorities into operation Amshipora has concluded. The inquiry has brought out certain prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the do’s and don’ts of the chief of army Ssaff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened. Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has been directed to initiate disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable”. “The evidence collected by the inquiry has prima-facie indicated that the three unidentified terrorists killed in Op Amshipora were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohammad Ibrar, who hailed from Rajouri. Their DNA report is awaited. Their involvement with terrorism or related activities is under investigation by the police”, it added. “Indian Army is committed to ethical conduct of operations. Further updates on the case will be given periodically without affecting due process of the law of the land,” read the army statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amshipora-encounter-have-lost-3-nephews-want-guilty-to-be-punished-says-victims-uncle/story-iEfjxsqV60bx2qF7B9Z7LL.html
19-09-2020||Bhopal||Skeletons in MP hospital morgue: Ward boys suspended, action recommended against cops||Four ward boys of Indore’s Maharaja Yeshwantrao (MY) hospital were placed under suspension on Friday night and action was recommended against at least two police personnel based on an inquiry into the recovery of two skeletons from the hospital morgue in a span of three days, as per commissioner (revenue), Indore division. Also, a show cause notice was issued to the hospital superintendent and another doctor in regard with the incident, according to the commissioner Pawan Sharma. MY hospital, one of the biggest hospitals in Madhya Pradesh, happens to be a teaching hospital of MGM medical college, Indore. The three-member inquiry committee headed by additional commissioner (revenue), Indore, Rajni Singh, completed the inquiry after inspecting the morgue and submitted its report to the commissioner, who had ordered the probe after the first skeleton was found on Tuesday. The first skeleton found was of an unidentified man, whose body was allegedly left on a stretcher, unattended, in the morgue for about 10 days. The second skeleton of a three-month old baby was found in a box in the same morgue on Thursday, during the inspection by the inquiry committee, as per officials. Also Read: Woman held for dropping month-old daughter into water tank. She wanted a sonCommissioner Pawan Sharma said, “Based on the inquiry committee report, four ward boys of the hospital were suspended while action was recommended against a couple of police personnel to police authorities. A show cause notice was issued to the hospital superintendent Dr PS Thakur and another doctor while an order was issued for withholding two months’ increment of yet another doctor.” Sharma added that the horrifying incidents were a result of a lack of a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the morgue. “Also, there was no authority assigned to manage the morgue. At the same time, lack of coordination between the police and hospital administration has also come to light. Hence, we are going to address all the issues immediately and simultaneously.” The hospital superintendent Dr PS Thakur could not be reached for his comments on the latest developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/skeletons-in-mp-hospital-morgue-ward-boys-suspended-action-recommended-against-cops/story-WQK2MPrII9dRZrHfgnTFxI.html
19-09-2020||Lucknow||Agra hotels set to welcome tourists as Taj Mahal reopens from September 21||Hoteliers have started preparation for the tourists after the government decided to reopen the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort for the general public from September 21.The famed monuments, which attract people all across the world, were shut in March due to the nationwide lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Due to this, the hotel industry was shut for over five months and suffered losses.Speaking to ANI, Rajkant, a hotel owner said, “We were waiting for the government to reopen Taj Mahal under Unlock 4 guidelines as they were reopening everything in a phased manner.”He said the District Magistrate has recently given orders to reopen the Taj Mahal from September 21 and added that it will also bring the tourism industry back on track.“Businessmen are happy with this decision as we host people from across the world who come here to see Taj Mahal,” Rajkant said.Another hotel owner, Rashmi Singh said, “Our businesses were impacted due to coronavirus. Due to this, we had to ask some of our hotel staff to leave while the remaining worked on deducted salaries.”“Now we are hopeful to see some tourists as the authorities have announced the reopening of Taj Mahal and Agra Fort,” said Singh.Arvind, an employee at a hotel said, “We have started the preparation for the guests arriving at the hotel.”“We had no work for the past five months. Now we are looking forward to work and hope that the situation gets better,” Mohammad Siraj, another employee at the hotel, remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-hotels-set-to-welcome-tourists-as-taj-mahal-reopens-from-september-21/story-mhiqugH3FajTBEh5vTidcP.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Pangs in the park||Can you hear? Here comes one of these songs again. The ones about love and heartbreak. The singer’s voice is tinged with ache and is getting shriller with the heightened passions of the lyrics.Isn’t he the famous Arjit Singh, the Hindi film playback singer?He’s not, but every evening in Lodhi Garden, a band of young men is heard singing romantic Hindi film numbers, especially of the Arjit Singh repertoire. They gather inside the Sheesh Gumbad tomb, where the songs echo off the stone walls of the centuries-old monument, and waft over the surrounding greens like ripples in water. The strings of guitars and the mood of songs might annoy a Lodhi Garden conservative trying to focus on flowers and birds. But for others among us, less rigid and more manipulatable, these love songs can enter like a pang in the heart.The twilight moments are quite touching, because the sun sets exactly behind the monument. So, as the evening sky is streamed with translucent gold, and the bats are flying overhead, and everything is turning slightly darker, a ditty on heart’s betrayals can affect even those walking around with their faithful lovers.This evening, however, the band is sitting outside the tomb, on the grassy slope. It turns out that they are long-time friends, who come from different parts of the city and have been hanging out here for years. Rahul and Salman come from Paharganj, Feroze and Zaid come from Nizamuddin Basti, Aggy comes from South Extension and Honey comes from Madangir. Some of them have jobs, others are enrolled in colleges. “We head here daily and play songs because it gives us sukoon (calmness),” says Rahul. The others say that passers-by often compliment them for their singing. “We can sing all kinds of tunes, but the garden is so romantic that we usually stick to romantic songs — and not only by Arijit Singh.”And now they start again. This time it is... but the song doesn’t matter as much as the atmosphere. The garden’s gathering darkness, people quietly exercising on the grass, folks perched on benches, the sombre monuments and the air filled with haunting love-lorn melodies.The men usually play from 5pm to 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-pangs-in-the-park/story-9iAuIdddKrVk0YZz7nujKO.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Newborn dies due to unavailability of ventilators at govt hospital in Delhi||A newborn died allegedly due to unavailability of ventilators at a government hospital here after which angry relatives confined a nurse to a room for sometime, hospital sources said. They said the baby was born premature at the Delhi government-run hospital in Malviya Nagar on Thursday and had to be referred to a central government-run hospital in Lutyens’ Delhi as the previous facility lacked ventilators. The baby died at the central government-run hospital hours later, following which angry relatives of the newborn confined the nurse of the state-run facility to a room for sometime. A police officer said a team was sent to the hospital following PCR calls over the alleged confinement of the healthcare worker. No case has been registered in connection with the incident yet, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/newborn-dies-due-to-unavailability-of-ventilators-at-govt-hospital-in-delhi/story-syTJdR8xhxWkgB6VlMeHnL.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant woman held for murdering son in Himachal’s Nalagarh town||Fearing that her nine-year-old son would disclose her extra-marital affair to her husband, a migrant woman strangled the boy to death with her lover’s help at Nalagarh in Solan district, police said on Saturday. The woman, identified as Kamlesh, and her partner, Ashok, were arrested for the murder that was executed on September 14 when the boy saw the two together. Police said the woman panicked that her son would tell his father about her affair so they both strangled the boy, killing him on the spot. They disposed the body in a nearby field. Unable to find his son, the boy’s father, Aasra Ram, lodged a complaint with the police. On being questioned, Kamlesh said that the boy had gone to his aunt’s house but had not returned. On September 16, the police found the body of the boy in the field after which they questioned the aunt, who said that he had not visited her. The police checked the CCTV footage of a hospital near the boy’s house and found that after Kamlesh and Ashok arrived, the boy had also entered the house but did not come out. The accused were interrogated again and they admitted to committing the crime. They were arrested on Friday evening. Baddi superintendent of police Rohit Malpani said a case was registered under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-woman-held-for-murdering-son-in-himachal-s-nalagarh-town/story-hUgMx6ZpOhGlg2tDUkalwL.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||BDPO shifted for claiming farmers’ protest proposed by Punjab govt||A block development and panchayat officer (BPDO) was shifted on Saturday for issuing a letter claiming that a farmers’ protest would be organised by the Punjab government over the issue of farm ordinances on September 21. “Taking serious cognisance of the matter, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ordered the shifting of the Sardulgarh BDPO to the headquarters, and immediate withdrawal of the letter issued by him regarding farm protests that he incorrectly claimed to have been organised by the Punjab government,” a government statement said here. The directions came a day after Shiromani Akali Dal leader Daljit Singh Cheema had uploaded the BDPO letter on his Twitter handle, accusing the ruling Congress of “outsourcing its programmes” to the panchayati raj department. The Punjab government has not organised any such protest, as claimed by the BDPO, according to the statement issued on Saturday. Far from organising any protests, the government has been appealing to political organisations to refrain from organising public gatherings in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, it said. The overzealous BDPO had, on his own, announced a protest dharna on September 21 and had issued a letter asking all panchayat secretaries under his block to intimate sarpanches about the same, the statement said. He had also wrongly claimed that ministers and MLAs would join these protests, it said. The Punjab government had neither planned such protests against the farm ordinances nor asked the BDPO to issue the letter in question, the statement said. The chief minister has asked officials concerned to inquire into the incident and pin the responsibility for this incorrect communication, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bdpo-shifted-for-claiming-farmers-protest-proposed-by-punjab-govt/story-n9ND4jSeXKRqli9EpdiRVN.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||30-year-old arrested for abetting wife’s suicide in Mumbai||A 30-year-old man was arrested by Tilak Nagar police in Chembur on Thursday for allegedly abetting his 29-year-old wife’s suicide. The accused had allegedly been harassing his wife from the past four to five months for money to buy liquor and would also assault her, said the police. The woman took the extreme step on the night of September 13, after which her father registered a complaint with the police. In his statement, the woman’s father said that his daughter and the accused studied in the same college and fell in love with each other and got married two years ago. “My daughter used to work for a financial firm and my son-in-law is unemployed. He used to consume liquor regularly owing to which they both used to have frequent quarrels. My house is in the same area and I used to go to their home and mediate between them,” the father said to the police. “My daughter used to tell me that her husband had started beating her to get money to buy liquor. We tried to explain things to him about the ill-effects of consuming liquor and also said that it would affect their family life. My daughter went into depression because of his drinking habit and on September 13 we learnt that she ended her life,” said the father in his statement. “We arrested the accused after the father registered a complaint with us,” said an officer from Tilak Nagar police station. The accused has been booked under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/30-year-old-arrested-for-abetting-wife-s-suicide-in-mumbai/story-9o76Yd76HEdwRKxW8ijo3I.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 4,217 new Covid-19 cases logged, positivity rate down to 6.8%||The number of deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being recorded each day in the city has doubled over the month. On average 14 people died of the infection every day in August third week, in comparison to about 31 persons during the last seven days, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Delhi recorded 4,217 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of people affected to over 238,000.A total of 61,037 samples were tested in the past 24 hours keeping up with the rising trend testing, according to the bulletin. With the increased tests, the positivity rate was 6.8% on Friday.Thirty deaths were recorded from hospitals across the city in Friday’s bulletin. The highest number of deaths recorded in a day during the current surge in cases was 38 recorded in Thursday’s bulletin. As many as 101 deaths were reported in a day during the surge in June, according to data shared by the chief minister’s office. “Now, we are admitting people to hospitals early on and those at risk of developing severe disease are being admitted for monitoring, this has resulted in brining down the number of deaths,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor, department of pulmonology at Safdarjung hospital. The total toll of the infection in Delhi stands at 4,907, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-4-217-new-covid-19-cases-logged-positivity-rate-down-to-6-8/story-61NzfrnjlIEfc6n1MCOVNK.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||2,488 new cases in Haryana, NCR districts again top contributors||Ten Haryana districts accounted for 71% of the 2, 488 new Covid-19 cases reported on Friday. Three national capital region districts of Gurugram (339), Faridabad (287) and Sonepat (171) were the top contributors to the infection tally. Besides, seven other districts which logged in more than 100 cases each were Hisar (167), Panchkula (157), Ambala (140), Rohtak (139), Kurukshetra (131), Karnal (129) and Sirsa (121). Substantial numbers were also reported from Yamunanagar (96), Panipat (89), Mahendergarh and Jind (76 each), Palwal (74), Rewari (70), Kaithal (58); and Jhajjar and Bhiwani (54 each). The new infections pushed the cumulative infections to 1, 06, 261. According to a medical bulletin, 23 patients succumbed to the virus on Friday, taking the toll to 1, 092. Among the dead, three persons each were from Gurugram and Panchkula, two each from Faridabad, Ambala, Hisar, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Yamunanagar and one each from Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Karnal and Rohtak The bulletin said that 2, 188 infected persons recovered from the illness on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 83,878. The number of active infections was 21, 291. The bulletin said there were 379 critically ill patients, including 68 on ventilator support, at 19 government and private medical facilities across the state. Among the other districts, Fatehabad reported 31 fresh cases followed by Charkhi Dadri (16) and Nuh (11).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-488-new-cases-in-haryana-ncr-districts-again-top-contributors/story-5aRq34jkZGE9DyI99DiWBM.html
19-09-2020||City||Hand chopped off in Panipat: UP man joins SIT investigation||Three weeks after his hand was chopped off and he was booked for sodomising an 11-year-old in Panipat’s Kishanpura locality, Akhlaq Salmani joined the investigation on Friday. Panipat DSP (headquarters) Satish Kumar Vats said Akhlaq, who hails from UP, had reached Panpiat and joined the investigation. “His blood samples have been taken for DNA examination. The samples will be matched with the chopped hand recovered from the railway track.”Vats, who is leading the special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the matter, said DNA reports will be crucial in the case as Akhlaq has accused some people of Kishanpura locality of beating him up and chopping off his hand when a sawing machine when he knocked on their door to ask for drinking water on the intervening night of August 23 and 24. Police say there is a possibility that his hand was chopped off by a train as the government railway police spotted him on the railway track the next morning. Akhlaq says he was dumped on the railway track by his assailants. A man from the same locality had also accused Akhlaq of sodomising his 11-year-old son on the same day. He has been booked for kidnapping under the Indian Penal Code and under sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.On being asked why Akhlaq had not been arrested, the DSP said it was because he was still under treatment and had also come to Panipat in an ambulance. “He will be called in as and when required,” he said. Akhlaq’s brother, Ikram has alleged that his hand was chopped off after the assailants spotted the number 786 tattooed on his right arm. The number has a holy context in Islamic scriptures.Police say the man who had accused Akhlaq of sodomising his son has a sawing machine at his house but there is no evidence to prove that the machine was used to cut off his hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hand-chopped-off-in-panipat-up-man-joins-sit-investigation/story-YbVhMFMy8ESLpHdxUzdzrJ.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rights of allottees not subservient to banks: HARERA||In an order aimed at safeguarding the interests of home buyers, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA), Gurugram, has ordered that financial institutions, lending banks and creditors will have to take prior approvals from the Authority before initiating auction of a real estate project and while transferring the auctioned property to a new buyer. Chairman of the Authority, KK Khandelwal, in an order, said that the rights of allottees were not subservient to banks. Therefore, if the banks fail to ensure that the funds are used for the purpose they are granted for, then the banks cannot be allowed to supersede the rights of the allottees. He said that if it is found that any lending financial institution is engaged in auctioning real estate projects without the approval of the Authority, penal proceedings shall be initiated against the debtor promoter and the lending institutions. Such actions shall be demanded solely to protect the money invested by the allottees, who are not as powerful and resourceful as the builders and financial lender counterparts, he said. Khandelwal said promoters often mortgaged their project land, structure as well as all receivables from the sold and unsold inventory to lending institutions and banks to get loans for funding the construction costs of projects. But when these promoters fail to repay the loans, the financial institutions directly auction residential or commercial properties that have been pledged with them to recover loans from borrowers by invoking the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 “Such auctions invoke great anguish and distress to the allottees of the project as there is no acknowledgement of the huge investments made by the allottees into buying their dream home. The future of such allottees is in complete darkness and obscurity. Such aggrieved allottees are bound to languish for their own hard-earned money,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rights-of-allottees-not-subservient-to-banks-harera/story-lqCE5PHec3w1RWSReQyL3L.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC seeks action-taken report on panchayat land encroachers in Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought an affidavit from the Haryana chief secretary on the action taken against the encroachers of panchayat lands in Haryana.The order was passed by the high court bench of justice Rajiv Sharma and justice HS Sidhu on a plea from Dharambir Sharma, a Panipat resident, who had alleged before the court that on June 7, 2019, the Haryana Lokayukta had passed directions for removal of illegal encroachment on panchayat land but the state failed to implement the order.He had demanded that as per the Lokyayuka order, legal action should be initiated against the private persons who had illegally encroached upon 170 acres of gram panchayat land in Panipat. The land, as per the plea, was illegally transferred in the names of private persons in collusion with the then sarpanches and village panchayat secretaries in 1960s. It was further demanded that the state be directed to implement the Lokayukta order in which it was directed that illegal encroachment over the gram panchayat lands across the state be removed and criminal proceedings be initiated against government officials and private persons who had acted hand and in glove for encroachment. The court took serious view of the matter observing that authorities were expected to take prompt action on the recommendations made by the Lokayukta but the same have not been implemented so far. “It is a serious lapse on the part of the competent authorities/state authorities,” the bench observed seeking personal affidavit from the chief secretary detailing the consequential steps taken by state after the June 7, 2019 order and told the official to apprise the court by September 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-seeks-action-taken-report-on-panchayat-land-encroachers-in-haryana/story-hiJdRsW8SuT63h7iFczVaI.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest running out of steam but pressure on JJP to take acid test||The farmers’ unrest in Haryana over the enactment of three controversial farm legislations by the Parliament seems to be running out of steam. But politics is now taking the centre stage. With Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP, Harsimrat Kaur Badal quitting the Union Cabinet in protest against the “anti-farmer” legislations, the pressure is now on the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the BJP’s ally in Haryana, to take the acid test and prove its pro-farmer credentials. SAD is an old ally of the BJP and a part of the national democratic alliance (NDA). While the JJP has tendered an apology to the farming community for last week’s police lathi-charge at Kurukshetra during a protest, the studied silence of JJP leader and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has not helped their cause. The deputy chief minister on Friday met chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to press for action against the cops who cane-charged the farmers. While Dushyant remained incommunicado, his younger brother and the chief of JJP’s youth wing, Digvijay Chautala said on Friday that he is of the belief the state government would initiate action against those who ordered lathi-charge on farmers during the protest. Responding to a query on the fate of the BJP-JJP alliance in light of Badal’s resignation from the Union Cabinet, Digvijay said that she was a Central minister and the decision to quit was her party’s decision. “I would not like to comment about Punjab. All I can say is that BJP-JJP alliance is strong and steady in Haryana,” he said, ruling out the possibility of JJP severing ties with the BJP. Attacking Dushyant, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Friday said that he has betrayed the farmers of Haryana for his lust for power. “Why is he hiding behind JJP’s second rung leadership? The fact is that Dushyant and his JJP have become addicted to the crumbs of power thrown at them by the BJP,” the Congress leader said. “For how long can Dushyant hide behind the conspiratorial silence of chai samosa meeting with chief minister ML Khattar. He is yet to utter a word against the anti-farmer laws aimed at selling the farm produce and farmers’ interest to a few crony capitalists,” Surjewala said. Dushyant’s brother, Digvijay, meanwhile, said, “The conspiracy hatched by Congress leaders, who claimed to espouse the cause of farmers but actually betrayed them when the farmers took to the streets, would soon be exposed.” “They are trying to circumvent the real issue and put pressure on Dushyant. We will expose their evil designs.” he said. Leader of opposition in the assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said the situation demanded a political consensus and it is important that political parties raise their voice in the interest of farmers. “A special session of the assembly should be called. These laws should be discussed in the assembly so that people know which party and MLA stood with the farmer and who all stood against them,” Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-running-out-of-steam-but-pressure-on-jjp-to-take-acid-test/story-fhxbiaXMK5rC0sK5xCYEpJ.html
19-09-2020||City||Haryana commission agents declare indefinite strike||In more trouble to farmers ahead of the paddy harvesting season, commission agents in Haryana have declared an indefinite strike from Friday. They are demanding the withdrawal of the three farm bills passed by the Centre. The strike will affect the procurement operations in mandis, adding to the woes of farmers, who are already suffering due to the fall in prices of basmati and parmal varieties. Addressing a gathering of commission agents in Kurukshetra, Haryana Ahtrias Association president Ashok Gupta said, “The commission agents of the state are opposing the ordinances as these are anti-farmer, anti-mandi and anti-ahrtiya.” He added that the new laws will end the old mandi system and demanded that the representatives of the state government hold a meeting with the commission agents and address their concerns. On the other hand, farmers associated with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) also continued their protests at the district headquarters on the third consecutive day. They said that they will continue with the protests as per the schedule and all roads will be blocked on September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-commission-agents-declare-indefinite-strike/story-Lh0Gs64xnsFupYJGQ8mBQL.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Roadways runs in loss as private vehicles ply illegally||Alarmed over tax revenue dipping and private vehicles, including buses, plying in the state illegally, Haryana transport minister Mool Chand Sharma has directed additional deputy commissioners (ADCs)-cum-secretaries, regional transport authority (RTA), to personally check vehicles thrice a week. Haryana Roadways has been reeling under heavy losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The roadways earned Rs 22 crore in four months from April to July, while during the same period last year, the total revenue receipt was Rs 348 crore. In August, the roadways hit the path of recovery as the total receipts from the sale of tickets increased to Rs 29 crore. The total number of passengers who travelled in roadways buses in August also rose to 49 lakh as the buses covered over one crore kilometres in a month. TAX BEING COLLECTED ILLEGALLY AT STATE BORDERS The transport minister’s statement that private vehicles are operating illegally comes close on the heels of another revelation by the minister that kiosks have been opened near inter-state borders in Haryana where motor vehicle tax is being collected illegally. An inquiry was ordered after it came to the fore that some people were operating private shops (kiosks) illegally in the areas of Haryana bordering Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh for depositing motor vehicle tax online. These shop owners were giving fake receipts and didn’t deposit the money in the state government treasury. “Taking advantage, unscrupulous elements have been plying passenger vehicles and buses illegally across the state. This is leading to heavy losses to the state exchequer,” Sharma said. SURPRISE CHECKS AT ODD HOURS On Thursday, the transport commissioner wrote to RTAs in the state about the minister’s concern over the illegal plying of passenger vehicles/buses across the state during a review meeting on September 8. This was causing loss to the exchequer. Now, all ADCs-cum-secretaries in the state will personally check these illegal vehicles in their respective jurisdictions at least three days in a week and impose fine on vehicles plying illegally. A surprise periodic checking of the passenger vehicles will also be carried out at odd hours. These vehicles will be checked in terms of fitness, registration certificate, permit, taxes and pollution. Besides, the RTAs have been directed to ensure routine round the clock checking of illegal passenger vehicles plying in their jurisdiction by the staff already designated for the checking of such vehicles. The entire exercise will be monitored by the minister. The RTAs will have to maintain records of the checking of passenger vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-roadways-runs-in-loss-as-private-vehicles-ply-illegally/story-TVQGb2aW54JljBYkCBrsMI.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Gold chain returned to owner 19 years after theft in Thane||Nineteen years after a 63-year-old woman from Thane was robbed of 48 grams of gold chain worth Rs 2.30 lakh, the Thane Government Railway Police returned the jewellery. The GRP solved the case one year ago. However, the woman’s address had changed and the GRP did a lot of networking to find her and return the jewel.The complainant, Nirmala Radha Krishnan, was boarding a train from Thane station in 2001, when her chain was snatched. She had registered a case. She resided at Central Complex in Koparkhairane, Navi Mumbai.Smita Dhakane, senior police inspector, Thane GRP, said, “The accused was caught in 2003 and the gold chain was recovered and kept in a safe locker as we could not find Nirmala at the address given to us. Ravindra Sengaonkar, police commissioner, Government Railway Police, had given directives to trace the victims of thefts and return the gold ornaments kept in the locker. Accordingly, we began looking for Nirmala’s address.”A police constable visited her residence but she had shifted to a new place. Dhakane added, “We decided to visit the gas agency in Koparkhairane to get some clue about the address, but it did not yield results. Our team members then started checking the FIR and found an MTNL land line phone number. We checked with the telephone agency and traced the number to a new address in Kopar, Thane. We visited the address but found some other person residing there.”The security guard, Laxman Jangam, of that building checked the old records and found a mobile number. Dhakane added, “Calling on the number, we got confirmation about Nirmala and our staff visited her residence at Ravi Estate in Thane. On Friday, we went to her residence and returned the gold chain worth Rs 2.30 lakh.”Nirmala could not believe her luck when the cops knocked on her door. “The chain was Rs 19,000 some 20 years ago and now it is ten times the amount. I am surprised and elated to get the chain after so many years.”The Thane Government Railway Police, in the past two months, have returned 22 tola gold to six victims of thefts. All the victims had reported the theft more than 12 to 20 years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gold-chain-returned-to-owner-19-years-after-theft-in-thane/story-1Sqw9NXE7quNig71thXwuL.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Thane corporators demand revision in civic budget in wake of Covid-19||Thane Municipal Corporation has suffered huge financial losses because of the Covid-19 pandemic while funds are unavailable for most developmental works. To improve the financial situation in the city, BJP corporators have demanded that the administration revise its annual budget and present it again on the backdrop of the pandemic.The corporators from all the parties also demanded that the corporator’s funds and ward funds should be under the head of emergency funds so that stalled works can be sped up. The general body meeting was held online at TMC on Thursday. The issue of financial situation of the corporation was taken up for discussion. Corporators claimed that as the budget was not yet approved, funds for most developmental works were still stuck.Asha Dongre, Shiv Sena corporator, said, “Most roads in the city have not been repaired, drainage work incomplete and trees not trimmed. These works were stalled due to lack of funds as the budget wasn’t approved. The ward and corporator’s funds should be considered as emergency funds so that important works aren’t stalled.”Milind Patankar, BJP corporator, said that the earlier budget of the corporation was prepared keeping in mind the revenue generated by the corporation. Patankar added, “However the revenue is affected during the pandemic. The corporation will not be able to tally the expenses and the revenue earned. The administration needs to revise the budget estimate for this fiscal year and present it again. The new budget should take into consideration the expenses on the pandemic,” Patankar said.Congress corporator Vikrant Chavan, however, claimed that it is not as per law to present again a budget that has been presented once.Thane mayor, Naresh Mhaske, added that the administration was already working on releasing funds for developmental works in each ward. Mhaske said, “We are planning to stop the projects that aren’t urgent and divert the funds to the emergency works. Some solution will be sought on this in the next 10 to 15 days. The corporation has also earned a good revenue in property tax that can be used for emergency developmental works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-corporators-demand-revision-in-civic-budget-in-wake-of-covid-19/story-BEUIKebez7d6oCkNDadFYM.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown spells doom for small community of horse cart drivers in Kalyan||The modes of transport have progressed by leaps and bounds in the last few decades. However, the historic city of Kalyan has still kept the good old tongas (horse carts) alive through a small community of tonga drivers.This community, however, is now facing its worse downfall since March this year as public transport has been stopped under lockdown norms. For many whose only livelihood was ferrying commuters in their tongas are now struggling to make ends meet.From ferrying passengers and newly-weds to giving a joy ride to children, the tongas have been an integral part of Kalyan. Over 30 tonga drivers continued to give the cheapest mode of transport.Rehaan Falke, 52, who used to earn for his family with his tonga in Kalyan city, is now completely dependent on his son’s income for his livelihood.“Since March, the tonga business in the city has completely stopped. I used to earn for my family by transporting people in tonga. Now, since I am not earning at all, I am completely dependent on my son’s salary, which is also not much. We are adjusting from whatever we get. Sometimes my son earns only Rs 5,000 a month, which is not sufficient, “ said Falke, who lives with his wife, daughter and son near Bail Bazaar in Kalyan (W).A few of the horse cart drivers have started looking for passengers with the relaxations in lockdown; however, they claim that not many hire their tongas. On Wednesday, after waiting for three hours at the Kalyan railway station road, Falke managed to get 3 passengers.“This is a huge loss for business but I decided to take the streets just thinking that I might earn some amount and help my son, as the entire burden of the family is on him now. Earlier I used to make around Rs 300-400 a day which was sufficient, “added Falke.A Tonga can carry a maximum of four passengers, while each passenger is charged Rs 10 for a ride covering a distance of 1-1.5 km. Commuters from areas like Paar naka, Doodh naka and Tilak chowk in old Kalyan, who used to travel by local trains for work, preferred the tongas to auto rickshaw during the peak hours.The horse cart drivers not only have no income these days, but they also have to incur additional expenses on the horse and the tongas to keep them in shape. “We spend around Rs 200 a day on the horse for its food. Even though we are earning nothing, we have to look after them. Also, there are no such occasions like marriages, festivals where the horse carts are required and we can earn from it. There is no scope of business with the horse cart anymore, “added Falke.Shahid Dolare, 35, who has two horse carriages and five horses and used to give it to other tonga drivers to ply in the city, said, “I am into this Tonga business for the last 40 years. My father started it. Now, this is the first time we have seen such a bad time as tonga transportation is stopped and also the horse carriages are not booked for any function. I spend around Rs 300-400 a day to maintain the carriages and feed the horses from my pocket.”Some of the residents in Kalyan take a tonga as a fun ride for their children. With the lockdown on, children are also not taking the ride.Akram Shaikh, president of Tonga association, Kalyan, said, “When the local trains will resume for all commuters, then the tonga transportation might return to the streets as regular passengers will again take the tongas. We will obviously follow all the required sanitation norms. Many of the tonga drivers are either sitting at home jobless while some have taken up selling vegetables or other items in their areas.”Rich Tradition In the olden days, driving tongas was the livelihood of several families in Doodh naka, Paar naka and Tilak chowk in Kalyan (W). With the passage of time, only a few individuals practiced the profession before the lockdown. Families in Kalyan who drove tongas for a living used to wake up early in the morning, dedicating two hours to clean and groom their horses, and then feed them hay, jaggery and Bengal gram. Around 7am, they began ferrying people from Doodh Naka to Kalyan station and back. Tongas used to play a major role in transportation before buses and autos started to ply in the city. Kalyan then was a port near Durgadi Fort, famous for trade. Horse carts decorated with colourful veils (pardah) and lights (kandil) were seen on the streets and royal families from different parts visited the city on the decorated horse carts.Fifteen years ago, there were around 300 such tongas in the city. Today, it has reduced to 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-spells-doom-for-small-community-of-horse-cart-drivers-in-kalyan/story-f5953JlUeegRu8ZWAKCfiM.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Birthday surprise for 16-year-old Covid patient in Kalyan||Thakurli resident Sagar Kaushal was not really keen on celebrating his birthday on turning 16 as he is in quarantine after testing positive two weeks ago for Covid-19. Being in isolation meant he cannot celebrate with his friends and relatives.However, Kaushal received a huge surprise from his relatives and friends who stood below his building, sang a birthday song for him and held placards wishing him while others looked on.Kaushal, his 43-year-old mother and sister tested positive two weeks ago and are in home quarantine. His relatives used to keep food at his doorstep daily for the family. His father, however, was not infected.Rita Kaushal, his mother and a teacher, said, “Tears rolled out of my eyes when I saw my sister, other family members and friends with placards mentioning happy birthday for my son. They also sent a cake for him. All these days, we were depressed, locked in the house but the surprise brought cheer to us.”Kaushal had high fever for a few days after his mother tested positive. “My children used to see me suffer from fever. They could not come close to me as I had isolated myself in one room. My husband used to take care of me all the time. We had decided to not celebrate the birthday this time,” she added.On Thursday, Sagar’s aunt Kiran Mestry, 50, along with other family members and friends reached his building with huge placards carrying the message “Happy birthday Sagar.” They wore birthday caps and sang birthday songs for him. Other residents from his building also peeped out of the balcony and joined in singing.“We made him cut the cake at the balcony where we could see him smile. The family was going through a lot since the last 14 days as they isolated themselves. So, we decided to make them happy for a moment. We planned to give him a surprise,” said Mestry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/birthday-surprise-for-16-year-old-covid-patient-in-kalyan/story-pmbQQN6DQw5G6NSHtA2IjK.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Ruckus in Thane civic body by corporators over property tax waiver||BJP corporators from Thane created a ruckus in the general body meeting of the Thane Municipal Corporation held on Friday over Shiv Sena’s poll promise of waiver of property tax on flats with area of less than 500 sq ft.The party corporators sang songs in the house to draw attention to the demand.Meanwhile, Congress corporators also demanded exemption of property tax to those below poverty line, at least for three months.Shiv Sena, in its manifesto in 2017 civic polls, had promised waiver of property tax for houses with an area of less than 500 sq ft BJP and MNS had staged several protests in Thane in the last few days, reminding the ruling party of its promise in the pandemic. BJP has also installed huge banners across the city reminding the Sena of its poll promise.Manohar Dumbre, BJP corporator from Ghodbunder, said, “Sena made a promise to the people of Thane to waive property tax after coming into power. However, there is no follow up on this promise. In this pandemic, such an exemption is important for the people.”He was seconded by other corporators who sang songs to remind Sena of its promise. The Sena, however, chose to remain silent.Vikrant Chavan, Congress corporator, said, “There are many people who have lost their livelihood in this pandemic. People are jobless and not even able to provide two square meals to their families. The worst affected are those residing in slums. We request the corporation to exempt property tax on these people who are below poverty line at least for three months.”Sena corporator Vimal Bhoir also supported the demand and said that the months of exemption should be increased to five instead of three for those residing in slums.The administration claimed that no such decision was taken yet. An officer said, “We have collected good amount of property tax despite the lockdown. We have also extended the 10 per cent tax rebate to those who pay taxes early till end of September. There is no decision yet to exempt property tax for slums and will need a detailed discussion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ruckus-in-thane-civic-body-by-corporators-over-property-tax-waiver/story-m7vcvMjGz2Fom7BSQm4vcN.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||75 new oxygen-bed facility for Covid patients inaugurated at Dombivli||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has claimed that the civic body has enough of infrastructure to provide health care services to Covid patients in the coming days, if there was a rise in the daily cases.The KDMC chief was talking at the inauguration of 75 new oxygen beds, Dedicated Covid Centre (DCC) at the tennis court of Dombivli Sports Complex, Savlaram Kridasankul, on Friday.Suryavanshi said, “We are prepared with enough infrastructure, so even if the daily Covid cases reach 900, we have facilities to treat the patients.”Presently, the civic body records around 400-500 average fresh Covid 19 cases daily.The Covid centre with the oxygen beds was inaugurated by Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde.“Considering the population of KDMC, the death rate here is less, which is a good mark. Even if beds were vacant, there should not be any shortage when required. These facilities are being prepared so that the patients don’t have to struggle,” said Shinde.The Covid fatality rate in KDMC is 1.88 per cent and the recovery rate is 85 per cent.“Based on the directions from the state government, we have managed to develop jumbo facilities in KDMC for Covid patients. These facilities will help us if there is a rise in daily count of Covid cases,” added Suryavanshi.The Covid centre with 75 oxygen beds will be run by Dr Rahul Ghule, the founder of One Rupee clinic.Throughout the Covid pandemic lockdown period, the civic body has developed 3,474 beds at Covid care centres, 749 beds at dedicated Covid health centres and 1,069 beds at Dedicated Covid hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/75-new-oxygen-bed-facility-for-covid-patients-inaugurated-at-dombivli/story-FiWg7tuR8W31WJOQhqDNeK.html
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal legislators’ area development fund restored||Five months after suspending the MLA local area development (MLALAD) fund in view of financial difficulties arising due to the novel coronavirus crisis, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday announced the restoration of the fund. Speaking on the last day of the monsoon session, the CM said, “A total of ₹50 lakh per assembly constituency will be released under the MLALAD scheme during the financial year. The first instalment of ₹25 lakh will be released in October and the second instalment will be released after the of Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) elections.”“On April 7, the state government had decided to suspend the MLALAD fund for two years because of shortfall in revenue income and other receipts. The situation has improved due to the state government’s efficient management,” the CM told the House, adding that the expenditure incurred by the government against budgetary provisions during the first five months of the current financial year was significantly higher than the expenditure incurred for the same duration last year. He acknowledged that almost all MLAs had demanded that the fund be restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-legislators-area-development-fund-restored/story-I9KT7AuBcTjaDSlHF9IheN.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Man held in Bhiwandi for stealing jewellery from aunt’s house||Narpoli police in Bhiwandi arrested a jewellery shop owner and his friend for house breaking on Monday. The friend allegedly stole jewellery from his aunt’s house and sold it to the jeweller for Rs 2.62 lakh.According to the police, Sheetal Pawar, 40 and a resident of Kamatghar, registered a complaint on September 7 about a theft in her house. All the family members were home on September 7. However, they had gone out for some work the previous day. The police suspected involvement of some family member in the theft.Narpoli police officials said, “During our investigations, we spoke to a few neighbours who had seen the complainant’s nephew, Aniket Chaudhary, 21, on that day with a bag. Accordingly, we had taken him to the custody and during interrogation, he confessed to the crime. We came to know about this jeweller, Basantilal Kothari, 42, who bought stolen jewellery. Chaudhary approached Kothari and sold the jewellery that same night for Rs 2.62 lakh. We also found that Kothari allegedly helped several thieves to sell their stolen jewellery. We have arrested both of them and will be in police custody till September 21.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-held-in-bhiwandi-for-stealing-jewellery-from-aunt-s-house/story-0I6WcNssaYIIsYCpN7nQ0J.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Two women arrested with 9kg marijuana worth ₹2.25 lakh in Mumbai||The Andheri police on Thursday arrested two women with 9kg of marijuana worth ₹2.25 lakh at Andheri (East) on Thursday evening. According to police, the accused Barkha Vijay Indrekar, 46 and Gauri Suresh Navlekar, 75, a resident of Telli Galli in Andheri (East) are habitual offenders and have been booked in drug-related cases in the past. Vijay Belge, senior police inspector at Andheri police station said, “On Thursday evening, our staff on patrolling duty noticed two women walking suspiciously with a bag. When the accused saw the patrolling team, they changed their route and started running, which raised suspicion.” When the female officer checked the bag, she found marijuana in it, said Belge. Both the accused have been arrested under section 8 (C) (possession of drug) and 20 (punishment for contravention in relation to the cannabis plant and cannabis) of The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-women-arrested-with-9kg-marijuana-worth-2-25-lakh/story-aWkcx7rvwp2LPDh45Zag3M.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams: Mumbai colleges opt for customised software for students with limited or no access to smart devices, internet connectivity||With final-year exams slated to begin on October 1, city colleges are going the extra mile to ensure that students with limited or no access to smart devices and internet connectivity are also able to take the tests. As directed by the University of Mumbai (MU), most colleges have completed a survey of students to find out if they have the means to take exams online. Principals said that while a majority of students had access to devices and/ or internet connection, some reported they had neither. As a solution, many city colleges are opting for customised software that is compatible on all devices, browsers and connectivity. Kishore Peshori, principal of Mithibai Motiram Kundnani College of Commerce and Economics (MMK college), Bandra, said, “While most of our students said they have a smart device, a few who have gone to remote places [at their hometowns], have said they do not have proper internet connectivity. So we have zeroed in on an exam software that does not require a high-speed internet connection and can run on 2G.” Nirmala Memorial Foundation College of Commerce and Science, Kandivli, too, has opted for a customised software that can run on low bandwidth. “After the survey, we have called students who expressed inaccessibility to make them comfortable with online exams and check if they can borrow a device from parents or neighbour,” said principal Swiddle D’Cunha. For students, who may not be able to manage taking an online exam at all, the college will make arrangements for a physical exam. The software will also help proctor the exams and enable students to take the exams offline. “Meanwhile, we have formed a taskforce with IT (Information Technology) personnel and teachers. Students can call the taskforce and get their doubts clarified on subjects as well as technology,” added D’Cunha. MMK College, too, has a similar helpline. “We are also planning to ask some parents to donate their old devices so they can be distributed among students who need them,” said Peshori. “We will soon send out a list of dos and don’ts to our students so that they are careful while taking the exam. For example, if they do not turn their notifications off, the software may log them out, even if it is a genuine notification about connectivity,” said Madhav Rajwade, principal, Sathaye College in Vile Parle. At Ruparel College in Matunga, only one student does not have access to internet connectivity. “We are trying to arrange for an internet connection for the student,” said principal Tushar Desai. Those students, who have opted for answering questions in Marathi, will be also able to do so online, he said. Dhobi Talao’s St Xaviers’ College, too, is trying to provide connectivity to few students, who do not have accessibility, at a nearest institution. “We are trying to reach their nearest institution – either college or school – which can help us. If not, we will find other solutions,” said principal Rajendra Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-mumbai-colleges-opt-for-customised-software-for-students-with-limited-or-no-access-to-smart-devices-internet-connectivity/story-pYEu9G6tVG5Qe2nkq5WhJK.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams: Maharashtra government says 100% attendance must for teaching, non-teaching staff; teachers irked||The Maharashtra state department for higher and technical education released a government resolution (GR) late on Friday directing 100% attendance of all teaching and non-teaching college staff to ensure that the upcoming online exams for final-year students and the result declaration are completed on time. While the exams are scheduled to start on October 1, the GR does not mention when the directive will be implemented. Teachers’ groups have raised an objection to the attendance owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Honourable Supreme Court has given a judgment on August 28 to conduct final semester exams and to conduct the same, teaching and non-teaching staff is needed,” read the GR. It further stated that the practice of conducting examination includes several processes such as question paper preparation, assessment of answer sheets, preparation of mark sheets and declaration of results. “Examination in the state will be conducted between October 1 and 31 this year and results are required to be announced by the first week of November. This will require a large amount of manpower. To complete the challenging task, 100% attendance of teaching and non-teaching staff is required henceforth.”The GR also highlighted the need for all colleges to strictly follow the guidelines issues by the government and health department to ensure the safety of staff amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Colleges said the implementation of the GR will be difficult. “For starters, the government needs to ensure that the teaching and non-teaching staff gets access to travel by local trains. We are talking about at least 50,000 employees who work across colleges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and there is no way they can travel safely, if not by trains,” said T Shiware, chairman of Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges. Teacher groups said it is “unfair to ask the staff to attend everyday, at a time when the Covid-19 cases are hitting the peak in Maharashtra. “Online exams are being held to ensure students don’t leave their homes for their safety, but no such importance is being given to teachers and the non-teaching staff. This is unfair to us,” said a senior teacher from a suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-teachers-irked-as-maharashtra-government-directs-100-attendance-must-for-teaching-non-teaching-staff/story-jPtyA6wo0HMng14zKTmWkK.html
19-09-2020||City||4-year-old’s body found in a sack in Navi Mumbai’s Ghansoli area||A four-year-old boy who went missing on Friday afternoon from his residence in Ghansoli village was found dead inside a sack behind the building in the next few hours.The victim, Omkar Shankar Sathe was playing at his house in Balaram Wadi when his mother stepped out to buy chicken at around 12pm. His father, a painter and grandmother who sells vegetables, were away for work at the time of the incident.When the mother returned, she found her son missing. She alerted the people around and started searching for him. By around 3pm, they found the boy’s body inside a sack behind the building.The boy resided with his parents and the grandmother on the first floor of the building.Deputy commissioner of police, zone I Pankaj Dahane said, “Prima facie, the boy is suspected to have been killed by smothering. We have found no injury marks on the body. A murder case has been registered and we are interrogating the neighbours. No arrests have been made yet,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-year-old-s-body-found-in-a-sack-in-navi-mumbai-s-ghansoli-area/story-eGF9Nip37zZOFNc2KyPNlK.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Age cut-off date relaxed for nursery, Class 1 admissions in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra education department has relaxed the cut-off date for pre-primary and Class 1 admission eligibility, according to a government resolution (GR) released on Friday. As per the GR, a child has to complete three years by December 31 to be eligible for pre-primary/nursery admissions. Similarly, the child should have completed six years by the same date for admission to Class 1. The rule will be implemented from the academic year 2021-22. The earlier cutoff date for both was September 30. In January, the education department came up with a common cut-off date for admissions in schools as several private schools were following different criteria for admissions. As per the RTE act, schools should admit students who have completed 6 years for Class 1 and 3 years for nursery. As per the GR, “Schools can allow a relaxation of upto 15 days from the cut-off date. The decision to do so, rests with the school principals.” The relaxation in the cut off date has come after the office of director of primary education made the recommendation to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/age-cut-off-date-relaxed-for-nursery-class-1-admissions-in-maharashtra/story-XpvB9zQzksh5rIl5zI2TXL.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||SC stay on Maratha quota: No clarity on new schedule for Class 11 admissions in Maharashtra||More than a week after the state government stayed admissions to first-year junior colleges (FYJC), it is yet to declare a revised schedule for the process. The lack of clarity over the resumption of the process has left students anxious and colleges confused.On September 9, the Supreme Court (SC) ordered an interim stay on Maratha reservations in education and jobs, following which the state education department stayed FYJC admissions until further notice. The community was provided 12% reservation in education under the socially and educationally backward class (SEBC) category, which after the SC stay was no longer held valid. Though the department said that a revised timetable for the second admission round – which was to take place on June 10 – will be declared soon, it is yet to make an announcement on the schedule. “We are yet to get clarity on the issue from the state government,” said a senior official from the state education department. Colleges said they are flooded with calls from students on queries over the resumption of the admission process. “Students have all kinds of anxieties. The ones who are yet to get admissions are clueless about when the process will start, while students whose admissions have been confirmed under the SEBC quota are now worried of losing their seats. We cannot guide students in such a situation because we ourselves do not know the government’s plan of action,” said the principal of a junior college in the eastern suburbs. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region alone, more than 2.12 lakh students applied for admissions for around 3.1 lakh seats that are up for grabs this year. Of the 17,844 seats reserved for students applying under the SEBC category, only 2,923 (16%) applied for admissions, even as 2,309 students under the quota have been allotted a college in the first round of admissions. This is a considerable dip from 2019, when 30% of the total seats were claimed by students from the SEBC quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sc-stay-on-maratha-quota-no-clarity-on-new-schedule-for-class-11-admissions-in-maharashtra/story-7hY0LSho5wbUPm4cV3DhoJ.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut’s demand for ₹2 crore baseless, bogus, says Mumbai civic body on actor’s compensation for office demolition||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in its additional affidavit filed in response to the amended petition of actor Kangana Ranaut in the Bombay high court (HC) has refuted the demand of ₹2 crore towards damages sought by the actor as “a baseless and bogus claim”. The actor’s lawyer had approached HC on September 9, the day alleged structural violations in her office premises in Pali Hill, Bandra were demolished. Stating that the petition was filed in haste, the lawyer had sought time to amend it, which the court allowed. BMC was asked to respond to it. The amended petition of the actor stated that even before the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla stayed the demolition on September 9, civic personnel had razed 40% of the bungalow and caused severe damage to movable properties. In light of these submissions, the actor sought a compensation of ₹2 crore. BMC’s additional affidavit, however, stated that the actor’s claims were false as “only the illegal and unauthorised portion of the bungalow was demolished” and hence she could not seek compensation for it. The affidavit filed by Bhagyavant Late, designated officer, H-West ward, stated that the actor had not disputed the notice served to her on September 7 or the stop-work order pasted on the gate of her bungalow on September 8, which was a clear indication that she was aware that the alterations and additions being made on her premises were unauthorized and not as per the sanctioned building plan. Late stated the notices were served on the actor after a mukadam and an executive engineer on inspection of the premises arrived at the conclusion that substantive alterations and additions had been made to the property without the permission of the civic authority. “The petitioner, who has undisputedly carried out substantial unlawful additions and alterations contrary to the approved plan and without applying for and obtaining any permission for the same, cannot be heard to contend that remedial action taken in respect of such unlawful acts, was either illegal or high handed or approach writ jurisdiction of HC for relief and make ‘baseless’ and ‘bogus’ claims for compensation,” the affidavit states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-s-demand-for-2-crore-baseless-bogus-says-mumbai-civic-body-on-actor-s-compensation-for-office-demolition/story-nV9z3xr44nsq03rUJfKChP.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 cases surge in Maharashtra; state’s tally is 1,167,496||Maharashtra on Friday reported 21,656 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 1,167,496, as the state’s active cases rose significantly in the past month. The state has added 144,279 active cases between August 18 and Friday, an increase of 92.12%, pushing up the total such infections past 300,000. On August 18, Maharashtra’s active cases stood at 156,608, which have now risen to 300,887. It took only 15 days for the state to breach the 300,000 active cases mark, which it crossed on Thursday. The state had gone past the 200,000 mark in 51 days on September 2.The increase of active cases for a month before August 18 was 26.93%, as the state’s active cases stood at 123,377 on July 18.Mumbai reported 2,283 fresh infections on Friday, pushing up the city’s tally to 180,668. The city also reported 52 fatalities, as its death toll to 8,375.Maharashtra, meanwhile, added 440 fatalities, including 35 previous deaths that were added to the cumulative figure after updation on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website. The state’s toll stands at 31,791. According to the state health department, of the 440 deaths reported on Friday, 244 were from the past 48 hours, 103 from the past week and rest 93 from the period before last week. The case fatality rate of the state currently stands at 2.72%.The state saw a higher number of recoveries than fresh infections on Friday with 22,078 patients discharged, taking the tally of total recovered patients to 834,432. The recovery rate of the state has improved to 71.47%.Senior health department officials, however, said the state will continue to see a high number of cases daily as the government plans to increase the number of tests. September has witnessed an average of around 90,000 tests per day so far. The state is expected to increase it to around 1.50 lakh tests per day.State health secretary Pradeep Vyas confirmed to HT that they will ramp up daily tests. “We have around 450 laboratories, including private ones, but so far we have not fully utilised our testing capacity. We plan to increase daily tests to around 1.50 lakh daily in the next few weeks. It has to be done scientifically, with more surveillance, testing of high-risk groups, close contacts will be done. Naturally, we will see more numbers, and even record highs,” a senior health department official said requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, of the total caseload reported on Friday, nearly 44% cases came from Mumbai, MMR, Pune City, Pune Rural, and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Pune City reported 1,875 fresh infections and 28 deaths, while Pune Rural reported 1,356 fresh cases and seven deaths. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 810 new cases and four fatalities. The rural and semi-urban areas of the state continued to report higher cases on Friday with 946 cases in Jalgaon district, 995 cases in Ahmednagar district, 902 in Satara district, 803 in Kolhapur district, 1,112 in Sangli district, 637 in Solapur district, and 2106 in Nagpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-surge-in-maharashtra-state-s-tally-is-1-167-496/story-6eCBnBlEogE2cpOGXLjQaM.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||International Coastal Clean-up Day: Eight Indian beaches vie for international eco-label||Eight Indian beaches complying with the stringent Blue Flag certification criteria have been recommended by the Centre for final consideration before an international jury. No Indian beach has qualified for this certification so far. Blue Flag is a voluntary eco-label for the cleanest and most developed coastal areas in the world, awarded by a Denmark-based jury of the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). The results are expected in less than a month. According to a report by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC), the eight beaches that are under consideration are Shivrajpur (Devbhumi Dwarka, Gujarat); Ghoghla (Daman and Diu); Kasarkod (Karwar, Karnataka); Padubidri (Udupi, Karnataka); Kappad (Kozhikode, Kerala); Rushikonda (Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh); Golden beach (Puri, Odisha); and Radhanagar (Andaman and Nicobar Islands). The report – Beach Environment and Aesthetics Management Services (BEAMS) – was prepared over two years by the Society of Integrated Coastal Management (SICOM) under MoEFCC. HT has seen the report. “BEAMs has managed to come up with a beach development model in line with the United Nations’ sustainable development goals. We are expecting the final results from the [Blue Flag] jury by October second week,” said Sanjai Jalla, mission leader of the program. He added that the Centre plans to develop eco-tourism models in 100 beach stretches along India’s coast over the next five years, vying for Blue flag certification. “A process has already been rolled out with pre-assessment scientific studies to identify 20 potential beach locations to be undertaken for development during 2021-22 and 20 beaches thereafter on a year to year basis,” said Jalla. Blue Flag is known for its stringent criteria. Only a few beaches in Asia have been conferred the certification. BEAMS found that the eight beaches from India had witnessed an average reduction of 82- 84% in marine litter since 2018. Cleanliness was calculated based using a beach litter measuring system (BLMS) wherein managers were appointed to conduct daily audits. For all marine litter, the quantity reduced from 83,198 kg in June 2018 to 14,929 kg in May 2020. Similarly, plastic litter fell from 14,970 kg in June 2018 to 2,420 kg across 10 Indian beaches in May 2020. The details were released ahead of International Coastal Clean-up Day celebrated on third Saturday in September. “For the Blue Flag certification, the cleanliness levels have to be maintained at A+ or A. Using BLMS, we categorised beach litter into bulk (over 10 cm) and fine (less than 10 cm), and divided the beach into transects of 100 sq. m for bulk and 1 sqm for fine each to calculate litter before and after clean-ups. Tourists said these eight beaches were among some of the cleanest in the world,” said Jalla. MoEFCC had originally identified 13 pilot beaches for the certification in 2018. However, work on Bangram beach, Lakshadweep island, Bhogwe beach, Sindhudurg, and Miramar beach is likely to be taken up for development and certification next year. “Work at Kovalam beach (Tamil Nadu) and Eden (Puducherry) are underway, and will be ready by December 2020,” said Jalla. Other developments across eight beaches, which have been identified with photographic evidence in the BEAMS report, are categorised into beach amenities, waste management, renewable energy, safety and security, recreational facilities, testing of bathing water quality, biodiversity conservation and maintenance of beach ecosystems. “Critical marine biodiversity data was collected through scuba diving to assess coral bleaching, diseases and litter and benthic sessile invertebrate fauna counts, fish counts and substrate type in our analysis,” said Jalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/international-coastal-clean-up-day-eight-indian-beaches-vie-for-international-eco-label/story-tyeXmmUklZ3fXUSDQ3R7WJ.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||1,875 cybercrimes reported in Thane since March: Police data||With more than 1,800 cases of cyber-crimes being registered in Thane police commissionerate since March this year, the cyber cell has claimed that there has being around 20 to 30 per cent increase in the number of cases in the lockdown compared to last year.While the crimes of thefts and house break-ins have decreased, cyber-crimes related to phishing and vishing scams are on the rise, claimed the police department.The Thane cyber cell has registered 1,875 cases under the cyber laws apart from which the department also has received thousands of phone calls with complaints that were not even registered in the past six months. Last year, the number was comparatively less by around 30 per cent.The police claimed that despite constant awareness, with most people staying at home and using net banking, digital modes of payments or shopping, most of them easily click on unknown links or fall prey to telecallers who convince them to share their details.Vivek Phansalkar, police commissioner of Thane, said, “Citizens should not deal with unknown persons and entities online; protect own data passwords, etc. fiercely, cross check, double check before transferring money and use only safe recommended apps for online payments. Do not copy paste the passwords or any important keywords.”Thane cyber police have been taking several awareness campaigns since last year and have been doing online awareness programmes since lockdown has started.Additional police commissioner (crime), Pravin Pawar, said, “Most people extensively use social media as they are at home over the last few weeks. The cyber criminals have found several innovative ideas to attract these net savvy people and rob them of their hard-earned money. Most frauds happen when people click on unknown links on social media or shop from unknown sites. Every week, there are complaints of various innovative phishing frauds, targeting gullible people.”KYC upgradation common fraud One of the most common frauds is the KYC upgradation. Here, most consumers receive call from the fraudsters posing to be from any of the popular digital payment portals asking consumers to update their KYC or they won’t be able to use the application.With most people paying through digital getaways to avoid cash exchange in pandemic, they inadvertently fall prey to these calls, said Patil.Assistant police commissioner, cyber cell, Sardar Patil, added, “The callers then ask the consumers to download a few desktop sharing applications, thus getting access to their phones or laptops, downloading all personal account information.“The second fraud is about the sending messages about free Covid-19 tests or concessions in the tests. The accused would call or send a message to register for the Covid test, along with a link to be filled requiring bank account details and later withdraw money from the account.“Another common fraud is also over updating the insurance policies. A few fake mobile applications that claimed to check people’s oxymeter also get details on fingerprints and other data to siphon off money.” People also used the pandemic to appeal to people to pay money for those requiring Covid treatment through social networking sites.An officer from cyber cell who did not wish to be named said, “When the online sale of alcohol was permitted, people received messages and numbers from the shops in their localities. Most of these numbers were fake and after people paid for the alcohol, no delivery was made. We got several such complaints in a month once the sale of liquor started.”People being duped on dating or matrimonial applications are also a common modus operandi in the lockdown period.Police creating awarenessPatil added, “We have tried to create awareness among people throughout the pandemic on these different types of frauds. There were 1,875 cases registered in Debit/credit card fraud, card cloning, OTP share, job fraud, online shopping fraud, social media-related fraud. People should not click on any random links. Keeping a strong secret password is also one of the important factors. If anyone gets a SIM card-related call or insurance policy details related call, people should call the authentic person for the same, or authentic helpline of that policy which is mentioned on your documents.”He added that if a person is helping any friend who has sent a message on Facebook, call or video call the person before sending money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-875-cyber-crimes-since-march-2020-thane-police/story-VY1WEDlXuyDqLTq6zDWR8N.html
19-09-2020||City||Punjabis must unite for their survival, constitutional rights, says SS Johal||“Punjabis must unite for their survival and struggle for their constitutional rights,” noted agriculture economist Sardara Singh Johl said on Friday.Johl was presiding over a meeting of members of the Lok Adhikaar Lehar, an organisation formed for the economic, social and political awakening of Punjab’s people. At the meeting, the body’s members unanimously decided to constitute a state-level general council, which Johl said will comprise 100 members. He also issued a list of the first 25 members representing various areas of Punjab.On the occasion, Johl gave a clarion call to all journalists, writers, artists, leading Punjabi personalities from different fields, NGOs, public organisations and even religious leaders having faith in an all-inclusive Punjabi society to come forward for the betterment of a crisis-ridden Punjab.He said the economy and the socio-political outlook of the country had got terribly embroiled in rampant corruption and religious fanaticism, notoriously patronised by the myopic politicians of all hues. Punjab, given its history, is definitely a state where people are capable of launching a popular democratic movement, Johl added.“It is high time that farmers, entrepreneurs, workers, students, employees and all other citizens come forward united for the restoration of the original constitutional rights of the people and our state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjabis-must-unite-for-their-survival-constitutional-rights-says-ss-johal/story-vlThC5PF2vpeY4KUKYwsQO.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput drug case: Bombay HC seeks NCB’s reply to bail pleas of Samuel Miranda, Dipesh Sawant and Abdel Basit Parihar||The Bombay high court on Friday directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to file replies to bail applications filed by three arrested accused in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Two members of Rajput’s domestic staff, Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant, along with alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar moved for bail. Additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh sought time to file replies to the pleas. The next hearing will be on September 29. Miranda, Sawant and Parihar were arrested by NCB as part of the agency’s investigation into allegations of drug abuse in the case of Rajput’s death. They applied for bail contending that the charges against them are bailable. The trio were previously denied bail by a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. According to NCB, Miranda and Sawant received parcels with contraband material on instructions of actor Rhea Chkaraborty, who has also been arrested. Parihar allegedly supplied contraband to Rajput. Appearing for the arrested accused, advocate Taraq Sayed submitted that all offences under the NDPS Act involving small quantity of contraband material are bailable and his clients should not be charged with section 27A (financing illegal trafficking) of the NDPS Act. Sayed further submitted that there no drugs were recovered from the three applicants. He also pointed out that the quantity of drugs recovered is small and those from whom drugs were recovered were granted bail. Justice Kotwal directed ASG Singh to reply to the specific issues raised by the applicants and in response to which Singh sought time. Bandra hotelier Zaid Vilatra, who was also arrested by NCB in connection with this case, moved HC challenging his remand. His petition will come up for hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-ncb-s-reply-to-bail-pleas-of-samuel-miranda-dipesh-sawant-and-abdel-basit-parihar/story-kT2bzFFJN37s12Hnzc3RgJ.html
19-09-2020||Mumbai||Only 64% of eligible students across India register for JEE-Advance this year||Only 64% students eligible to appear for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced registered for the examination this year. While of the top 2.5 lakh students who cleared JEE-Main were eligible for the examination this year, only 1.6 lakh students finished the registration process by Friday evening.“Most students who apply for JEE-Advanced are those who have scored very well and sure of making it into an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) of their choice. Students no more waste their time and effort by preparing and appearing for JEE-Advanced if they know they could get through a private engineering institute with their Class 12 and common entrance test scores closer home,” said a senior professor from IIT-Bombay. Last year, over 1.75 lakh students across the country of the top 2.45 lakh students who cleared the JEE-Main exam had registered for the examination. In 2018, of the top 2.31 lakh JEE-Main eligible candidates, only 1.64 lakh candidates had registered for JEE-Advance and in 2017, around 1.71 lakh of the 2.20 lakh eligible candidates had registered for JEE-Advanced exam.“Most engineering aspirants from larger metro cities are aware of options they have of engineering colleges closer home and the advantage of off-campus training they receive through internships and other temporary jobs. The overall growth along with studies attracts more students to other engineering institutes,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal, Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.JEE-Advanced exam will be conducted by IIT-Delhi this year and the exam is scheduled to take place across the country on September 27. Keeping in mind social distancing norms amid the ongoing pandemic, the number of exam centres across the country have been doubled compared to last year. While exam cities have been increased from 164 last year to 222 this year, exam centres stand at 1,150 compared to around 600 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-64-of-eligible-students-across-india-register-for-jee-advance-this-year/story-mEO5mlPWnyj2xbU0JYuPaI.html
19-09-2020||Noida||Containment zone numbers up -- GB Nagar has 382||The UP government has issued a revised list of containment zones on Thursday. Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 382 containment zones – 365 in category 1 where one case was reported, and 17 in category 2. Suhas LY, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate, said: “Every day we conduct about 3500 tests in the district and the case fatalities is only 0.4%.” Gautam Budh Nagar has conducted over 200,000 tests so far. The district magistrate said that the administration and health department is trying to ensure early diagnosis and treatment of patients. He appealed to recovered people to donate plasma and save lives of others.In containment zones, the district health department identifies the contacts of confirmed and suspect cases and monitor them daily. They also create awareness among community about disease prevention, home quarantine, common signs and symptoms and need for reporting suspect cases. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has also issued a detailed guideline for containment zone management. As per the guideline, the health department should create awareness in the community. It asks the health department to monitor the containment zones and encourage people to follow frequent hand wash, respiratory etiquettes, self monitoring of health and reporting to the health workers about persons in their vicinity having cough, fever, breathing difficulty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/containment-zone-numbers-up-gb-nagar-has-382/story-ntVBRUhLoIGUTrPszCgsqM.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Schools concerned about implementation of Delhi high court order||Following the Delhi high court’s order on Friday asking schools to provide gadgets and internet access to students from economically weaker section (EWS) and disadvantaged groups (DG) categories to assist in their online education during the Covid-19 crisis, private schools in the capital have raised concerns over the implementation of the order. According to the Right to Education Act, 25% of the seats at entry-level classes of private unaided schools are reserved for children under the EWS/DG category whose families earn less than ₹1 lakh annually. These children are entitled to free textbooks, notebooks, stationery and uniforms, and state governments are supposed to reimburse schools for these expenses. However, schools have claimed that over the years, the delay in transfer of funds by the government has added to the expenses of parents or schools, who spend the money and wait for reimbursements. Puneet Mittal, counsel for Delhi Public School, submitted in the high court that in the past decade, of the ₹30.36 crore spent for EWS students in the five DPS schools in the capital, only ₹2.92 crore had been reimbursed by the state government and the outstanding balance stands at ₹27.43 crore.Also read: Digital divide in mind, Delhi HC tells pvt schools, KVs to bridge gapWhile the court on Friday directed private unaided schools to file their claims for reimbursement to the Delhi government within eight weeks from the date of supply of gadgets or equipment and stated that the said claim shall be processed and reimbursed to the schools within eight weeks from the date of their submission, schools are apprehensive of when they will be compensated for these expenses.SK Bhattacharya, president of the Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools, said, “While the court has given a time frame [for the reimbursement], compliance and red-tapism is often an issue. Several private schools have not received funds for providing textbook, uniform and other items to EWS children for the past five years. How can we expect to receive reimbursement for laptops and other facilities now?” Bhattacharya will also be a part of the three-member committee that the high court has directed to ensure uniformity and expedite the supply of gadgets/equipment to EWS/DG students, along with formulating standard operating procedure on the matter. “We welcome the decision by the court to call for serious deliberation on the matter and take the views of private schools into cognisance. Investments on laptop and internet facilities will be expensive and difficult to facilitate during a pandemic, since schools are already facing financial issues due to fee restrictions,” he said.Officials in the Delhi government said they have received the high court’s order and examining it. They refused to comment further on the matter. “A pragmatic solution would be that the government should give money in advance to the schools to purchase the material and distribute among children so that they can continue with their online classes,” he added. Om Prakash Gautam, chairman of Green Valley International Public School, agreed. “We haven’t received the reimbursements for books and uniforms provided by us to the EWS students for three years now. When the old reimbursements are not being fulfilled, how can we expect to receive new reimbursements for expensive devices like smartphones and laptops?” While parents have welcomed the move, questions remain over the academic loss in the six months since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed moving the teaching-learning processes online. Malkeet Singh, a resident of Tilak Nagar, whose two children study in top private schools in west Delhi, said his children were still unable to appear for their ongoing tests. “Their academic year is under jeopardy as they couldn’t attend their classes or appear for the class tests for the past six months. I lost my job as a contractual driver and there was no possibility of buying a new smartphone to help with their classes,” Singh said. “My son still hasn’t received his books from the school creating further problems in following his studies. While the order intends to help students, we don’t know how it will be implemented. Often, schools don’t even talk to us to resolve our queries and help our children,” he said. Advocate Shikha Sharma, petitioner in the case and secretary at NGO Justice for All, said, “The judgement would help in combating the mass dropout of students along with assisting those who could not access a single class or missed examination due to lack of devices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-concerned-about-implementation-of-delhi-high-court-order/story-P5rQIVZBCtOhtTB5WYYgqK.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi schools stay shut for all classes till Oct 5 due to Covid crisis||The Delhi government on Friday said all schools in the national capital will remain closed till October 5 for all students. The order, which came in the backdrop of a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases, ended speculation over whether students of classes 9-12, as per the central government’s guidelines, will be allowed to visit schools to take guidance from teachers on a voluntary basis from September 21.“It is informed that all schools will remain closed for all students till October 5. However, online classes and teaching-learning activities will continue as usual and Head of Schools (HoS) are authorised to call teachers/ staff (as per requirement) for smooth conduct of online classes, teaching-learning activities and any other work,” the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) said in its order.Schools across the country have been shut since March-end in the wake of the coronavirus disease pandemic. Classes are being conducted online and links to online study materials are being sent to students via WhatsApp, emails and SMS.A senior education department official, who did not want to be named, said the decision was taken after assessing the Covid-19 situation. “The department has also received feedback from parents of both government and private schools, and a majority of them do not want their children to return to schools right now. We have also reviewed the situation and concluded that it is not suitable for the students to visit schools in Delhi for at least the next few weeks,” the official said.On Friday, Delhi reported 4,127 new cases and 30 deaths, taking the total infections to 238,828 and fatalities to 4,907. Authorities have ramped up testing as a measure to combat the current spike in infections. Before the resurgence of cases, the seven-day average of daily cases in the Capital peaked at 3,446 on June 26 before falling to 983 on August 4. In the last seven days, Delhi has seen an average of 4,154 new cases every day.Parents welcomed the Delhi government order on schools. “My daughter and her friends had already decided that they will not be visiting school after September 21. We conducted an online survey to take parents’ opinion on partial reopening of schools, and 97% of the 1,000 parents who participated in the survey said that they did not want to send their children to schools amid the pandemic,” Sumit Vohra, the father of a Class 10 student at DPS Vasant Kunj, said. Jyoti Arora, the principal of Mount Abu Public School, said around 65% parents of enrolled students were not in favour of sending their children to the institute at this point. “However, it has become a challenge for schools to teach practical-based subjects online. If schools were allowed to partially reopen, they could have conducted practical for students, especially those in board classes, in small groups while taking all precautions,” she said.AK Jha, the head of school at a government-run sarvodaya co-educational institute in Rohini, said: “Although students want to rejoin the school, but their parents are not in favour of sending them. It is better if the schools continue to remain closed for the next few weeks.” The central government, in its guidelines for Unlock 4 issued on August 30, said though schools, colleges and other education institutions will remain closed till the end of September, there will be some relaxations for senior students.Students of classes 9-12 may be permitted to visit their schools — only outside containment zones — on voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers, according to the guidelines.For doing so, students will have to give written consent of their parents/guardians. The guidelines said the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the same will be issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. The guidelines also said states and Union Territories may permit up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching/tele-counselling and related work from September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-schools-stay-shut-for-all-classes-till-oct-5/story-L10P9TarWqTTS8wCdajYIO.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi L-G orders redrafting fresh policy for containment zones, better surveillance of Covid cases||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Friday issued directions to the government for drafting a fresh policy for containment zones, increased surveillance of Covid-19 cases – with special focus on those in home isolation — and stricter enforcement of Covid guidelines.Baijal is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority , and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.The directions from the L-G came during a meeting of DDMA on Friday evening, which was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, revenue minister Kailash Gehlot, chief secretary Vijay Dev, and other top government officials and experts —including Dr VK Paul of Niti Aayog, Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS and Dr Balram Bhargava, DG of ICMR. Most of the officials participated through video conferencing , government officials said.“The L-G chaired the DDMA meeting to review the Covid-19 situation… He advised officials and experts to jointly prepare blueprint for re-strategising containment zone policy to reduce positivity rate and mortality rate. He emphasised on aggressive campaigns particularly in vernacular language to engage stakeholders for ensuring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” said the office of the L-G, in a series of tweets.The chief minister’s office did not issue a separate statement about the meeting, with Delhi government spokespersons refusing to comment on it.On Friday, in a separate meeting with district magistrates, the deputy commissioners of police and municipal commissioners, the L-G issued directions to intensify surveillance to ensure better implementation of protocols of home isolation patients, ways to enhance early detection of cases, and enforcement of protective and preventive Covid-19 measures, said another senior official in the L-G office.As on Friday, Delhi had 1,751 containment zones — which are defined as sealed areas where free movement of individuals and traffic is prohibited, as is economic activities. All residents in containment zones are put under intensive surveillance and are periodically screened for the virus and the area sanitised. Essential goods are delivered at doorstep by government officials for a period of at least 14 days.Also read| Delhi: 4,217 new Covid-19 cases logged, positivity rate down to 6.8%This is the second time that Delhi’s containment zone strategy will be re-drafted. Earlier, the containment zone policy was redrafted on June 26, in adherence to recommendations of Union home minister Amit Shah.“While the L-G has given no clear deadline in Friday’s meeting, the health department is likely to submit the new containment zones strategy in a week,” an official privy to the developments said.While discussing ways to enhance early detection of cases, the L-G made a reference to rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests but did not delve further into the modalities, said two district officials who spoke with HT on the condition of anonymity.In a separate meeting on Friday, health minister Satyendar Jain discussed ways to ramp up RT-PCR tests with top health department officials and medical officers, in adherence to directions of the Delhi High Court earlier this week.On Friday, Delhi recorded 4,127 new covid-19 cases – taking the total number of people infected to 238,828 -- against 61,037 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/l-g-orders-redrafting-fresh-policy-for-containment-zones-better-surveillance-of-covid-cases/story-56HV70LuSt3zxPDhD6FppJ.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||One half of Sarai Kale Khan Flyover closed for traffic for a fortnight for repairs||Repair work on a one-way flyover in front of the Sarai Kale Khan interstate bus terminus, and ongoing construction of an underpass at Ashram, triggered traffic jams in parts of south and south-east Delhi on Friday evening.The traffic police have closed half of the 150-metre, one-way flyover to repair its expansion joints. Traffic officials issued advisories, asking motorists heading from Ashram and other parts of south Delhi towards ITO via Ring Road and Sarai Kale Khan to avoid the route for at least 14 days. “We have closed one half of the flyover -- from Ashram side towards ITO. In the other half, private vehicles are being allowed to move. A week later, the other side of the flyover will be repaired and vehicles will be allowed to move on the other half that would have been repaired by then,” said SD Mishra, additional commissioner of police (ACP), traffic, (southern range), Delhi Police.Traffic movement on the opposite carriageway -- from ITO towards Sarai Kale Khan and Ashram -- would remain unaffected as the road is not part of the one-way flyover. If private vehicles still use this route, they have to either take the half-open portion of the flyover, or a service road below it. which are anyway likely to be choked. A senior PWD official privy to the development said the expansion joints are being repaired. “We are changing the expansion joints of the flyover, as it has developed gaps,” the official said.About four-5 km away, work on an underpass at the Ashram intersection -- notorious for traffic snarls -- caused vehicular movement to slow down in and around the area and parts of Lajpat Nagar.The traffic authorities advised motorists to avoid Ashram to avoid getting caught in traffc snarls.“Vehicles coming from Moolchand on Ring Road and headed towards Faridabad should take Captain Gaur Marg from below the Lajpat Nagar flyover. Vehicles coming from Sarai Kale Khan and headed towards Faridabad can take a left on CV Raman Marg to get to Mathura Road,” said another official.Vehicles also moved at a snail’s pace around Sarai Kale Khan as the closure of a part of the flyover created a bottleneck. Rachit Singh, a commuter heading to Noida, said he took the flyover despite knowing about the repair work and restrictions. “I thought it would be a few minutes of wait, but I barely covered a kilometre in 1 minutes,” said Singh. Mishra said during this time, commercial vehicles from Ashram would be diverted to the DND flyway to ensure a smooth flow to Ring Road via Mayur Vihar and Akshardham. Commercial vehicles from DND flyway towards Delhi would also be diverted towards the Noida-Akshardham route, he added.“We are advising private vehicles to avoid this (Sarai Kale Khan) route. We deployed sufficient staff at this stretch. We are handling the traffic signal below the flyover manually during this period,” said Mishra.Traffic police have put up signboards and deployed its personnel on the DND flyway and the Barapullah flyover to handle any build-up of traffic on those stretches.Through Friday, the traffic police kept pushing out alerts about the closure of the flyover on its social media accounts. A senior traffic police officer, however, said the jam in Ashram was due to the construction of the underpass and the restrictions in Sarai Kale Khan had little impact on it. This Sarai Kale Khan stretch is important because it connects south Delhi with central and northern parts of the national capital. It is also part of Delhi’s Ring Road. A little beyond near the Millennium Park, the road turns towards the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (formerly NH 24) from where commuters can go towards East Delhi and Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-half-of-sarai-kale-khan-flyover-closed-for-traffic-for-a-fortnight-for-repairs/story-p8Ux7WlwyP2leIWvb1GjLJ.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||AAP asks BJP to withdraw worksheets having ‘distorted’ map of India||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules the three municipal corporations in Delhi, to immediately withdraw worksheets that contained a ‘distorted’ map of India. The worksheets issued to students of class 4 in schools operated by the north Delhi civic body had a map that excluded Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) “The BJP-ruled MCD’s books for class 4 students have distorted map of India. The same that were once issued by China and Pakistan. Playing with India’s territorial integrity is a shameful and unacceptable act. The AAP demands immediate withdrawal of the books by the BJP. Also, people associated with this act should be booked for sedition,” said Durgesh Pathak, the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs. The BJP said the concerned school assignment workbook was already withdrawn and accused AAP of indulging in “cheap melodrama”. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “This distorted map issue came to our North DMC civic leadership’s knowledge yesterday and the Mayor immediately ordered an inquiry as to who issued the wrong map and the home-work assignment was withdrawn. Durgesh Pathak should refrain from indulging in cheap melodramas like he has done today after the map issue was resolved yesterday itself.” “The workbook in Hindi for use in classes 4 and 5 in schools of the North MCD, has images of two maps of the country, one before and the other after Independence. The Jammu and Kashmir region in the post-Independence map has been shown as ‘truncated’,” said an official in the North MCD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-asks-bjp-to-withdraw-faulty-worksheets/story-vxRl4u5b38FgxolhbdGeiK.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Protect, notify Najafgarh lake: NGT to Haryana, Delhi||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi and Haryana governments to jointly prepare an ‘environment management plan’ to notify and protect the Najafgarh lake, which falls partly in south-west parts of the city and partly in the neighbouring state.A principal bench of the tribunal in an order dated September 17 said, “In view of the fact that there is a large transboundary water body, which falls partly in Delhi and partly in Haryana, it will be appropriate that an environment-management plan be prepared by the state of Haryana and the NCT of Delhi.”A host of migratory bird species such as painted stork, sarus crane and black-necked stork among other flock to the around 7 sq km Najafgarh lake located on the Delhi-Haryana border every year.The NGT said the plan should be prepared within three months. “The ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEF&CC) may steer the proceedings of the said plan with the assistance of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which may coordinate as a nodal agency,” the order stated.In a report submitted to the NGT on September 17, the Gurugram district magistrate said as per revenue records, there is no water body in the area. The area is partly government land and partly private. “However, factually, there is a large water body in existence and a management plan is under consideration of the state,” the report submitted before the panel stated.In 2017, the Haryana government had told the NGT and submitted a brief document in the MoEF&CC, saying that the water body in question was a lake and that the state was in the process of notifying it as a wetland.Historically, the Najafgarh lake used to get water from the Sahibi river, which used to flow from Rajasthan.Manoj Misra, convenor of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan said the lake is connected to the river Yamuna. “The lake used to get flooded during monsoons and to drain out the excess water, the Najafgarh drain was created. The lake now carries sewage from Gurugram and other parts of Haryana, which goes into the drain. The lake is spread over two states and has a rich biodiversity and needs to be conserved. The court order is a welcome step. Conservation of the water body will preserve the rich habitat as well as help recharge groundwater and become a source of water for Gurugram, which has a low water table.” In October last year, the Delhi government’s Wetland Authority had written to Haryana, urging it to provide a plan for declaring it as a wetland. At the same time, the Delhi government had also ordered an extensive survey of the area around the lake on its side in southwest Delhi to assess the area covered by its water. .In 2014, the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, an NGO, had filed a plea in the NGT to conserve and protect the Najafgarh lake, after which the court had asked the Delhi and Haryana governments to take steps in the direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protect-notify-najafgarh-lake-ngt-to-haryana-delhi/story-9amlTadPeW54KhV2kWhT7O.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Slum dwellers stage protest, want to be added to consultative process||Residents from slums located on railways land in Delhi on Friday received support from members of the civil society, as they held protests in different parts of the city to demand being made a part of the consultative process for their relocation.The Supreme Court, on August 31, had directed the Railways to remove nearly 48,000 slums situated close to the safety zone of the tracks within three months. All courts were restrained from ordering a stay on their eviction. Hindustan Times was the first to report on the Supreme Court order on September 3.After the Supreme Court order , over 65 organisations, movements and associations of residents of affected slums, have come together to voice their protest on the slum dwellers from being evicted. A flurry of applications were filed in the top court after its order with a group of 11 slum dwellers living near railway tracks in various parts of the Capital moved an application to join the proceedings. This application followed a separate plea by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken in the Supreme Court demanding alternate housing for the slum dwellers under the Delhi Slum & Jhuggi Jhopdi (JJ) Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015, before they are removed. On Friday, the Railway Basti Jan Sangharsh Morcha — a collective of NGOs, organisations working for welfare of urban poor and residents of slums — led the protests. Members of the outfit said that though they welcomed the Railways’ decision about no “coercive action against settlements on railway land in Delhi for four weeks” and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s assurance to slum dwellers that they will not be evicted , they wanted the residents of such slums to be part of the consultative process.The Centre had told the Supreme Court on September 14 that they were working in tandem with the Delhi government are in the process of making a decision with regard to clearing of 48,000 slums situated adjacent to railway tracks in Delhi. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had then informed the top court that no demolition action will commence till a decision is in place by the Indian Railways, ministry of urban development and Delhi government.Shakeel Ahmed, convener of Basti Suraksha Manch, said, “We will continue to hold protests till the government accepts our demands. The residents should be consulted while the state and the Centre draw up a plan for their rehabilitation as it affects their homes and livelihoods.”Ahmed said that they wanted the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board’s policy for rehabilitation of slums to be followed and in-situ housing be provided within 5km of the existing site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/slum-dwellers-stage-protest-want-to-be-added-to-consultative-process/story-14VOGpxdPUL2mmoDmq7fHL.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses plea seeking licence renewals for liquor sale in dept stores||The Delhi high court has dismissed a plea that sought a direction to the government for the renewal of licences to sell beer and wine at department stores across the city. The plea had challenged the Delhi government’s decision to not invite any applications for the issuance of L-12/L-12F licences, which allow retail sale of beer and wine, both imported and locally made, at department stores.While dismissing the plea, the court said it cannot interfere with the policy decisions of the state (Delhi) government, unless the same is found to be at fault on the grounds of “mala fide, unreasonableness, arbitrariness or unfairness”. In an order of September 16, a copy of which was uploaded on the court website on September 18, the court said that the Delhi government had not renewed the licences as it had decided to “bring in a revamped scheme with necessary modifications to plug all loopholes” .The Delhi cabinet on December 11, 2019, had decided to pause the issuance of L-12/L-12F licences, until the excise department revised the terms and conditions, under its next excise policy, for grant of L-12/L-12F licences. The petition had challenged the decision of the Delhi Cabinet whereby licences of all 125 stores were withdrawn despite violations being made only by 41 licensees. The petitioner had moved the high court last December aswell, challenging the withdrawal of all 125 licences mid-tenure on the basis of searches conducted by the excise department. The court has then granted a stay on the withdrawal of licences for fiscal 2019-2020.Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Rushab Aggarwal contended that L12 & L12F are renewable licences under the Delhi Excise Rules and his client had a legitimate expectation of renewal as has been done every year.Appearing for the Delhi government, standing counsel Ramesh Singh contended that in September 2019, it had inspected 41 of 125 stores and found large scale violations. He said stores were operating as liquor vends by failing to comply with the terms and conditions of the licence, in particular the stipulation that only 10% of the store carpet area be used for the sale of beer and wine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-licence-renewals-for-selling-beer-wine-in-dept-stores/story-fhHwX2taKcey3lXIklNFkM.html
19-09-2020||Delhi||Jamia violence: How have you punished erring officers, HC asks Delhi Police||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought to know from Delhi Police what action they had taken against police officers who allegedly used excessive force against students of Jamia Milia Islamia violence during the violence that had broken out at the university in December last year.Citing a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) report on the Jamia violence, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said it had pointed out instances of police violence and that no action had been taken so far. It sought to know from Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi, representing Delhi police, whether FIRs had been registered against erring police officials.Lekhi said an enquiry is on against individual cases where some police officers used excessive force. However, the NHRC report supports police intervention, he said. The court said, “But you need to satisfy us as to what action has been taken against those individual cases? Whether FIRs have been registered against those police officers?.The court was hearing a bunch of pleas seeking relief in the Jamia violence while urging for the constitution of an SIT or a court-monitored probe in the matter.Lekhi justified the police action, saying the officials were constrained because there was stone-pelting from inside the varsity. He said the mob started vandalising the properties and blocking the roads. To this the bench remarked, “The argument is not that you don’t have a right to enter the University. The argument is that you should have taken prior approval of the admin before doing so.”Violence had broken out in the varsity after student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Police have been accused of entering the campus and assaulting students after protests against the Act turned violent on December 15.At least 10 vehicles were allegedly torched by protesters. The Jamia students had said they were not involved in the violence and that their peaceful march was hijacked by outsiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jamia-violence-how-have-you-punished-erring-officers-hc-asks-delhi-police/story-nDYDMgPKbdzr6UmuZGib1L.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Pune’s Diwali anks in limbo; Rs 10-cr biz scripts a ‘in the red’ storyline||The 111-year-old tradition of publishing ‘Diwali ank’ (Diwali magazines), an important avenue for writers and readers, is reeling under the impact of Covid-19 situation. The most awaited literary magazine that hits the stands and bookshops ten days before Diwali will see few magazines instead of the regular 1,500 anks (editions). The oldest and most read Diwali Ank, “Sataayushi” will not be published this year, while the hard copies of several others may not be released. Many young publishers, like Megha Shimpi, have decided not to bring out Diwali edition. For the past 12 years, Shimpi has been publishing Diwali magazine through Saur Publications. “Eight people were depended on the profit that I got from advertisements and sale of magazine. The coronavirus pandemic and lockdowns have changed everything — meeting people in person, and getting advertisements for the magazine have become difficult. The fund required to publish a full-fledged, magazine is around Rs2-3 lakh. I have decided to not publish my Diwali magazine this year for lack of financial support,” she said. This year only 100 magazines will be published and on sale, but the dilemma for regular sellers is of how will the sale be? “There are at least 1,500 registered Diwali edition publishers with the Maharashtra government’s publicity department out of which 350 are commercial Diwali Ank regularly sold at bookshops and newsstands. Only 100 publishing houses have confirmed of bringing out the Diwali editions this year,” said Chandrakant Shewale, vice-president, Diwali Ank Sampadak Association, popularly known as DIVA Prathisthan. “Readership has decreased over the past three years and the coronavirus pandemic has almost brought the Diwali Ank publication to a standstill,” he said. Poonam Agency, the oldest book agency that is running for the past 61 years, is calling publications to confirm the number of Diwali anks to be published. Srikant Bhutada of Poonam Agency said, “There will be only 50 per cent of Diwali ank published and we are facing major losses. This is the second time that the business of these special magazine is affected. The demonetisation in 2016 saw our business profit drop by 25%. This business works only for a month and earns around Rs8 to Rs10 crore.” Rohan Champanerkar, publisher, Rohan Prakashan, said, “This special literary magazine is one of the most sought after magazine which is published specially for Diwali and its readership mostly consist of senior citizens or people over 45 years of age. The advent of smartphones and English readers have kept the youth away from this precious gift penned by Marathi writers.” Vandana Bokil Kulkarni began their Diwali edition in 2015 and she still hasn’t been able to break even. “Although we do not look at profits, we try to bring in enough money through advertisements to sustain the Diwali ank. While we have decided to bring out an edition this year, we are in a wait and watch situation because of the pandemic. We will keep the content ready and wait until October 15 to decide whether to print or release it online,” said Vandana. Sujata Deshmukh, editor of well-known Diwali Ank Maher, is still contemplating over the publishing. “We have begun our work of putting the content together and awaiting a nod from printers. The question is how to send the magazine across the state when postal services are refusing to begin delivery services of magazines, as only emergency and money orders are on at the moment.” “Diwali ank is a movement in terms of literary world and this pandemic has stalled the tradition. We are facing a dilemma of how to sell the magazine on stalls, when senior citizens who are our buyers cannot come to the shop nor are they literate enough for e-books or buying them online. So, this year, the Diwali ank is in limbo,” said Ramesh Rathivdekar, owner, Akshardhara bookstore in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/diwali-ank-in-limbo-rs-10-cr-biz-scripts-a-in-the-red-storyline/story-aK4R3kdckI9oCAWjV6Z6wN.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Inspector assaulted at Talegaon Dabhade police station in Pune||The Talegaon Dabhade police have arrested one person on charges of allegedly assaulting and abusing an inspector at the police station premises on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Rupesh Dnyaneshwar Waghole ( 28), a resident of Maval. According to the police, the accused has three additional cases lodged against him, including rioting. Inspector (crime) Shahaji Pawar had summoned him to the police station in connection with a stolen vehicle. According to the police, the accused barged inside Pawar’s cabin around 12.30 on Thursday. He abused and assaulted the official for calling him for interrogation. He was immediately overpowered and taken into custody. PSI Nilesh Bokephode said that the accused tried to prevent his senior from discharging his official duty and resorted to physical assault and abuse inside the cabin. The accused has been arrested and booked under IPC Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inspector-assaulted-at-talegaon-dabhade-police-station/story-jRYLg9aramIXlFtDUlZj7H.html
19-09-2020||Pune||23 principals appointed to oversee SPPU’s final-year exams across 3 districts||Pune – A total of 23 principals from different colleges have been appointed by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) to coordinate and oversee the final-year examinations, beginning October 1. These principals have been given subjects, district-wise, to be incharge of, allowing colleges affiliated with the SPPU to access a source of guidance for the examinations. SPPU has 800 affiliated colleges in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. Of these colleges, two lakh students are in their final year in different courses. SPPU has begun preparations in earnest, appointing the principals for better coordination. The break up is four principals each, for the Arts, Science and Commerce streams for Pune city, Pune rural, Nashik and Ahmednagar district, respectively. For the technical colleges it will be one principal for each district. For subjects like Pharmacy, Masters in Business Administration (MBA), interior designing, Masters in Computer Administration (MCA), Hotel Management and the Bachelor in Business Administration (BCA), one principal has been appointed for each specilisation. For the Bachelor of Education and Bachelor of Physical Education, two principals per stream have been appointed by the SPPU. All these principals appointed by SPPU are senior ones who will help and guide the colleges in preparing to conduct the final-year exams. We will soon declare the subject-wise exam timetable,” said SPPU vice- chancellor, Prof Nitin Karmalkar. The written exams will start from October 1 for the students clearing backlogs. For regular students, written exams will be held between October 10 and October 30. All the exams papers will be multiple choice questions (MCQ) of 50 marks to be given in one hour. The names of the principals have not yet been released, the SPPU V-C said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-principals-appointed-to-oversee-sppu-s-final-year-exams-across-3-districts/story-X7WUR8Q6e4SC54tB0ppe6M.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Street, cyber, property crimes important challenges before the new Pune CP||Senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta has been appointed as the new police commissioner of Pune by the Maharashtra state government. He replaces K Venkatesham, who has been transferred as additional director general (special operations). Gupta will have to tackle multi-fold challenges ranging from street violations, vehicle thefts and property and cybercrimes. The 51-year-old, 1992-batch IPS officer, is an IIT graduate who hails from Uttar Pradesh was posted as principal secretary (special), home department, Mumbai, before his Pune posting. The newly appointed commissioner is likely to take charge on Saturday. Despite repeated attempts, Gupta could not be reached for comments.In a WhatsApp message, he said that he would revert. Meanwhile, outgoing police commissioner K Venkatesham had initiated a number of citizen centric programmes and widely expanded his public outreach initiatives through extensive use of technology and modernising drives during his tenure. He had taken charge as Pune CP in August 2018 from the then police commissioner Rashmi Shukla. Former governor CH Vidyasagar Rao during his public address had commended Venkatesham for the excellent citizen-centric initiatives.Known for his soft-spoken nature, the 1988 batch Maharashtra cadre officer came into limelight after the Pune police launched a nationwide crackdown on activists in the aftermath of the violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The city police arrested activists like Sudha Bharadwaj, Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Fareira , Gautam Navlakha, Mahesh Raut and advocate Surendra Gadling under his supervision. Venkatesham’s initiatives like Bharosa cell and senior citizen cell received good response amongst the citizenry and the government at the state and centre. Known for being active on Twitter, the former police commissioner tweeted on important issues and responded to the call of citizens who tagged their grievances on the social media.Venkatesham said, “I thank Puneites for their overwhelming response and support to our innovate policing experiments. It was a great opportunity to serve the needy. I thank the citizens for their feedback on our frequent report of outcomes. Besides, I also thank the committed team of deputy commissioners, police officers and constabulary of city police for making Pune a safe place to live in.” Social activist Vijay Kumbhar said, “The new police commissioner must improve basic policing and constables must be seen on roads. Land mafia has emerged as a single largest threat in Pune. Special attention must be paid to women’s security and safety. Property Cell must be strengthened,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/street-cyber-property-crimes-important-challenges-before-the-new-pune-cp/story-NKMuXGpjG8ph1H5PPoCiOP.html
19-09-2020||Pune||MSRTC buses fail to attract passengers in Pune; safety measures not in place||The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) which started operating all buses with 100 per cent passenger capacity from Friday is seeing less travellers amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The buses were earlier plying with half capacity (22 seats) because of the coronavirus restrictions. The state transport bus service resumed service for common public without police pass from August 21.At the prominent ST stands like Swargate and Shivajinagar, which is now shifted to Wakdewadi, bus drivers and conductors were struggling to attract passengers.HT visited both the ST stands — Swargate and Shivajinagar — on Friday and noticed that there was not much crowd. Most of the buses were plying half-empty, except for routes like Satara, Kolhapur, Baramati, Solapur and Aurangabad which were running to its capacity.There were no arrangements of sanitisers at any of the stands for the public. Alternate seating arrangements were marked on benches, but people failed to follow safety norms. Social distancing was hardly maintained at any of the ST stands. Some passengers and even drivers were not wearing a face mask.On the other hand, private luxury bus agents were found roaming inside the stands and offering passengers low fares than MSRTC. Some passengers were even willing and taking private buses which were parked outside the ST stand premises, at a distance.“There is lack of safety arrangements at ST stands. If we pay such high fares for Shivneri bus, then the safety of passengers must be priority,” said a passenger Kushal Das travelling to Dadar (Mumbai) from Swargate ST stand.“The decision of plying buses with full capacity is not right. It is risking the lives of passengers. If a Covid positive person is travelling then co-passengers will be at a high risk of getting infected,” he said.“Each bus is sanitised from inside and outside and only then sent on the route. We have also provided sanitiser and face mask to our drivers and conductors on duty. At all the ST stands soon we will make arrangements for sanitisers for the public,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Yamini Joshi.“Yes, private agents are entering our stands to attract passengers, but our on-duty guards are identifying and warning them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/msrtc-buses-fail-to-attract-passengers-in-pune-safety-measures-not-in-place/story-5g0S5xejh4U7hsdPcd9I1L.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad police book 300 under Section 188 in 2 days||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have booked 300 people in two days (September 16 and 17) for violating the Covid-19 guidelines under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The crackdown has taken place on grounds of unlawful assembly, not wearing face masks, spitting at public places and loitering on roads without any valid reason. The action is in continuation of the strict crackdown ordered by former police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi. According to PCMC police, the action has been intensified following the rise in the number of Covid cases. The main five police station areas where action was taken are Bhosari MIDC, Pimpri, Chinchwad, Nigdi and Alandi. The PCMC police in July had collected record Rs one crore in fines from Covid violators within a span of 5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-police-book-300-under-section-188-in-2-days/story-B4wR0xJ5F3x4DNZCnyfHYN.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Woman ends life in Pune’s Bhosari||A 30-year-old woman allegedly died by suicide by hanging herself to the roof at her residence in Bhosari MIDC area on Friday morning. Her husband died of coronavirus infection two months ago, according to the police. The family is survived by a 11-year-old son, seven-year- old daughter and grandmother, police said. A case of suicide has been lodged in this regard. The man was a television mechanic and his wife supported him at work, police said. Former Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor Sulabha Ubale said that she will cover the living expenses of the two children. Corporator Jitendra Nanavare has also decided to provide support to the bereaved family. Bhosari police station incharge Rajendra Kunte said, “Probe is on and the family members, who hail from Solapur-Karnataka border region, have requested that the panchnama be conducted after their arrival.” Pune-based NGO - Connecting - works towards providing support to those in emotional distress using the philosophy of mindfulness based active listening, thereby preventing suicide. Helpline numbers: 1800-209-4353 (toll free) and 9922001122 all days, 12 pm to 8 pm. Walk-in facility: 12 pm to 5 pm, Monday – Saturday. Email: connectingngo@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-ends-life-in-bhosari/story-1mmt9mcSAWghjpDpVVn87N.html
19-09-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar inspects Pune metro sites, assures funds from state govt||Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday morning spent two hours visiting the sites of metro project in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and assured enough funds from the state government for the project.To avoid traffic Pawar visited the sites from 6 am to 10 am along with other metro officials. Brijesh Dixit, managing director, Maharashtra Metro Rail Metro Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) was present along with Pawar to brief the progress of the project.Pawar said, “I will ensure that the Pune metro will get smooth funding of the state’s share and work will not be halted due to money shortage.”He first visited the Pimpri-Chinchwad line and even took a trial run of the metro. He went into the driver’s cabin and was given a detailed information on the metro line.Later, Pawar visited the underground metro work at College of Agriculture, Pune and took an update about the tunnelling work.Dixit said, “The elevated works are 80 per cent completed. Even after lockdown, metro work is coming back on track.”Pawar travelled by metro from Sant Tukaramnagar station to Pimpri. While travelling he also enquired about the ticket system. Later, he visited the Civil Court, Nal Stop, Garware College and Swargate areas and inspected the work. Metro officials who were present with him briefed him at every junction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ajit-pawar-inspects-pune-metro-sites-assures-funds-from-state-govt/story-fdDbBOCjh0Wqq6dsEnVAfO.html
