20-09-2020||City||After cleanest month since 2015, Capital’s air begins downward slide into long winter||New Delhi: After a month in which Delhi saw its cleanest air in five years, air pollution has seen an uptick in the national capital over the past few weeks. With monsoon drawing to a close and little possibility of more rainfall this month, the air quality may deteriorate further by the end of this month, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Unlike August, when the air quality was in the ‘good’ category for four days, and ‘satisfactory’ for the remaining 27, the air this month has mostly remained in the ‘moderate’ category.August was the cleanest month on record since 2015, from when air quality index (AQI) records in the city have been maintained.An AQI reading of 0-50 is considered ‘good’ (minimal health risk), 51-100 is ‘satisfactory’ (minor discomfort to sensitive people), 100-200 is ‘moderate’ (breathing discomfort to people with lungs and heart disease).Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) shows that the AQI this month slipped to ‘moderate’ category on September 5, with a value of 101. It improved to ‘satisfactory’ for a few days before again falling into ‘moderate’ on September 9, a zone it has remained in so far.On Sunday, Delhi’s overall AQI was 148, in the ‘moderate’ zone, as per the CPCB’s 4pm bulletin, up from 118 the previous day.“The spell of clean air days may almost be over now, as meteorological conditions are changing. The monsoon is set to withdraw by September-end, after which calm winds blow across the northwestern region that are not favourable for the dispersion of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre “Pollutants suspended in the air that were till last month being washed away by the rain and winds are likely to persist, in the absence of any such weather activity,” he added.He added that while August received the most rainfall in at least 10 years, September, which usually sees good showers every year, has not received adequate rainfall this year and will not be able to cover the deficit for this month. “The monsoon trough this month has remained mostly in the hilly regions. Only three days of light rain were recorded this month — on September 5,6 and 8. There is a system forming in the Bay of Bengal, which is likely to induce light rain or thundershowers on September 22-23, but even that will not be able to cover the deficit for this month,” Srivastava said.The Safdarjung observatory, which is representative of Delhi’s weather, has a rain deficit of 78% so far this month.Another IMD scientist, who did not wish to be named, said industrial and vehicular pollution was almost zero during the lockdown months. Then in July and August, even with curbs being eased in phases, good and continuous spells of rain kept the air quality in check. “Now, from the end of the month, the weather will slowly transition to calmer winds and a decrease in temperature neither of which are favourable for pollutants to disperse. Besides, it is also the time when stubble burning in neighbouring states begins, which adds to the pollution load,” the scientist said.The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) is scheduled to meet the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) next week to discuss an action plan to curb pollution in the major ‘hot spots’ across the city.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had, last week, asked all agencies to submit a winter action plan by September 21. The Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), put in place to deal with various levels of pollution, is enforced in Delhi and the National Capital Region from mid-October.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said air quality has seen a downward trend, with changes in meteorological factors. “Over the last five months, the clean air we saw was a combination of low emissions because of the lockdown and good rainfall in the entire northwest region. The overall pollution levels were low because of the impact of clean air in the whole region. This, however, is changing now and the government has to ensure implementation of stringent measures to curb the pollution levels from deteriorating this winter,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-cleanest-month-since-2015-capital-s-air-begins-downward-slide-into-long-winter/story-tkvvAwI3iPa29QCvCZZcLJ.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Man accused of killing employee in Dongri arrested by Mumbai Police from Uttar Pradesh||Dongri police on Saturday arrested a man from Uttar Pradesh (UP) near the Nepal border, who along with an associate had allegedly killed his employee and fled the city. The accused, Bablu Yadav, 29, had hit the deceased on the head with a stone slab over a monetary dispute. Yadav’s associate is still wanted in the case and police are looking for him. According to police, Yadav came to Mumbai in 2006 and started working as a carpenter. The victim, Mukesh Gupta, 30, also from UP, started working with Yadav as a carpenter, said senior inspector Avinash Dharmadhikari of Dongri police station. Yadav got a small contract at an apartment in Dongri where Gupta and the absconding accused were also working. The incident occurred on September 15 when an argument took place between Yadav and Gupta. Yadav along with the absconding accused hit a stone slab on Gupta’s head and fled, added Dharmadhikari. The Dongri police got information about the incident and rushed to the spot. They found Gupta lying in a pool of blood and rushed him to JJ Hospital where he was declared dead. “During the inquiry, police learnt that Yadav and Gupta had disputes over the distribution of money from the carpentry work,” added Dharmadhikari. A police team went to UP and found out that Yadav had gone to Nepal. Police convinced his family to ask him to return from Nepal. As soon as he came back, Mumbai Police nabbed him and brought him to Mumbai on Sunday. He was produced in court and was remanded in police custody till September 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-accused-of-killing-employee-in-dongri-arrested-by-mumbai-police-from-uttar-pradesh/story-DvrXx66mSoj5SXSjjWkCAJ.html
20-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Jewellery store robbed of items worth ₹13 lakh at gunpoint in Sadar Bazar||Gurugram: Four armed and masked men barged into a jewellery shop in Sadar Bazar’s Roshanpura in Gurugram on Saturday and decamped with valuables worth ₹13 lakh after injuring the shopkeeper.According to the police, the jeweller was alone in the store around 3.25pm, when the incident took place. They said two men entered the store and asked him to show engagement rings and the jeweller took out one tray and presented six rings. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said one of them told him that he is getting engaged and wanted to choose a heavy gold ring. “The shopkeeper weighed the ring and before a price was fixed, the third suspect entered the shop and took the jeweller at gunpoint, after which the fourth suspect entered,” he said.The police said that CCTV grab purportedly shows that the fourth suspect jumped above the glass table of the counter and grabbed the shopkeeper. He was purportedly seen struggling and raised an alarm, but due to the glass door which was closed, the noise could not pass, they added. Moreover, the shop is located on a busy road. The three suspects picked three to four jewellery trays from the display counter and rushed towards the car which was parked outside, said the police.Sangwan said the ring that one of the suspects had chosen weighed seven grams and had asked him to pack it before the third and fourth suspects entered the shop.Rajbeer Verma, the victim, said this is the first such experience he has faced at his shop. “I had heard similar incidents taking place in markets and read about them in newspapers but this was a shocking and disturbing incident and I am still under trauma. My family is equally worried for my safety,” he said. Police have recovered CCTV footage from seven spots including from the shop, officers said, adding that they are trying to identify the robbers on the basis of the Maruti Swift Dzire car they had used, and are gathering evidence. The shop is 21-years-old and the owner had installed the CCTV camera recently, said the police. The suspects had visited the shop earlier also while conducting recce, they added.Sangwan said the registration number of the car turned out to be fake and as per CCTV footage recovered, the suspects fled towards Sector 15 and later on to the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway. The shop’s name is Mussaddilal jewellers, located at Roshanpura in the Sadar Bazar area. During the attack, Verma, who owns the shop, sustained minor injuries as the suspects thrashed him; one of them had caught hold of him and slapped him several times, the police said. He even fell twice and got hurt by the table of the shop, officers added.Sangwan said the suspects had conducted a recce of the market area several times before targeting the shop, adding that they were familiar with all routes and lanes of the market. “We suspect others may be involved who were keeping a close watch on the shop while the four robbed Verma,” said Sangwan.A case under section 392 (Robbery), 34 (common intentions) and sections of the Arms Act was registered at City police station against unidentified persons on Saturday after recording the statement of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-jewellery-store-robbed-of-items-worth-13-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-sadar-bazar/story-gegvzti82sWsrI0lcwMRMJ.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||GRP returns stolen goods worth ₹2.13 crore to local train commuters in Mumbai||The Government Railway Police (GRP) has returned goods worth ₹21,359,310 which were stolen from commuters travelling on local trains across Mumbai. GRP commissioner Ravindra Sengaonkar said that when he took charge in May 2019, around 14,566 cases of theft in trains were solved but the stolen goods which were recovered had not been returned. “The officers had recovered the stolen booty from the accused but had not returned it to their rightful owners due to glitches such as wrong address or delay in claiming the property from the magistrate courts etc,” said Sengaonkar. He then instructed all GRP units to speed up the process to find addresses of victims and to return their property. The order saw GRP units swing into action to trace addresses. Between April to September this year, GRP officers have returned 787 grams of gold, six laptops, 1,067 mobile phones and ₹1,547,000 in cash. “According to the instructions, during lockdown many people have lost their jobs and hence they could use the money or gold that we have under our possession,” said Bhaskar Pawar, inspector, Borivli GRP. Pawar said with the help of social media they have tracked down addresses of commuters who stay in other states as well as people who have shifted since their property was stolen. GRP officers said till August, 4,018 cases were pending. “But we have tracked down addresses of 3,518 victims and will return their property by September 30. We will ensure that we return property of the remaining 500 cases soon,” said a GRP officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grp-returns-stolen-goods-worth-2-13-crore-to-local-train-commuters-in-mumbai/story-7F81R3NBo5kPSK5r8G0qpN.html
20-09-2020||City||Leakage in pipeline affects water supply in Mumbai’s eastern suburbs||The supply of water was affected in certain areas of Ghatkopar, Bhandup, Vikhroli and Kanjurmarg on Sunday after leakage in a pipeline was reported on Saturday night at Bhandup.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that the leakage will be fixed by Sunday night and supply will be restored by Monday morning.“We had arranged water tankers to the affected areas. The leakage was detected in a 900-mm water pipeline, which is expected to be repaired by tonight,” a BMC official said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leakage-in-pipeline-affects-water-supply-in-mumbai-s-eastern-suburbs/story-ErC7nQkiKkdTRxs3aSJlOO.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Sessions court in Mumbai grants bail to 23-year-old man accused in teen’s rape case||A 23-year-old man, who was arrested by police for allegedly raping a teenager twice at Dadar Chowpatty on the pretext of marrying her, has been granted bail by the sessions court. The accused, while claiming that he had been wrongly implicated in the case, produced before the court the WhatsApp messages in which the 17-year-old girl’s mother had threatened to lodge a rape case against him if he refused to marry her daughter. The court was convinced and granted bail to the accused man. The accused, Tushar Jadhav, is a Diva resident, who works as a ward boy at Nair Hospital. On August 19, he was arrested on charges of raping the minor. Jadhav allegedly befriended the girl in October last year at Nair Hospital and later alledly raped her two months later and then again in February this year at Dadar Chowpatty on the pretext of marrying her. The police booked him on charges of rape under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Advocates Sunil Pandey and AS More, who represented Jadhav, in their written submissions to the court stated that the accused was “trapped” as he has a government job. The girl’s friend had threatened to implicate him in a false case, while the teenager’s mother had threatened to register a rape case on him if he did not marry her daughter. The advocates submitted that their client had secured chat records supporting these claims and placed them before the court. They also pointed out that the first information report (FIR) was lodged after a six-month delay. “The girl had lodged a similar complaint against another boy in the past and this is pure abuse of law,” claimed Pandey. The prosecution had opposed bail for the accused. However, the court observed that the possibility of the accused being implicated could not be ruled out and that no purpose would be served in keeping the accused behind the bars. He was granted bail against a surety of ₹25,000 on the condition that he would not leave the state without prior permission and would not go near the girl or harm the victim or the witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sessions-court-in-mumbai-grants-bail-to-23-year-old-man-accused-in-teen-s-rape-case/story-sZ9ooDEGxAoJ9j6MtfsrGJ.html
20-09-2020||City||1.5-kg lung tumour removed from Mumbai teen at Mira Road hospital||A 1.5-kg rare tumour was removed from the right lung of a 15-year-old boy from Byculla, Mumbai. The boy had complained of breathlessness and cough, following which the family physician thought that it could be Covid-19 and asked for few tests. However, chest CT scan confirmed a large tumour of 16cm x 14cm x 12cm size in his right lung. The patient was then admitted to Wockhardt Hospital at Mira Road for tumour removal surgery.Dr Upendra Bhalerao, cardiovascular and thoracic surgeon at Wockhardt Hospital, said the cystic tumour was growing with age and became as big as a football, thus compressing his right bronchus, trachea and adjoining chambers of heart, which in turn led to breathing problems and cough. He added that the tumour was completely removed by thoracotomy without removing any part of his lung. It was found that it was a very rare benign tumour. The patient’s father said, “My son was facing breathlessness and cough, but we were not able to understand the reason behind it. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we were delaying a visit to the hospital. But we were shocked when we learnt about the massive size of the tumour. Now my son has been given a new lease of life. He will soon be discharged from the hospital and lead a normal life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-5-kg-lung-tumour-removed-from-mumbai-teen-at-mira-road-hospital/story-GhKYP1r4dnjprXkyk3Y3xL.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Seven minors booked for sodomising, wrongfully confining friend at Mumbai’s Ghatkopar area||Ghatkopar police on Saturday registered a first information report (FIR) against seven minors for allegedly sodomising and wrongfully confining their 17-year-old friend. The survivor allegedly told his elder brother about the attack after he started facing physical issues.The teen told police that all the accused were between 14 to 17 years of age. One of them had called him to their house on the pretext of picking up some cooking pans. However, when the survivor reached the house he found seven boys waiting.“Once I entered the house, one of them locked the door and covered my mouth with their hand so that nobody could hear my voice,” the survivor told police. The accused forcibly removed his clothes, sodomised him and recorded the attack.On Saturday, the survivor narrated the ordeal to his elder brother, and they filed a complaint with the Ghatkopar police.Police booked the accused under section 377 (unnatural offences), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 14 (punishment for using child for pornographic purposes), 15 (punishment for storage of pornographic material involving child) of protection of children from sexual offences act and section 67B (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act) of the Information Technology Act.CB Landge, inspector from Ghatkopar police station, said, “We have registered the offence and are investigating the case.” Police have also seized the mobile phones of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-minors-booked-for-sodomising-wrongfully-confining-friend-at-mumbai-s-ghatkopar-area/story-RmbRKtWSwdYahyVyq2GEkJ.html
20-09-2020||City||13 booked for beating up a family over caste in Kalyan||Khadakpada police registered a case against 13 people for allegedly beating up a schedule cast family. The family was heading to their village in Ahmednagar to addend a wedding when a group of 13 people came, stopped their car, allegedly beat them up, snatched their ornaments, and allegedly also asked them to leave the village due to their caste.According to police, the complainant Bhujangrao Kamble, 39, moved to Saparde village of Kalyan a year ago and has since been harassed by Vasu Patil, a resident of the same village, over his caste. Police said, “On Saturday, when the complainant and six of his family members left home in their car, 13 people stopped their car between Saprde and Vadeghar, asked to go back home and not to use this road. When the complainant tried to drive away, they stopped the car and started beating them up. The accused took their jewellery and warned to harass them further if they do not leave the village soon.”Deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, V Pamsare, said, “We have registered a case under Atrocities Act. Such incidents would not be tolerated. Our officers are searching for the all 13 accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-booked-for-beating-up-a-family-over-caste-in-kalyan/story-ubpm9kQMDzFp6IIejX7wpM.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Seven months on, Maharashtra education department yet to declare scholarship results||More than seven months after the state education department conducted scholarship examination for students of Classes 5 and 8, it has not been able to declare the results yet, leaving thousands of students in a lurch. The scholarship exam was conducted across the state on February 16. While results of the exam are usually declared in a couple of months, this year there is no word on when it would be out.“It has been over seven months now and students are eagerly awaiting their results. There is no word from the department on this. If there is a delay, the least we expect is an announcement in this regard,” said the parent of an aspirant from the city. The scholarship exam is conducted in February every year by the Maharashtra State Council of Examination. An official from the education department said the delay was owing to staff shortage due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “Due to the lockdown, staffers were not able to scan the answer sheets in time, and hence there is a delay. However, the work of evaluation is almost over and the results should be declared soon,” said a senior official from the department. This year, the scholarship question papers were marred with errors. The mistakes included spelling mistakes, typo errors, translation mistakes etc. The council had later released answer keys for all the papers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seven-months-on-maharashtra-education-department-yet-to-declare-scholarship-results/story-MAOrRIUziDNJYirIcko95I.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Dharavi crosses 3,000 Covid cases: BMC data||The number of Covid-19 cases in the densely populated Dharavi, one of India’s largest slums, has crossed the 3,000 mark, with its total at 3,033 on Sunday. Of them, 2,590 have been discharged. The slum, which has seen a rise in cases in the past 10 days, recorded 15 new cases on Sunday. In August, Dharavi had reported 229 Covid-19 cases, compared to 243 until September 19. The congested slums had reported 75 cases between September 1 and 10, while the corresponding figure between September 11 and 19 stands at 168. However, Covid-19-related deaths have gone down on a month-on-month basis there. A total of 288 deaths have been reported in Dharavi until September 14, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) latest data. The maximum number of deaths in Dharavi due to the infection was reported in May. Data showed that the slum cluster reported 69 deaths in April, 161 in May, 33 in June, 10 in July, 13 in August and two until September 14. Dharavi falls in G-North ward of BMC, which also covers Dadar and Mahim. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G-North ward, said, “The number of Covid-19-related deaths has come down. The improved case fatality rate (CFR) suggests that we have been able to detect the viral infection among patients in the initial stages. We are also conducting free testing camps.” He added: “The rise in cases is because of increased testing and unlocking. A total of 33 new Covid-19 cases were detected on September 11 among migrant workers, who have returned to the slum cluster because of easing of the lockdown restrictions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-dharavi-crosses-3-000-covid-cases-bmc-data/story-wQVbjcnv5chkzegwxsHS2M.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nobody’s baby: Authorities wash hands of 5 parks at Dera Bassi and Zirakpur, developed at a cost of Rs3 crore||Five years back Rs 3 crore was spent by the municipal councils of Dera Bassi, Zirakpur and the Greater Municipal Area Development Authority (GMADA) on five environment cum nature parks developed by the forest department, but today these are all but ruined due to neglect and apathy.Shockingly, local bodies are not releasing funds to the forest department for the parks as there is absolutely no clarity on which body has to maintain them.According to the forest department, a memorandum of understanding has been signed with the municipal councils (MC) of both Zirakpur and Dera Bassi and the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to provide funds for maintenance.No money has been released as yet, department officials say.“We have signed an agreement with all the three bodies that they will give us the funds for maintenance, but despite writing several letters and sending reminders, we have not got anything. We are still managing maintenance work with help of NGOs and other resources,” said Guramanpreet Singh, divisional forest officer, Mohali.Not aware of agreementCommenting on the matter, Dera Bassi MC executive officer (EO) Jagjit Singh said he was not aware of any agreement with the forest department.Similarly, the EO of Zirakpur MC, Sandeep Tewari, said he could not locate any file of agreement with the department.However, he admitted that the parks were in a bad shape.All five parks were developed on around 80 acres of forest land at Bir Dandrala, Bag Rahatwala and Mauja Madhopur in Dera Bassi and at Peer Muchhalla and Bhabat in Zirakpur. At Peer Muchhalla, GMADA spent around Rs 1.5 crore; for three Dera Bassi parks, the MC spent around Rs 2 crore and for the Bhabat Park MC Zirakpur spent about Rs 1 crore.As work began on the properties, species of trees, herbs and shrubs were planted enthusiastically and tracks laid out for walkers and joggers. Shelters, solar lights, benches, bird houses, parking lots and makeshift toilets were also added.Infrastructure in a shamblesNow, however, most of the lights don’t work. The benches are broken and weeds have overtaken most areas.Locals also allege that antisocial elements find the parks a safe haven.Sukhdev Choudhary, president, joint action committee, Residents’ Welfare Association Zirakpur said it was sad that authorities were not aware of the agreement with the forest department. “These parks have become a safe haven for drug peddlers for the past couple of years. We have even given a memorandum to SDM, Dera Bassi, but nothing has happened so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nobody-s-baby-authorities-wash-hands-off-5-parks-at-dera-bassi-and-zirakpur-developed-for-rs3-crore/story-Bc6nLUQI1NYQitGtyDyGaK.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Law student booked under Official Secrets Act for making video inside police station in Mumbai||A 31-year-old law aspirant who was caught during a nakabandi by the police for not wearing a mask on Thursday has been slapped with charges under draconian Official Secrets Act (OSA), 1923, as he was caught filming the police procedures using his mobile phone at the police station. The police have invoked section 3 of OSA that defines punishment for Spying.The accused has been identified as Mukesh Singh, 31, a second-year LLB student and a resident of Bhimwadi, Wadala.On September 17, at around 4pm Singh, who was riding a two-wheeler with a friend who was sitting pillion, was caught at the Wadala bridge during a nakabandi as he was not wearing a mask, did not have a driving license and was roaming out without any important work, despite the lockdown.The police took him to Wadala police station to book him for the breach of laws. “While police were busy doing the formalities, Singh allegedly started filming the police procedures using his phone. A policeman caught him in the act and in the presence of two Panchas seized his cell phone and found a recorded video clip of the police station,” the police complaint states.Singh was then booked under sections 3 (spying) of the Official Secrets Act, 1923 besides section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code and sections 3 r/w 181 (driving without a valid driving licence) of Motor Vehicle Act. The complainant is a constable Shantaram Khade who was on the Nakabandi duty.Singh however, was not arrested and allowed to go home after he was served with a notice.Ganesh Shinde, deputy commissioner of police (Port zone) confirmed the development and said that the police have registered a case under OSA against the accused as he was supposed to not film police procedures which can involve secrets things. Further investigation in the case is on.Former IPS officer and advocate YP Singh said that making a video at the police station is not a crime as it’s a public place. “If the police have registered a case under the Offical Secrets Act against someone for video graphing the police station or police procedures then it’s a misuse of the law. That person can file a case against the police. Concerned policemen can be prosecuted for filing a false case. The person can file a case against the police under section 211 of the Indian Penal Code and can even demand civil compensation,” YP Singh said.When called the accused Singh, his phone was switched off and could not be reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/law-student-booked-under-official-secrets-act-for-making-video-inside-police-station-in-mumbai/story-Fk5nESnLahF9nmJ6RufsnI.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||15% teacher’s posts lying vacant in Chandigarh govt schools: Pokhriyal in Lok Sabha||About 15% posts of teachers of all cadres, including junior basic training (JBT) teachers, trained graduate teachers (TGTs) and others, are lying vacant in Chandigarh schools, revealed the data provided by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in the Lok Sabha on a question regarding such vacancies in various states and UTs. There are 5,797 sanctioned posts of teachers in Chandigarh of which 872 are vacant. The national average is 17.1%. Among the UTs, Chandigarh has the fifth highest percentage of vacancies. While addressing the issue, education minister Pokhriyal said, “The recruitment of teachers is a continuous process and vacancies arise after they retire.” President of joint action committee of government schoolteachers of Chandigarh, Bhag Singh Kairon, said, “The number of vacancies has increased over the years as the age of retirement has been fixed at 58 for teachers and no extension is given. After 1992, not even a single regularised post graduate teacher has been appointed, so if the number of vacancies rises further, students will have to suffer.”UT Cadre of Education Employees’ Union head Swarn Singh Kamboj said, “Although teachers were recruited in 2009 and 2015, the rate is not high enough as compared to the teachers retiring. Many more teachers are set to retire at the end of this month. The education department has to make a new recruitment for each teacher that retires. Teachers get burdened with extra duties if there aren’t enough of them.”Assuring a prompt action, director school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “We have recently appointed around 800 teachers under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The appointment of post graduate teachers is also in the pipeline and we would soon be recruiting such teachers after a period of around 30 years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15-teaching-posts-lying-vacant-in-chandigarh-govt-schools-pokhriyal-in-lok-sabha/story-8nQOPJNx6fCvDZKK55NGhL.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools reopen partially from today||Schools in Chandigarh will reopen partially from Monday for the first time since March since the Covid-19 outbreak for students of classes 9 to 12 requiring “guidance” from teachers, following standard operating procedures issued by the Union health ministry.Most schools remained open on Sunday as arrangements were made to receive the students. Thermal scanning points were set up at the entrance, teachers adjusted desks in classes to ensure that the six -foot social distancing rule was followed and municipal corporation teams sanitised the premises. Students of ‘board’ classes, that is 10 and 12, had been given slots on Monday, said a teacher from Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 23.Lists of those allowed to attend school from Monday had been sent to the students. “Guidance classes for physics, chemistry and mathematics will be held on Monday for which rooms have already been assigned. The school will be open from 9 am to 11 am. Around 45 students have been given slots for Monday,” the teacher said.Videography to ensure social distancingA teacher at GMSSS, Sector 20, added, “In our school 12 students will be made to sit in each class. Teachers will make sure that all students are wearing masks properly. In between guidance classes, the teacher will not leave the class until the next teacher arrives so that students behave. We have also been asked to do videography of students leaving after classes to ensure that social distancing is maintained.”HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools Association and chairman of Vivek High School, said, “We have made preparations according to the directions given. However, most private schools are expecting only around 10% students to show up. The picture will become clearer on Monday.”The district education officer (DEO) has sent a set of rules to principals and heads of all government, government aided and private recognised schools to ensure strict compliance.Students will only be allowed to enter with printed copies of their parents’ consent slip with their signatures. Those who are from containment areas, teachers included, will not be allowed to attend.Water bottles are musts as canteens will remain shut and only washable school bags will be allowed.Outdoor classes suggestedClasses are to be held outdoors, weather permitting, and all students and staff will be thermally screened before they enter. Washrooms with running water and liquid soap will also remain functional. Online classes of students will continue as per schedule.Seven inspection teams with officers of the education department will take rounds of all the schools on Monday to ensure compliance with rules, said UT education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-reopen-partially-from-today/story-5AgCC58ClUvZdeK9STIjJM.html
20-09-2020||City||106-year-old from Dombivli beats Covid-19, discharged||A 106-year-old woman fought with Covid-19 successfully and returned to home after 14 days, in Kalyan on Sunday. She was admitted at Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation’s Covid-19 special hospital and recovered completely without any complications.Anandibai Patil, 106, resident of Dombivli, tested positive along with her daughter-in-law. “I was suffering from cold and fever but I was still able to do household work. Around 12 days back my mother-in-law got weak and suffering from cold. She could not even move or walk. Our family doctor suggested us to take the Covid test and unfortunately, we tested positive,” her daughter-in-law said.“Many of the private hospitals had refused to admit her considering her age. Finally, after four to five hours of trying, doctors from Savlaram Maharaj sports complex Covid-19 centre of KDMC admitted her. We are really thankful to all doctors for good treatment,” she added.“Everyone was worried as Anandibai who is always cheerful, was not able to respond properly. However, on the tenth day after seeing her smile, everyone was relieved. On Sunday, she was discharged. She danced with joy while she was seated on the chair,” she said.Dr Rahul Ghule, from Covid-19 centre, said, “Our doctors ensured that she is fine and healthy. She is a positive person and responded well during treatment. Considering her age, she was at high risk, and we took extra precautions and care. She recovered in just ten days.”Maharashtra cabinet minister Aditya Thackeray tweeted praising the doctors and appreciated their work.“Well done @1rupeeclinic @KDMCOfficial and MP @DrSEShinde ! The blessings of Mrs. Anandibai Patil ji and many more like her keep us all going strong!” he tweeted.KDMC commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, said, “This is a really positive news. All doctors and nurses worked really hard. I am urging all people to be aware about their symptoms and they should immediately approach near by municipal hospital and get them tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/106-year-old-from-dombivli-beats-covid-19-discharged/story-LDNwV1k3AkFOX5MYWHSaRO.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||2 women demand extra ration, booked after scuffle with police||Two women from Palsora village were booked for misbehaving with policewomen at the Government Senior Secondary School in Sector 56 on Saturday after they demanded extra ration despite collecting their quota a day before.Police said Kashmiri (45) and her daughter Ishrat (21) collected ration Friday but turned up again on Saturday saying they had not been given enough and needed more.When UT officials objected to this they got into a scuffle with the women constables stationed there to maintain order and were arrested. No one was injured in the incident.Police have registered a case under sections 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 39 police station.Kashmiri and Ishrat were presented in court on Sunday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-women-demand-extra-ration-booked-after-scuffle-with-police/story-vt9MSNmGcLcUuUmjXwmFML.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Covid, 6 teachers ask V-C to postpone PUTA poll, others oppose call||Several Panjab University (PU) faculty members have in a letter urged vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar to ensure that the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections are postponed due to the steep rise in Covid-19 cases in the city.Six teachers have written to the V-C and registrar asking for delayed elections of office bearers of the PU’s teachers’ body, scheduled for September 25 and 26.To observe safety rules during the pandemic, the polls in which more than 600 faculty members are eligible to vote, will be staggered.In their letter, the six lecturers urged the university administration to intervene in the matter as the elections were being held “physically”. V-C can ‘intervene’They said that the large number of teachers had been concerned about the matter and wanted the polls delayed. “It is expected that the University should interfere as PUTA is recognised by the authorities of Panjab University and not registered under any legal act to allow the concerned teacher any other redressal. So the whole responsibility in case of any lapse falls on Panjab University,” reads the letter.Dr Priyatosh Sharma, one of the signatories, said, “Many teachers are of the view that they will not vote if the elections are being held amid the pandemic. Many persons have been infected on campus in the recent past and we are witnessing a rise in Covid-19 positive cases in city.”Staggered electionsHowever, according to the strategy chalked out by the returning officer for the polls, voting will be carried out at two venues, the English auditorium and the evening auditorium. Different departments will be given one of the four time slots – starting from 8.30am to 11.30am and going up to 3.30pm to 5pm to prevent overcrowding.Attempts to derail PUTAHowever, many faculty members are against the postponement request, with the team led by Mritunjay Kumar and Amarjit Singh Naura, contesting the polls, alleging in a statement that a “campaign” was underway to cancel the elections and efforts made to render the body dysfunctional. “We appeal to the community to discourage all those who have sided with the authorities to derail PUTA elections 2020 and ensure that maximum voting takes place,” the team members said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-covid-6-teachers-ask-v-c-to-postpone-puta-poll-others-oppose-call/story-7FaQbBPogTd2sTZcWIPCjJ.html
20-09-2020||City||Farm labourer’s mutilated body recovered in Ludhiana field||The mutilated body of a man was found in a field at Razool village, Koomkalan, on Sunday. Police have identified the deceased as Dalip, a native of Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh. He was a farm labourer in the nearby Pirthipur village. While the preliminary investigation indicated that the body was mutilated by stray dogs, police have sent the body to the Ludhiana civil hospital to establish the cause of death through autopsy.Police said according to Dalip’s employer, he had left for Razool village for some work on his motorcycle on September 14. But, he never reported back to work since then. On Sunday, a passer-by noticed his body in a field and alerted the police. Inspector Davinder Sharma, SHO, Koomkalan police station, the body had decomposed as it was lying in water for at least five days. “The autopsy will clarify the exact cause of death, following which we initiate further legal action,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-labourer-s-mutilated-body-recovered-in-ludhiana-field/story-YKoPN2dJbBMM5PUVJqS17L.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Western Railways to increase Mumbai local train services from Monday||The Western Railway will increase the daily special suburban services from 350 to 500 from Monday. The decision was taken last week to maintain social distancing and avoid overcrowding in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.“The number of daily special suburban services will be increased from 350 to 500 on Western Railway from September 21 to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding. The essential staff as notified by the state government to travel in local trains is requested to follow social distancing and wear a mask during travel,” the Western Railway said in a statement on Friday.“Of the increased services, 30 will be operated during morning peak hours, and 29 services during evening peak hours,” said Sumit Thakur, Western Railway’s chief public relations officer.The Western and Central Railways have also allowed select 10 per cent employees of co-operative and private banks to travel on the local trains.The suburban trains in operation currently are only for frontline staff and essential service workers as laid down by the state government, and a QR code-empowered ticketing mechanism is in place for those who need to board.The railways have been operating special suburban services for people engaged in essential and emergency services since mid-June.Meanwhile, the railways ministry has decided to run 20 pairs of clone special trains from the same day. Out of them, five pairs of clone special trains will run from Western Railway.“Considering the huge demand for travel on specific routes, the Ministry of Railways has decided to run 20 pairs of clone special trains from September 21 till further notice. Out of these 20 pairs, five pairs of clone special trains will run from Western Railway. These clone trains will run on notified timings and will be fully reserved trains with Humsafar type rakes,” the Western Railway said.It added, “From the five pairs of clone specials which are being made operational, three trains are from Ahmedabad and one each from Bandra Terminus and Surat. The trains originating from Western Railway are Ahmedabad-Darbhanga, Ahmedabad-Delhi, Ahmedabad-Patna, Bandra Terminus-Amritsar and Surat-Chhapra. These clone special trains will run with Humsafar rakes and charges as applicable in Humsafar trains. The clone special trains will be in addition to special trains which are already in operation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railways-to-increase-mumbai-local-train-services-from-monday/story-myP2YiaZVSOi14HdzsA9oI.html
20-09-2020||City||Railways starts laying road on Jagraon Bridge in Ludhiana||Much to the respite of city residents, who have been awaiting completion of the Jagraon Bridge repair work for four years, the railway authorities on Saturday started paving the road surface. The municipal corporation (MC) had handed over the construction work to the railways after building a retaining wall, following which the railways filled the approach slabs in the first week of September.Railways’ contractor Gurdeep Singh said the base surface was laid on Saturday, and the process of laying the top layers will be completed in four days.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu last week had announced that the project will be completed by Gandhi Jayanti on October 2.The railways is expected to take another week to complete the construction of the damaged bridge, following which MC will complete work on the approach road.Conceived in 2016, the project to repair a damaged portion of the bridge (which leads to Bharat Nagar Chowk) stayed in limbo for two years as the railways refused to pool in money for it.After MC handed over Rs 24.3 crore to the railways, construction finally began in 2018, with a deadline of June 30, 2019. But since then, it missed four deadlines – December 2019, March 2020, June, August 15 and September 15.This year, the project was mostly delayed due to the closure of bitumen plants amid the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railways-starts-laying-road-on-jagraon-bridge-in-ludhiana/story-u3Ds9SLGHuPRolM5pNxLlI.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mining official confronts driver of tractor carrying sand, almost run over||Mining officer Raj Kumar and his team members, on duty near Tangri river close to Chhajju Majra village in Naraingarh, had a narrow escape when the driver of a tractor-trolley carrying illegally mined sand jumped off his running vehicle and it almost hit them.The team checking illegal mining stopped the tractor driver, “who started abusing and obstructed us on our government duty,” Raj Kumar complained to the police.The team chased the driver as he fled on Badhog Road and as its vehicle overtook the tractor, he jumped off the tractor. “The tractor along with the trolley came towards us. However, we saved our lives and the driver fled in the fields,” Raj Kumar said. Police said an FIR was lodged under sections 186, 279, 336 and 353 of the IPC at Panjokhara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mining-official-confronts-driver-of-tractor-carrying-sand-almost-run-over/story-FsTA1dg8Lfm29w2q9VnzTI.html
20-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Petrol pump employee caught on cam nicking boss’ ₹2.2 lakh, held||The Moti Nagar police have arrested a petrol pump employee for stealing Rs 2.2 lakh in cash from his employer’s office.The accused has been identified as Sunil Kumar of Haibowal.The complainant, Mani Jindal of Sector 32-A, Chandigarh Road, said he owned a petrol pump near Cheema Chowk, where Sunil had been working for him for the past 18 months. On September 17, when he visited his cabin at the petrol pump, he realised Rs 2.2 lakh were missing. He questioned all his employees, but to no avail. When he scanned the CCTV camera footage, he realised the amount was stolen by Sunil.He filed a police complaint, following which Sunil was arrested on Saturday night and the stolen cash was recovered from him.ASI Mewa Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said they had booked Sunil under Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code. He was presented in court on Sunday and sent to one-day remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-petrol-pump-employee-caught-on-cam-nicking-boss-2-2-lakh-held/story-O9CGjfaaVDF2FCsJFw2FQI.html
20-09-2020||City||Dera Bassi woman dies after falling from bike, friend booked||A 25-year-old man was booked for rash driving after his friend fell from his bike and died, police said on Sunday. The accused, Usmaan of Mauli Jagran, had picked Anu from her residence in Dera Bassi on Saturday after she celebrated her 23rd birthday with her family, her mother Urmila Devi, 43, told the police. Anu used to work at a salon in Panchkula’s Sector 15. “Around 10.15pm, Anu’s friend called to inform us that she had met with an accident and we rushed to Panchkula civil hospital, where doctors said my daughter succumbed to her injuries,” she added. She accused Usmaan of rash driving and being unable to control his bike around a speed breaker in Sector 26, which resulted in her daughter’s death. On her complaint, an FIR was registered at the Chandimandir police station under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the biker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-bassi-woman-dies-after-falling-from-bike-friend-booked/story-6Os6hIoVRyxVpItE2u3EeO.html
20-09-2020||City||Duo booked for snatching ₹5.7 lakh from Ludhiana factory owner||Police are on the lookout for two motorcycle-borne men, who snatched a bag containing Rs 5.7 lakh in cash from a factory owner near Miller Gunj, on September 14.Police said the victim, Vishal Jain, 45, of Parkash Nagar, Jawaddi, filed a complaint on Saturday, following which they initiated investigation. Jain told the police that he owned a nut and bolt manufacturing factory. On September 14, he withdrew Rs 5.7 lakh from his bank to make some payments. He was standing on the roadside, waiting for someone, when two men approached him on a motorcycle and in no time, fled after snatching his bag.The victim said he himself tried to locate the snatchers, but informed the police after failing to do so.ASI Balvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code had been lodged against the unidentified accused at the Division Number 6 police station. Police are scanning CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/duo-booked-for-snatching-5-7-lakh-from-ludhiana-factory-owner/story-SDIW0IISyl2VK4D1wmQy8I.html
20-09-2020||City||Tenants booked as elderly man commits suicide in Panchkula||A couple was booked for abetment after their 63-year-old landlord committed suicide at his residence in Panchkula’s Sector 19, police said on Sunday. The victim, who had retired from Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), used to live with his son in Baltana. “He ended his life at his Sector-19 house. Though we didn’t find any suicide note from the spot, a case has been registered on the basis of his son’s complaint,” a police officer privy to the matter said. The complainant told the police that his father was suffering from knee-related issues and had repeatedly asked his tenants to vacate the ground floor, but they would rather insult him. He alleged that his father committed suicide after being harassed by his tenants. The FIR has been registered against Mandeep and his wife under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tenants-booked-as-elderly-man-commits-suicide-in-panchkula/story-uksrVWF0ruRGGBk5ESVpRL.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||PEC senate meet: Structure of upcoming multidisciplinary courses to be discussed||As Punjab Engineering College (deemed to be university) plans to introduce multidisciplinary courses for undergraduate programmes, its senate will be discussing their structure in the upcoming meeting. The PEC senate members are scheduled to meet on Wednesday to discuss the flexibility in curriculum for the engineering students. The proposal is in its preliminary stage. PEC is likely to offer humanities and social sciences courses with a choice of five to six subjects to its engineering students of the December batch. However, the subjects have yet to be finalised.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We are of the view that there should be flexibility in curriculum for the engineering students. In the upcoming meeting of the senate, structure of the courses will be discussed.”Multidisciplinary subjects are being introduced in line with the provision of new education policy. However, PEC would need the approval from its governing bodies before introducing such courses. The proposal will be discussed with all stakeholders, including the department and institution heads, and the view of faculty of other institutes will also be taken so that only beneficial courses are introduced. PEC is even planning to hire two to three faculty members for the multidisciplinary courses from the internal budget of the institute as no extra funds will be available this time.PEC offers eight BTech courses and 14 MTech courses to over 3,000 students. This has come at a time when the deemed to be university is gearing up for its centenary celebrations next year and preparing a proposal to get the status of a centrally funded institute, such as Indian Institutes of Technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pec-senate-meet-structure-of-upcoming-multidisciplinary-courses-to-be-discussed/story-gF4zJRQSTmUroixTkN8A1M.html
20-09-2020||City||Four more people end their lives in Ludhiana; eight in two days||Four people, including two women, died by suicide in four separate cases on Saturday. Two of the deceased ended their lives over marital discord, while one woman was depressed due to be being blackmailed by her neighbour.At least eight Ludhiana residents have ended their lives in the past two days.On Friday, a jeweller had shot himself with his licensed revolver following a monetary dispute, while a woman had hanged herself over frequent quarrels with her sister-in-law. A 22-year-old man had set himself on fire after being beaten up by his live-in partner and her relatives. A 36-year-old man had also ended his life by hanging himself due to the extramarital affair of his wife.ALSO READ: Poor health was behind maximum suicides in Ludhiana, reveals NCRB’s 2019 dataLABOURER HANGS HIMSELF, WIFE, IN-LAWS BOOKEDTroubled by marital problems, a 26-year-old labourer hanged himself at his rented accommodation near the Division Number 3 Chowk.The body was discovered on Saturday after a passer-by noticed foul smell emanating from the room and informed the police.ASI Surjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said when the police reached the spot, they found a man’s decomposing body hanging from the ceiling fan. The deceased, who lived alone, appeared to have killed himself three days ago.He was identified with the help of a document on his person, and on searching his room, cops also discovered a suicide note, where he had written about his issues with his wife due to his in-laws and other relatives.The deceased’s wife, his sister-in-law, mother-in-law, a relative and his wife, and two others, who were all named in the suicide note written in Hindi, have been booked under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Division Number 3 police station.WOMAN DESERTED BY HUSBAND CONSUMES POISONA 37-year-old woman, abandoned by her husband two years ago, died after consuming a poisonous substance at Jiyunewal village, Koomkalan.The Koomkalan police have booked her husband for abetment to suicide on the statement of the woman’s brother.The complainant stated that his sister got married 17 years ago and had three children. He said over the past few years, his brother-in-law had been beating up his sister in drunken stupor, forcing them to intervene.The accused then promised not to harass his sister anymore, but abandoned her and started living somewhere else two years ago. Since 2018, he had visited his sister and their kids only twice.This treatment had pushed his sister under depression and she consumed poison on Friday. They rushed her to a hospital in Nawanshahr, where she died on Saturday.ASI Rajbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Section 306 of the IPC was registered against the woman’s husband. He will be arrested soon.BLACKMAILED BY NEIGHBOUR, WOMAN JUMPS INTO CANAL, DIESAllegedly blackmailed by her neighbour with her morphed pictures, a 38-year-old woman jumped into the Sidhwan Canal on Gill Road.The woman’s body was fished out on Saturday, following which the accused, Rupinder Singh, was arrested on Sunday.The woman’s 17-year-old son told the police that their neighbour, Rupinder, had morphed some images of his mother and started blackmailing her to establish physical relations with him. Unable to handle this, she jumped into Sidhwan Canal on Friday.ASI Jeevan Singh, the investigating officer in this case, Rupinder had been booked under Section 306 of the IPC. They are working to recover the questionable images from him.RICKSHAW-PULLER FOUND HANGING FROM TREEA rickshaw puller’s body was found hanging from a tree near Buddha Nullah in Kirpal Nagar on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Passers-by noticed the body and informed the police.Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO, Daresi police station, said a rickshaw was found near the body, hence, it was suspected that he was a rickshaw-puller. No documents were found to establish the deceased’s identity. Police have made announcements in surrounding areas for his identification and sent the body to the civil hospital mortuary where it will be kept for 72 hours for identification before autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-more-people-end-their-lives-in-ludhiana-eight-in-two-days/story-Uyj2Xge1jPXMVq6zxCNi8O.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||7 months on, tiling restarts at Ludhiana’s Sarabha Nagar market||Work to lay interlocking tiles in I-Block of Saraha Nagar Market restarted on Sunday, seven months after its was interrupted. Municipal corporation councillor for Ward 56 Amrit Varsha Rampal said that the project, which was to cost ₹35 lakh, had begun in December, 2019. “As per the project, interlocking tiles were to be laid in the entire I-block compound. However, in March, due to the lockdown the work was stalled. After we pressed the matter, the contractor resumed work,” said Rampal. She said the interlocking work will be completed in the next 10 days. Today, the earthmovers were seen removing the cemented pavement to lay interlocking tiles.The move, however, did not do down well with a few residents who said interlocking was not required as the pavement was in fit condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-months-on-tiling-restarts-in-sarabha-nagar-market/story-cRvDHc1QTviUpm4ODVvXNK.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Passing of two farm bills in Rajya Sabha triggers protests in Ludhiana||The passing of two contentious farm bills in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday spurred protests by farmers in various parts of the district. Farmers organisations in Samrala, Khanna and Jodhan also burnt the effigies of the central government while raising slogans against the legislations – the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020.In Samrala, farmers took out a mock funeral procession to condemn the government’s alleged anti-farmer moves. Members of various Bhartiya Kisan Unions displayed anti-farmer bills and anti-government slogans at the entrance of various villages. “Jehra kisana naal kharu ohi pinda which varu (Only those who stand by farmers will be allowed to enter the villages),” read the slogans. “Farmers are witnessing overwhelming support from all sections of society. Sportsmen, art and cultural organisations and various NGOs have also stood in our support. Besides, even farmer organisations from the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states are united with us in our cause,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal). Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), said, “As many as 31 unions have united to oppose the bills. Several business organisations have also backed our bandh call for September25.” ‘Sunny Deol should resign’Lakhowal demanded that following the lead of Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol should also resign to support the farmers. “Deol’s statement that the ordinances were a boon for the farmers is highly condemnable. He was projected as the son of a farmer ahead of the elections, which helped him defeat senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar. Now, he has forgotten that it was farmers who backed him in the 2019 elections. Despite hailing from a farming background, Deol has failed to understand the pain of farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/passing-of-two-farm-bills-in-rajya-sabha-triggers-protests-in-ludhiana/story-oiqGEViLCHvLnMRLJWcxIN.html
20-09-2020||City||20-year-old Balongi man held for rape bid||Balongi police arrested a 20-year-old man on Sunday for attempting to rape a minor. The accused, Sagar, runs a stationery shop in Balongi’s Adarsh Colony. As per the victim’s father, she had gone to the accused’s shop to buy a notebook when he took her to the basement and tried to assault her sexually. The girl managed to flee the spot and told her father about the incident, who approached the police. A case has been registered against the man under sections 354-D (stalking), 376 (rape) and 511 (attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 8 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act at the Balongi police station.“We have arrested the accused and produced him in a local court, which sent him to two-day remand. Further investigation is on,” said investigating officer ASI Dilbagh Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-balongi-man-held-for-rape-bid/story-YX3vWP20SbYGCO8m4HRRkM.html
20-09-2020||City||Schools to reopen for classes 9 to 12 in Himachal tomorrow||Schools will reopen for the students of Classes 9 to 12 from Monday onwards in the state.The state cabinet gave its nod to open schools outside the containment zones in the state from September 21 as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) of the Union home and health ministries.A notification in this regard has been issued to the higher education director, elementary education director and the state project director for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA).Educational institutions in the state were closed in March after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.These schools will be opened with 50 percent teaching and non-teaching staff in attendance for students from Class 9 to Class 12, provided the students are willing to take guidance from the teachers. For this, a written consent of the parents or guardians of students is mandatory, as per the official order.Instructions have also been issued to make school in-charge rosters for the teachers being called to the schools.On Saturday, special cleaning campaigns were carried out in most schools of the state. Sanitisation was completed under the supervision of the school in-charge.The education secretary said money had been released to schools and colleges to get thermal scanning equipment, which have been purchased by most educational institutions.Apart from this, the notification states that online and distance learning will continue and will be encouraged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-9-to-12-in-himachal-tomorrow/story-0tRC0M2JJJbRFSXEIayEzK.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cricket body polls to be held on October 11||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) in a recent judgement ruled that elections to the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) will be conducted on October 11. The polls, which are being conducted after 17 years, will be held under the supervision of former HC chief justice Virender Jain.Former Punjab Ranji captain Inderjit Singh Malhi and other state and national cricketers had filed a petition in the HC in 2018 demanding that LDCA polls be held. They said the polls should be held according to the stipulations laid down by the Lodha Committee and as approved by the Supreme Court. However, the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) argued that the recommendations were not binding on district cricket associations. The PCA also told the court that a retired Punjab or Haryana election commissioner would be more befitting to be an observer than the Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC).The petitioners, however, observed that the DC is the ex-officio chairperson of the LDCA and a non-voting member. They further argued that the LDCA will not have to pay the DC. However, the PCA said it preferred to pay for an observer.After hearing detailed arguments, the HC appointed the former chief justice as observer and ruled that any objections by any party during the polls will be decided on by the observer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-cricket-body-polls-to-be-held-on-october-11/story-sfcucJjAAWKJXSt5Kx3S8H.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||No Ludhiana schools sent nominations for ‘Inspire Awards-MANAK’ this year||No schools from Ludhiana have sent nominations for Inspire Awards - MANAK (million minds augmenting national aspirations and knowledge), instituted by the department of science and technology. Last year, six schools from the district had sent in innovative ideas. Only 142 of 14,637 schools in Punjab have sent nominations this year. A district-wise nomination list shared by the department of science and technology with the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) shows that while nominations were received from 16 districts, six districts did not send in any innovative idea. To ensure that majority students from Classes 6 to 12 send nominations for the award, the SCERT director has written to all district education officers (secondary) and school principals to ask science and mathematics teachers to guide students and send in nominations before September 30. Those selected will be awarded ₹10,000 for their projects and will be asked to participate at district, state and national level exhibitions. There are 536 middle, high and senior secondary schools and 80 CBSE-affiliated schools in the district.District education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur said, “Students from our district participate in all competitions. I have directed teachers to ensure maximum students pitch innovative ideas for this award.”Schools can register themselves on http://www.inspireawards-dst.gov.in and can email inspire@nifindia.org in case of queries.What is Inspire Awards-MANAK? It is an initiative to foster a culture of innovation and creative thinking among school students to address societal needs through science and technology. The objective is to expose talented students to science at an early age (10-15 years or Standard 6-10) and help towards building a critical human resource pool for strengthening and expanding science and technology system and increase the research and development base. The target is to get original technological ideas and innovations rooted in science and societal applications that solve daily life problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-ludhiana-schools-sent-nominations-for-inspire-awards-manak-this-year/story-E78AJyMb9jtlx5WzZZTfXN.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Achievement Survey: 2.8 lakh students from Ludhiana to take online evaluation exams||Around 2.8 lakh Classes 1 to 12 students from the district will appear for the online evaluation exams that are slated to start from Monday.The community, school management committees and mid-day meal workers have been asked to pitch in to ensure 100% attendance in the exams that are being conducted as part of the Punjab Achievement Survey. Teachers have ensured that students are familiar with the date sheet and have the technical means to appear for the examination.Students will be sent a Google form comprising objective questions. Class 1 students have to attempt 10 questions and Class 2 to 5 students will be asked 15 questions each carrying one-mark weightage. Class 6 to 12 students will attempt 20 questions for two-marks each.District education officer, elementary, Rajinder Kaur, said, “Teachers have already conducted demonstration tests to give them idea about how to attempt the paper online. To ensure all government school students appear for the online exam, we have involved community members and school management committees. Teachers will be in touch with the students and if any of them face problems with a mobile phone or internet connectivity, teachers will guide the students.”For Classes 1 to 5, the exams will be held between September 21 to September 25, Classes 6 to 12 from September 21 to 26 and for Class 11 and 12 from September 21 to October 3.Reportedly, several teachers have visited the homes of the children who do not possess a smartphone or face internet connectivity issues while they were taking online quizzes organised by the state education department last month.The head teacher of a primary school, requesting anonymity, said, “Many families only have one smartphone at home, which is taken away by parents when they go for work. In case students face difficulty in attempting the exam, our school teachers will visit students’ homes to help them. Students have been taught how to attempt the paper and submit the answers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-achievement-survey-2-8-lakh-students-from-ludhiana-to-take-online-evaluation-exams/story-sPgGL6ukDjOxUYCOGwaezH.html
20-09-2020||City||Politicos oppose partial reopening of schools in J&K amid grim Covid statistics||The J&K administration’s decision to re-open schools for senior students amid the sudden spike in Covid cases and deaths in the union territory has drawn flak from the political quarters.The decision has come at a time when the health infrastructure has nearly collapsed in the UT, especially in Jammu district, due to the massive surge in virus cases.Political parties, including the BJP, have said the move could be disastrous.Former minister and senior Congress leader Raman Bhalla has asked the administration to review its decision to reopen schools amid the surge in Covid-19 cases and high mortality rate.“There is widespread resentment against the school education department. Parents are aghast and many believe the decision is not only idiotic but will prove extremely dangerous. What is the logic of opening schools when every day more than 1,500 people are testing positive for Covid-19. How can we put the life of our children at risk,” asked Bhalla.“Expecting school children to adhere to social distancing and follow safety protocols when top officers and doctors too are falling prey to the deadly virus, is nothing but idiocy,” added Bhalla.J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina said, “Though the government has taken all preventive measures like face masks, sanitisers and social distancing, people are apprehensive because Covid infection is spreading rapidly. I too feel the situation is not apt for reopening schools.”“In the absence of healthcare facilities in Jammu, people are not getting proper treatment, and opening schools at such a stage will be hazardous and amount to risking the safety of children. The government should act responsibly and postpone the same,” said National Conference provincial president Devender Singh Rana.However, principal secretary school education Dr Asgar Hassan Samoon said, “Centre has issued certain guidelines and therefore schools are being re-opened only for senior students of classes 9 to 12, that too, for consultation with teachers. Only 50 percent of the teachers have been mobilised.”Samoon informed that everything was being done in strict accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union home and health ministries, adding, “It is a voluntary exercise. The students who feel they need in-person lessons from teachers can visit their schools. Online education will continue as before.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/politicos-oppose-partial-reopening-of-schools-in-j-k-amid-grim-covid-statistics/story-qOirTLE10vfNQ62mcX8DTK.html
20-09-2020||City||Central team for 100% door-to-door survey to check virus spread in Jammu||A visiting team of the Union health ministry on Sunday called for 100 percent house-to-house survey, contact tracing and increasing testing, especially using rapid antigen test (RAT) kits, to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the Jammu region.The four-member team headed by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director SK Singh was discussing with senior administrative officers the steps to be taken for containment and control of the deadly infection which has witnessed a spike, especially in the Jammu region over the past month.Reviewing the measures through video conference meetings with district administration and health teams of six districts, including Samba, Ramban, Kishtwar, Kathua, Rajouri and Doda, the team highlighted the need for focus on the testing and surveillance of containment zones using door-to-door surveys.Financial commissioner, health and medical education department, Atal Dullo was also present during the meeting, besides the other members of the central team, including NCDC joint director Kinnzin, AIIMS associate professor and pulmonologist Vijay Handa and Mahesh Waghmare, IDSP, New Delhi.The team members urged the officials concerned to focus on influenza-like illness (ILI) / severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases, 100 per cent house-to-house survey, contact tracing and increasing the number of testing, especially with RAT.The team suggested the measures to be implemented in the containment zones and asked them to involve ASHA and field health staff to identify ILI cases so that testing of all can be done. Door-to-door survey was suggested for identifying high risk persons like pregnant women or the elderly and those with co-morbidity.The working of new government medical hospitals in Kathua, Rajouri and Doda was also reviewed.Handa asked principals to focus on hospital infection control measures, donning/doffing and biomedical waste management. He also called for following SOPs by all the staff members, besides preparing and following the treatment protocols. The stakeholders were also urged to increase the number of isolation and ventilator beds so that patient referral from district hospitals to Jammu is reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-team-for-100-door-to-door-survey-to-check-virus-spread-in-jammu/story-Kamy3cNhyeyn0Hy14CLdYI.html
20-09-2020||City||Five more succumb to coronavirus in Himachal, toll rises to 118||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded five deaths and 221 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 12,129. Of the new cases, 80 were reported in Mandi, 31 in Una, 26 in Shimla 19 in Kullu, 15 each in Kangra and Sirmaur, 13 in Lahaul-Spiti, 12 in Solan, 9 in Chamba and one in Hamirpur The death toll has risen to 118 after five more people succumbed to the infection. Two deaths each were reported in Mandi and Kangra and one in Shimla. Chief medical officer, Kangra, Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said a 65-year-old woman, who had diabetes, was admitted to the hospital on September 16 and died on Sunday morning. Another 60-year-old woman of Mastpur, who suffered from Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, also died in the district. Himachal doctor dies due to Covid in Punjab, CM expresses griefDr Pradeep Bansal, head of the community medicine department at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (LBSGMC) succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in Mohali. However, his death will not be counted in the state’s toll since he was a migration case. He is the first doctor in the state to die of Covid-19. Dr Bansal got infected after his daughter, also an MBBS doctor, tested positive for the virus early this month. He was first admitted at LBSGMC and had been referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla with history of fever dyspnoea, inability to maintain saturation and COVID inconclusive. He was admitted to IGMC on September 8. However, after his condition deteriorated, Dr Bansal was taken to a private hospital in Mohali and was put on ventilator support. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur mourned Dr Bansal’s death. “This is very painful news. The state has lost a corona warrior. May the departed soul rest in peace and God give strength to the family,” the CM wrote on his Facebook page. Meanwhile, active cases in the state have gone up to 4,444 while 7,548 people have recovered so far. Solan is the worst hit district with 2,636 cases followed by Kangra where 1,826 people were infected. Sirmaur has 1,526 cases, Mandi 1,332, Una 1,107, Shimla 885, Hamirpur 779, Chamba 700, Bilaspur, 628, Kullu 462, Kinnaur 139 and Lahaul-Spiti 109 cases. Sundernagar MLA tests positiveBJP MLA from Sundernagar Rakesh Jamwal has tested positive for Covid-19. “I have tested positive. Though, my health is good, I am isolating self and urge people who came in my contact recently to do so,” he wrote on Facebook. Jamwal’s driver was also found infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-succumb-to-coronavirus-in-himachal-toll-rises-to-118/story-GEYy4cBE4XEQH5SIFX755O.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Covid tally crosses 10,000 mark in 186 days||With 286 new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday, the infection count has crossed 10,000 mark in Chandigarh. Also, four people succumbed to the virus.As many as 10,082 people have tested positive in the Union Territory so far, of whom 7,138 have recovered and 120 died, leaving 2,821 active cases. Three deaths of Covid-19 patients have been attributed “to other reasons”, which include suicide.Those who died include a 45-year-old man from Sector 25, who had severe acute respiratory infection, hypertension and seizure disorder, and a 48-year-old man from Raipur Khurd with acute respiratory distress syndrome.The other two were elderly men, aged 66 and 72, from Sector 56 and Ram Darbar, respectively, who too had comorbidities. Of those who tested positive on Sunday, 177 are men and 109 women. Meanwhile, 372 people were discharged, including the asymptomatic ones who completed 10 days in home isolation.According to recent projections made by the ministry of health and family welfare using mathematical modelling, the number of Covid-19 cases are expected to reach around 15,000 by mid-October. Given than on an average 1,000 cases are being added every three days in the past couple of weeks and there is no let-up in sight, this grim milestone could be reached earlier. Panchkula count goes past 5,000 casesThe neighbouring Panchkula district, too, reached another grim milestone, as 133 positive cases took its Covid-19 tally past 5,000 on Sunday.A total of 5,060 cases have been reported in the district so far, of which 1,378 are active. As many as 3,597 people have recovered so far.Meanwhile, the death toll climbed to 64 after two more women, including a 91-year-old, succumbed to the virus. The elderly woman was a resident of Sector 9. The other woman, aged 65, was from Rally village in Sector 12 and suffered from diabetes.Death toll in Mohali reaches 161With four more people losing battle against Covid-19 in Mohali, the toll has gone up to 161 in the district. Also, 134 fresh cases were reported, taking the count to 8,362.Those who died on Sunday include three men, aged 40, 65 an 75, from Behda, Balongi and Ramput Sania village, respectively, and a 46-year-old woman from Dhakoli.Among the fresh cases, Mohali city reported 49, followed by 24 in Kharar, 23 in Dhakoli and 20 in Gharuan. Meanwhile, 112 patients were discharged, taking the number of active cases and recoveries to 2,635 and 5,566, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-tally-crosses-10-000-mark-in-186-days/story-yPEpukoBoKYBLi6dH19YVM.html
20-09-2020||Pune||SPPU identifies 50 centres for conducting offline exams||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is gearing up to conduct the final-year student examinations and has identified 50 centres where the offline exams will be held. SPPU had earlier issued online forms to final year students to choose their preferred mode of examination- online or offline- wherein 85 per cent of students chose the online mode and rest opted for offline. This 15 per cent makes up around 50,000 students, who have opted for the offline mode of examination and hence, SPPU identified these centres. “For offline mode, the exams will be conducted through Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) exam method. We have accordingly identified 50 centres which are affiliated colleges with SPPU in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar district wherein these exams will be conducted. Students will have to choose a nearby centre to appear for the exam and soon we are going to issue online forms for it. All the colleges and centres are been given necessary instructions to conduct the exams with utmost safety of the students,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. Of the total 50,000 students appearing through offline mode of examination, 22,000 students are located in Pune district. The others are from various districts who can choose their nearest examination centres. Students, however, still prefer cancellation of exams or giving exams through assignments. “Most of the students who are studying at SPPU or any other affiliated colleges come from outside Pune and from across Maharashtra. As students are from rural areas and their economic condition is weak, they do not have electronic gadgets and can’t afford to travel back to Pune to give exams. SPPU should think of other options like giving subject-wise assignments to students and evaluate their marks on the basis of the assignment. In both the cases, online and offline students specially from the rural areas are suffering a lot,” said Kamlakar Shete, a final year student. The written exams will start from October 1 and for the backlog students exams it will be held from October 1 to 9 while for regular students, the written exams will be held between October 10 to 30. Both these exams will be of 50 marks with multiple choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour. The detailed stream and subject-wise schedule of the examination will be declared soon by the SPPU examination department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-identifies-50-centres-for-conducting-offline-exams/story-cH2jST7UiyVmjK4s93imJI.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases among prisoners in Maharashtra jails breaches 2,000 mark; no fatalities since six weeks||The number of prisoners tested positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra jails breached the 2,000 mark on Saturday. However, jail officers say that the spread of the contagion is under control, as out of total 2,011 cases 1,616 prisoners have recovered. Officials said that since the authority is stressing more on aggressive testing, new cases are emerging. Additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand said that the jail administration has succeeded in containing Covid deaths in the state prisons as since the outbreak fatalities were restricted to (only) six deaths. Since past around six weeks no fatalities were reported in the prisons.As per the latest report from the prison department 13 new cases were reported across various prisons on Saturday that took the total caseload of infected prisoners from 1998 to 2011.The Yerwada Central prison in Pune recorded the maximum Covid cases among prisoners; 259, followed by Nagpur, Mumbai, Sangli and Chandrapur prisons with 219, 183, 173 and 171 cases, respectively.Till date six prisoners have succumbed to the virus. These fatalities were reported in prisons in Taloja Navi Mumbai, Yerwada Pune, Amravati and Dhule.The first case of Covid-19 was reported in Byculla jail on May 31 followed by Satara prison and then the major outbreak in Arthur Road central prison.43 jails in the state had population of 36,000 prisoners during initial days of the lockdown. After the de-congestion measures were implemented, state prisons houses around 26,000 prisoners. So far, 14,252 Covid tests have been conducted. A maximum of 1366 test were done in Nagpur prison followed by Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail with 998 testing.Around 416 staff working at the jails have also tested positive and of them 358 have recovered while four succumbed to the disease.A prison official from Pune headquarters said that several effective steps were taken to contain the spread of Coronavirus in state prisons.After first case of Covid in the state prison was reported, the measure implemented immediately was imposing strict lockdown at each prison. It meant that all the staff and officers posted at a prison would not be able to go out for a month. “Even the jail staff who lived in nearby quarters were not allowed to go home fearing he/she may bring the contagion in the prison. The staff was on rotation every month,” the officer said. After this, restrictions were imposed for new prisoners. New prisoners would have to first compulsorily spend a 14-days quarantine and stay at a temporary prison. They would then be transferred to the main prison and that too only after undergoing a test. “The state prisons department as of today have 78 temporary prisons,” the officer added.“In order to make the Covid prevention more effective by de-congestion of overcrowded prisons we have also released nearby 11,000 prisoners, as per the court’s directives. As of today, the state prisons have around 26,000 prisoners, another officer said.In light of Covid cases increasing in prisons across the state more so in Kolhapur, the bench of justice SS Shinde of the Bombay high court on Friday while passing orders in an emergency Covid parole application filed by a convict directed the jail authorities to act in accordance with the guidelines of the high-power committee (HPC) as well as treat applications for temporary bail or parole on merit. “Presently, we are stressing more on increasing the testing in prisons. Till date over 14,000 testing (RT-PCR) of prisoners have been done,” the officer added.Other measures such as encouraging prisoners for Yoga and exercise and enhancing nutritional value of the food given to prisoners to boost their immunity, were also taken, the officer said.Statistics till September 19, 2020Prisoners:Tests done - 14,252Covid positive - 2,011Recovered - 1,616Death - 06Staff:Tests done - 2,507Covid positive prisoners - 416Recovered - 358Death - 04||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-among-prisoners-in-maharashtra-jails-breaches-2-000-mark-no-fatalities-since-six-weeks/story-TFabLhL1KmRjJEXXFCDI4H.html
20-09-2020||Lucknow||UP govt mulling ordinance to check forcible religious conversions||The Uttar Pradesh government is mulling to promulgate an ordinance to check ‘forcible, coerced and allurement-induced religious conversions, including ones in the name of love’, said a senior state government official.The government has already studied in detail the proposal for the ordinance pending with it as the UP Law Commission had submitted a draft legislation ‘Uttar Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2019’.The proposal is once again attracting attention after the Kanpur police recently set up an SIT (Special Investigation Team) to look into reports of ‘love jihad’ in the Kanpur area.“I understand some work has gone into it at the government level,” said UP Law Commission chairman justice Aditya Nath Mittal on Friday. He had submitted the 268-page report, along with the draft legislation, to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on November 21, 2019 after working nearly six months on it.Justice Mittal’s report, along with draft legislation, suggests provisions for punishment in cases of forcible, coerced, allured religious conversions and the power to the civil court to declare a marriage null and void if it was solemnised for religious conversion as its primary purpose.It also suggests making a provision for a person to submit a declaration to the district magistrate, a month before his/her conversion and a similar declaration from the priest (pujari, maulvi, priest) about the execution of that conversion.Justice Mittal, in November 21 last, had said that in December 2017, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had suggested a new law for preventing forcible conversion and that any re-conversion should not be considered an offence. After that, the commission worked on the report.Justice Mittal had then said: “We submitted the report and the draft bill of the Uttar Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019 to the CM. The report is against the forced, coerced, fraudulent, allured conversion and not against any willful conversions.”The report, including the draft legislation, was prepared after researching pre and post-independence laws in India and the neighbouring countries like Nepal, Myanmar, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Pakistan.It said states like Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand had made special laws to ban conversions by force, fraud, marriage or allurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-mulling-ordinance-to-check-forcible-religious-conversions/story-JIQMx4rSviFvptoZTaCHWP.html
20-09-2020||Lucknow||Mosque in Ayodhya may be square-shaped like Kaaba: Trust official||The mosque to come up in Ayodhya pursuant to the Supreme Court verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi case may be square-shaped like the Kaaba Sharif in Mecca and will not be named after any emperor or king.Secretary and spokesperson of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) Athar Hussain told PTI on Sunday, “A mosque measuring 15,000 square feet will be built in Dhannipur village. It will be of the same size as that of the Babri mosque. The shape of the mosque may be completely different from that of other mosques. It may be square-shaped like the Kaaba Sharif in Mecca, as hinted by architect SM Akhtar.” To a question on whether the mosque will have no domes or minarets like the Kaaba Sharif, Hussain said it could be a possibility.He said the architect has been given a free hand in this regard.“The mosque will not be named Babri Masjid. It will not be named after any king or emperor. My personal opinion is that it should be called the Dhannipur Masjid,” Hussain said.He also informed that the trust is making its portal so that people can donate for the mosque and the museum, hospital and research centre which will be built inside the complex. Write-ups by national and international Islamic scholars will also appear on the portal.He said some work on the portal is yet to be completed and hence, donation is yet to begin.The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board has formed the IICF, a trust, for the construction of the mosque on a five-acre plot.The state government has allotted the five-acre plot in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur for the construction of the mosque on the directive of the apex court.After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court, on November 9 last year, ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by “kar sevaks”, who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mosque-in-ayodhya-may-be-square-shaped-like-kaaba-trust-official/story-ci94DyISaJa9MzIkigsZdN.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar police bust interstate arms racket, arrest 7 men||Jalandhar The Jalandhar commissionerate police busted an interstate arms racket on Sunday and arrested seven persons, recovering 12 pistols of .32 bore and 15 live cartridges from them.Giving details, police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a probe was launched after police were tipped off on September 9 about a man named Abhinav Mishra from Pilibhit, Uttar Pradesh, being treated for bullet injuries at the local Global Hospital.Investigations revealed that one Suraj had fired at Mishra with an illegal weapon as he was allegedly stalking some women in his family. Following leads, after police nabbed Suraj, who confessed to his involvement with Mishra in the racket in which a huge quantity of illegal arms and ammunition from Indore, Madhya Pradesh, had been brought into Punjab.After interrogating the two, “police busted the entire network and seized 12 illegal pistols of .32 bore and 15 bullets. Their accomplices from Batala, Amritsar, Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib were also arrested,” Bhullar added.Those arrested included Suraj (21) of New Rajan Nagar, Basti Peer Daad; Vijay Kumar (25) of Bhikha, Adampur Jalandhar; Jobanjeet Singh (22) of Arjan Maanga village, Amritsar; Sahil Saini (27) of Prem Nagar, Pathankot; Amritpal Singh (24) of Bhoma in Batala; Keshav Khera (23) of Hakimi Gate, Amritsar; and Harmandeep Singh (24) of Kheri Veer Singh, Fatehgarh Sahib.Before this, two criminal cases were registered Suraj and eight against Jobanjeet, Keshav Khera and Vijay Kumar, Bhullar said.Vijay Kumar and Jobanjeet were brought on production warrants from Kapurthala and Gurdaspur jails, he added.In appreciation of its work, Bhullar recommended the DGP’s Special Disc Award to the Crime Investigation Agency- 1 team headed by Harwinder Singh. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered at Bawa Khel Police Station in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-police-bust-interstate-arms-racket-arrest-7-men/story-H9fo4LMBh7OFREcnZn9rEJ.html
20-09-2020||Pune||PCMC to take action against 21 hospitals for overcharging Covid-19 patients||The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will be taking action against 21 private hospitals which have been charging exorbitant amounts of money for treatment of Covid-19 patients.The committee led by N Ashok Babu, joint commissioner (income tax department) has been conducting an inquiry into bills issued by private hospitals to Covid-19 patients. The committee submitted its report to the civic body on Friday.The circular issued by the civic body on Friday stated, “The hospitals which are charging extra will be fined a minimum of Rs 5,000 on every bill. The amount will be increased if the inquiry committee finds that there are more faults in the bills.”“In total, we have raised an objection to the bill amount of Rs 1.20 crore. Of 21 hospitals, 18 have already paid refund of around Rs 36 lakh to the patients. For the remaining amount, the hospitals have submitted their pleas and we are looking into it. We will issue appropriate directive after examining their reply,” said N Ashok Babu, joint commissioner (income tax department).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pcmc-to-take-action-against-21-hospitals-for-overcharging-covid-19-patients/story-GmjfwMn8sdPVyrHWFskWlN.html
20-09-2020||City||HIMUDA sold plots, flats worth ₹64-cr in 2019-20: Bhardwaj||The Himachal Pradesh Urban Development Authority (HIMUDA) sold plots, flats and other commercial properties worth ₹64 crores in the financial year 2019-20, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said on Sunday.He was chairing the meeting of board of directors of HIMUDA here.Bhardwaj said emphasis will be laid on early completion of proposed residential colonies in Jathiya Devi and Rampur, Narghota (Dharamshala) and Dehra (Kangra) and industrial plots in Baddi and Parwanoo to create more employment opportunities, planned urbanisation and residential/industrial development.The minister said the board has decided that Pong View Residential Colony will be constructed at Dehra at a cost of ₹7 crore, in which 90 plots of various categories will be carved out.Sixteen flats of category-1 will be constructed at Lohna Colony in Palampur at a cost of ₹11 crore. New flats will also be constructed in residential colony Sanjauli and shops in Theog.Calling for timely completion of deposit works, Bhardwaj also stressed on private participation for better urban and residential development in the state so that more investment avenues could be created in the region.He said the board also decided to adopt Central Public Works Department (CPWD) manual to bring quality in constructions being carried out by HIMUDA. A decision was also made to keep the commercial rate of water supply unchanged for three years.Bhardwaj also stressed on accelerating the construction of residential colony at Rampur (Shimla), Dharampur (Solan), Rajwadi (Sudernagar) and Jathya Devi (Shimla). He directed officials to start work on converting large plots of HIMUDA into small industrial plots in Parwanoo and Baddi keeping in view of demand of industries.Directions were also given to make efforts to sell the land of HIMUDA to other departments like income tax department, state insurance corporation, excise and taxation, City Gas Distribution Network and Central University, Kangra, so that HIMUDA could generate revenue to develop residential/ commercial colonies in the state.Chief executive officer and secretary, HIMUDA, Akshay Sood said the board of directors has approved the filling of 20 posts of various categories through Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission. The board also passed the budget for the year 2020-2021.He said HIMUDA has generated revenue of ₹ 110 crore in last over two years from residential and industrial properties.Sood said 466 plots and 356 flats of HIMUDA were ready for sale at various places which will be advertised soon. The board also approved a new land pooling policy under which new colonies will be constructed in the state in collaboration with private partners/landowners.The board of directors has also recommended constructing small industrial plots of 400 square meters to 1,000 square meters in Industrial City, Mandhala in Solan and commercial industrial plots in Parwanoo Industrial Area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himuda-sold-plots-flats-worth-64-cr-in-2019-20-bhardwaj/story-uoyN7fsCxQwNu5RCiKp25J.html
20-09-2020||City||HP to make adventure tourism safer with technology: Minister||Adventure tourism will be made safer in Himachal Pradesh with the use of technology and new rules are being prepared for it, language art and culture minister Govind Singh Thakur said on Saturday while presiding over a meeting of tourism and civil aviation.The meeting was aimed at exploring ways to make river rafting, paragliding and other tourism activities safer in the state.“Global Position System (GPS) tracking system will be used for paragliding, trekking and other adventure activities. The GPS tracking band will ensure safety of tourists and guides in tough condition so that rescue operation can be carried out immediately,” he said.He said the tourism department is organising various training programs for people associated with adventure activities in the state. “The tourism department will soon start online registration facility for conducting adventure activities. A coordination between tourism, forest, police and health department will be established with an aim of promoting adventure activities in the state,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-to-make-adventure-tourism-safer-with-technology-minister/story-GYIH3Zqv27ZCcUqjGHry9I.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD took ‘U-turn’ on agriculture sector reforms Bills: Punjab Minister||Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister BB Ashu on Sunday took a dig at Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for taking a “U-turn” on the agriculture sector reforms Bills, adding that their MPs should oppose the Bills in Rajya Sabha and put a united front.He accused Akali Dal of changing their position on the Bills after “realising the seriousness of the matter.”“I salute the power of farmers that made Akali Dal take U-turn and stand in their support. They were advocating ordinances but today they have realised the seriousness of the matter. Their MPs should oppose the Bills in Rajya Sabha and put united front,” the Minister told ANI.This came after SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday had said there can be no talks with the Centre until agriculture bills are taken back.“We will go to Punjab now, where party leaders and workers will hold a meeting. Since Shiromani Akali Dal is a party of farmers, we will struggle. There can be no talks with the Centre till the bills are taken back,” Badal had said.Dubbing the SAD chief’s sudden U-turn on the farm ordinances as a cheap gimmick to hoodwink the farming community, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday dared Sukhbir Singh Badal, to quit the BJP-led Centre to prove his party’s sincerity in the matter.Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed the Farmers’ and Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, amid protests by Opposition MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-took-u-turn-on-agriculture-sector-reforms-bills-punjab-minister/story-CkvF0Uk4ptAUK8P1aCtSHL.html
20-09-2020||Pune||Many hsg societies come under PMC’s micro-containment zones||Slums in Pune are now slowly unlocking from the Covid-19 threat and housing societies are new micro-containment zones, according to the Pune municipal corporation (PMC). Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Friday announced new micro-containment zones in 15 regional ward offices and announced a total of 71 micro-containment zones, most of these are housing societies. Earlier, slum pockets had maximum number of Covid-19 cases and were usually locked down as containment zones. However, the last two announcements by the PMC on containment zones has seen many housing societies featuring in the list. The data projects how new Covid-19 positive cases are emerging from housing societies. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sandeep Khardekar, said, “After the city started unlocking, many residents started stepping out of their homes. The PMC had been reporting maximum number of cases from the slum areas in the first phase of the pandemic, however, over the last few weeks, housing societies are reporting a number of positive cases. Many of them prefer to get admitted to private hospitals, but there are not many bed available at private hospitals.”Some housing societies under containment zones:Dhole Patil ward office- Pam Guru Society on BT Kawade road, Laxmi Terrace Society.Dhankavdi- Sahakarnagar ward office- Chandrangan Society, Silver Park Society areas, Telco Colony lane one to seven in Ambegaon, Panchwati Housing SocietyBibvewadi ward office- Mukundnagar area, Gangadham, Vardhmanpura, Isha Emrald society areasYerawada Kalas ward office- Madhuban Society to Malwadi eastern partGhole road ward office- Asha Co-operative housing society on Senapati Bapat roadAhmednagar road- VadgaonSheri ward office- Gera Skyies Society area, Brahma Suncity society areas, Kumar Prime VeraSinhgad ward office- Mango Nest society, Suncity, Manikbaug areaWarje Karvenagar areas- Hingne Home colonyKothrud Bavdhan ward area- Shree Ram Colony, Gadhwe Colony, Vatsalya Nagari, Kumbre Township area.Micro-containment zones: June 2: 63 June 16: 73 June: 24: 74 July 1: 109 July 23: 87 August 1: 75 September 3: 74 September 19: 71||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/many-hsg-societies-come-under-pmc-s-micro-containment-zones/story-W6bccn64qth4Sq4fhArmjO.html
20-09-2020||Pune||PMC claims 15 lakh contacts traced, patients share different story||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has disclosed in its recent report that about 15 lakh contacts of index cases have been traced and screened since March 9, when the first Covid-19 case was reported. These 15 lakh contacts are of index cases which were tracked to break the chain of further infection, claimed the PMC report even as the city’s tally has continued to surge. The PMC claims that it has traced over 15 lakh contacts till 16 September of which four lakh are high-risk contacts, which includes family members mostly or those who might have come in close contact with the person, and remaining 11 lakh were low-risk contacts. A total of 768 teams are on the field doing this work. The average contact tracing is about 12.39 contacts for every index Covid-19 positive person. While the PMC has failed to reach out to contacts in some cases, the lack of communication from private labs and citizens’ resistance to disclose information is proving to be a major hurdle, said public representatives. Vrunda B lives in Katraj and tested positive on August 24. She was contacted by PMC almost 15 days later, when she had completed her home quarantine period, enquiring who had come in contact with her. As she was asymptomatic, Vrunda B was isolated at home after completing due process of filing up a form. Vrunda B said, “I got a call from the civic body after 15 days when I had completed my home isolation period. Before being isolated at home, we completed all the necessary formalities, but were still not contacted by the PMC.” Deepali Yakkundi, a resident of Warje, said, “My child, husband and I tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday morning and as of Saturday night, I have not got any call from the civic body seeking details of those who came in contact with my family. I got my test done from a private lab, but the information has been updated on the Aarogya Setu app which means that the data has been sent to PMC, but we have not got any call from the civic body.” While contact tracing helps health authorities break the chain of the infection, any delay or laxity leads to further spread of the virus. NCP councillor Yogesh Sasane from Hadapsar said that the poor contact tracing mechanism is due to lack of cooperation by private labs. “PMC usually contacts the patient as soon as the report comes and then checks all the places he or she visited in the last eight days or the people they met. The problem comes when the reports reaches late or doesn’t reach the PMC at all. The private labs hide information as requested by the patient which puts many people at risk,” said Sasane. However, in some cases the PMC has been able to gain brownie points in efficiently contacting the person. Rahul Sangoi, a businessman tested positive on September 7 and he said that he got multiple calls from the PMC commissioner’s office, the local ward office and the nearby hospital to check for all the people he might have come in contact in the last eight days. He said, “I also got follow up calls regarding my health daily. My family was also tested.” Vaishali Jadhav, PMC officer responsible for contact tracing, said, “There is a lack of response from people whenever they are contacted. They simply say they have not gone out anywhere in the past one week. In the initial days, they did provide the information, but now the situation is different. Even during the door-to-door survey, they hide information about symptoms. The stigma is so much that some doctors are also being partial towards patients or encouraging such a behaviour. All this leads to poor contact tracing. Also, private labs do not provide information on time. We have sent them show cause notices for late reporting.” Contact Tracing as of September 16 Total Contacts traced: 15, 43, 181 Total High risk contacts: 4, 14, 417 Total Low risk contacts: 11, 28, 764 Average contact tracing: 12.39 Total Teams of field: 768||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-claims-15-lakh-contacts-traced-patients-share-different-story/story-g75iPpCJTq2CD7DGz2Yh8L.html
20-09-2020||Patna||RS Prasad vows help to upgrade Patna hospital||Union minister for law and justice, communications, electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad has assured the Centre’s support to upgrade the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institute, on the lines of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Patna in a bid to emulate the best healthcare facilities in the country. Prasad has asked Dr NR Biswas, director, IGIMS to send him a proposal for a technological upgrade of various super-specialty departments of the institute. He said though the state government was competent, the Centre would assist in IGIMS’ upgrade push.Also Read: Ahead of elections, Bihar gets six V-Cs, seven P-VCsPrasad said the IVF centre, which he inaugurated on Sunday through a video conference, should become a state-of-the-art facility. He said the public is aware of the fact that infertility is no longer incurable. The centre would offer in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) facility of a woman’s egg and a man’s sperm in a laboratory Petri dish. It would also offer intra cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) facility, for those having low sperm count and other complications, where IVF is not successful, said Dr Kalpana Singh, additional professor and head of the department of reproductive medicine, IGIMS.The estimated cost for IVF (in vitro fertilisation) is Rs 30,000 and that for ICSI (intra cytoplasmic sperm injection) is Rs 35,000, excluding the cost of drugs, which may go up to Rs 50,000, depending on the patient’s age. In private clinics, the total cost varies and could go beyond Rs 1.5 lakh, while at IGIMS the procedure would incur an expense of less than Rs 1 lakh, she added. Prasad, who represents Patna Sahib constituency in the Lok Sabha, had contributed Rs 1 crore from his Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for the construction of the two-storied building of the IVF centre. This is the first such government-run facility in Bihar. Also Read: What Bihar will tell us about national politicsHe also inaugurated a building for the physical medicine and rehabilitation (PMR) on the institute’s campus. “The PMR centre will assist in treating sports injury, besides brain and spinal injuries,” said Dr Raj Kumar, the department’s head. The IGIMS is increasing its bed capacity from existing 750 to 2,500. The institute is adding two more hospital blocks of 500 and 1,200 beds, respectively, said Mangal Pandey, minister for health and family welfare, Bihar. Dr Manish Mandal, superintendent, IGIMS said the institute had performed many surgeries on children and cancer patients amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/rs-prasad-vows-help-to-upgrade-patna-hospital/story-he7zN99dOn8l4lWjUVfbsI.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers buying 20,000 tractors a year; experts say encourage cooperatives||Ten lakh farmers in Punjab, one-third (33%) or 3.6 lakh small scale agriculturists among them, bought 20,000 new tractors every year, on average since 2016, data available with the Punjab state transport department shows. Small farmers own less than 5 acre. The cost of a tractor starts from ₹6 lakh, going up to ₹12 lakh. The numbers bought were 19,210 in 2016; 20,327 in 2017; 19,700 in 2018 and 13,645 till September 2020. Experts claim tractors were being bought for residue management machines; social reasons; due to lower tractor availability with co-operative societies and attractive offers being offered on purchase. State agriculture department director Sutantar Kumar Arri said, “The need of the farmers has changed. When we are providing heavy machines for residue management, naturally to deal them they requires big tractors, which is the main reason of buying new tractors. We have conveyed to the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to make new machines compatible with old tractors so that farmers do not bear the extra burden.” Punjab Agricultural University principal economist Sukhpal Singh said of small farmers, 1 lakh small farmers owned tractors. “Of the small farmers who owned tractors, the maximum were under debt or were the ones who have committed suicide. Secondly, they helped the rest of their 2 lakh small farmers in the profession. Smaller farmers faced unfavourable market terms and lower profit.” He added that to prevent their suicide, at least half of the state’s villages must have tractors in co-operative societies.”Punjab co-operative department registrar Vikas Garg said, “The state has 3,500 co-operative societies with just 1,200 tractors with societies. We have been increasing the number of tractors as per demand, with the majority added over the past 2-3 years.” Iqbal Singh, employee of a tractor agency in Moga district, said, “Farmers preferred heavy horsepower tractors, claiming that at least 50-60hp was needed to deal with the new equipment, especially related to stubble burning.” PAU professor, Sarabjeet Singh said social reasons prompted farmers, as they copied other richer farmers. Agricultural expert Ramandeep Singh Mann the state government needed to frame a policy or encourage co-operatives. “There are mainly social reasons behind farmers buying tractors,” he claimed. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said newer machines, especially for crop residue management, required heavy horsepower tractors. “Banks and financial institutions have made loans easy. They are giving Rs 6 lakh loan to a farmer, who owns just two acres. Surplus machinery is not a good trend. Farmer unions need to think about it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-buying-20-000-tractors-a-year-experts-say-encourage-cooperatives/story-wCc6nAX8SO73T0cwLn0b6K.html
20-09-2020||Patna||70-year-old Bihar woman among 12 icons for steel ministry campaign||Sivadasiya Kunwar (70), a poor widow from Bihar’s Kohbarawa village in Saran district, has been selected by the Union Ministry of Steel as one the 12 icons for its Ispati Irada campaign.The initiative was launched a few months ago to promote and highlight individuals who have made rich contributions to develop their community.Kunwar was selected from among the 100 entries for the campaign. Also Read: Anand Mahindra gifts tractor to farmer in Bihar who carved 3 km long canal in 30 yearsIn 2007, she had distributed her family land between her two sons. She had donated her share of the land to establish a village school as the hamlet lacked basic educational infrastructure. A majority of the poor children in Kohbarawa village remained unlettered through the years, including Kunwar’s sons, because of the absence of a school.The village has set up Latoo Maharaj Pathshala on the plot of land donated by Kumwar and has over 150 students in the institution’s rolls. “The Ispati Irada campaign aims to identify people with strong determination. It is about how people support their community with courage and grit. Steel, too, gives a similar kind of support and strength to any concrete structure,” said Dharmendra Pradhan, Union steel minister. Also Read: Ahead of elections, Bihar gets six V-Cs, seven P-VCsIt is good to have icons for the campaign, he added.Pratyush, an employee of the ministry, said Kunwar fitted the campaign’s billing. “She is a natural fit for the Ispati Irada campaign. A documentary has been made on her. We are trying to improve her living conditions,” he saidNeeraj Kumar, who teaches science at the Latoo Maharaj Pathshala, said the villagers are proud of Kumwar’s feat.“Though she is illiterate, she understands the value of education. Others in the village came forward to donate their land after she had made the first move,” he said Arun Akash, a filmmaker, who has made a short film on Kunwar for the ministry, said her selfless act must be highlighted. “She is facing an acute financial crisis and the government must take care of her needs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/70-year-old-bihar-woman-among-12-icons-for-steel-ministry-campaign/story-EISSheUb6EiDXjEeVhtHIK.html
20-09-2020||City||Official probing Sopore man’s death asks family, public to record statements||Mohammad Ahsan Mir, additional district commissioner (ADC), Baramulla, who has been asked to conduct a magisterial investigation into the alleged custodial death of a 23-year-old shopkeeper in Sopore on September 16, has directed the deceased’s relatives and the public to record statements about the case.“The public and the relatives of the deceased, Irfan Ahmad Dar, along with the persons having knowledge about the case are informed to record their statements about the alleged custodial death,” stated a government order that was issued on Sunday.The order said the public would be allowed to record their statements on Sunday and Monday at the ADC office in Sopore and at the ADC office in Baramulla between September 22 and 26.Also Read: BSF foils Pakistan attempt to smuggle drugs, arms, ammo into JammuGN Ittoo, district commissioner (DC), Baramulla, had announced a magisterial probe on September 17, a day after Dar was killed. Mir, who was entrusted with the responsibility to conduct the investigation, has been asked to submit the probe report within 20 days.“Irfan Ahmad Dar, a young boy, of Sidiq Colony in Sopore was found dead near a stone quarry at Tujjar Sharief on September 16 under mysterious circumstances. Tujjar Sharief falls under the jurisdiction of Bomai police station. There was an outcry and it is reported in the media that the deceased was picked up by the police in Sopore on September 15 and he was in their custody. Allegations are levelled against the police for Dar’s custodial killing. The incident was also reported by special superintendent of police (SSP) Sopore,” stated the order of DC, Baramulla. “In a bid to ascertain the truth, a magisterial probe has been instituted into the incident,” it added.Also Read: Farooq Abdullah calls for 4G restoration in J-K, talks with PakistanDar’s body wasn’t handed over to his family members and he was buried at Sonmarg. His relatives had termed his killing a “cold-blooded murder”. Javaid, Dar’s elder brother, had said, “Irfan and I were taken away by the police on Tuesday (September 15) on charges of hiding some militants. Irfan and I was kept apart in the police station. I was feeling unwell in police custody. I had told the policemen that there are closed circuit TV (CCTV) cameras in our house and they are welcome to check the footage of August whether anybody (militants) came.” Dilbag Singh, director-general of police (DGP), J&K, said that a probe was ordered to ascertain the facts. “On Tuesday (September 15), at about 12:45 pm, an OGW (over ground worker) identified as Irfan Ahmad Dar of Sidiq colony in Sopore was apprehended and two Chinese hand grenades were recovered from his possession. A case was registered at a police station in Sopore,” said a spokesperson of J&K Police.He said during the investigation, a police team visited Chairdaji in Tujjar-Sharief along with Dar for recovery of arms and ammunition following his disclosure. “However, the OGW took advantage of the darkness and managed to escape. A separate case was registered in this matter at Bomai police station. His body was found near the stone quarry at Tujjar-Sharief during the search operation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/official-probing-sopore-man-s-death-asks-family-public-to-record-statements/story-wymrtbgdgLyRWhRUw4MZLJ.html
20-09-2020||Pune||Mahabaleshwar tourism hit by pandemic, small vendors suffer||The tourism at Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani, the two popular hill stations near Pune has taken a hit in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Police checkpoints have been installed on the Pune-Bengaluru highway where the officials take a note of the travellers, destination, origin point and phone number. However, the road to Mahabaleshwar was deserted. In the hilly town, horse riding and Venna lake boating has been shut down for tourists. The roads leading to various tourist points like, Sunset point, Arthur point, table land point have been closed for tourists. “I had been inside the four walls during this whole lockdown period, I got to breathe some fresh air at Mahabaleshwar even though all points are closed,” said Deewakar Dutta, a resident of Wagholi. Sanjay Hogade, a shopkeeper opposite Mapro garden, Gureghar who has been running his business for 16 years said he opened his shop yesterday after a six-month break. “I have to bear a heavy loss since most commodities have expired like cold drinks, chikki, and biscuits,” Hogade said. The famous Mapro garden has opened for dine-in but has seen only a few tourists at the restaurant. The tables have been placed at a distance of seven feet from each other. Apoorva Pandey, a tourist said he missed his favourite strawberry cream at Mapro as it wasn’t available due to the less production of strawberry in the garden. A worker at Mapro said the garden has opened from September 5th but is seeing a lukewarm response, even though they are following all sanitization rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mahabaleshwar-tourism-hit-by-pandemic-small-vendors-suffer/story-TVKta9bQZsLtxWpENi4LwM.html
20-09-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Silver linings on a dark pandemic cloud as Pune residents look at ‘new normal’ living||Jumbo facilities can be built in a month, not medical staff We have realised that years of ignoring health infrastructure has led to the present situation of hospital bed shortage and inadequate medical facilities. The coronavirus situation has shown us our priorities, and that is definitely a major silver lining. We should have spent at least 6-5 per cent of our GDP (gross domestic product) as opposed to only 1-2 per cent which we’ve been spending all these years. The pandemic has exposed the health infrastructure which was on a ventilator all these years. Rural medical facilities should be boosted now because we have realised their importance. The pandemic taught us to invest in medical manpower and health infrastructure. We are now also talking about Indian Medical Service like the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and the Indian Police Service (IPS), which will be run by doctors who have administrative expertise. Disaster management is now looked at seriously. Hopefully, now more attention will be paid to opening more medical colleges and colleges for nurses and paramedics. The government and, most importantly, the people realised that although a jumbo facility can be made in less than a month, the experts cannot be created overnight to run those facilities. Officers who ran health departments now know the difference between an oxygen bed and a normal bed, and ICU with and without ventilators. Residents are questioning the administration for their health requirements which were not happening earlier. Sanitation workers and Asha workers who have worked tirelessly all these years are finally earning the respect they truly deserve. Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, who are paid Rs 30 daily, were generally ignored for the work they do. The pandemic exposed the impartiality with respect to salaries. Sanitation workers are not respected as much as doctors and police personnel. Dr Sanjay Patil Opportunity to ramp up public transport The silver lining right now appears to be that people are talking about using bicycles and enhancing public transport. It would be the real silver lining when it actually happens. The road fatalities and accidents have gone down drastically in this pandemic, but this is a temporary change until we take this conversation ahead. The reduced number of accidents shows that too many vehicles on the roads are the real reason of loss of lives among pedestrians and two-wheelers. The government must use this time to ramp up the public transport system. The reason why people hesitate to use public transport is that it is not reliable. If the civic body provides a reliable option, which is possible now, then people will definitely use public transport. A bus that makes six trips can make eight if traffic is less, thereby reducing congestion and crowded buses. It will also increase the income for the civic body. Reduced private vehicles mean no traffic, lesser accidents, lesser fatalities, less pollution and also boosting public transport which is currently on the verge of a permanent breakdown. People are also talking about using bicycles. Such conversations are a silver lining, and if they could become a reality in near future then nothing like it. Ranjit Gadgil A boon for the environment People have definitely started realising that if given a chance nature will always heal itself. A lot of industries, especially IT companies, have realised that work from home is a culture now which reduces congestion and traffic going in and out of IT hubs like Hinjewadi which was a major trouble for people living there. This also means reduced air pollution, sound pollution and dust pollution which has a direct impact on health. It looks like it will be a permanent change. As temporary good news, people will cut down on fuel consumption caused by unnecessary travelling, weekend and leisure outing in cars and bikes. Water pollution has gone down which was caused due to industries, but obviously this is a temporary change. Tree cutting for many projects, which are now looked at as “unnecessary”, has also saved the environment. Also, another interesting conversation that came out in this pandemic is the loneliness that animals in the zoo might face when they are under “lockdown” for the rest of their lives. Many people did pick up this conversation which was not being talked about earlier. It may not be a major change, but the conversation will likely drive to a change for these animals. Vivek Velankar Focus on hygiene, a welcome change The pandemic has shown us how personal hygiene is important. Simple things like washing your hands for 20 seconds or respiratory hygiene or even public hygiene and cleanliness was not considered important, but now everyone in the family is concerned about it. Whenever I go home from the office, my parents tell me to go straight to the bathroom and get a bath; even my bags and shoes are sanitised. While the fear may seem a bit paranoid, but the fact remains that in this situation only germ-phobic and introvert people are safe. Being extra cautious will only help instead of being careless. I know so many people who were least bothered about this and were later found to be infected. Small things like avoiding touching any surface in public places, be it lift buttons or even our own private vehicles which may have come in contact with so many people. Everyone is a suspected Covid-19 patient now and so personal hygiene is the only vaccine we have as of now. Rahul Bhagat Got some much-needed family time Although I do miss playing with my friends without masks, I have realised that I get more time to play because I save time on travelling to school in the school bus. I also get to spend more time with my family. Even though they are working at home, I can go and talk to anyone anytime I want. I can discuss whatever I feel like which wasn’t possible earlier because my schedule was so tight-packed from school early morning to tuitions and homework. My mom is always at home even though she is working. We take a break every now and then to play some indoor games. I have learnt so many things during this time. I also looked at some old pictures of my mom’s childhood which we got when we cleaned the house together. Tanishka Gowda||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-silver-linings-on-a-dark-pandemic-cloud-as-pune-residents-look-at-new-normal-living/story-Ix85ouHzzU5Ay8NJpM3M2I.html
20-09-2020||Pune||40 nurses arrive from Hyderabad to work at COEP jumbo facility in Pune||For smooth functioning of the College of Engineering (COEP), Pune, jumbo Covid facility, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has deployed 40 nurses to look after patients there. The nurses arrived in the city from Hyderabad on Saturday evening. Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner tweeted, “40 ICU nurses arrived from HYD to PUNE to serving at COEP Jumbo Medical Facility.” (sic).“Nurses who came today from Hyderabad will be taking charge of their duties after two-three days,” said Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal corporation commissioner.Over the past weeks, the jumbo facility has seen multiple complaints of mismanagement and witnessed numerous deaths including that of a TV9 Marathi news channel journalist Pandurang Raykar. Since then, the Pune district administration changed operating agency of the hospital and senior officials like divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar are daily conducting a review of the centre and visiting it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/40-nurses-arrive-from-hyderabad-to-work-at-coep-jumbo-facility-in-pune/story-KWQiqd6oyUtGHsVXv2PG5I.html
20-09-2020||Pune||Outgoing ppolice commissioner of Pune“satisfied” with term; new chief to take over||The outgoing police commissioner of Pune, K Venkatesham carried a look of satisfaction on Saturday as he relinquished the charge to make way for Amitabh Gupta to take over on Sunday.“Exceptional work was done by the social policing cell and the police during the lockdown,” said Venkatesham who will take over as additional director general (special operations) at the director general’s office in Mumbai.Venkatesham’s colleagues praised the effective method of administration that the outgoing police chief brought to the city. The highlights of his time in Pune include the Elgar Parishad case; launch of the WhatsApp police helpline for citizens of Pune; externment tracking system (ExTra); the growth of the Twitter handle of Pune police; the infrastructure overhaul in the city police system; the construction and launch of the Bharosa cell which has cells for women, children in conflict with law, and senior citizens; the construction and launch of the traffic police office in Yerawada among others. “The Supreme Court target for reduction of road fatalities was 10 per cent, and in Pune we managed to reduce it by 23-26 per cent,” he said while addressing a press gathering on Saturday.Some of the initiatives that he mentioned are still in the works which include the geo-tagging of private CCTV cameras and the intelligent traffic management system (ITMS) in association with Smart City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/outgoing-ppolice-commissioner-of-pune-satisfied-with-term-new-chief-to-take-over/story-Dbn8WkmQ0LVCBqT6JM10dK.html
20-09-2020||Pune||Post unlocking, surge in anti-corruption cases in Maharashtra||Even as the anti-corruption cases in Maharashtra have gone down during the Covid-19 lockdown period, the tally has increased after reopening post July. This, according to officials, is a result of more and more people stepping out while the economic activity also slowly returning to normalcy.During the month of April, when the state and centre imposed a stringent lockdown, a meagre seven cases were lodged compared to 58 in 2019. Similarly, in May 2020 as many as 30 cases were lodged and 43 arrests took place compared with 76 cases and 106 arrests last year. In June 2020, when curbs were partially lifted, the total number of cases rose to 64 with 87 persons arrests by officials of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). This was followed by 56 cases in July including 78 arrests, 48 cases and 58 arrests in August and 32 cases along with 45 arrests in September till 17th. The statistics reveal that the two lockdown months of April and May saw a reduction of 88 per cent and 61 per cent in Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) cases compared to the similar period in 2019. In June 2019, 80 cases were lodged with 103 arrests with 77 cases including 104 arrests in July, 55 cases and 79 arrests in August and 41 cases and 65 arrests in September last year. From January 1 to September 17, the anti-corruption agency has lodged an aggregate of 435 cases and arrested 498 persons compared with 623 cases and 847 arrests in 2019. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has said that the number of aggregate cases in the state in 2020 have gone down by an average of 30 per cent when compared to 2019. Pune region was at the top of the list of eight ACB divisions between Jan 1 till Sept 17 with as many as 106 cases lodged across the division wherein 153 accused have been arrested. Following the Pune division is the Nagpur division with 71 cases while the third position is occupied by Nashik with 64 cases. According to Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) superintendent of police (Pune) Rajesh Bansode, with offices reopening and people stepping out in a large number, the tally has seen a rise. “During Covid-19 lockdown, there was a less number of working staff everywhere including in the ACB office. So naturally, the cases came down,” said Bansode. The officials arrested by the ACB have been attached to the government departments like revenue, municipal councils, revenue department, police, excise department, zilla parishad, sales tax, education department, prisons, forests and public health department. Besides, other lesser known government departments have also come under the anti-corruption radar of the agency. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has jurisdiction over entire Maharashtra including Mumbai, and its officers exercise the powers and functions and have the privileges of police officers throughout the state. However, for the purpose of administrative convenience, the bureau is divided into eight ranges ACB bureausGreater Mumbai unit - Greater MumbaiThane unit - Thane, Navi Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad-Alibaugh, Ratnagiri and SindhudurgNashik unit - Nashik, Dhule, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon and NandurbarPune unit - Pune, Satara, Solapur, Kolhapur and SangliNagpur unit - Nagpur, Bhandara, Wardha, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and GondiaAurangabad unit - Aurangabad, Beed, Osmanabad and JalnaNanded unit - Nanded, Parbhani, Latur and HingoliAmaravati unit -Amaravati, Akola, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Washim||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/post-unlocking-surge-in-anti-corruption-cases-in-maharashtra/story-47V58o3XicOmk5xN9mlJfO.html
20-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Tourists need 2-day bookings, negative Covid-19 reports to enter||Tourists travelling to Uttarakhand will now have to book a minimum two-day stay, as compared to the seven days needed earlier, according to the latest guidelines released by the state government. According to the fresh guidelines released late Saturday, tourists visiting the state will mandatorily have to register on the Dehradun Smart City Limited website prior to travel. “Tourists shall upload and bring RT-PCR/ TrueNAT/ CBNAAT/ Antigen test (negative report) done not earlier than 96 hours before the arrival to Uttarakhand border. In case they are coming without COVID test report, they will have an option of paid antigen testing either at the Border Check Post, airport, railway stations or at any other ICMR authorised COVID testing lab in Uttarakhand,” stated the guidelines. Also Read: Schools to reopen in these states from Monday: Check list, rules, guidelinesThe guidelines also mentioned that hotels can tie up with private labs to provide Covid-19 testing facility at their hotels. “It shall be the responsibility of hotel management to ensure that before tourists are allowed to check in, their Covid-19 test has been done.” If the tourist is found Covid-19 positive, then the hotel management will have to inform the district administration immediately. The district administrations have also been instructed to make arrangements to check the reports submitted by the tourists randomly. The state government has also relaxed norms for home quarantine. All asymptomatic persons, if travelling for a specific purpose like business, exams, industry or personal distress, for a duration of less than seven days then, “they can attend to their purpose of visit but should continuously monitor their health and if they develop symptoms then they shall contact the local health authority.” Such persons will have to adhere to all norms of safety and social distancing as per the guidelines of the central government. Also Read: Uttarakhand reports biggest single-day spike with 2,078 new Covid-19 cases, 14 people dieIf asymptomatic persons travel to the state for a longer duration then they will be placed in home quarantine for 10 days and have to monitor their health themselves. On developing symptoms, such persons will have to contact the local health authority. The guidelines also mention that officials of the Uttarakhand government, who are going outside the state for work, on returning after a duration of more than five days “shall get their Covid-19 test conducted which is to be ensured by their respective institutions/departments.” For asymptomatic persons who travel outside the state for five days or less will be exempted from quarantine on returning. However, if they stay away for more than five days, then they will have to quarantine at home for 10 days. However, asymptomatic persons who visit the state for more than five days will be exempted from quarantine if they have undergone a Covid-19 test (not earlier than 96 hours) and have a negative report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-tourists-now-need-two-day-bookings-and-negative-covid-19-reports-to-enter/story-IAhmcrt1Q43pXfetbdfWsM.html
20-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police arrest 22-year-old who shot dead village head in Pithoragarh||A 22-year-old Uttarakhand man who had allegedly shot dead a 52-year-old village head (gram Pradhan) in Pithoragarh’s Berinag area on Saturday evening was arrested, said police. Hem Chandra Pant, in-charge Berinag police station, said on Saturday evening that the village head of Banri Machikhet village, Pushkar Singh Dangi, was allegedly shot dead by Niraj Singh, a 22-year-old youth from the same village. “The accused had stolen the licensed gun of the deceased’s younger brother,” Pant said. Pant said following the incident, police started a search for the accused, who was hiding after the crime. “On Sunday, we succeeded in arresting him. He was hiding in one of the toilets in the village,” he said. Also Read: Leopard kills 7-year-old girl in Uttarakhand’s AlmoraPant said during the preliminary investigation, it has come to light that there was some enmity between the two families. “We have started an investigation in the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-arrest-22-year-old-who-shot-dead-village-head-in-pithoragarh/story-N2YVts6M5GtULYoCDb7HJJ.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Govt move to harm farmers’ interests unfortunate: Akal Takht jathedar||Speaking up for farmers protesting against the farm bills introduced in Parliament, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has said they are the country’s backbone and the government’s move to harm their interests is unfortunate.In a video released on Sunday, Giani Harpreet Singh said, “the economy of India is based on agriculture. If we want to save this economy and uplift the standards of living of the Indian people, farmers must be saved.”The legislation, “which harms farmers and their occupation must not be implemented at any cost. All the farmers provide food to the people of the world. So, we must prevent their condition from deteriorating further. For their betterment, the governments should take necessary steps,” he said.“Today, farmers are in a mess and suffering on the streets in a state of neglect. Their voices must be heard. Their sorrows need to be addressed. This is quite unfortunate that governments are intent on destroying the farmers who are the backbone of the country. Nothing is more unfortunate than this,” he added.The bills in question are the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020, The Farmers Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020.Farmers across Punjab and other states of the country are protesting against the bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-move-to-harm-farmers-interests-unfortunate-akal-takht-jathedar/story-7nhFgL8eoT5FjFnPJFLYAN.html
20-09-2020||Pune||Maharashtra home minister backs top cop who gave Wadhwans a lockdown pass||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said newly-appointed Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta’s track record has been good even as he was punished for a “misdeed”, a reference to an e-pass issued by Gupta to Wadhwan brothers in violation of regulations during the lockdown to enable their travel to Mahabaleshwar. Gupta, a 1992-batch IPS officer, took charge as Pune’s commissioner of police on Sunday, three days after his appointment was announced, raising eyebrows. The former principal secretary (special) at home department, Gupta, was accused of allowing businessmen brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel from Khandala near Pune to Mahabaleshwar in Satara district amid the lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Both Wadhwan brothers have been under the scanner in cases of financial irregularities involving Yes Bank and Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank. As the news of businessmen brothers travelling to Mahabaleshwar created an uproar Gupta was sent on a leave while a departmental inquiry was initiated against him. “During the probe, he accepted his mistake. However, Gupta has a very good previous track record. At the same time, he has been punished for his act,” said Deshmukh on Sunday while interacting with journalists in Pune. Also Read: 12,000-15,000 persons tested at Thane station for Covid, causes chaosWhen asked what exactly was the punishment meted out to the IPS officer, Deshmukh preferred to remain silent. On Marathas’ opposition to initiating the recruitment process for 12,500 posts in police department, Deshmukh said a legal opinion is being sought on keeping 13% posts vacant for the community till Supreme Court takes a decision on the matter. Also Read: Constable jumps into Thane lake to save woman from drowning“The process of recruitment in the police department was initiated around two months back and the cabinet approved it only recently after the Supreme Court verdict. Since the process of recruiting for 12,500 posts will take time and government does not want anyone to be left out, it is planning to keep 13% posts vacant and reserved for the Maratha community,” said Deshmukh while responding to Maratha outfits’ opposition to beginning of recruitment until the stay on Maratha reservation, given by the SC, is lifted. Rajya Sabha MP Sambhaji Raje and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis have opposed government’s move to go ahead with the recruitment process and termed it as “rubbing salt to injury”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-minister-backs-top-cop-who-gave-wadhwans-a-lockdown-pass/story-dewFryVwqutQwP0R9VzRGN.html
20-09-2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills 7-year-old girl in Uttarakhand’s Almora||A girl (7) was mauled to death by a leopard when she was playing near her house in Uttarakhand’s Almora district, said forest officials. The incident occurred on Saturday evening in a village that falls under the jurisdiction of Bhikiasain nagar panchayat. Mohan Ram Arya, forest range officer, Bhikiasain, said, “The girl’s body has been recovered from a nearby bush of the village following a search operation. A cage is being installed to catch the leopard.” Also Read: Maha forest department to tag leopards as part of four-year academic studyDivya, the daughter of Girish Bisht, was playing with other children under a mango tree near her house when the leopard appeared and attacked her. Her mother Kavita and her grandparents were away working on their farm. The leopard dragged Divya to a nearby bush. Children, who were playing with her, raised an alarm and informed local villagers about the incident. Soon, Kavita and other villagers rushed to the spot. Forest and revenue officials also reached the spot and started a search operation. Later, her body was recovered from a nearby bush, said Arya.Divya was a Grade II student and her father works in a private firm in Delhi, he added. Arya was informed by local villagers about a leopard that had been on the prowl in the area for the past three months and had killed a few cattle and dogs. Bisht, a member of Bhikiasain nagar panchayat, demanded an immediate setting up of a cage to catch the leopard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/leopard-kills-7-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-s-almora/story-q1zQPOoQuAvjms2Eaf7qGN.html
20-09-2020||City||Meghalaya woman carried 7km on bamboo stretcher, delivers twins||A pregnant woman in Meghalaya was carried by fellow villagers on a makeshift bamboo stretcher for nearly 7km to the nearest primary health centre (PHC) where she gave birth to twins. According to details posted on social media by government officials and agencies to highlight the importance of institutional deliveries, the incident took place at Rongrong PHC in East Garo Hills district on Friday. The PHC is located around 94km from William Nagar, the district headquarters. “Great determination shown by people from Gilmatdam village who carried a pregnant woman on a bamboo stretcher so that she can deliver at the hospital,” a Facebook status posted on Saturday by the official page of East Garo Hills deputy commissioner Sushil Tembe read. Also Read: ‘Schools will be partially opened up from September 21 in Meghalaya’: Rymbui“It’s (the village) around 6 to 7km away from the PHC. She delivered healthy twins,” the post, with two photos, added. One of the photos showed a group carrying the pregnant woman on a stretcher and the other showed her with the newborn twins at the PHC. The woman, Jingme Momin, 28, and her twins, a boy and a girl, were discharged from the PHC on Sunday. According to another Facebook post by National Health Mission, Meghalaya, the woman and the fellow villagers had to cross the river on a bamboo raft to reach the Rongrong PHC. “The road from the woman’s village to the PHC is usually motorable during the dry season. But it can’t be used by vehicles during monsoon. Plus, the bridge near the bazaar area is being repaired,” deputy commissioner Tembe informed. “Villagers under Rongrong PHC, East Garo Hills, brought a pregnant woman by a bamboo raft to the health facility for institutional delivery,” NHM Meghalaya posted on Facebook on Friday. “Beautiful are the lives saved by the bravehearts who are willing to take an extra step forward without raising any question or doubt their ability to shoulder the responsibility,” the post added praising the villagers who brought the woman to the PHC. The social media posts have garnered lots of ‘likes’ and comments with most users lauding the efforts of the villagers while several others pointing out the need to have more healthcare centres and better roads and bridges connecting remote villages to hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/meghalaya-woman-carried-on-bamboo-stretcher-for-7km-to-phc-delivers-twins/story-e311G00SjFKnQPjWMI9gmJ.html
20-09-2020||Patna||Police, protestors face off in Bihar’s Bettiah after 2 hurt in road mishap||After two bike-borne men met with an accident near Supriya cinema road in Bettiah of Bihar, locals held the driver of a truck captive, went on a rampage and attacked a police outpost, leaving three policemen injured on Saturday.The protesters also accused the police of using brute force in which four women were injured.According to police, the trouble started around 10 am when two bike-borne men skidded off the road as a rope thrown by a lorry driver came in their way.Also Read: PM Modi to lay foundation stone of 9 highway projects in Bihar on Sept 21“Irked by the accident of two men, some locals gathered and took the driver of the lorry to their colony and held him captive. We, however, rushed and secured his release from their clutches as soon as we came to know about it,” said Manish Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Kalibagh police outpost.Also Read: Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: JAP eyes Congress’ backing to enter Grand AllianceAround 11am, a large number of people including women, armed with brooms and lathis, thronged Kalibagh police outpost and demanded that the driver be handed over to them. They pelted stones at the police outpost, abused and broke the flower pots placed there in protest. Three policemen suffered minor injuries in the attack. When the situation appeared to be spinning out of control, the police chased them away.“There was no provocation on our part at all. For no reason, they resorted to a lathi charge in which four women were injured,” said a protester.The injured men were undergoing treatment at a government hospital in the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/police-protestors-face-off-in-bihar-s-bettiah-after-2-hurt-in-road-mishap/story-JSj7h6x9btQ3uqCB87piQM.html
20-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police on alert amid farmers’ protests on agriculture bills||Delhi Police on Sunday increased security in the national capital amid the ongoing farmers’ protest in the neighbouring Punjab and Haryana, against the three bills related to the agriculture sector.“Delhi Police is on alert with respect to the farmers’ protest in the neighbouring States. We have deployed forces as a precautionary measure in Ashok Nagar-Ghazipur area and Delhi Haryana border,” news agency ANI quoted an official as saying.Earlier in the day, workers of Punjab Youth Congress and farmers arrived at Delhi-Chandigarh national highway in Punjab’s Zirakpur to take part in a tractor rally from Zirakpur to Delhi, against the farm bills.In Haryana, farmer unions will be in the northern districts of Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Ambaka, Karnal, and Kaithal and the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni will lead the agitation in Yamunanagar by blocking the NH 344, near Milk Majra toll plaza.The protests come as Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar moved three agriculture bills in the Rajya Sabha.These bills are -- the Farmers’ and Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.Under the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the electronic trading of farmers’ produce is permitted and allows the setting up transaction platforms for facilitating direct online buying and selling of farm products.Also read | Agriculture bills passed in Lok Sabha, farmers protest: All you need to knowThe Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 provides for a farming agreement prior to the production or rearing of any farm produce. A guaranteed price to be paid for the purchase of farming produce will be mentioned in such agreements.The legislation will also allow the government to invoke the essential commodities act only if retail prices rise 50% in case of non-perishables and 100% in the case of perishable items from the average retail prices in the preceding 12 months or last five years.Agriculturists, who have been agitating against the bills passed in the Lok Sabha earlier, said they are “anti-farmer” and fear they will end the mandi system.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-on-alert-amid-farmers-protests-on-agriculture-bills/story-YCgfcVzBpqJjI391DDU0tJ.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers gear up to block highways amid heavy police deployment||Farmers have started gathering at designated spots following a call to block national and state highways on Sunday to protest against three ordinances of the Union government they label as ‘anti farmer’.Most of the protesters are arriving at the venues on tractor trailers, motorcycles and cars ahead of the schedule beginning at 12 noon and likely to continue up to 3pm.Farmer leaders earlier marshalled protesters, asking them to assemble at the venues in large numbers.According to initial reports, farmer unions will focus on the northern districts of Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Karnal and Kaithal with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni leading the agitation in Yamunanagar by blocking the NH344, near the Milk Majra toll plaza.Charuni has uploaded several video messages on social media urging farmers not to get misled by the government and join the protest.Fake news being spread: Charuni“News is being spread that the national highways will not be blocked. This news is fake and I appeal to the farmers to block all national and state highways, besides Chandigarh-Delhi (NH-44),” Charuni told his supporters in a video message on Sunday morning.However, according to reports received, farmers will not block NH44.Following instructions by the state home department the district administrations has also ensured heavy police deployment to allow traffic to move smoothly on highways.Arrangements made to divert trafficTalking to Hindustan Times, Yamunanagar superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goyal said, “Our priority will be to convince the farmers and we will request them not to block the highways, but if they do so then we have made arrangements to divert traffic so that commuters do not face problems.”Even as Kurukshetra remained a hot-spot for the farmers, the Haryana government faced flak for a lathicharge on protesters on September 10.Arrangements have been made this time round to ensure such incidents are not repeated, sources have said.Kurukshetra SP Astha Modi said seven points had been identified in the district where farmers were likely to hold protests and block traffic, but the district police had made elaborate arrangements to divert traffic and ensure that the agitation remained peaceful.“We have also planed to divert traffic on NH44 from Pipli to avoid traffic jams as there were reports of protests by a political party in Ambala,” Modi added.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, meanwhile, appealed to farmers to not block the highways. He also invited farmer leaders for talks. In a statement issued late on Saturday night, Khattar said everyone had the right to express views, but maintaining peace in the state was also the prime duty of any government.He said the farm ordinances were entirely in the interest of farmers and it was unfortunate to see the opposition parties blatantly politicising the issue to achieve their vested interests.Farmer leaders, however, said they were not invited for talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-gear-up-to-block-highways-amid-heavy-police-deployment/story-NI7kY9KxoWxDXCuVe2SgRM.html
20-09-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal urges Delhi residents to join anti-dengue campaign||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to residents of the national capital to call up their friends and relatives and urge them to join the “10 Hafte –10 Baje –10 Minute (10 weeks, 10 o’ clock, 10 minutes)” campaign against dengue and other vector-borne diseases such as malaria and chikungunya.“Now, we have to call up our friends and relatives and ask them to join the campaign. The public should be convinced that this is our collective fight against dengue,” according to a press statement.On Sunday, all cabinet ministers of the Kejriwal government, Rajya Sabha (RS) members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), members of the Delhi legislative assembly (MLAs) and other party leaders joined the initiative and posted photographs on social media. Also Read: ‘Defeat them, this is what farmer wants’: Kejriwal on farm bills in Rajya SabhaSeveral AAP supporters and volunteers also joined the citizen campaign and took to social media in a similar way.The campaign urges the public to inspect their homes for any possible sources of stagnant water, which may lead to the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes that spread vector-borne diseases. The campaign was launched last year in a bid to rein in the number of dengue cases and deaths.The participants, including Kerjriwal, pledged that they would devote 10 minutes at 10 am every Sunday for 10 weeks to inspect their homes for stagnant water and clean it to avoid breeding of Aedes mosquitoes and prevent the spread of vector-borne diseases.In 2015, Delhi had recorded 15,867 cases of dengue and 60 deaths. The national capital had recorded 2,036 cases and two deaths last year, according to the data shared by the Delhi government.The CM urged religious organisations, cultural groups and resident welfare associations (RWA) to endorse the campaign.BS Vohra, the president of an umbrella group of RWAs in east Delhi, said, “We shall endorse this campaign. It significantly contributes in creating awareness about fighting dengue. The government should consider launching another campaign to create more awareness about sanitation, social distancing, respiratory etiquettes etc; because of a recent spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-urges-delhi-residents-to-join-anti-dengue-campaign/story-vDcmut18Y0pL313fWSecKJ.html
20-09-2020||Delhi||Announcement of new Delhi BJP team likely by end of September||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to announce its new state team by the end of this month. While the state unit has partially announced its new team in the first week of September with the appointments of district and ward-level in-charge, the announcement of the state-level team was deferred.With other political parties starting preparations for the municipal elections, senior BJP leaders are of the opinion that the work at the grassroot level must start early. The BJP, which has been in power in all the three municipal corporations for the past 13 years, has been under attack from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over its performance. Also Read: ‘Politically-sophisticated’ attempt to influence Delhi elections on Facebook before it was taken down: Ex employeeThe rejig, party members said, has been long overdue. Former Delhi BJP president and northeast Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari’s tenure—Tiwari was appointed the state chief in December 2016—was extended due to the assembly elections earlier this year, and later due to the Covid-19 pandemic.While the current state unit chief Adesh Gupta took charge in June, he couldn’t announce his team due to the outbreak of the pandemic. In September, Gupta announced the appointment of district and ward-level in-charges. A senior BJP leader said, “Now that he has tested positive for Covid, the process will get further delayed. The new state team is likely to be announced by the end of this month.”Also Read: Election Commission staffer tests positive for Covid-19 in DelhiThe biggest challenge for the BJP, which was limited to single-digit seats in the recent assembly elections, is to regain the lost ground. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won 62 seats while BJP got just eight seats in the elections held earlier this year.While the BJP has been out of power in the Delhi assembly, the saffron party has been ruling the three civic bodies for 13 years. Despite perceived anti-incumbency sentiments in 2017, the party won 184 seats, 46 seats more than it had won in 2012, in the three municipal elections.Another senior leader said, “We need to start an aggressive campaign at the earliest. Though we started the dengue awareness campaign in August, the AAP-led Delhi government has started its own campaign. We will have to counter it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/announcement-of-new-delhi-bjp-team-likely-by-end-of-september/story-vfstF7r8LGK8Sw4qC09iiJ.html
20-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan imposes Section 144 in 11 districts after Covid-19 surge||Amid a sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Rajasthan government has imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in 11 districts to curb the spread of the virus. Section 144 prohibits the gathering of more than four people at a place. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot took the decision late Saturday during a review meeting on the pandemic. Section 144 has been imposed in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali, and Nagaur. In public places, people will have to wear mask and ensure social distancing. The collectors of the respective districts will issue orders in this regard. Also Read: 14 more deaths, 1,834 new Covid cases logged in RajasthanThe chief minister decided to continue the ban on socio-religious events across the state till October 31. The exemptions—20 persons can attend a funeral and 50 can attend a wedding—will be continued. Gehlot assured people that proper arrangements have been made for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state. There is no shortage of life-saving devices such as oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators in any district. A state-level helpline 181 will be operational from Monday to provide advice or information related to Covid-19. The CM has also directed the setting up of a 24x7 war room at the state and district levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/increase-in-covid-19-cases-rajasthan-imposes-section-144-in-11-districts/story-Qm2WbfPVv7tIWh3JR775VO.html
20-09-2020||Lucknow||Madhur Bhandarkar meets CM Yogi Adityanath, discusses new film city||Filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar met Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow on Sunday morning. The meeting took place at around 10 am and the discussions centred on the CM’s announcement on Friday about the country’s “biggest and most beautiful film city” to be set up in UP’s Gautam Budh Nagar district. The CM gifted Bhandarkar a coin with Lord Ram’s inscription on it; a copy of the RamCharitmanas, an epic poem in the Awadhi language that was composed by the 16th-century bhakti poet Goswami Tulsidas; a garland made of basil leaves and a coffee table book on the Kumbh Mela that was held at Prayagraj last year, said the people familiar with the matter. Also Read: Yogi Adityanath orders land hunt for India’s biggest film city near NoidaSome ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders said the meeting assumed significance in the backdrop of the film city announcement. During a meeting to review development works in UP’s Meerut division (comprising Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Baghpat and Gautam Budh Nagar districts) via a video conference on Friday night, the CM had asked officials to find a suitable plot in Gautam Budh Nagar district for setting up the proposed film city. “The CM announced to set up the biggest and most beautiful film city of the country in Gautam Budh Nagar district. He instructed officials to search for a suitable plot in or around Noida, Greater Noida or Yamuna Expressway and prepare an action plan to that effect,” said a statement issued by the UP government. Actor Kangana Ranaut has lauded the CM for the announcement. Dr Chandramohan, secretary of the BJP’s UP unit, said that the proposed film city would generate revenue, create jobs and also help showcase the state’s rich heritage. “There are vast untapped spots in UP that have pristine natural beauty. Though the project (film city) has been talked about for long, now it has got the much-needed push,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/madhur-bhandarkmar-meets-cm-yogi-adityanath-discusses-new-film-city/story-Kxbfu41g1H827vjAQdJL5M.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi’s Covid-19 toll reaches 288, 161 of them in May||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have crossed the 3,000 mark in densely populated Dharavi, one of Asia’s largest slums, which has reported an uptick in daily viral outbreak cases in the last 10 days.However, Covid-19-related deaths have gone down on a month-on-month basis there. A total of 288 deaths have been reported in Dharavi until September 14, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) latest data.The maximum number of deaths in Dharavi due to the viral infection was reported in May.Also Read: India added 461,587 Covid-19 cases in a week, recovery rate nears 80%Data showed that the slum cluster reported 69 deaths in April, 161 in May, 33 in June, 10 in July, 13 in August and two until September 14.Dharavi falls in G North ward of the BMC, which also covers Dadar and Mahim. There has been a consistent decrease in Covid-19-related mortalities in Dadar and Mahim on a month-on-month basis. In April, Dadar had reported two deaths, followed by 30 in May, 34 in June, 44 in July, 17 in August and seven until September 14. Mahim had recorded five deaths in April, 39 in May, 29 in June, 11 in July, 23 in August and two until September 14. BMC’s G North ward has reported 532 deaths until September 14.Also Read: Rs 137 cr: Amount Navi Mumbai civic body has spent to tackle Covid-19BMC officials said there has been an uptick in Covid-19 cases in the last few days because of the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions, which were enforced since end-March in a bid to prevent the outbreak, and an aggressive testing mechanism. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G North ward, said, “The number of Covid-19-related deaths has come down. The improved case fatality rate (CFR) suggests that we have been able to detect the viral infection among patients in the initial stages. We are also conducting free testing camps.”Dighavkar added: “There has been an uptick in Covid-19 cases Dharavi in the last few days. This is because of increased testing and unlocking. A total of 33 new Coviod-19 cases were detected on September 11 among migrant workers, who have returned to the slum cluster because of easing of the lockdown restrictions. More cases came to light following contact tracing.”In August, Dharavi had reported 229 Covid-19 cases, as compared to 243 until September 19. The congested slums had reported 75 cases of viral outbreak between September 1 and 10. While the corresponding figure between September 11 and 19 stands at 168. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-reports-288-deaths-due-to-covid-19-161-of-them-in-may/story-WVcEWdbDjtqGUScD6yhINN.html
20-09-2020||Lucknow||4 killed, 9 injured as truck hits tempo in Ayodhya||Four people were killed while nine others were injured in an accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya district when a speeding truck hit a tempo plying on the wrong side of the road on NH-28 early morning on Sunday, said police officials.All the deaths and injuries were among the passengers in the tempo, which was moving on the wrong side of the highway connecting Lucknow, Ayodhya and Gorakhpur.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the deaths and issued directions to the Ayodhya district authorities to ensure proper treatment to the injured.According to the police, the incident took place near Sohawal crossing under Raunahi police station limits when a group of fishermen were going from Bhadrasha to Demhwa Ghat of Saryu for fishing at around 5 am. All deceased and injured were residents of Poorakalandar village of Bhadrasha area.Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of police, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar said it was the head on collision between the truck and the tempo that led to the deaths of four people including the tempo driver, while seven others were critically injured and undergoing treatment at the Ayodhya district hospital. He said two of the injured were discharged after treatment. He added that the local police are further investigating the incident after registering a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/4-killed-9-injured-as-truck-hits-tempo-in-ayodhya/story-uvXcjU3IYYPCNMPvFtv2bJ.html
20-09-2020||City||BSF foils Pakistan attempt to smuggle drugs, arms, ammo into Jammu||Alert Border Security Force (BSF) personnel foiled a bid to smuggle arms, ammunition and narcotics into India from Pakistan at Arnia along the 198km international border (IB) in the RS Pura sector of Jammu division of the union territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. “The consignment that comprised 62 packets of drugs, two pistols and four magazines was being pushed via a pipe near the Budhwar post around 2 am on Sunday,” said NS Jamwal, inspector-general (I-G), BSF, Jammu. Also Read: Farooq Abdullah calls for 4G restoration in J-K, talks with PakistanThe BSF troops deployed at Budhwar and Bullechak posts observed suspicious movement of around four Pakistani nationals near the IB during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday and fired at them.“Around four Pakistanis beat a hasty retreat. Their contacts must have been on the Indian side as well, who may have also escaped following the firing by the troops,” said Jamwal. The officer said searches were launched at the first light on Sunday.Also Read: Pak trying to promote terrorism in J&K in every possible way, says DGP Dilbag Singh“We recovered 62 packets of narcotics, which are likely to contain heroin, two pistols, four magazines and some ammunition from the spot,” he said. “The drugs are yet to be tested. Usually, Pakistan tries to push through heroin,” he added. Earlier, on Friday, security forces had arrested three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LET) terrorists at Rajouri in the Jammu division after they had picked a consignment of arms and ammunition and Rs 1 lakh in cash that was dropped by a Pakistani drone.On June 20, security forces had shot down an arms-laden Pakistani drone at Rathua in Kathua district’s Hiranagar sector. The BSF authorities had also detected a trans-border tunnel in the Jammu’s division’s Samba sector.Drugs and cash sent via hawala are part of Pakistan’s strategy to push narco-terrorism into J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-foils-pakistan-attempt-to-smuggle-drugs-arms-ammo-into-jammu/story-239u9Jt3xYTB8ApEcqfptK.html
20-09-2020||Lucknow||UP government receives suggestions to rename Agra’s Mughal Museum||The decision of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to rename Mughal Museum after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj has brought the under-construction museum into the limelight. The government has been receiving several suggestions for a new name.On Saturday, veteran of Agra’s tourism trade and former president of Tourism Guild of Agra Arun Dang recommended renaming the museum to Agra Museum, and not confine it to any specific dynasty or individual. On Friday, Akhil Bhartiya Jaat Mahasabha demanded the museum be renamed after Maharaja Surajmal, because he and his son Raja Ratan Singh had ruled Agra in the eighteenth century. Also Read: Agra hotels set to welcome tourists as Taj Mahal reopens from September 21Meanwhile, Agra Development Foundation has distanced itself from the renaming controversy, but has demanded that museum should be capable of drawing the attention of tourists. “The museum should host live shows of classical, folk dances, Krishna Leela. Agra’s crafts, including zardozi, sculpture and carpets, should find a place in the museum. There can be miniature models of historical monuments and temples in the region,” KC Jain, the secretary of Agra Development Foundation, suggested. “An auditorium where shows canvas the rich cultural of the heritage city, which was once the capital of the Mughal empire, should be planned. Wax statues of those who have cast their impression in making Agra what it is, should be there too. Sur Sarovar, Chambal sanctuary, Taj nature walk, Bateshwar, etc. could be highlighted,” suggested Jain. “Tourists should be allowed to watch live exhibitions of craft, including inlay work on marble, carpet-making, zardozi-making, glass toy-making, etc. Tourists can also gain knowledge about Agra’s petha and the footwear industry. We can highlight lesser known monuments here so that tourists stay longer to view these sites,” said Pooran Dawar, the president of Agra Development Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-government-receives-suggestions-to-rename-agra-s-mughal-museum/story-IkxV0DhbJcJ549qaFrLr7L.html
20-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Plasma therapy to start in eight north Bengal districts||The West Bengal government will start plasma therapy for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in eight districts in north Bengal next week. So far, 28 recovered patients have donated their blood for plasma extraction. The eight districts in the region have reported 312 deaths, while 34,959 have been infected by SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, until Friday. West Bengal health department’s data showed that 30,510 people have recovered from their viral infection. Anirban Roy, a dentist, who had tested Covid-19 positive on June 4, was the first donor for the plasma therapy.Also Read: Herd immunity unviable, Covid-19 vaccine the only solution Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed convalescent plasma to be used for moderately ill Covid-19 patients. Convalescent plasma therapy involves extraction of plasma from the blood of Covid-19 patients four weeks after they have been cured of their viral infection. The extracted plasma is injected into Covid-19 patients. The antibody that develops in a recovered patient helps other Covid-19 patients to fight the virus. Also Read: India added 461,587 Covid-19 cases in a week, recovery rate nears 80%The state government has decided to set up Convalescent Covid-19 Plasma (CCP) banks in 20 state-run Blood Component Separation Units (BCSU). The North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Siliguri, the region’s biggest town, is the first healthcare facility to collect whole blood from recovered Covid-19 patients and segregate the plasma. Dr Mridumoy Das, the director of the regional blood bank at NBMCH, said, “So far, 28 patients have donated their blood. We hope to start plasma therapy early next week.” Dr Roy had severe pneumonia and also bled from the mouth during his treatment. He had donated his blood at NBMCH on August 31. Dr Roy is an active member of Covid Care Network, a forum of doctors, who are treating patients and many of whom were infected by the viral infection as well. He is also spreading awareness about the importance of plasma therapy. “We need to create more awareness to encourage the public to donate blood in a bid to save other lives. Unfortunately, the response is poor to date,” he said. Kalyan Khan, an associate professor at the pathology department in NBMCH, said, “Although plasma therapy is not the magic potion to kill the virus, it has shown encouraging results in Delhi and Mumbai. It increases a patient’s ability to fight the viral infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-plasma-therapy-to-start-in-eight-north-bengal-districts/story-csoZMRvbNZXLTaPIEvwPeL.html
20-09-2020||Dehradun||DNA test helps solve Uttarakhand rape and murder case, youth arrested||Uttarakhand police have arrested an 18-year-old youth for allegedly raping and impregnating a 17-year-old girl on Saturday in Bageshwar district. The accused was arrested following a DNA test result confirming his involvement in the crime, said police. The arrest was made more than two months after the girl was murdered on July 8 by her father fearing social stigma. The case came to light a day later on July 9, when the girl’s mother-- who lives separately from the victim’s father-- filed a complaint alleging foul play in her daughter’s sudden death. During the probe, police had exhumed the girl’s body and sent it for post-mortem examination which confirmed her pregnancy and murder. Later, her father was arrested for murdering her on July 25 but the police was yet to arrest the rape accused. It had collected DNA samples of four suspects for testing and the results were received on Friday. Prahlad Kumar, police inspector investigating the case said, “The accused was the one, whose samples matched. He was then arrested on Saturday under IPC and Juvenile Justice Act for rape, as at the time of the crime, he was a minor.”Kumar said the accused was later presented before the local court on Saturday evening which then sent him to a juvenile correctional facility in Haridwar.“During questioning, he told police that the girl was known to her and often used to visit his house for studies during which he raped her and got her pregnant,” said Kumar.The minor girl lived with her grandparents in the village as both her parents used to live separately in two different nearby villages. Also Read: Uttarakhand reports biggest single-day spike with 2,078 new Covid-19 cases, 14 people dieOn July 7, she had complained of uneasiness after which her grandmother took her to a nearby hospital, where she was found to be pregnant. Her father, when informed about the development, came home and scolded the victim before strangling her to death in the absence of both her grandparents.Next day on July 8, he then hurriedly buried her and told the villagers that she had died by suicide. On July 9, her mother came to know about the victim’s death and lodged a complaint with the police. On July 25, the victim’s 67-year-old grandfather took his own life fearing arrest by the police in the case. On the same day, the girl’s father was arrested for killing her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/dna-test-helps-solve-uttarakhand-rape-and-murder-case-youth-arrested/story-H3AMtfTosxZ0xG4CQskrML.html
20-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Low wind speed leads to drop in air quality||Low wind speed in and around Delhi has started impacting the city’s air, with the air quality index (AQI) reading 133 at 7am on Sunday. After a month of the cleanest air in five years, Delhi’s air quality has started worsening. With monsoon almost drawing to a close and little possibility of more rainfall this month, Delhi’s air quality may deteriorate further by the end of September, scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Also Read: Heavy rain in peninsular region to persist, says IMDOn Saturday, the AQI reading as recorded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was 118 at 4pm. An AQI reading of 0-50 is considered ‘good’ (minimal health risk), 51-100 is ‘satisfactory’ (minor discomfort to sensitive people), and 100-200 is ‘moderate’ (breathing discomfort to people with lungs and heart disease).“Clean air days may almost be over now, as meteorological conditions change. The monsoon is set to withdraw by September-end, after which calm winds will blow across the northwestern region, which are not favourable for the dispersion of pollutants. The pollutants suspended in the air, which were till last month being blown away by the rain and winds are likely to hang in over the city in the absence of any such weather activity,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-low-wind-speed-leads-to-drop-in-air-quality/story-QmEF180dzcHSuik4Cw7hmM.html
20-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan imposes Section 144 in 11 districts in view of Covid-19||Concerned over the rising number of coronavirus cases, the Rajasthan government on Saturday decided to impose Section 144 of the CrPC in 11 districts of the state. The state has 33 districts and the provision prohibits an assembly of more than five persons at a place. According to a release, the government also decided to continue the ban on social or religious functions till October 31. However, the permission for 20 people at funerals and 50 in marriage functions will continue. The decisions were taken in a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, the release said. In view of alarming situation regarding coronavirus, it was decided to impose Section 144 of the CrPC in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur, the release said. People will have to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. Health Minister Raghu Shrma, Chief Secretary Rajeeva Swarup, Principal Secretary (Home) Abhay Kumar, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Akhil Arora and other officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-imposes-section-144-in-11-districts-in-view-of-covid-19/story-aZB4pyHu7Ie1Ea4XGk2lWI.html
20-09-2020||Bhopal||MP Congress leader slapped with NSA for assaulting officer, blackening face||A congress leader was arrested and booked under National Security Act (NSA) on Saturday for allegedly attacking and blackening the face of a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) during a blockade, held at latter’s office for demanding compensation for flood-affected people in Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh, said police. Congress leader Bunty Patel, with 20 others, was booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint lodged by Chaurai, Chhindwara SDM CP Patel on Friday late night, while the name of former Congress MLA Chaudhary Gambhir Singh, who was also participated in the protest, was added on Saturday, said Vivek Agrawal, superintendent of police, Chhindwara. District administration invoked NSA against Congress leader Bunty Patel, who was already facing more than eight criminal cases for voluntarily causing hurt, riots and others, the SP said. The police officer added that Patel attacked the SDM and blackened his face. “Bunty Patel, who claims to be a leader of farmers, had come to gherao the SDM office in Chaurai with others, demanding compensation for flood-affected people on Friday. SDM CP Patel had come to accept the memorandum but Bunty attacked the SDM and his supporters manhandled the officer. Bunty also blackened the face of the SDM,” said Agrawal. Later, a few people started pelting stones on the police and administrative officers, who were trying to stop Bunty Patel. Police resorted to use of force to control the situation, said the SP. SDM CP Patel said, “Bunty Patel tried to kill me by strangulating my throat. I was assuring them that soon we would complete the survey and release the compensation but they didn’t listen to me. He had come with a plan to attack me.” On Saturday evening, 400 officers including the deputy collector, SDM, revenue officers and others of state administrative services (SAS) went on an indefinite strike demanding security from anti-social elements. “It is the matter of security of SAS officers especially those who are working in the field to maintain law and order. The state government should provide proper security to us during the protests and also provide permission to use beacon light so that people treat us with respect,” Chhindwara SDM Atul Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-congress-leader-slapped-with-nsa-for-assaulting-officer-blackening-face/story-LLblDGZGGMfYxGPPltLmuJ.html
20-09-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Left’s tie-up talks with RJD hit, CPI-ML fumes over a ‘raw deal’||The proposed alliance of left parties with the RJD-led grand alliance (GA) in Bihar ahead of state assembly polls has run into rough weather, with the state’s major left party, the CPI- ML(Liberation), now preparing to contest alone.Reliable sources said the CPI-ML leadership was peeved after the RJD offered it only seven to eight seats as against 53 seats it had sought. The party currently has three MLAs, having got 1.5% of the total votes polled in the 2015 assembly polls. “The number of seats offered to us is minuscule and not at all acceptable. We have asked the RJD for a rethink on its offer. But we are now geared up to fight alone in over 53 seats. In case RJD responds positively in coming few days, we will think of adjustment. The ball is in RJD’s court,” CPI- ML(Liberation) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said on Saturday. He said his party had initiated talks with RJD for a broader left unity to defeat the BJP-JD(U) combine. One reason for talks between the two parties falling is that RJD rejected ML’s claim on seats like Ara and Phulwari which the former had won in 2015. “In 2015 polls, RJD was in alliance with JD(U). In 2020, it is contesting with different partners. The 2015 formula of seat adjustment cannot be the criteria for 2020,” Bhattarcharya said. The ML general secretary said his party has a strong cadre base in central Bihar, Mithilanchal, Siwan-Gopalganj and Seemanchal, but RJD was ignoring ground realities. Also read: EC looks at NEET, JEE to prepare for Bihar polls“In the 2019 parliamentary polls, ML had extended support to GA candidates, including RJD candidate, in four places where they polled more than 4 lakh votes. But in rest of the seats, GA candidates fared poorly. Wasn’t it the votes of ML that counted,” he asked. The other two main left parties in Bihar, CPI and CPI-M, are still hopeful of a tie-up with the RJD-led GA but rued the talks were stretching too long. The two parties together are angling for over 50 seats.“We won 26 out of 52 seats we got in 1995 in alliance with RJD . We have given our list of seats to RJD. Our talks with RJD so far is positive,” said Ram Naresh Pandey, CPI state secretary. CPM state secretary Awadesh Kumar said his party would take decision after holding further talks with RJD in coming days. Social scientist Rakesh Tiwary said the GA would suffer a big blow in its attempt to form a larger rainbow coalition against the NDA if ML doesn’t join. “ML is a cadre based party and its support is crucial in many pockets to consolidate secular votes. But it looks an ML-RJD alliance is hard to come by as both have remained opposed to each other for long,” he said. In Siwan, for instance, ML relentlessly fought against incarcerated Siwan strongman and former MP Mohammed Shahabuddin for years. State president of RJD Jagdanand Singh could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-left-s-tie-up-talks-with-rjd-hit-cpi-ml-fumes-over-a-raw-deal/story-clTAnU36noUc2c1wB8lKZP.html
20-09-2020||Lucknow||Heritage receives a blow at Chhota Imambada gate in Lucknow||The Nawabi-era architectural design of the centrally protected Chhota Imambada’s gate has been changed by the local police while carrying out restoration work of the police outpost located within the gate itself, according to officials of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Hussainabad and Allied Trust (HAT) and heritage enthusiasts. For his part, IP Singh, assistant commissioner of police, Chowk area, under which the police outpost comes, said, “The matter is in their knowledge. We have ordered a probe into it.” Nevertheless, officials of ASI, HAT, which owns the structure, and heritage enthusiasts call it a case of extreme illegality and brazen violation of the Ancient Monument and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) (AMASR) Act, 2010. The Act strictly prohibits construction or renovation within a 100- metre area of a protected monument. “It’s a purely illegal act. We have served notice on the police station to stop the work immediately,” said Manoj Saxena, deputy superintending archaeologist, Lucknow Circle, ASI. Also, the restoration of the police outpost, locally known as Satkhanda police chowki, is in violation of the high court’s order, directing HAT to fund and ASI to ensure restoration of the same gate. Officials with HAT said the illegality first came to light early this week when a group of masons was found busy demolishing the shade of the gate to pave the way for a new one to suit their own requirement and design. “By the time, we got the information and rushed to the spot, the entire shade, all made up of red lakhauri bricks, was demolished by masons. On enquiring, they simply responded that ‘Chowki prabhari sahib ka adesh hai (It is the police outpost in-charge’s order)’,” an official of HAT told HT. The team discovered that it was not the only illegality. “We also found that the interior of the chowki had all changed. In place of old lakhauri walls, there were new cement walls,” the official added. When the officials objected to the illegality, police personnel assured them that they would stop the work immediately and apply for permission for the same, according to officials. “But overnight, they re-started construction work and completed the structure. They got it painted so that it gels with the remaining structure,” the official further said. “Chowki in-charge of Satkhanda chowki that is located in the gate itself is carrying out the restoration of the police outpost, illegally. Also, they are changing the design of the gate to which I strongly objected and got the work stopped,” stated the letter of the property supervisor, HAT, to the city magistrate, who is the secretary of the trust that was formed by King Mohammed Ali Shah in 1839 to meet the religious and charitable needs of the community and to maintain the Nawabi-era structures owned by the trust. Sushil Pratap Singh, city magistrate and secretary of HAT, said, “I am unaware of this illegality. If this is so, we would serve notice and will initiate maximum action against the erring person.” Officials with the trust said that the police outpost was established in the 1990s to maintain law and order in the area, which was very sensitive due to sectarian disputes. Since then, the police outpost had become a permanent feature of the gate. Officials also called it a contempt of the high court order as the matter of restoration of the same gate was pending with the court. Restoration work of the gate was started in 2014 following an order of the Allahabad high court. In compliance with the high court order passed on May 12, 2014, a meeting of officials of the district administration, ASI and directorate of archaeology, UP, was held under the chairmanship of the then principal secretary, department of culture, UP, on May 17, 2014 and it was directed that the restoration work of the eastern gate of Chhota Imambada would be done by ASI and would be funded by HAT. The HC order was an outcome of a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by S Mohammed Haider, a corporate lawyer and heritage activist, who had approached the court in 2013. In the PIL, Haider had sought the court’s intervention for ensuring repair, maintenance and removal of encroachment within the premises of the monuments. The gate’s restoration, however, is still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/heritage-receives-a-blow-at-chhota-imambada-gate-in-lucknow/story-SO2ePeMpdBcrH6emrLMyTK.html
20-09-2020||Patna||CBI uses new section to oppose Lalu Prasad’s bail||The Central Bureau of Investigation has said that Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s sentences in fodder scam cases are not meant to run concurrently as it cited a new section of the law to oppose the Bihar politician’s plea for bail.The agency said Prasad’s conviction falls under Section 427(1), which refers to a case when a person’s sentence runs after one ends. This would effectively lengthen the period of sentence. Prasad, while currently out on bail, has been convicted in six cases related to misappropriation of public funds, each of which have varying sentences. The former Union minister recently sought bail in one of these cases, in which he has been sentenced to five years in prison, saying that he is eligible since he has completed half of the sentence duration. In one of the other cases, with a 3.5 year sentence, he has been given bail on this ground.Citing Section 427(1) would mean that Prasad’s cumulative sentence stretches to 27.5 years, instead of the maximum that has been awarded in one of these cases: 14 years. Prasad’s advocate Prabhat Kumar said, “The court, in last hearing on September 11, had not appreciated CBI’s argument saying that it was a premature stage to raise such contention. The court said the issue would be decided in final hearing of pending appeal petitions.” He added that Prasad’s bail application would next be heard on October 9.Kumar said that fodder scam involves nearly 200 convicts, most whom are involved in many cases. “Some of the accused suppliers were convicted in more than 25 cases and got different terms of imprisonment. If an individual’s total sentence is taken into account, it may be over 100 years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/cbi-uses-new-section-to-oppose-lalu-prasad-s-bail/story-GSD8sOOM6HsmcgGodP62SL.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress to hold protests across state on Sept 21||The Haryana Congress will hold demonstrations on September 21 to protest against the enactment of three farm Bills by the Parliament. State Congress general secretary, Ajay Chaudhry said party will organise demonstrations at all district headquarters. The party’s state unit chief Kumari Selja will lead the demonstration at Jind while former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda will lead the protest demonstration at Sonepat. Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi will lead the protest at Hisar. The newly appointed in-charge of party affairs for Haryana, Vivek Bansal will lead the demonstration at Panipat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-congress-to-hold-protests-across-state-on-sept-21/story-4GoEPpOIsGm3tOkhXH7KZL.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar urges farmers to defer agitation, invites them for talks||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday urged farmers to defer their agitation against the three farm Bills. In a statement, Khattar said he has invited the farmers for talks. The CM said while everyone in a democracy has the right to express their views, maintaining peace in the state is also the utmost duty of every government. He that the three farm Bill were in the interest of farmers. It is unfortunate that opposition parties were politicising the issue and misleading the farmers. Khattar requested the farmers associations that while holding a statewide road blockade on Sunday they should ensure that inconvenience is not caused to citizens. He said urged that special care should be taken to ensure no obstruction in the way is caused for any patients going to hospital, pregnant women and vehicles supplying essential commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-urges-farmers-to-defer-agitation-invites-them-for-talks/story-qzAhgEKS2fxDlSLHLIxtdO.html
20-09-2020||City||Vij appeals to farmers to not block Highways, takes a dig at Badals||Following the road blockade call from farmer unions, Haryana home minister Anil Vij appealed to the farmers to not block the National Highways. Speaking to reporters at his residence on Saturday, Vij said that it is the right of every citizen to protest, but “I appeal to all farmer unions to not block the National Highways, in any way.” “The country is going through a pandemic. There are ambulances or people taking Covid positive patients and many are out to buy medicines. So I appeal to farmers to not hamper their way on the highways,” said Vij. Escalating his attack on the opposition parties, Vij said that these parties act as “demons to obstruct good works.” He also said that the Congress party had promised these bills in its manifesto and is instead protesting now. On being asked about SAD’s exit from the union cabinet, Vij said, “Badals are doing their own politics but they should answer why they didn’t leave the cabinet when it (bill) was first presented. Now, when the same bill was presented in the Lok Sabha, they have started playing their time-bound politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vij-appeals-to-farmers-to-not-block-highways-takes-a-dig-at-badals/story-2fT9u8EUDP3OfpupBkATRL.html
20-09-2020||City||MSP to stay, new bills will only help farmers: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda on Saturday said that three agriculture-related bills passed in the Lok Sabha will only boost production and help farmers get better prices for their produce. Speaking at a function in Sonepat, Nadda said the opposition parties are provoking farmers for agitation in the name of minimum support price (MSP).“I want to make it clear that MSP will stay and these three bills will give another option to farmers to sell their produce outside the mandis. We are not going to scrap the mandi system. If farmers get good price outside, why will they go to mandis. And if the prices are low outside, they will sell their produce on MSP in mandis. We have just given two options to farmers by introducing these bills,” he added.Slamming the Congress, the BJP national president said his party has done what the opposition party had promised in its manifesto.“Modi had brought good days for farmers in Gujarat and now he is implementing the same formula for all farmers across the country,” Nadda added.He also took part in a blood donation camp at Sonepat and distributed spectacles to people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/msp-to-stay-new-bills-will-only-help-farmers-nadda/story-uBGXBpzsTlWWbdGPkgGqyK.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Road blockade call: DCs, police chiefs in Haryana asked to deal with protesters with tact and patience||Following a statewide road blockade call given by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and some other organisations on September 20 to protest against three farm Bills enacted by the Parliament, the Haryana Home department on Saturday asked the deputy commissioners and district police chiefs to reach out to the organisers to ensure it stays peaceful. In a communication additional chief secretary (ACS), Home, Vijai Vardhan said organisers should be prevailed upon to desist from blocking the national and state highways. However in the eventuality of the protesters succeeding in blocking roads, the traffic should be immediately diverted to alternative roads thus minimising the inconvenience to public, he said. He further said that executive magistrates be stationed along with their police counterparts at all such places where congregation of protestors is anticipated. Joint patrolling of the national and state highways may be conducted by them to instill a sense of confidence amongst citizens. The Home department has also directed that civil surgeons should ensure that doctors and paramedical staff should remain present in full strength in all government hospitals, health centres for prompt treatment of persons in case of injuries and medical distress. Besides, private hospitals be alerted to remain in a state of preparedness. “The protestors should be dealt with tact and patience. However they should not be allowed to take law in their hands and prompt action be taken against those found to be indulging in loot, arson or damage to life, property or vehicles,” said Vardhan. --DCs, police chiefs asked to deal with protesters with ‘tact and patience’  Following a statewide road blockade call given by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and some other organisations on September 20 to protest against three farm Bills enacted by the Parliament, the Haryana Home department on Saturday asked the deputy commissioners and district police chiefs to reach out to the organisers to ensure it stays peaceful. In a communication additional chief secretary (ACS), Home, Vijai Vardhan said organisers should be prevailed upon to desist from blocking the national and state highways. However in the eventuality of the protesters succeeding in blocking roads, the traffic should be immediately diverted to alternative roads thus minimising the inconvenience to public, he said. “The protestors should be dealt with tact and patience. However they should not be allowed to take law in their hands and prompt action be taken against those found to be indulging in loot, arson or damage to life, property or vehicles,” said Vardhan. Commuters from HP, Chandigarh could face inconvenienceCommuters planning to travel to Haryana and Delhi from Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh on Sunday are in for inconvenience due to a proposed tractor march of the Congress from Punjab. The BKU has also announced to hold a chakka jam on the national highway from 12 noon to 3 pm in protest against the three farm Bills enacted by the Parliament. The tractor march, police officials said, will be stopped at Lalru-Ambala border, resulting in a blockade. This will result in disruption of vehicular traffic coming from Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh and headed towards Delhi or Haryana districts, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-blockade-call-dcs-police-chiefs-in-haryana-asked-to-deal-with-protesters-with-tact-and-patience/story-mH9KAsuIyVSrTL3K8TxEVO.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Commuting to Haryana this Sunday? You may face inconvenience||Commuters planning to travel to Haryana and Delhi from Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh on Sunday are in for inconvenience due to a proposed tractor march of the Congress from Punjab. The BKU has also announced to hold a chakka jam on the national highway from 12 noon to 3 pm in protest against the three farm Bills enacted by the Parliament. The tractor march, police officials said, will be stopped at Lalru-Ambala border, resulting in a blockade. This will result in disruption of vehicular traffic coming from Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh and headed towards Delhi or Haryana districts, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/commuting-to-haryana-this-sunday-you-may-face-inconvenience/story-cgQuv58a7YW6qc4PyiLoEI.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala top contributors as Haryana records 2,691 new infections||Twelve Haryana districts on Saturday threw up 80% of the 2,691 fresh Covid-19 infections reported from across the state. Two national capital region districts of Gurugram (360) and Faridabad (290) followed by the northern Haryana district of Ambala (220) were the biggest contributors to the viral infection’s tally on Saturday. Besides, nine districts, each logging more than 100 cases, further widened spread of the virus. These are Panipat (164), Panchkula (162), Hisar (151), Sonepat (149), Rohtak (147), Karnal and Kurukshetra (119 each), Sirsa (118) and Rewari (101). Significant numbers were also reported from Jind (96), Kaithal (91), Mahendergarh (79), Fatehabad (77), Yamunanagar (69) and Bhiwani (61). The new infections pushed the cumulative infections to 1, 08,952. As per a medical bulletin, 28 infected persons succumbed to the virus on Saturday, taking the toll to 1, 120. Among the dead, five were from Panchkula, three each from Gurugram and Ambala, two each from Faridabad, Karnal, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Sirsa Yamunanagar and Jind and one each from Panipat, Hisar and Bhiwani. The bulletin said that 2, 272 infected persons recovered from the illness on Saturday taking the total number of recoveries to 86, 150. The number of active infections was 21, 682. There were 389 critically ill patients, including 66 on ventilator support. Among the other districts, Palwal reported 43 new cases followed by Jhajjar (42), Charkhi Dadri (20) and Nuh (13).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurugram-faridabad-ambala-top-contributors-as-haryana-records-2-691-new-infections/story-cgAu7Z0fTkuQXzbjvLHYjI.html
20-09-2020||City||Haryana schools to partially open for senior classes from Monday||The Directorate of School Education on Saturday directed all district education officers to ensure that standard operating procedures (SOPs) are in place for the partial reopening of schools for students of Classes 9 to 12 from September 21 (Monday). Attendance is not compulsory and students can go on voluntary basis to clear any doubts related to their course. In a letter, the department has asked all district education officers to ensure that the teachers get a Covid-19 test and download the Aarogya Setu app on their phones.“Students will have to bring a written consent from their parents before coming to school. The students will also have to undergo thermal scanning before entering the school and wear face masks and adhere to safety guidelines,” the letter stated.Earlier, the education department had conducted trial classes for board students at Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu, in Karnal and Bazidpur Saboli in Sonepat to check the feasibility of partial reopening of schools.The Centre had allowed partial reopening of schools in phase 4 of the unlocking process and said that students of Classes 9 and 12 can return purely on voluntary basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-schools-to-partially-open-for-senior-classes-from-monday/story-GZYnoiUQQKPgniVYAxvm3N.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Rs 137 cr: Amount Navi Mumbai civic body has spent to tackle Covid-19||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), which detected its first Covid-19 case on March 13, has spent Rs 137 cr so far to tackle the pandemic. It has sought an additional Rs 251 cr from the state government to increase the facilities.From having just one single hospital, the Vashi General Hospital, for tackling Covid patients to having 10 Covid care facilities and reserved hospital beds for Covid, NMMC has come a long way.NMMC has 35,364 positive cases till date. Around 3,565 are active while 790 deaths have been reported. Till now 1,70,575 people have undergone Covid-19 test, of which 67,071 people are RTPCR test and 103,504, rapid antigen test.Abhijit Bangar, NMMC commissioner, said, “With the increasing number of cases, we have faced scarcity of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds, with over 40 per cent ICU beds occupied by patients from cities like Thane, Kalyan and Raigad.“Our focus is to increase the ICU beds and also beds with ventilators. Till now, the state government has provided us Rs 10 cr during the pandemic. We have requested for Rs 251 cr more. Currently, the NMMC is using funds from its own coffers. If needed, we will also procure the budget of other heads for health because right now the priority is to handle the Covid situation.”Navi Mumbai has increased contact tracing and testing that has helped bring the doubling rate of the positive COVID cases to 42 days. “Isolation of positive patients and timely treatment has brought down the mortality rate from 3.3% to 2.19% while the recovery rate has gone up from 50 per cent to 87 per cent. Attempts are on to bring down the mortality rate further. Management of containment area enforcement is very crucial as many people have now started taking the pandemic very lightly. Hence, we have planned Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS) for which we will hire around 100 ex-army men to keep a check on people flouting norms and penalise them,” Bangar said.Additional Commissioner of NMMC, Sujata Dhole, said, “We have been increasing the facilities as per the rise in cases and need of the hour. By March end, the total number of cases was still in two digits and the facilities we had were the Vashi General Hospital and Swami Vivekananda Multipurpose Hall at Sector 14 in Vashi. In April, we had acquired India Bulls flats in Panvel and by May, we started using them.”By April end, the doubling rate of the positive cases changed from 11 days to six days. Keeping the chances of spread in mind, NMMC had increased the capacity of isolation centres.After acquiring 3,000 flats at India Bulls, the civic body kept increasing the smaller facilities in Koparkhairane, Airoli, Belapur, Nerul and Vashi. “On August 3, we entered a MOU with DY Patil hospital for ICU beds. On September 10, we started three more facilities in Turbhe, Airoli and Turbhe,” AMC Dhole added. From July end, the average daily cases reported crossed 300 and by August end, it crossed 400.Navi Mumbai activist Anarjit Chauhan said that NMMC has failed in providing adequate beds to the patients. He said, “As far as RT-PCR testing is concerned, NMMC is doing a good job but I am against the rapid antigen test. It is a test that even US government doesn’t recommend. It is nothing but wastage of tax payer’s money. Now, NMMC has started door to door rapid tests and it is a huge waste of time, resources and money. The staff involved in the antigen test could be very well assigned to do something productive.” He claimed to get quite frequent calls from people to help them arrange the beds. “Private hospitals do not want patients via government quota and are waiting for a direct patient who will pay their hefty bill. There have been so many violations by private hospitals in terms of overcharging and denying beds but not many has been penalised yet. The private hospitals are not even implementing the government schemes for the Covid treatment that they should be. NMMC should look into the black marketing of private hospitals more stringently,” Chauhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rs-137-cr-amount-navi-mumbai-civic-body-has-spent-to-tackle-covid-19/story-TN6fqJ6RD3lDQGc4VGz7qM.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||12,000-15,000 persons tested at Thane station for Covid, causes chaos||The mismanagement of the antigen testing centres set up at the Thane Railway Station to test every arriving passenger has led to a complete chaos at the premises over the last ten days.Migrants arriving in long-distance trains have to wait in long queues with no social distancing norms followed to get tested. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has set up four antigen testing counters at the railway station, which are insufficient to test the large crowd gathering at the station.A TMC officer requesting anonymity said, “On an average, there are two to three long-distance trains that arrive daily at Thane station. The total number of passengers in these trains are anywhere between 12,000 and 15,000 daily. We test each of these passengers. Although it is time consuming, we ensure they get their reports and those tested positive are taken to the Covid Care Centres at Kharegaon or Bhayanderpada.”Dinesh Chauhan, migrant worker from Patna who arrived at Thane Railway Station on Tuesday, expressed that there were so many people waiting for the test at the same time that it becomes difficult to maintain social distancing.Chauhan, who works in a construction company, added, “Even after taking down all personal details including contact address and numbers, they do not let us go until the reports have arrived. It is very tiring after travelling for more than 24 hours to wait for almost two hours to get tested, and again wait for half-an-hour to 45 minutes till the reports arrived.”Shankar Kumar, 42, a resident of Murshidabad in West Bengal who returned to Thane on Friday, said, “We had to wait for more than an hour in a queue to get tested, after which we were asked to wait till the reports came. There was hardly enough space to maintain social distancing. Even in the train we were made to sit at a distance between each other, but over a period of time people started moving around and there was hardly any social distancing. Although I was tested negative, I came to know that one of the co-passengers whom I had spotted in the same compartment has tested positive. I am worried now and will have to strictly follow isolation for a few days even if it means no income.”Medical workers at the railway station are also overworked. “We have to ensure that those who have tested do not flee, some even end up giving wrong addresses, making it difficult to trace them. In order to ensure that social distancing was maintained, we have to indulge in crowd management as well. While testing, we have to ensure we put the samples in the right vials and proper details of the passengers are also noted,” said a medical volunteer who is at the antigen testing counter at Thane railway station.Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC, said, “We expect people to cooperate and follow social distancing rules. We have already started levying a fine for those who are not following these rules. We do not have adequate manpower to manage the crowd. People need to follow the mandatory wearing masks, social distancing and hand sanitisation, and learn to live with Covid.“Most of our medical staff are focused on the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ survey as every team requires someone from a medical background. Moreover, we have to ensure that our current practices of having fever clinics and other testing centres are not disturbed. With more screening, we need an additional number of fever clinics as well,” added Sharma.Meanwhile, twelve officers working at the station to test the migrants, although asymptomatic, have tested positive. “Twelve of my staff working near the station area are positive despite taking various measures. They are under isolation and we have to manage alternative staff for Covid duty. This is added pressure. We are short-staffed yet trying our best to control the pandemic,” added Sharma. Sources claim that 150 to 200 migrants at the station test positive on a daily basis and this was the main reason for increase in the number of cases in Thane.A senior TMC official claimed, “Overall positivity of Thane city on a daily basis is hovering between 6 per cent and 7 per cent. However, the positivity rate of those coming from the station is more than 10 per cent. We do not wish to create an insider-outsider divide within the city as all those who come from other states are essential labourers who contribute to the progress of the city. Moreover, this is a small number when compared to the many that travel by road into the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-000-15-000-persons-tested-at-thane-station-for-covid-causes-chaos/story-8EeieqpGRapdCbwnZkunAL.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||4 held in connection with murder at Morbe dam near Panvel||Two days after the body of a woman was found in a dam at Morbe village of Panvel, Panvel Taluka police have arrested four accused in connection with her murder.On September 16, a decomposed body of a woman was found at Morbe dam. “The body was completely decomposed and the face was beyond recognition. There was no missing person’s complaint registered anywhere. With the help of the bangles she was wearing and a tattoo on her hand, she was identified as a 27-year-old woman from Akurli who stayed with her seven-year-old daughter,” senior police inspector Ashok Rajput from Panvel Taluka police station said.On investigation, it was revealed that she was in a relationship with Shashikant Patil (32) from Koproli village. “We found that from the day the body was found in the dam, the accused had fled the village,” Rajput said. With the help of technical evidence, three accused were nabbed from a hotel in Satara while the fourth accused was later arrested from Panvel.Apart from Patil, the other arrested accused have been identified as Ravi Thakur (23), Akshay Panchal (25) and Nilesh Phadke (29).An year ago, the deceased had lent Rs 2 lakh to Patil, which he had not returned. The lady had now started asking the money back, leading to many fights between them. “The deceased had abused Patil, irking irked him and he wanted to take revenge. Hence, he got his friends into confidence by offering alcohol and planned to kill her,” Rajput said.On September 9, Patil, Thakur and Panchal went to her residence and asked her to get into Patil’s car. Since she knew them, she got into the car and then they slit her throat with a knife. The trio then undressed her and tied the whole body with an iron wire and rope. The body was then tied into a 48kg weighing cement block and drowned into the dam.According to the police, the accused thought that the fishes might eat the body and hence undressed her. The fourth accused, Panchal, had helped the accused to flee the village and was arrested later from Panvel.The daughter of the deceased was also with the accused. The accused ran away with the victim’s daughter after the murder.“ All the accused have been kept in police custody till September 25,” Rajput said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-held-in-connection-with-murder-at-morbe-dam-near-panvel/story-aVPIFGZlCfkHv2vs7wpj3J.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Constable jumps into Thane lake to save woman from drowning||A 35-year-old police constable from Thane jumped into Upavan Lake to save a 43-year-old woman he saw drowning in the lake on Friday evening.The woman, who was allegedly seen jumping in the lake, has been now admitted in private hospital for recovery.Gajendra Sontakke, 35, constable at Vartak Nagar Police Station, was patrolling along with another police personnel, S More. They got a call from police station to inform about a woman trying to jump in Upavan Lake.Sontakke said, “Some passers-by saw the woman trying to jump and they came running towards us informing about the woman. We also got a call at the same time from the control room. I immediately ran towards jetty of the Upavan Lake, by then she had already jumped. The place where she jumped is 20 feet deep. Without wasting time, I jumped behind her with my phone and other belongings. I had run to the place and was already breathless and finding it difficult to reach her, however finally I managed to pull her out.”Sontakke hails from Latur and said that he was used to swimming in a well in his village. He added, “That practice helped me to save the woman, though swimming in uniform was comparatively difficult. My mobile is also dead now but saving her life has given me satisfaction.” The reason behind woman’s action is still not known. She is undergoing treatment at a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/constable-jumps-into-thane-lake-to-save-woman-from-drowning/story-ICeYapZ1jm6J4yGxNPoCpJ.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||5 arrested for killing 25-yr-old at birthday party in Dombivli||Five persons are arrested by Ramnagar police in Dombivli for murdering a 25-year-old man and injuring another in a drunken brawl at a birthday party late on Friday night.The deceased, Shivaji Khandagale, was attending the 17th birthday party of Santosh Lashkare’s daughter. Lashkare, 38, suffered severe injuries in the fight.The five arrested have been identified as Mahesh Gunjal, 22, Nikhil Mane, 23, Jayesh Juwale, 22, Ashish Walmiki, 22 and Shrinivas Sugala, 23. All the five are residents of Dattanagar area of Dombivli. The incident took place in the wee hours of Friday.A complaint was registered by the girl’s maternal uncle, Raju Dhotre, 29, who was also present at the party.A police official from Ramnagar police station said, “Family members, relatives and friends of the Lashkare family had gathered for the party on Thursday night. Most of them had consumed alcohol in the party. Around 2.00 am, Lashkare told Dhotre that he was abused by Gunjal five months ago. This angered Dhotre, who called Gunjal and abused him on phone.”They did not stop at this as Lashkare, Dhotre and the deceased Khandagale went to Gunjal’s place to seek revenge. Gunjal and four others were ready for them with weapons including hockey stick, iron rod and swords.Senior police inspector Suresh Aher said, “The five accused allegedly assaulted the three with weapons while Khandagale was hit with an iron rod on his head. He lost conscious and died on the spot. We arrested all the accused on Friday night for assault, murder and several other sections of the IPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/5-arrested-for-killing-25-yr-old-at-birthday-party-in-dombivli/story-qhHLnPOfFtaGc75H2w2eFI.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Thane teams lauded for relief work during building collapse in Mahad||The Thane Disaster Relief Force (TDRF) and Thane Municipal Corporation’s Fire Brigade’s relief work in the Mahad building collapse incident last month received a special appreciation from Raigad’s Guardian Minister, Aditi Tatkare and Collector, Nidhi Choudhary. The two teams received an appreciation certificate for the relief and rescue work.The incident occurred on August 24. Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde, reached the spot along with the fire brigade and TDRF team. This additional team helped the NDRF to speed up the relief work. Hence, they were felicitated with a certificate of appreciation on Saturday. Thane Fire Department’s Substitute Officer, Omkar Vaity, and TDRF’s Sachin Dubey accepted the certificate.“We are glad that our team worked in unison and helped in saving the lives of those stuck in the debris. Our joint efforts ensured timely treatment and medical help was provided to the victims,” said Dubey from the TDRF Team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-teams-lauded-for-relief-work-during-building-collapse-in-mahad/story-H9fGZEY50FTrwwpfkoKmvK.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Suburban train derails, disrupting traffic on Atgaon-Kasara route in Maharashtra||One rake of a suburban local train derailed near Atgaon Railway Station on the Kalyan-Kasara route in Maharashtra on Saturday morning, leading to suspension of some services on the down line on Atgaon-Kasara route.However, no injury or casualty was reported in the incident, which happened at 7.28 am, and a breakdown train had reached the site for clearing the track for resumption of train services. Senior officials of Central Railway (CR) also reached the site for supervision.“The cause of the derailment is under investigation. Due to the incident, the Atgaon-Kasara down line was affected while the Kalyan-Kasara up line was not affected. The local services between Asangaon and Kasara were cancelled till the restoration work was completed.Meanwhile, the railway operated special trains from Titwala to CSMT (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus) and Kalyan to CSMT,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.The derailed trolley was remounted on the track around 10:38 am, while the restoration work was completed by 11.35 am. Local services on the route were resumed after restoration, added Sutar.“There were no trains between Asangaon and Kasara station on Saturday morning as we heard there was a derailment. We had to wait for the services to resume to take a train to reach Kasara for work,” said Shamesh Gupta, 36, a commuter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/suburban-train-derails-disrupting-traffic-on-atgaon-kasara-route-in-maharashtra/story-hKhtGHeoAMdeE6sgOSBXcJ.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||New traffic signals in place of 18-year defunct ones in Kalyan-Dombivli||Almost 18 years after the old signals in the twin cities became defunct, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) finally started installation of new traffic signals.However, work is going at snail’s pace as the KDMC, which had earlier claimed to install 10 signals by April, has till date installed only five.Moreover, commuters claimed that none of these five signals has been installed at any of the major junctions, which were supposed to be taken on priority basis.The KDMC first installed signals in the twin cities two decades ago. However, none of these signals were maintained and became defunct.Under the smart city project, the civic body has installed signals at five locations in Kalyan, while 15 more are on the cards in the coming months. The signals, however, have not started functioning full time and the work of synchronisation of these signals is under way.Suraj Pawse, 39, a commuter who takes Durgadi Chowk daily to connect to Bhiwandi for work, said, “I can see signals installed at some of the chowks that are not that congested compared to the Durgadi Chowk, Patripool, Subhash Chowk in Kalyan (W). Priority should be given to such spots that are badly congested most of the times.”Presently, installation work at Prem Auto Chowk, Adharwadi, Khadakpada and Sandip Hotel Chowk in Kalyan (W) and Chakki Naka in Kalyan (E) is done, while inspection work is under way.  The five signals are presently being operated under trial basis. Their full-fledged operations will be done after nod from the traffic police. More signals, CCTVs on cards Tarun Juneja, executive engineer, KDMC, said, “The work of installing the signals is under way in full swing at different locations. We have already installed them in five prime locations while the rest of the signals will be installed soon. We will also take up the work of installation of signals in the congested areas. The signals here were not fitted earlier as a few infrastructure projects were being carried out in these areas.”Along with the signals, the civic body will also install CCTV cameras at these prime locations.  “One of the major reasons to have both signals and CCTV cameras installed is to not only control the traffic movement but also keep a track on the crime and traffic violations in the city,” said Juneja.The contractor for the work was appointed in February this year. The civic body claimed that it will finish the installation of all the signals by January 2021.Further, the signals will be maintained by the contractor for five years and the cost of the entire project is estimated at Rs125 crore.The CCTV footages will be monitored by the KDMC officials in an office set up at their headquarters and police headquarters in Kalyan through integrated control command centre.   “While the installation at five locations is completed, these signals will start functioning once the traffic police give their nod,” added Juneja.In a survey initiated jointly by the Smart Kalyan Dombivli Corporation Limited (SKDCL), KDMC officials and the traffic police last year, the officials identified 20 traffic junctions for the installation of traffic signals and 300 locations where they have plans to install a total 870 CCTV cameras.Dilip Ugale, assistant commissioner of traffic police, Ulhasnagar, and presently also in-charge for Kalyan traffic unit, said, “A meeting was scheduled last Friday but was cancelled. Hence, the operation of the installed signals was not finalised. We will finalise it soon. Those signals that are fully installed and finalised will be operated in the city for traffic management. The signals will definitely help improving the traffic situation in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-traffic-signals-in-place-of-18-year-defunct-ones-in-kalyan-dombivli/story-1oDTXNgrDV5dW7VWb0qCrK.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||39-year-old social worker comes to rescue of 30-plus students in Ulhasnagar hamlet||More than 30 students from a small hamlet in Ulhasnagar with no access to the new digital mode of learning are no more devoid of education for the last two months. Thanks to a good Samaritan in Ulhasnagar, these students are now being given quality education minus the electronic gadgets.Since March, schools have gone digital, adapting to online learning to reach out to the students who cannot attend school. However, not all children have access to smartphones and WiFi.It’s the same story for the 30-plus students from a small hamlet Asele Pada in Ulhasnagar, for whom education stopped until Sunil Ahire, a 39-year-old social worker took matters in his own hands. He started teaching the students, whose parents work as domestic help, vegetable vendors, daily wagers or auto rickshaw drivers, in his free time to ensure they get the education they deserve.Ahire said, “Parents of these children mostly go out to work taking their phones along. Thus, there is no access to online education to these children. I work with an NGO and do most of my work from home due to lockdown. I came to know about these children missing out on online classes. So, instead of sitting at home, I decided to teach them.”Ahire, who has a Masters in Sociology, expressed that it was difficult to convince the students to come to him or trust him.“The students are from Classes 5 to 7, from semi-English and Marathi-medium schools. Most of them who joined my classes are girls as boys were still unwilling to give up their free time to studies.”He took the first lecture in the open to attract other children to his classes. Two days later, seeing these classes, a villager offered them his house as he was leaving for his native. This made it easier for Ahire, as he could take classes even in heavy rains. Ahire watches online sessions of each of the children and then teach them according to their syllabus.The parents are elated since their children started learning again. Sachin Lokhande, 36, an electrician from the village, leaves house early in the morning and returns late at night. He said, “I have two daughters. The elder one is in Class 7 and the other in Class 4. I am the only one using a smart phone. Hence, both used to skip online school. However, for the last two months, Ahire had started teaching my girls and we are happy that they are seeking education.”Maya Sawant, 26, who has three daughters, was also facing the same issue. Her husband is into furniture business and is out most days. “The only smart phone we have is with my husband. All the three girls had online sessions at same or different times. With no phone, they were missing their classes. Now, they’ve started attending Ahire’s classes and we are happy they spend time studying,” added Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/39-year-old-social-worker-comes-to-rescue-of-30-plus-students-in-ulhasnagar-hamlet/story-p42By8YrldqzYMvWFRivFP.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||No long-term care home in Chandigarh for adults with mental health problems||“I am a cancer survivor and the mother of an adult with mental illness. In June 2020, my husband passed away due to cancer. I spend sleepless nights worrying about my son’s future after I am gone,” says a senior resident of the city. Her son cannot live independently. In a city with an ageing population, many emerging voices are demanding community (group) homes with long-term assisted living for persons with mental health issues. Surprisingly, despite having provisions for sheltered accommodation in the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, the union territory (UT) has no such facility. At least 70 city-based residents have written over a hundred emails and letters. Some have met the UT administrator and adviser, but have received only ‘sympathy and assurances’ in return, they say. “We live in a soulless city,” says a 62-year-old man (name withheld) who is looking after his ailing mother and autistic son. “He is 29 years old, but mentally he is only 14. He needs a little hand-holding. Someone has to take care of his medicines, meals, cleanliness and help with daily chores,” says the father. Administration needs to be ‘more sensitive’ An 80-year-old man who is the only caregiver to his son with bipolar and obsessive compulsive personality disorders, recounts his attempts over the last 20 years to make the UT administration “more sensitive” to the needs of the mentally ill. He has met three UT administrators and asked for setting up of care homes. “They sympathise but do nothing,” he rues. Dr Sandeep Grover, professor, psychiatric department, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, stresses on the need for a group home. The Mental Healthcare Act of 2017 has provision of half-way homes, sheltered accommodation and supported accommodation under rights of persons with mental illness, he adds. “We need long-term stay homes for persons who have improved from mental illness or those who are not very sick but have some residual symptoms,” Dr Grover adds. Referring to a survey he helped conduct on the need for long-term stay homes, Grover says, “A majority of psychiatrists (participating in the survey) agreed. If we look at the data, then 20% to 30% persons with severe mental illness require such facilities.” However, the administration requires a policy on the matter, he says. On progress made so far, Dr Simmi Waraich, Chandigarh based consultant psychiatrist, says, “We met the UT administrator on April 10, 2019, and the UT adviser the next day. Both assured us of a satisfactory solution. Then in July 2019, the adviser asked us to submit a list of potential beneficiaries of group homes and a list of over 70 caregivers was submitted to the director, social welfare, Chandigarh, but nothing has been done.” Referring to assisted living facilities in Bengaluru, where an NGO is providing short- and long-term stay homes to persons with mental illness, Waraich adds,. “We have none in this part of the region. Chandigarh can set an example.” In January 2019, a city based social worker with others even filed a PIL in the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking directions for UT to make a policy on group homes. “A group home is a large house where a few persons with mental illness live together like a therapeutic community or an extended family.All that the administration has to do is provide a home (like an old-age-home) with the facility of psychosocial workers to assist the mentally challenged with their daily chores and monitor their physical and mental health,” he says.No land available: UT adviser Commenting on the matter, UT adviser Manoj Parida says, “In Chandigarh, we have no land. Also, it’s not that easy to plan. I have met these families, but their requirements vary. One needs at least six acres of land.” However, Parida says plans are being made to convert a Cheshire home into a group home. “Maybe in the next two to three months we will shift handicapped persons from there,” he adds. No plans on duration of stay have been made, he says On suggestions of some elderly parents that the Indira Holiday Home in Sector 24 be earmarked for ‘sheltered accommodation,’ Parida says it is for the governor (UT administrator) to decide what to do with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-long-term-care-home-in-chandigarh-for-adults-with-mental-health-problems/story-olqhFWrk0FXd180JfCfahK.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Five cops succumb to Covid-19 in Maharashtra; toll in state police force surges to 217||Five personnel from Maharashtra Police died of Covid-19 on Thursday and Friday, following which the death toll in the force surged to 217. Meanwhile, in the past 24 hours, 153 new cases were also reported from the state police force, taking the tally to 20,954. Of these, 17,006 police personnel have recovered from the virus. Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), said that of the 3,731 active cases in Maharashtra Police, 472 are officers, while 3,259 personnel are from the constabulary. One of the personnel who passed away on Thursday was identified as head constable Rafiq Mulla, 48, from Sir JJ Marg police station. Mulla was undergoing treatment since August 14. “He was diabetic and had a kidney ailment, for which he was undergoing treatment at Bombay Hospital. He was later shifted to Saifee Hospital where he succumbed during Covid-19 treatment. He was attached to the anti-terrorism cell of Sir JJ Marg police station, as he had a good network of contacts for intelligence gathering. He is survived by his wife, a son, and a married daughter,” said an officer from Sir JJ Marg police station. After the head constable’s death, the death toll in Mumbai Police rose to 79 (22 officers and 195 from constabulary). Of the total 5,670 police personnel who were tested positive for coronavirus, 5,169 have recovered. The second death on Thursday was reported from Wanwadi police station in Pune, where head constable Vinod Potdar, 51, lost his life due to the contagion. On Friday, two personnel – assistant sub-inspector Ravindra Ooike, 53, of Indora traffic division and police naik Parmanand Raghorte, 49, of MIDC traffic division – from Nagpur city police died of Covid-19. Both were undergoing treatment at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital in Nagpur. Another fatality was reported from Dhule district police on Friday after 52-year-old head constable Prakash More, who was attached to the Shirpur Taluka police station, passed away battling the virus at the Lokmanya Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-cops-succumb-to-covid-19-in-maharashtra-toll-in-state-police-force-surges-to-217/story-EdZQsD3oQ29XLXUxhtuoPN.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Teacher’s murder: Accused husband had not paid sons’ school fees since April, reveals Probe||The 42-year-old man, who has been accused of murdering his wife, has not paid the school fees of his two sons since April, police investigation revealed. The cops are now trying to ascertain if the fee default was due to financial issues or Covid-19 crisis. Mandeep Singh, a fine arts teacher, is absconding since his wife Jyoti Rani, 40, was found dead at their house in Sector 23 on Tuesday night. She used to teach at the government school in Karsan, Ram Darbar. The couple’s sons, aged 13 and nine, studied in Classes 8 and 3 at a private school in Sector 33. As per the school authorities, fees of both the students used to be paid well in advance before April. “The eldest son had been studying here for the last 11 years, while the younger one was with us since 2014. This was for the first time that their school fee was not paid,” said Vikrant Suri, principal of Tender Heart School. The school has now come forward to offer free education to both the boys in wake of the tragedy that struck the family. “We have written to the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) about the offer to ensure the studies of these kids do not suffer. The school has decided to offer free education to them till Class 10,” the principal said, adding that the 13-year-old was a “very good chess player”. Younger son yet to be tracedThe younger son of the couple has not been traced so far, while his brother’s custody has been handed over to their grandparents. “We are looking into the bank details of the family. Some people have suggested that Mandeep was in debt, but we are yet to verify it,” said Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vineet Kumar. ‘Had been saving money through kitty schemes’The investigations so far have revealed that Mandeep had been investing in committees by paying monthly instalments. As per the police, on September 14 too, before leaving the city with his sons, Mandeep had paid ₹10,000 towards a monthly kitty to a colleague in Sector 35. The police said there had been no transaction from his account since September 15, when he last used his debit card at two petrol pumps for refueling before driving towards Kharar. Case so far Decomposed body of Jyoti Rani was found wrapped in a blanket on a blood-stained bed at her government accommodation in Sector 23 on Tuesday by a police team from Ludhiana, which had come knocking at her house to drop her elder son. The police are yet to trace Mandeep Singh and his nine-year-old son, who was in the car when he pushed his 13-year-old son in Neelon canal on the night of September 14. He is now with his paternal grandfather Surmukh Singh, who came down from Fatehgarh Sahib after the murder was reported. A case under sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC has been registered against Mandeep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teacher-s-murder-accused-husband-had-not-paid-sons-school-fees-since-april-reveals-probe/story-oR6m5gshEYdOH7sJmO3DON.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Asked to clear dues, Panjab University hostellers stage protest||Students from Panjab University’s boys hostel number three protested outside the vice- chancellor’s residence on Saturday after they were given a notice by the varsity to clear pending dues by Tuesday.The notice comes after students of the hostel staged a protest on Friday night alleging that they were not being served dinner. Around 16 students live in the hostel.According to the notice, disciplinary action will be taken against those who fail to clear their dues in time .A resident of boys’ hostel number 3, Dheeru Yadav said, “Most of the students have cleared their dues except those who are not in a financial position to pay amid the pandemic.” The notice issued also states that students living at the hostel number after July 2020 are to pay ₹80 per day.Moreover, final-semester students have been asked to vacate hostels within 72 hours after the conclusion of the ongoing exams.PU dean students’ welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said, “It is not possible for the hostel to operate if students don’t pay pending bills. Those running the mess need to be paid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asked-to-clear-dues-panjab-university-hostellers-stage-protest/story-cz03cmGy4YDp2rraCNhV8I.html
20-09-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news||Mohali’s top brass struggles to battle Covid The Covid pandemic has Mohali’s top brass on its toes, literally. With the number of cases crossing 8,000 in the district, both deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan and additional DC Aashika Jain are holding back-to-back meetings with senior health officials to bring the number down. From giving directions to private hospitals to making arrangements and ensuring aggressive testing, early detection and treatment, the officers have warned people of stringent action against those spreading rumours. Regular directions are being given to people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. After HC quashes online election diktat, bar council digs in its heels Even as the Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed the online election diktat of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana in the two states and Chandigarh, the council is not ready to give in. It all started with the high court bar association refusing to follow the bar council’s notification on holding elections. This led the council to replace the election committee. The matter reached the high court on the judicial side and election notification was set aside. However, it appears the council is not ready to give in so soon. Hours after the notification was quashed, the council put two senior advocates of the high court on notice on complaints alleging that their cases were not defended properly by the duo. Some say the senior advocates association played a key role in getting the notification quashed. Incidentally, the bar association was represented by the two senior advocates. Press meet in Covid times leaves many surprised Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, a press conference convened by Vineet Kumar, the officiating SSP of Chandigarh, at the Sector 39 police station left many surprised. The SSP announced the arrest of four vehicle thieves, including two garbage collectors, by a police team led by inspector Amanjot Singh, the station house officer. The few mediapersons in attendance wondered why take a risk of holding a press meet to announce the recovery of nine stolen two-wheelers. The UT police have not held a press conference since the Covid-19 outbreak even in cases of murder and arrest of gangsters. Press statements suffice. Students send consent slips without parents’ knowledge As students in Chandigarh have been asked to provide consent slips from their parents for coming to school for guidance from Monday, it was found that many students of government schools sent the consent from their parents’ phone without informing them about it. A teacher of a government school said that many schools were now calling the parents of the students to verify that they have given the consent. On Monday, a printed copy of the consent form with the parents’ signature will be required for students to enter school. Students and teachers from micro-containment zones won’t be allowed to attend school. No printing of calendars, diaries at PGI Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has circulated an office memorandum by the central government suggesting that there should be no activity regarding printing of calendars, diaries, desktop calendars or festival greeting cards. They have been suggested to adopt innovative means such as digital or online methods for such activities. The printing of a coffee table book has also been banned and appropriate use of e-books has been encouraged. No syndicate meeting at PU in two months Thought it’s a tradition at Panjab University to hold a meeting of the syndicate every month, the apex executive body did not meet in August and September due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the vice-chancellor convened an online syndicate meeting on two consecutive days last week but the members did not attend it, saying the meeting should held in person, not online. Inputs by Surender Sharma, Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-uxC7azg2uTgl4OVr2ETGWN.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh resident loses ₹37,000 from account||Unidentified person (s) were booked on Saturday for siphoning off ₹37,563 from the bank account of a resident of Sector 38-D, Chandigarh. The victim, Harkamalpreet, 27, who works at a hotel, stated in his complaint that the cash had been siphoned off from his debit account in June this year and he had not received OTPs for these transactions. A case has been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) at Sector 39 police station.Woman duped of Rs 3,891 over KYC activationA resident of Sector 38-D was duped of ₹3,891 on Saturday on the pretext of getting the know your customer (KYC) service of an e-wallet application activated. The victim, Prakasini Satapathy, 36, said she received a call regarding the KYC service, following which the caller took an authentication ID and deducted the money from her e-wallet’s account. A case has been registered under Sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 420(cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 39 police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-resident-loses-37-000-from-account/story-4VQadkKbfTCjFJpbwOaaJP.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop booked for misbehaving with elderly woman neighbour||An inspector working with the police control room has been booked for allegedly harassing his 60-year-old woman neighbour in Sector 47.The Chandigarh Police inspector, identified as Gurnam Singh, allegedly under the influence of alcohol took off his clothes and passed lewd remarks and also damaged the wires of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed outside the complainant’s house on August 31.The woman stays with her 67-year-old husband, a retired army subedar. In her complaint to the senior superintendent’s office, she stated that as the couple live alone, they had installed CCTV cameras outside their house for safety. She alleged inspector Gurnam Singh routinely steals electricity from their meter using a “kundi” connection, and it was captured by the CCTV cameras.This is said to have infuriated the cop, who even threatened the elderly woman, stating that she could not bring any harm to him, it was stated in the complainant.After taking legal opinion, the department registered a case against the inspector under Sections 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (word gesture or act intended to insult modesty of woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-booked-for-misbehaving-with-elderly-woman-neighbour/story-aTQjopRq0gZTaT11H5mMsI.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University yet to decide on extension of term for students’ body||With this year’s students’ body elections hanging fire amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Panjab University is yet to take a decision on extension of term for the Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC) elected in 2019.The elections were held in September last year, but it is unlikely to be contested in the present scenario. The term of the students’ council ended on May 31, 2020. After this, other student organisations raised the issue that the office bearers should not continue using their official positions.The issue was also raised in the syndicate meeting in July and members were of the view that student representation should be maintained even if elections are not held.A committee has also been formed to look into legal possibilities of extension of term. However, the committee hasn’t met so far.A syndicate member, on condition of anonymity, said, “The session has already started and there are several concerns regarding the extension of term for the students’ council.”Chetan Chaudhary whose term as PUCSC president ended on May 31, said, “All our office-bearers have requested the authorities to extend the term of the students’ body elected last year. Since all students are currently at home, this becomes an imperative since it acts as a bridge between students and authorities.”“The matter has been discussed by the syndicate as well, but it seems that the varsity is in no mood to give us an extension. This means there will be no student representation,” said Rahul Kumar, vice president of PUCSC, 2019.PU’s dean students’ welfare (DSW), SK Tomar, said, “We have not received any communication from the university authorities regarding the matter so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-yet-to-decide-on-extension-of-term-for-students-body/story-CWQHxHm6tmcjlmGFHWZmOK.html
20-09-2020||City||Kharar man who was attacked at his house succumbs to injuries||Two days after being attacked at his house in Kharar, chartered accountant Arun Sharma, 61, succumbed to his injuries on Saturday. Around half a dozen men had attacked Sharma with wooden clubs and sharp-edged weapons after barging into his house in the wee hours of Thursday. Even gunshots were fired.Sharma breathed his last at a private hospital in Phase 1. Police said he had suffered heavy blood loss due to injuries on the head as well as splinter wounds. He was also left with fractured legs besides other injuries. Police have already arrested three of the five accused named in the FIR: Akashdeep Singh, alias Pannu, of Kharar; Harinder Sahota of Salora village, Ropar; and Jasjit Singh of Morinda. They were produced in court on Saturday and sent to five-day police remand. Baljit Chaudhary and Bhavjit Gill, both residents of Kharar, are still at large. Had come to attack sonPolice said Sharma’s son Devan, in his complaint, stated that Chaudhary had been trying to extort money from him after filming his objectionable video at a paying guest accommodation that they used to share earlier. After Devan refused to pay the money, Chaudhary along with his accomplices allegedly came to his house to kill him. On seeing them in CCTV, Devan reportedly escaped through the rooftop, but the attackers caught hold of his sleeping father. Kin hold protest After Sharma’s demise, his family refused to cremate the body and blocked the highway near the Kharar bus stand for about an hour and a half . Devan alleged that the police have failed to name another assailant, who is a resident of Bhagomajra, in the FIR.The family relented after assurances from police.Baghwant Singh, station house officer, Kharar City, said: “We will add his name only after verifying the facts. During preliminary investigation, it came to the fore that he was not present at the crime spot, as seen in the CCTV footage. No one involved in the crime will be spared.” Initially, the case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 450 (house trespass), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act. “We have added Section 302 (murder) to the FIR,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Mohali. “We have already arrested three of the accused and others will be apprehended soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-man-who-was-attacked-at-his-house-succumbs-to-injuries/story-wu0fb1vtPHrYxFe2jJqnVI.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Indian Navy’s aircraft carrier INS Viraat sets sail one last time||Three years after it was decommissioned in 2017, INS Viraat set off on its final journey on Saturday, when it was towed out of Mumbai to be taken to the ship-breaking yard at Alang in Gujarat. Over the past three years, there have been numerous attempts to convert the historic naval vessel into a museum, but none of these came to fruition. INS Viraat was the longest-serving aircraft carrier in the world, having served both the British Royal Navy and the Indian Navy in its tenure. Some of its commanding officers, including admirals Madhvendra Singh, Arun Prakash, NK Verma and DK Joshi, have gone on to become chiefs of naval staff in the Indian Navy. Last month, during an auction conducted by the Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Limited, INS Viraat was bought by Shree Ram Group for Rs 38.54 crore. Chairman of Shree Ram Group, Mukesh Patel said INS Viraat was expected to reach Alang around September 22. “We expect to generate around 15,000 tonnes of scrap from INS Viraat and the scrap will be sold to several steel rolling mills across the country,” said Patel. “I will be personally saluting the ship once it arrives at our yard before it is dismantled,” he added, saying the ship holds “a special place” because of its rich history. Previously, the state governments of both Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh had expressed interest in turning the ship into a museum. However, no formal proposal was submitted. In July 2019, in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha, minister of state for defence Shripad Naik had said, “INS Viraat could not be handed over to any state government because of non-receipt of a self-sustaining financially complete proposal. Thus, in view of considerations of safety, security etc, a decision to scrap INS Viraat has been taken in due consultation with Indian Navy.” INS Viraat was decommissioned on March 6, 2017. When the commissioning pendant of the longest-serving aircraft carrier was lowered, it was an emotional moment for many veterans in India and the United Kingdom who had served on the carrier. On Saturday, as INS Viraat set off on its last journey, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajeev Chandrasekhar wrote on Twitter, “I want to try one last attempt to save #INSViraat Flag of India. Wud Reliance, TATA, Adani, Wipro, HCL, Mahindra, Uday Kotak, Poonawalla, Tech companies like Infosys consider contributing to a trust to preserve our history? I rqst my media friends to amplify this appeal.” Among those who have campaigned to save INS Viraat in the past are veterans of the UK’s Royal Navy, who served on the carrier when it was HMS Hermes (1959-1984). Last year, former member of the European parliament David Campbell Bannerman had written to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to request an intervention to postpone the auction. “Our plan would be to turn the ship back into INS Viraat form for key weeks in the United Kingdom so that the large Indian diaspora can attend events on board,” Bannerman had told HT, saying he was prepared to pay 5 million pounds but had received no response from Indian authorities. Commissioned into the UK’s Royal Navy in November, 1959 as HMS Hermes, the aircraft carrier had served for 27 years, including in the Falklands War against Argentina in 1982, before being decommissioned in 1984. India bought the vessel and rechristened it INS Viraat. It was commissioned into the Indian Navy on May 12, 1987 and became the flagship of the Navy. Four Naval air squadrons in operated out of the aircraft carrier to undertake anti-submarine, search-and-rescue, and other necessary operations. Soon after it was commissioned, INS Viraat saw active operations as part of Operation Jupiter in July 1989, as part of the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) in Sri Lanka after the Indo-Sri Lankan accord broke down. INS Viraat was last deployed in February 2016, in the International Fleet Review in Viskhakapatnam. The aircraft carrier sailed under her own power for the last time from Mumbai to Kochi in July 2016. In October 2016, she was towed out of Kochi and returned to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indian-navy-s-aircraft-carrier-ins-viraat-sets-sail-one-last-time/story-4FMeY1QrY5XBsWLXFP5v4O.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams: Teachers write to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, want 100% attendance rule revoked||A day after the state department of higher and technical education released a government resolution (GR) making 100% attendance compulsory for teaching and non-teaching staff of colleges in view of the final-year exams next month, several teacher groups have sought chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and the Centre’s intervention into the issue. Many have also demanded that the GR be withdrawn with immediate effect.“The GR is in complete contradiction to the state government order (Mission Begin Again) dated August 31 and exhibits a disconnect with the grim reality of surge in Covid-19 cases in the state at present,” a statement by the Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU), from the letter addressed to Thackeray, read. It further mentioned how enforcing 100% attendance will violate the directives of the state disaster management authority to avoid bringing everyone back to work in educational institutes. BUCTU also highlighted how the idea of holding exams online was to ensure the safety of all stakeholders. “With the present surge in Covid-19 cases, implementation of this GR will lead to a serious compromise of health and life of staff that will ultimately adversely affect the smooth functioning of examinations,” the letter read.An official from the department of higher and technical education said that the GR is meant only for those who will have key roles in conducting the online examination. He further stated that clarity on this GR will be announced on Monday.The GR on Friday called for complete attendance in a bid to ensure that colleges are able to conduct the online exams and declare all the results in the first week of November. “Exams in the state will be conducted between October 1 and 31 and results are required to be announced by the first week of November. This will require a large amount of manpower. To complete the challenging task, 100% attendance of teaching and non-teaching staff is required henceforth,” stated the GR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-teachers-write-to-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-want-100-attendance-rule-revoked/story-GUi1VW5RBgEOpB0pimwbVO.html
20-09-2020||City||Covid impact: Mohali MC’s losses mount to ₹13 crore in five months||Already reeling due to a deficit budget, the fund-starved Mohali municipal corporation has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 13 crore in the past five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a major setback to MC, the Punjab local bodies department had imposed a cut of Rs 141 crore in its budget for 2020-21 earlier this year. Against the proposal of Rs 268 crore, which the civic body forwarded in February, the local bodies department had approved only Rs 127 crore.Every month, Mohali MC spends Rs 5 crore on paying salaries, power bills, fuel charges and maintaining city’s sanitation. With the pandemic affecting its income, the civic body is now left with only Rs 15 crore to meet its expenses for the remainder of the financial year. Revenue curtailedWhile it expected to earn Rs 10 crore in lieu of octroi, a duty levied on various goods entering Mohali, the civic body got just Rs 5 crore from the state government. A major blow came in the form of unipole advertisers’ refusal to pay the Rs 5-crore fee for five months. They instead wrote to the civic body seeking a waiver, citing no revenue earned. MC has referred the case to the local bodies department for approval. There are 102 unipoles set up by six companies in the city. Besides, neither the Rs 25-lakh rent nor the tehbazaari fee (licence to squat and sell goods in a particular location) that generally amounts to Rs 5 lakh per month has been collected by MC for the past five months. No duties, challans collected Other losses incurred include additional excise duty of Rs 1 crore; fee of around Rs 15 lakh from road cuts, which is required to lay sewer and water pipes; challan fee of polythene, which is around Rs 8 lakh; and building application fee, which comes to around Rs 25 lakh for five months. On account of property tax, residents have so far paid just Rs 7 crore against an estimated Rs 25 crore, and water bill payments come to around Rs 8 lakh instead of Rs 25 lakh. MC commissioner Kamal Kishore Garg said, “It is a nationwide crisis and Mohali MC has also suffered a huge loss. We got some funds on account of octroi, but suffered a major loss in terms of advertisement fee, which is around Rs 5 crore. Public dealing has begun, so we are hopeful of some recovery.” 200 tenders await allotment Meanwhile, more than 200 tenders of development works worth Rs 30 crore have not been allotted for the past one year. These projects pertain to development of parks, laying of paver blocks and footpaths, re-carpeting of roads and installing outdoor gyms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-impact-mohali-mc-s-losses-mount-to-13-crore-in-five-months/story-abDPUIpBrRFfYqxXo7OJcJ.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees record rise in Covid-19 recoveries||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case count on Saturday reached 1,188,015 after 21,907 more cases were reported, the 13th day of over 20,000 fresh infections. The active cases, however, came down to 2,97,480 as 23,501 recoveries, highest in a day, were reported in the past 24 hours. This works out to 25.04% of total cases reported so far. The total number of recoveries recorded till date are 8,57,933.The state has also crossed the 32,000 mark of Covid-19 casualties after 425 deaths were reported on Saturday. The death toll stands at 32,216.Maharashtra’s struggle to control Covid-19 cases is becoming tougher with a surge in cases since the ease of lockdown restrictions from June 3. The free movement of people allowed the infection to spread to rural areas. Consequently, the contribution of rural areas to the daily caseload has started increasing and is around 47%.Of the total 21,907 cases recorded on Saturday, 10,300 were from rural areas of the state. This ratio is likely to increase in the coming days. On July 3, only 19% or 1,211 cases of the total 6,364 cases were from rural areas.“There is no doubt that the removal of restrictions has led this situation and the spike in cases will continue for a few more weeks. Festivals, too, have played a role in it. We, too, had anticipated growth in cases and thus a conscious decision of giving graded relaxations was taken. The current surge is because cases are increasing rapidly in rural parts, which is concerning,” said a senior health official. The state has recorded over 3,96,790 cases in 19 days of this month and its average per day cases went up to 20,883.“Unlocking has brought us in this situation, but everything is still under control as a large number of people are also being recovered. There is also no shortage of beds and oxygen,” state health minister Rajesh Tope told HT.“It is difficult to say when the state is going to hit the curve. As the state has adopted ‘My family My responsibility’ initiative the cases are likely to increase but this will help us in early detection as our concern is to reduce the number of deaths and we are making all efforts to bring down the case fatality rate,” he added.High number of casualties continues to be a concern for the state authorities as it is still the highest in the country. To bring it down, the state has launched a door-to-door survey under the ‘My family My responsibility’ initiative. It aims to check 2.25 crore families for symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and co-morbidities. The idea is to effectively curtail the spread with necessary care and also reduce the number of Covid-19 casualties.Figures show that the state’s contribution in total Covid casualties is around 37.62% with 85,619 deaths reported across the country.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state was recorded at 2.77% on Saturday and comes at third position after Punjab and Gujarat. The CFR of Punjab and Gujarat were 2.92% (with 2,708 deaths) and 2.73% (with 3,286 deaths) on Friday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Mumbai recorded 2,211 new Covid cases, taking the case tally to 1,82,203. Of them, active cases are 30,639.The city toll reached 8,425 with 50 deaths on Saturday.Pune city has contributed second highest infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,745 cases, taking its tally to 139,907, while Nagpur city becomes the third-highest contributor with 1,569 cases pushing its case count to 47,908.Pune district also recorded 1,366 cases and the collective count of Pune in the daily caseload was 3,111 cases.Besides, the major hotspots from the state are Nashik city, Pimpri-Chinchwad city, Satara district, Ahmednagar district, Sangli district, Jalgaon district and Solapur district where fresh cases recorded were 1,141, 919, 767, 744, 662, 597 and 538 respectively.It has conducted 92,802 tests on Saturday and the total number of tests conducted till date are 5,786,147.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-record-rise-in-covid-19-recoveries/story-GZM9opbQqimGJchzVManEN.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Residents head uphills as Himachal opens its borders||Travellers from tricity made a beeline for Himachal Pradesh soon after the state opened its borders for outsiders. At least 35,000 vehicles crossed the Chandimandir toll plaza on Saturday, while the figure was 34,300 a day before. “The number of vehicles crossing the toll plaza has increased as compared to the last week. About a week back, we roughly had about 30,000 vehicles crossing the toll per day,” shared an official at the plaza. Another summer retreat for travel enthusiasts — Morni — remained out of bounds as the Panchkula administration had on September 15 closed the hill station for outsiders on weekends to prevent ‘obstruction, injury and annoyance’ to locals due to regular traffic congestions being witnessed there lately. The ban has, however, been revoked. The closure also forced many to head to Himachal for a break. ‘Cash payment of toll plaza causes congestion’Long queues were seen at the Chandimandir toll plaza as about 17,000 vehicles that crossed the barrier had FASTag, while the remaining ones opted for cash payments. The toll official said, “The long queues are the result of people still opting to pay by cash.” Most of those headed uphills had planned a day trip, while a few sought to spend the weekend there. “We are driving up to Kasauli just to enjoy the weather. It is almost after six months that we have moved out. We will be back by midnight,” said Balinder Singh, a resident of Sector 21, Chandigarh. “What could be better than visiting the hills to break the monotony and recharge yourself,” said Manpreet Kaur, an IT professional from Panchkula, who was on her way to Barog with her friends. Restriction on traffic to Morni lifted Panchkula DCP Mohit Handa on Saturday withdrew the order of restricting the traffic movement to Morni. As per the order issued in the evening, DCP Handa said, “In light of opening of the tourist traffic at the borders of HP, the order issued on September 15 was reviewed and keeping in mind the overall public interest the said order stands withdrawn with immediate effect.” However SHOs have been directed to continue patrolling and surveillance in Morni and adjoining areas of Panchkula to maintain smooth flow of traffic and law and order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-head-uphills-as-himachal-opens-its-borders/story-EvWktniOoHofgQ19JgrSXI.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to start antigen testing at emergency wards||Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has decided to conduct rapid antigen testing on patients reporting to emergency wards to detect Covid-19 cases at the early stage.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said that around 5,000 antigen kits have been ordered for carrying out the tests. Around 10 to 12% of patients admitted to emergency wards of the institute have tested positive so far.A team of experts deputed by the central government had also suggested that to avoid intermingling of Covid-19 patients with others in the emergency area, the PGIMER administration should introduce antigen testing.“The turnover time of testing in emergency wards is more than 12 to 18 hours, resulting in intermingling of positive patients with others. So, rapid antigen testing should be done to prevent this,” the team suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgi-to-start-antigen-testing-at-emergency-wards/story-0bQaKW2prAMNiZTUhu9XxI.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||16-yr-old driving mini truck leaves garbage collector dead in Chandigarh||A 16-year-old boy driving his father’s mini truck ran over a garbage collector at Dadumajra on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Arjun, 27, of Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh. He is survived by his wife Rashmi, a four-year-old daughter and an 18-month-old son.According to police, the teen’s father on Friday night parked the loaded truck outside their house in Dadumajra and went off to sleep. In the morning, the boy picked the keys and took off in the vehicle. Arjun, too, had left home for work on his rehri to collect garbage from Sector 15. As the boy reached near the Dadumajra T-point, he lost control of the heavy vehicle and rammed into Arjun’s rehri. Arjun died at the spot. Police later took the body to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Maloya police station. “We are verifying the details. The father of the juvenile will also be booked for failing to keep the keys out of his reach,” said Charanji Lal,station house officer, Maloya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-yr-old-driving-mini-truck-leaves-garbage-collector-dead-in-chandigarh/story-iT40wqBHl9WO110JTRQ1fL.html
20-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases surge, but 32% beds vacant in Mumbai||Even as Covid-19 cases in Mumbai have risen rapidly over the past couple of weeks, there is no shortage of beds for coronavirus patients in the city. Around 32% of the 17,534 beds in hospitals and Covid-19 quarantine centres in Mumbai are currently unoccupied, while the active cases in the city have risen to 34,259 on Friday. Of the vacant beds, maximum are in municipal hospitals. The primary reason for this being Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal’s decision in June to allot beds in civic hospital only after beds in private hospitals were occupied. In August, Chahal also directed all ward officers to fill up beds at jumbo Covid-19 facilities first, before allotting beds at civic hospitals. On Friday, 30% of Mumbai’s 14,559 hospital beds were vacant; 11% of its 1,786 intensive care unit (ICU) beds had no occupant; 32% of its 8,805 oxygen beds were free; and 10% of its 1,119 ventilator beds were unoccupied. Moreover, 38% of the 2,928 Covid Care Centre (CCC2) beds, used to quarantine asymptomatic patients, were also lying empty. This translates to Mumbai having 4,505 vacant hospital beds for Covid-19 patients, 203 ICU beds, 2,886 oxygen beds, and 114 ventilator beds. The city also has 12 paediatric ICUs of which six were vacant, and 22 neo-natal ICUs of which seven were unoccupied as on Friday. Of the 185 beds for cancer and dialysis Covid-19 patients, 67 were not taken. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMumbai also has 144 reserve CCC2 facilities with a bed capacity of 18,397, which can be activated at any time as per need.According to civic officials, Mumbai has not fallen short of beds owing to many asymptomatic patients choosing home quarantine. Currently, 71% of the active patients in the city are asymptomatic, 24% are symptomatic and 4% are critical. “More patients are asymptomatic, and as more cases are coming from high-rises, these patients opt for quarantining themselves at home. BMC has allowed that as long as they have a separate room and an independent toilet in the house,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department.Dharavi crosses 3,000 coronavirus cases Meanwhile, Covid-19 case count in Dharavi crossed the 3,000 mark on Saturday, with 25 fresh cases. On September 11, Dharavi had reported 33 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest after 55 days. Following this, on September 14, Dharavi reported 23 new cases. As on Saturday, Dharavi has 160 active Covid-19 cases and its tally stands at 3,018. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, with jurisdiction over Dharavi, said, “There are a number of reasons why cases in Dharavi have been increasing. Among them is considerable easing of lockdown, and as businesses in Dharavi are reopening, many migrant labourers are returning. Also, business owners are urging their employees, and employers such as families who hire house helps are urging their employees to get tested before returning to work.” Also read: Herd immunity unviable, Covid-19 vaccine the only solutionMumbai on Saturday recorded 2,211 new Covid-19 cases and 59 fatalities. The total cases in the city now stand at 182,203, and toll has risen to 8,425.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-surge-but-32-beds-vacant-in-mumbai/story-NMr9tpNgIYQaK93k4MrTdO.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||22 journalists among 691 fresh Covid cases in Chandigarh tricity||As many as 22 journalists are among 691 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Saturday. Thirty people, including 25 employees of media organisations in the tricity, were found positive during a two-day camp organised by the Chandigarh administration to screen mediapersons for Covid-19 at Chandigarh Press Club. Twenty-three of them are journalists, one of whom was diagnosed on Friday.While five journalists are from print media, including two reporters, 20 are from electronic media, including three camerapersons, 14 desk staffers and an anchor. Two people from the administration of a news channel were also found positive.“Family members of the journalists found positive were also called for testing, during which four more cases surfaced. A total of 160 people attended the camp, and all of them underwent antigen testing,” said Virender Rawat, president of Chandigarh Press Club.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said such camps will continue to be organised for high-risk groups, which include police officials and street vendors. In fact, on September 17, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had directed the officials concerned to hold special camps for police and media personnel to detect the infection on time.6 succumb in ChandigarhMeanwhile, the total infection count has climbed to 22,951 in the tricity, of which 6,845 remain active. As many as 335 people have succumbed to the virus, which include 13 whose deaths were confirmed on Saturday.Chandigarh reported six deaths, taking the toll to 116, while 290 people tested positive.The tally is inching towards 10,000, with 9,796 cases reported so far. However, with 351 patients being discharged, the number of those cured rose to 6,766 and active cases dropped to 2,911.Those dead include two men, aged 54 and 58, from Mauli Jagran besides three other men, aged 30, 40 and 47, from Manimajra, Sector 52 and Dadumajra, respectively, and 60-year-old woman from Sector 26. All of them had pre-existing diseases. Mohali tally goes past 8,000With 239 people testing positive, Mohali district’s case tally breached the 8,000 mark, while the toll reached 157 with two more deaths.Those dead have been identified as a 53-year-old woman from Dappar and a 44-year-old man from Phase 7.Among the fresh cases, 84 surfaced in Mohali city, followed by 48 in Dhakoli and 44 in Gharuan. he district has reported 8,228 positive cases, of which 2,613 are active. As many as 5,458 patients have been discharged, including 162 on Saturday. Four women among 5 casualties in P’kulaFive people, including four women, died of Covid-19 in Panchkula district while 162 tested positive. Those who succumbed include three women, aged 55, 60 and 64, from Manakpur, Mansa Devi Complex and Sector 9, respectively, who were also suffering from diabetes. Others are a 56-year-old woman and a 70-year-old man from Tipra village. The district has registered 62 deaths so far. Maximum cases (12) on Saturday were reported from Sector 11, followed by Raipurani (11) and Pinjore and Sector 20 with 10 each. The total number of cases has reached 4,927, of which 1,321 are active and 3,544 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/22-journalists-among-691-fresh-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-QIlPW6z9Z5DmTYQf76vaVP.html
20-09-2020||Election:||Owaisi forms separate anti-BJP front for Bihar polls||Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi headed All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) on Saturday tied up with the party of former union minister Devendra Prasad Yadav for fighting upcoming Bihar Assembly elections and attacked RJD for dubbing him “spoiler” of secular votes.Addressing a press conference with Yadav here, Owaisi said they have laid foundation of UDSA (United Democratic Secular Alliance) which would assess as on how many seats they should field candidates in the poll fray in the state.Yadav is heading Samajwadi Janata Dal (D).Coming down heavily on the RJD for dubbing him “vote katwa” (spoiler of votes) of the secular forces, Owaisi asked what happened to these so called “thekedars” (feudal lords) of the anti-BJP votes in the 2019 general elections in Bihar.In reply to a question that the parties of the opposition grand alliance coalition are blaming him for trying to help the BJP by planning to field candidates in the October- November polls, Owaisi said “they are playing old cassette”.AIMIM contested only Kisanganj seat in the 2019 general election in Bihar and our candidate secured 3 lakh votes while that of the JD(U) bagged 3.25 lakh votes and the winning Congress nominee garnered 3.50 lakh.“Can we be dismissed as an insignificant player after this and winning a seat in the assembly bypoll?” he asked.“What happened in 2019 Parliamentary election in Bihar...did RJD claiming itself to be champions of the minorities and secular voters win any seat?” he said.The NDA had won 39 out of total 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar in last general election while Congress managed to win one seat of Kisanganj. Asked that the Bihar AIMIM president recently met RJD leaders reportedly for an electoral tie-up but the Lalu Prasad headed party did not give it any weight, Owaisi said “the meetings were not as you are guessing.” After gaining a toehold in thr Bihar politics by winning an assembly seat in the muslims dominated Kisanganj constituency early this year, AIMIM is trying to increase its footprint in the state by planning to contest some seats in Seemanchal areas having sizeable minorities population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/owaisi-forms-separate-anti-bjp-front-for-bihar-polls/story-QpuF6Hz0xKF9tMyyA4g8EP.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Care home needed for adults with mental health issues||The Mental Healthcare Act of 2017 has provision of half-way homes, sheltered accommodation and supported accommodation under rights of persons with mental illness.Surprisingly, however, a Smart City like Chandigarh does not have community homes offering long-term assisted living for persons with mental health issues.The city also has a large population of retirees, and some senior citizens are caregivers and parents of adults with mental health issues. Their concerns about the future of their children are valid. What if they are too ill to offer care? What happens to their children when they die?A number of persons, including seniors, have been making representations to the administration for setting up long-term care homes, but the powers that be have yet to act.Dr BK (Simmi) Waraich, MD, consultant psychiatrist with a Mohali based private hospital, had in a letter to the Punjab governor and UT administrator, on April 2019, referred to a meeting with him and reiterated the need to set up such a home. “The character of Chandigarh would be maintained and it would provide much needed sustenance to people who deserve to live with dignity and grace integrated into our society,” she had said.Such a home also had to cater to different socio-economic needs of persons with mental illnesses, Waraich had stressed.A year has passed since then, but even though a note was made of the governor receiving her letter, nothing has moved.The administration has said it is looking into the matter, but getting land and other facilities for such a project could be a problem.What the UT needs to do is assess properties not generating enough revenues and see if these could be put to good use. Paid facilities can be provided with retired nursing and housekeeping staff hired to take care of residents’ needs. Regular skills training, counselling and other services can be provided to enable them to live healthy and productive lives.QUESTION: CARING CITYDoes UT need care homes for adults with mental health problems?The city does not have care homes for adults with mental health problem? How can such facilities be run and maintained in the city? Send your responses with a photograph to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by September 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-care-home-needed-for-adults-with-mental-health-issues/story-2EKpsa8zK5oUn4hlS07O3L.html
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Guest column: Don’t dare the devil in times of coronavirus!||Peek-a-boo! My long lost friend was at the door, materialising from anywhere, just like olden times, to give me a surprise. The apathy of corona times had hit me, but she seemed oblivious to the dangers that lurked. In normal circumstances, I would have rushed to embrace her, but here I stood frozen, flustered, and quite taken aback by her presence. I almost hated myself for being so cold and felt guilty that perhaps I was overreacting to the threat of the pandemic. To my relief, better sense prevailed upon her, as she was wearing a mask, and she did not try to come close.Corona had arrived with a bang in our lives, leaving a trail of unanswered questions. Millions fell like a pack of cards. The Covid warriors fought tooth and nail, putting their health and lives at stake to save others. The whole world saluted their tireless efforts. Several months of lockdown had engendered a feeling of restlessness. This gave rise to a new breed of combatants whose fight was not against coronavirus, but against anyone who stopped them from doing what they wanted to. Those daredevils were living on a two-week cyclic schedule, playing hide and seek with the virus and taking their chances. They were freely mingling in groups, and posting deeds of their bravado on all social platforms. They believed that the infection could not come from close friends and family members. The virus must have felt even more insulted by their devil-may-care attitude than it would have done during the lockdown.My friend, like many others, had also “let go”. The increasing numbers were bothering her too, but what troubled her more was the thought of staying confined indoors. She had stopped watching the news, and she jested, “This lockdown has given me a trampoline head. Now all the facts and figures conveniently bounce off my senses.”In the same breath, she asked me why I had been hiding. To this, I answered that I was keeping my distance so that I did not go around helping the virus do its job of infecting people. Nodding in amusement she called me paranoid and invited me for a little tour of the city: “Come with me,” she continued, “the markets are bustling, people are dining out, and the salons have opened. What’s stopping you?”I too was undergoing a severe bout of frustration in not being able to move around freely. What stopped me was the fact that with each passing day, the number of cases was rising, especially in India. Community spread was rampant, and we were inching towards the peak.I could see that the only reason why the markets had been allowed to reopen was to boost the dwindling economy, and not because the fear of infection had diminished.The fact that I could be a carrier and pass on the infection to others even though I did not have the symptoms was scary. So, by restraining myself, I was doing a service unto others.It was the travesty of times that my friend and I fell on either side of the argument. I empathised with her and gently told her that this was a battle we could not afford to lose, so we had better not get into one. It was in our own interest to play safe, and stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-don-t-dare-the-devil-in-times-of-coronavirus/story-CYlPkHr0SoOyz0aCzvV82N.html
20-09-2020||City||Opposition making false statements on farm bills: Haryana education minister||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said on Saturday that the opposition parties were making false statements to mislead the farmers, a day before they are set to launch a statewide protest against three farm ordinances. Addressing a press conference in Jagadhri, Kanwar Pal said under these laws, farmers will be able to sell their produce directly to the buyers that will minimise the involvement of middlemen and would improve the farmers’ standard of living. “Passage of these three new laws will open doors for more investments. The agriculture sector will be modernised, which will increase the income of crores of farmers. The mandi system and MSP will remain intact and no change has been made on these two fronts. Supply of quality seeds will be ensured to farmers and they will be protected in a transparent manner,” Kanwar Pal, who is also Jagadhri MLA, said. He said, “The mentality of the Congress is that of the Britishers and they cannot see the farmers azaad (free). All Congress leaders, including Randeep Singh Surjewala, are making unsuccessful attempts to mislead farmers by making false statements. This is the same party where former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda distributed cheques of ₹2 and ₹3 in the name of compensation to the farmers. The BJP government, whenever there was any natural calamity, distributed compensation worth thousands of crores.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/opposition-making-false-statements-on-farm-bills-haryana-education-minister/story-KueT84DNRMEi7ILfQ2ueGL.html
20-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Last 2,000 Covid-19 cases reported in just eight days||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad district added its previous 2,000 Covid-19 cases in just eight days – the fastest spike of the infection here so far, according to state government data.Saturday saw 132 new Covid-19 cases added, taking the district’s total tally to 12,153. The district added 1,000 cases between September 10 and 14, and another 1,000 between September 14 and September 18, as per the data.The district reported its first case of the infection on March 5, and it took 110 days to reach the 1,000-mark from there, recording an average of around 9 cases a day.It took Ghaziabad district five days to go from 9,000 to 10,000 cases — the previous highest spike.District officials said the spike was due to increased testing, as well as norms being relaxed over the past few days. “There has been a rise in new cases over the past fortnight, due to many more activities being allowed,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Besides, increased testing is also resulting in more cases. The cases in September have been averaging about 180-200 per day. But in the past two-three days, we have experienced some decline. It could be temporary,” he added. According to the records of the Ghaziabad district health department, the average per day testing from August 1 to August 18 was about 3,048 tests while a total of 54,877 tests were conducted. During the same period in September, the average daily tests stood at 3,579 while the overall tests from September 1 to September 18 were 64,429. The official records state that the 3,686 cases added in September so far account for about 30.33% of the total cases here.Experts said the spike is likely to continue in the coming days. “A rise in cases has been observed since the past fortnight and the trend is likely to continue. It is vital that strict enforcement of containment zones, contact tracing and surveillance activities should continue to have an effective control over the Covid-19 pandemic. People must not lower their guard and must adhere to health protocols,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. Meanwhile, the district administration said that with the rise in number of cases, they have also beefed up surveillance activities. “There are seven types of surveillance teams who are taking up different types of activity of tracing suspect cases and getting them tested. The seven teams are also monitored by as many teams who are stationed at the integrated command and control centre. We are focussed in enforcing the containment activities and ensuring early detection, early referral and speedy treatment of positive cases,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The seven types of teams are those which are taking up door-to-door surveys in containment zones, those surveying households across the district and led by booth level officers, two different set of teams taking up special surveys in the city and rural areas and other teams who are focussed on surveillance of old aged persons and pregnant women. According to the records of the district administration, the seven teams have so far completed a survey of 28,204,86 households in different rounds and identified 14,466 suspected cases which have so far resulted in 1,544 Covid-19 positive cases..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-last-2-000-covid-19-cases-reported-in-just-eight-days/story-yfE7D1OLXcusXT3h46WqtL.html
20-09-2020||Delhi||Task force reviews plan to curb pollution in Delhi-NCR||PK Mishra, Principal secretary to the Prime Minister, has asked Delhi government to ensure that local sources of air pollution such as open burning of waste, road and construction and demolition dust and industrial emissions are managed carefully ahead of winter before air pollution peaks, according to a statement issued by environment ministry on Saturday.At a high-level task force meeting on Friday, Mishra also called for plans for air pollution hot spots. The meeting was attended by chief secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, secretaries of different departments including ministries of environment, agriculture, road, petroleum and the Central Pollution Control Board. The task force was constituted to improve the air quality in National Capital Region of Delhi.The Delhi government did not respond to HT’s queries regarding the meeting. Mishra said emphasis should be laid on deployment of teams for control of open burning of waste, IT-enabled monitoring of mechanical road sweepers, improvement in utilisation of construction and demolition waste and site specific implementation of action plan for identified hot spots. It was decided that similar site-specific plans will be implemented in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.He said the measures should be implemented well before the onset of severe air conditions and focus should be on compliance of emission norms by industries.Mishra noted that the incidence of stubble burning has reduced by more than 50% in last two years and the number of “good” air quality index days have gone up. It was observed that after recent inclusion of residue-based power and fuel plants under priority sector lending by Reserve Bank of India, both state and central governments should jointly work out action plans for rapid deployment of such units. Measures related to diversification of crop and strengthening of supply chains were also discussed.Mishra stressed that teams should be deployed in Punjab, Haryana and UP to ensure that no stubble burning takes place. These states will need to provide appropriate incentives especially in the relevant districts.“We have to enforce the rules but enforcement becomes a challenge if systems are not in place. We have to do capacity system audits to understand what kind of waste generation and management is happening. Small scale industrial units, unauthorised industrial units will have to be monitored for the kind of fuel they are burning. Learnings from the lockdown will also have to be systematically implemented. For example, work from home can give us clues to develop a systemic approach of reducing the need for travel,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment. Delhi recorded moderate AQI at 118 on Saturday.Delhi has recorded “moderate” air quality days consecutively since September 9. The city had recorded four “good” and 27 “satisfactory” air days in August with air quality not falling to moderate levels even once.But meteorological and air quality scientists said the season is changing gradually leading to meteorological conditions that are unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/task-force-reviews-plan-to-curb-pollution-in-delhi-ncr/story-eVuCmQD1X3CxJKHLSmzXxM.html
20-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: 500+ ICU beds added in private hospitals, says Satyendar Jain||In a week, over 500 intensive care unit (ICU) beds have been added in Delhi’s private sector hospitals for the treatment of patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday, even as the Capital added 4,071 cases of the infection. He also said that the case positivity rate in the city would see a further downward trend in the coming days, on the back of the governments efforts to scale up Covid-19 tests in the Capital.“In the next two or three days, the number of beds will go up further. ICU beds are being increased in the government hospitals as well, and we are monitoring the capacity of all the hospitals regularly. Over 8,000 beds earmarked Covid-19 beds are still vacant, and we will increase the count further if necessary,” he said. “Not many actually need beds with ventilators. As the number of ICU beds go up, ventilator beds will slowly free up,” Jain added. As on Saturday evening, according to the state government’s Delhi Corona website, 15,323 beds in Delhi’s government and private hospitals are earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Of these, 7,025, or 45.8%, beds were occupied. Over 2,900 ICU beds are reserved for Covid-19 patients, and 66.6% currently occupied. With the government scaling up testing for Covid-19 from the first week of September, Delhi has added over 4,000 new cases of Covid-19 every day except one, since September 9 . However, the cumulative test positivity rate — the number of positive cases of the total number of people tested in the city so far — dipped below 10% on Friday, the health minister said. “The cumulative positivity rate of all cases reported dropped below 10% for the first time on Thursday . So far, the positivity rate is 9.83%, earlier this was between 11 and 12%. The case fatality ratio (fraction of people who die among those tested positive) stands at 0.69% in the last 10 days, and 2.05% for all deaths so far,” Jain said. Delhi has so far seen 4,945 people die of the disease.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicJain also said the proportion of the gold standard reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests looks skewed because Delhi government has scaled up testing massively. Over the last week, just over 17.5% of all tests conducted in the city were done using the RT-PCR method.“Show me one case in Delhi where a person wanted to get tested but could not get it. Even if they want RT-PCR test they can get it. But for surveillance in people without symptoms, rapid antigen tests can be done in bulk. The testing guidelines have also been revised to remove the need for doctors’ prescriptions,” the minister said. “We increased the number of tests over the last 10 to 12 days, and have seen a downward trend in positivity rate in the last two days. The impact will be visible in the coming week,” he added. When asked whether there was community transmission in Delhi, he said, “Community transmission is a technical term, but with so many cases being reported from Delhi and other parts of the country, community transmission should have been accepted. But, it is only the centre and scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) who can say so, however the infection is spreading in the community.” “What we have learnt and what WHO (World Health Organization) defines as community transmission is a case for which authorities are not able to trace the contact from where they got the infection. And we are getting such cases. So the answer is fairly obvious. But, discussing this makes no sense now. The objective has to be to control further spread of the infection and reduce morbidity and mortality because of it,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor, department of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/500-icu-beds-added-in-pvt-hospitals-jain/story-WJUFBAqTLe6An1d9Pl5u5N.html
