21-09-2020||Delhi||Two more arrested for gang-rape at hotel, room was booked in name of two absconding businessmen, say police||The room at Shangri-La Hotel on Ashoka Road-Janpath roundabout, where a 27-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by five men in the presence of another woman on Friday, was booked in the names of the two businessmen who are yet to be arrested, police said on Monday, after arresting two more suspects in the case.With this, three suspects have been arrested so far while the two businessmen and the woman remain at large. Those arrested on Monday were identified as Sanjay Chaudhary,46, a bailiff in Saket Court, and Jagdeep Singh,60, a businessman, said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal.The alleged prime accused, Manoj Sharma,48, a building contractor, was the first to be arrested on Sunday, a day after a case under Sections 376D (gang-rape) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code based on the rape survivor’s complaint.The rape survivor has alleged that the woman who was in the room had instigated and provoked the five men to sexually assault her, police said.There were unconfirmed reports that the room was booked and paid by the personal staff of a politician. The police, however, said the booking and payment were done online by one of the two businessmen. “At this stage of the investigation, all we can say is that the room was booked in the name of the two businessmen whose political links have not emerged so far in our probe. Further facts will be known only when we arrest and question the two businessmen,” an officer associated with the probe said, on condition of anonymity. The officer added that the names of the businessmen will be shared only after arresting them and verifying their role.An email with queries about the booking was on Monday sent to the spokesperson of Shangri-La Hotel who said, “The Delhi Police is currently looking into an incident which allegedly took place at our hotel. We are unable to provide any details as this is an ongoing investigation. The hotel is extending its full support to the authorities.”On Monday, the investigating team took the detailed statement of the rape survivor to ascertain the exact sequence of events. The woman told the police that she was introduced to Sharma by a woman friend. She had first met Sharma in the first week of September to seek a personal loan of ₹18 lakh from him, the police said. The rape survivor, the first officer said, told the investigating team that she contacted Sharma on Friday for the purpose of getting the loan. Sharma allegedly told her meet him outside the Shangri-La Hotel and that he will issue a cheque to her for ₹18 lakh.Sharma was with a woman at the meeting point and they both took her to a room in the hotel where four men were already present, the officer said, quoting the rape survivor’s statement.“The analysis of the hotel’s CCTV cameras shows that the complainant remained in the hotel for nearly two and a half hours. She left with Sharma who later dropped her home. She approached the police and filed the gang-rape complaint on Saturday night, a day after the crime. Her statement before the magistrate will be recorded on Tuesday,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-more-arrested-for-gang-rape-at-hotel-room-was-booked-in-name-of-two-absconding-businessmen-say-police/story-LwYgs2nlkmRoyTkt2cDWlL.html
21-09-2020||City||Snatching case in Ludhiana solved with arrest of victim’s employee||A week after a factory owner lost Rs 5.57 lakh to two bike-borne snatchers, police have solved the case with the arrest of his employee and three aides. They have also recovered Rs 4.80 lakh cash, the motorcycle used in the crime, a toy pistol, a cheque and a bag from their possession.The accused have been identified as Vicky Kumar alias Vicky, 32, of Shimlapuri, Shivam Khullar alias Shammi, 35, of Guru Nanak Nagar, Kapil Kumar, 36, of New Kundanpuri and Raju Soni alias Lalit Soni, 37, of Chandar Nagar. Vicky is an employee in the factory of the victim, Vishal Jain.As per information, on September 14, Vicky had collected Rs 5.7 lakh from the market and handed it over to Jain near the Post Office in Millar Ganj. He had also simultaneously tipped off his friends. Following this, Kumar and Soni turned up at the spot on a motorcycle and snatched the cash bag from Jain and fled. Vicky was also present at the spot at the time of the incident, joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur said. She added that after the case was lodged on Sunday, they started keeping a tab on Vicky. On Monday, Vicky went to meet his accomplices following which the police caught him red-handed. A case had been registered against the accused under Section 379-B (snatching using force) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snatching-case-in-ludhiana-solved-with-arrest-of-victim-s-employee/story-lP1WI9G4tf2aezYYRXAt4K.html
21-09-2020||City||Fire incidents keep Ludhiana fire brigade’s siren blaring||The number of fire incidents being reported in Ludhiana are a cause for concern. While Ludhiana’s fire department had marginal respite during the lockdown, with more sectors resuming activity, the number of fire incidents are also increasing. Though industrial activity ceased and markets closed in March due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, an average 16 fire incidents a month were reported from March to August. During the lockdown, too, fire brigades had to be called in to douse factory blazes, gas cylinders catching fire, fire in vacant plots and garbage dumps, and electricity transformers to name a few incidents.Compared to last year, there was a 60% decrease in fire incidents in May and June, but the number of blazes are again increasing with the government relaxing lockdown restrictions in phases.In March and April, 12 and 13 fire incidents were reported, respectively. The number increased to 22 and 21 in May and June after industrial operations were allowed in designated industrial areas in the first week of May. Last year, 55 incidents were reported in May and 56 in June. The number of fires reported reduced to 18 in July. However, only 16 fires were reported in the same duration last year. The count reduced to 10 in August against 19 incidents reported last year. Twelve fire incidents have been reported in the city till September 18. Sub-fire officer Navrang Singh says,”The fire fighters had to remain on their toes even during complete lockdown as several fires were reported from the industrial area despite factories remaining closed. One such major incident was reported from Bahadurke Road after fire broke out at a hosiery unit in the first week of April. The number of fire incidents are again increasing with government relaxing restrictions.” “Subsequently, major fire incidents were also reported. In the last week of August, it took us around 22 hours to douse a fire that broke out at a hosiery unit in Sundar Nagar. On September 7, five members of a family, including three children,were injured after a gas cylinder exploded in Basti Jodhewal area,” said Singh. Unappreciated heros Apart from dealing with fire incidents, teams of fire fighters also conducted regular sanitisation drives in the city from March 25 to May 17. The fire fighters say they still take up sanitisation drives in affected areas when directed by authorities.“However, no appreciation letter was given to any employee,” said one of the fire fighters.Scorching statistics Compared to last year, there was a 60% decrease in fire incidents in May and June, but the number of blazes are again increasing with the government relaxing lockdown restrictions in phases.Month 2019 2020Jan 21 15 Feb 20 13March 18 12April 39 13May 55 22June 56 21July 16 18August 19 10September (till date) 16 12||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-incidents-keep-ludhiana-fire-brigade-s-siren-blaring/story-A3rUfkPfSSU4VyerZWyFaM.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 tally at 2.49 lakh, death toll crosses 5K: All you need to know||Delhi on Monday inched closer to 2.5 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases after 2,548 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. The national capital crossed another grim milestone of 5,000 cumulative deaths after 32 new deaths were recorded on Monday.Here is all you need to know about Covid-19 disease outbreak in Delhi:- Delhi’s cumulative tally of the viral contagion on Monday stood at 2,49,259 cases of Covid-19 after 2,548 fresh infections were reported in the daily health bulletin.  - The death toll in Delhi due to Covid-19 stands at 5,014 after 32 new deaths due to the infection were recorded in the last 24 hours.- There are 30,941 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), out of which 19,213 patients continue to be treated in home isolation.- Out of total 2.49 lakh cases reported in Delhi since March, 2.13 lakh people have recovered so far.- Delhi’s positivity rate, as of Monday, was logged at 7.55 per cent. The cumulative positive rate has been recorded at 9.67 per cent. - The Case Fatality Rate in the national capital has been recorded at 2.01 per cent. - The containment zones in Delhi have increased in the last 24 hours and currently stand at 1,889. - Compared to aggressive testing conducted by authorities in the last fortnight, Delhi on Monday saw reduced testing by almost half the mark at 33,733 tests. - Delhi has tested 1.32 lakh people per million. The total number of tests conducted so far is recorded at over 25.78 lakh.- Out of the 15,861 beds in available in COVID hospitals, 8,691 are vacant, while 1,864 beds in COVID care centres are occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-tally-at-2-49-lakh-death-toll-crosses-5k-all-you-need-to-know/story-P8alnpSF0bxv3jSU9zMYxO.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||MTDC to hand over 500-acre mangrove area in Manori-Gorai to Maharashtra forest department||The city will soon get a 500-acre mangrove area across the Manori-Gorai belt declared as reserved forest, the state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray said on Monday. Two years after the Bombay high court (HC) directed various state agencies to handover mangrove areas to the forest department for better protection, the Maharashtra Tourism and Development Corporation (MTDC) became the first state agency to commence the transfer process.The decision was taken during a meeting held by the state tourism department with the forest department and mangrove cell on Monday to discuss the process of handing over mangrove areas under MTDC’s jurisdiction falling in close proximity to their resort areas.“The survey has begun to identify and come up with the exact area that can be handed over. The total area is approximately over 800 acres and it is with MTDC as of now. Of this, some have been declared reserved forest already. However, there are still about 500 acres which would be declared as reserved forest after being handed over,” said Thackeray adding that such zones would have adequate protection and biodiversity conservation once under the forest department’s jurisdiction. “The land cannot be used, and should not be used either. Not all such areas need human interference. So we would rather hand it over to the forest department according it the status and protection it requires,” said Thackeray.According to MTDC, of a total area of 1,074.05 acre across Manori and Gorai, 73.19 acre in Manori and 128.33 acre in Gorai have been reserved for playgrounds, tourist amenities and parking while 872.53 acre (612.33 acre in Manori and 260.2 acre in Gorai) has been demarcated entirely as mangroves. “Some of this mangrove area is partly notified by the forest department, but based on site verification to determine the exact area, we have decided to hand over at least 500 acre located along creek edges both at Gorai and Manori to the forest department ensuring it is free from encroachments and other threats,” said Ashutosh Salil, managing director, MTDC. He explained that following ground verification, the proposal to handover the land would be placed before MTDC board and then the tourism department, which would write to the revenue department for final handover to forest department. “We expect all formalities from MTDC’s side to be completed by October-end,” said Salil.In September 2018, the HC passed its final order directing all mangroves in Maharashtra, including land belonging to government agencies, to be declared as protected or reserved forests. “It is a welcome move that a large portion of mangroves will now be protected in Mumbai, and MTDC is the first government body to initiate this process,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell).The Maharashtra government has decided to declare a total of 1,100 acre reserved forest area with the announcement of 600 acres at Aarey Colony, Goregaon followed by 500 acre in the western suburbs.MANGROVE AREA IN MUMBAIMumbai currently has over 6,600 hectare (ha) mangrove area, according to the Forest Survey of India. Of this, 276 ha are in Mumbai city limits, which have been notified as reserved forest and handed over to the forest department. In Mumbai suburbs, 3,948.4 ha have been notified as reserved forest while 3,706.4 ha have been handed over the forest department. The mangrove cell identified that remaining 242 ha belongs to various state agencies, such as the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA), Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), and need to be handed over to the forest department. However, the latest decision by MTDC to hand over 500 acre was not included in the Mangrove Cell’s assessment, and will be declared as additional reserved forest area for Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mtdc-to-hand-over-500-acre-mangrove-area-in-manori-gorai-to-maharashtra-forest-department/story-xHRUUXtWFKmrgGYOzBFZ9J.html
21-09-2020||City||Khanna Police foil robbery bid with arrest of three Haryana residents||The Khanna police foiled a robbery bid with the arrest of a former driver of a Haryana-based timber merchant and his two accomplices. The accused, who belong to Haryana, had hatched a conspiracy to rob the accountant of the timber merchant when he had come to Punjab for collecting payments.Police have recovered two pistols, six live cartridges, two sharp-edged weapons and a Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire car from their possession.The accused have been identified as Vinod Kumar of Pionda village of Kaithal, Sonu Malik and Sandeep alias Deepi of Vikas Nagar of Panipat. Their three accomplices, including Deepak of Gari of Panipat, Tesa of Panipat and Gullu of Kishanpura of Panipat are yet to be arrested.Khanna senior superintendent of police Harpreet Singh stated that the police received information that some miscreants had entered Khanna to rob Tushar, the accountant of Timber merchant Amit Gupta. The SSP said the police arrested the accused near Alaur Village during a special checking.Vinod Kumar used to work as a driver with the timber merchant and was aware that the accountant was traveling to Punjab with a huge amount.A hunt is on for the arrest of the rest of the accused. An FIR under Sections 399 (dacoity), 402 (assembling for the purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been lodged against the accused at Police Station City-2 of Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-police-foil-robbery-bid-with-arrest-of-three-haryana-residents/story-R1H3251DzXmffp9mXDyYqN.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Trial in Hema Upadhyay and her lawyer’s murder resumes after six months||The trial for the murders of artist Hema Upadhyay and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani resumed on Monday after a gap of almost six months. On Monday, the prosecution completed examining an independent witness who was present when the police seized boxes that are critical evidence in the double murder. The boxes were recovered as part of the investigation of Vijay Rajbhar, a tempo driver and one of the accused in the case. The boxes were used to dispose of Upadhyay and Bhambani’s bodies and Rajbhar was party to the disposal. The witness, listed as prosecution witness no. 10, was first examined in March, but his testimony could not be completed due to the lockdown. The other accused, including artist and Upadhyay’s estranged husband Chintan Upadhyay, were produced before court through video conferencing. According to the police, Upadhyay and Bhambani were killed in a warehouse owned by Vidyadhar Rajbhar in December 2015 upon Chintan’s instructions. Their bodies were then packed in cardboard boxes and dumped in a sewer in Kandivli. Vidyadhar is still absconding. The prosecution also moved an application seeking to read the evidence against Vidyadhar. “We asked that the evidence recorded by the court so far in absence of the absconding accused be also read against him. This will be useful in case Vidyadhar is caught and put to trial,” said special public prosecutor Vaibhav Baghade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trial-in-hema-upadhyay-and-her-lawyer-s-murder-resumes-after-six-months/story-bCm1IhpIFWmtABYZcHWYLL.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Court quashes ED’s plea for intervention on closure report in case against Jet Airways||The Metropolitan Magistrate court on Saturday refused to hear the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) plea for intervention on closure report filed by MRA Marg police in a case against Jet Airways and its directors.MRA Marg police was probing a complaint by the chief financial officer (CFO) of Akbar Travels of India Pvt Ltd (ATIPL) against Jet Airways and its directors Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita Goyal for cheating. The complainant alleged that during 2018-19, ATIPL had done business of ₹900 crore with Jet Airways, of which ₹21.31 crore was yet to be paid by the airline. In addition, the complainant had alleged also made advance air ticket bookings of ₹23.87 crore for the airline which is due. The complainant claimed that Jet Airways is yet to pay a total of ₹46.05 crore to the company. The CFO further claimed that when he met the Goyals’ they assured about payment, but to no avail. He also said that the Goyals’ made ATIPL do business with them despite being aware of the financial crisis. The complainant had also shared details of bank accounts held by Goyals in other countries for further investigation.The police, after the probe, had filed a closure report claiming that they found no evidence that the complainant was cheated. The police, in its report, claimed the case is of civil nature and sought closure of the case.ATIPL through its lawyer Dharmesh Joshi filed a petition against the closure.Meanwhile, ED too filed a petition against the closure report saying the police left out various aspects in its probe and that it should be reinvestigated. The agency asked for intervention in the hearing on the closure report. ED, in their application for intervention in the hearing, claimed the police left out crucial facts. ED claimed that the police did not properly investigate facts about three meetings between the complainant’s representative and Goyals wherein ATIPL was assured of paymentThe agency also claimed that the police did not record statement of Naresh Goyal about the allegations in the complaint along with the details of accounts with foreign banks. Ed said, “Police has made undue haste in submitting the closure report dated March 9, to the court.”It is to be noted that ED had already initiated investigation into money-laundering allegations against Goyals. The probing agency claimed that during their probe, they unearthed numerous foreign bank accounts of Naresh Goyal and Anita Goyal and related entities in the UAE, UK, Switzerland, Singapore and USA etc. ED also mentioned that Anita Goyal holds eight properties outside India while the couple has around ₹180 crore in one of their several accounts outside India. In the plea, the agency asked the court to not accept the closure report of the police and asked the court to direct the police to reinvestigate the complaint with regards to undisclosed accounts and assets of Goyals and his family members.The court on Saturday rejected the plea of ED and will now hear complainant on the closure report on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/court-quashes-ed-s-plea-for-intervention-on-closure-report-in-case-against-jet-airways/story-HOfY8aCuchEW0deH35U6iP.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra files application seeking to vacate SC’s interim stay on Maratha reservation||Nearly two weeks after the Supreme Court (SC) stayed reservation to the Maratha community in jobs and education in Maharashtra, the state government filed an application seeking vacation of this order in the apex court on Monday. The state government has pleaded that the stay was unjust and that the state did not get a fair opportunity to argue the merits of the move.The three-judge bench of the Apex court has, on September 9, stayed the reservation to Marathas in jobs and education for 2020-21 and transferred the case to a five-judge constitutional bench. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018 gives the community reservation of 12% and 13% in employment and education, respectively. The stay has sparked unrest among the community members who have started protests across the state for the restoration of the reservation. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is now hoping for damage control to avoid the wrath of the influential community.The state government counsel moved a request plea for the vacation of the interim stay which is expected to come before the five-judge constitutional bench by next week. The state has pleaded that the interim order given by the three-judge bench was unjust and should have been decided by the constitutional bench. “None of the earlier reservation-related petitions which were transferred to the constitutional bench under article 145(3) were stayed. There was no need for the stay while transferring the case to the larger bench. Secondly, the order talks about exceeding 50% reservation and lack of ‘exceptional and extraordinary conditions’ in giving such reservation. In fact, the reservation given and later upheld by the Bombay high court is based on the Gaikwad Commission’s report which has proved the situation. The three-judge bench had given us the direction to not argue on the merit of the case as our plea was for the transfer of the case to the larger bench. Despite this, the stay order talks about the merit. We have raised all these points in the plea,” said an official from the law and judicial department.The 35-page application filed by the state government has another 225-page annexure which include earlier orders and two chapters of the Gaikwad Commission that talks about the ‘exceptional and extraordinary situation’ in which the reservation was given.The officer said the application has also mentioned how the ongoing process of college admissions is being hampered and students are left in lurch owing to the order. Meanwhile, public works minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on reservation, met National Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Monday to discuss the issue. He reportedly briefed Pawar about the stand taken by the state government. Pawar had suggested the option of an ordinance to safeguard the reservation in college admissions. Legal experts and the law and judiciary department of the government have, however, advised the government against it. According to them, the ordinance is not maintainable on legal grounds and was likely to be struck down by the court. “The review petition, too, cannot be filed in an interim order. The plea for the vacation of the interim stay was the only valid way out and we have opted for it,” said a minister requesting anonymity.Chavan later said the state government will push for early decision on the reservation in the Apex court.Meanwhile, Dhangar community, too, has started a state-wide protest for their inclusion in the Scheduled Tribe category. After their protest in Parbhani, Bharatiya Janata Party legislator and community leader Gopichand Padalkar said they would intensify the protest if the government does not start issuing them certificates under the ST category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-files-application-seeking-to-vacate-sc-s-interim-stay-on-maratha-reservation/story-n4CTUmSOsB2ieHczqIMKwK.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to interfere with restrictions on online classes||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday refused to interfere with the restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra school education department on the duration of daily online classes for pre-primary to junior college students.“We are judges. We are not educationists with degrees in child psychology; how can we decide as to what should be the duration of online classes,” said the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni.The bench allowed the petitioner, Parent Teachers Association United Forum, which filed the petition challenging the government resolution (GR) issued by the school education department on July 22, to make a representation to the department. The department, in turn, is directed to decide on the representation, if so filed, as expeditiously as possible.The July 22 GR restricts online classes for pre-primary to junior colleges for five days a week from Monday to Friday. It allows just one session of maximum 30 minutes every day, in the form of more interaction with parents, for pre-primary section. For Class 1 and 2, it allows two daily sessions of 30 minutes including interaction with parents. For Classes 3 to 8, it allows daily two sessions of 45 minutes each, and four such sessions for junior college students.Counsel for the petitioner, senior advocate Mihir Desai, submitted that the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 requires certain minimum hours of schooling every day, and the duration of the online classes is one such area which the state government cannot touch.The state government had no power to restrict schools in such a manner, Desai submitted, adding that the parents want their children to learn more.Judges, however, said that online classes were required to be held because of the peculiar circumstances created by the Covid-19 pandemic and also noted that the GR was issued after parents approached the department complaining about unreasonably long duration of online classes and lack of schedule for the online classes. The bench held that the petitioner should approach the government and make a representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-restrictions-on-online-classes/story-rGqyjE1d5hxvG5IbvBnmfK.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt clarifies 100% attendance not binding; decision left to colleges or universities||Three days after the state government released a government resolution (GR) making 100% attendance compulsory for all teaching and non-teaching staff of colleges, the department of higher and technical education released a clarification on Monday.In its clarification, the state has specified that 100% attendance is not binding, and respective colleges or universities can decide how many staff members, especially from the examination department, need to be present in order to ensure smooth functioning of the upcoming online exams for final-year (summer 2020) students. It further states that institutes can also decide if physical presence of the staff is required for exams or whether they can smoothly conduct exams through online presence.The previous GR dated September 18 had highlighted that based on the Supreme Court judgement of August 28 to conduct final-semester exams and to conduct the same, teaching and non-teaching staff will be required in absolute numbers. It further stated that the practice of conducting examination includes several processes like question paper preparation, assessment of answer sheets, preparation of mark sheets and declaration of results; and all this work will require a large amount of manpower. “To complete the challenging task, 100% attendance of teaching and non-teaching staff is required henceforth,” stated the September 18 GR.This, however, received flak from the teacher community across the state and a petition of almost 2,000 teachers from across the state was sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office on September 19. “The call for 100% attendance at a time when the state is still witnessing spike in Covid-19 cases was unnecessary, and we are glad that the government understood our plight and clarified their stand on the GR,” said Tapati Mukhopadhyay, president, Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO).Meanwhile, a delegation of college representatives has approached the Central government and railway ministry for help in this matter. “If at all any college in Mumbai plans to call their staff to work, the government needs to help us by ensuring that these teachers and non-teaching staff members will be allowed to travel by train to and from work,” said T Shiware, chairman of Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-clarifies-100-attendance-not-binding-decision-left-to-colleges-or-universities/story-VHYCjzfroTlgFzFdo4L6JN.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Six more cops succumb to Covid-19, toll in Maharashtra Police rises to 223||Six more policemen from the Maharashtra Police force have succumbed to Covid-19 between Saturday and Monday, taking the toll to 223.The state police force reported the maximum Covid fatality in September at 66, even as nine days are left in the month. In August 54 police personnel, in July 43, in June 33, in May 23 and in April three cops succumbed to the disease. These figures were obtained from the daily information shared by the police department.The latest information shared by the police stated 159 policemen contracted the virus in the past 24 hours, taking the state police’s case tally to 21,311. Of these, only 3,655 are active cases.On Saturday and Sunday, five policemen — one each from Mumbai, Thane City, Nashik Rural, Bhandara, Solapur Rural and Gondia districts — lost the battle with Covid-19.In the latest fatality, a head constable from Tilaknagar police station succumbed to the virus. Ashok Gaware, 51, was undergoing treatment at Gurunanak Hospital in Bandra where he had a heart attack on Monday morning and died.From Thane City police, a 54-year-old head constable attached to Shil-Daighar police station succumbed to the disease on Sunday while undergoing treatment at Neon Hospital.Assistant sub-inspector Balu Shinde from Nashik Rural police also died. Shinde, 56, was attached to the headquarters and was taking treatment at Six Sigma Hospital.In another fatality, 51-year-old head constable Nathu Sarve from Bhandara district police died on Sunday. Attached to Jawahar Nagar police station, Sarve was admitted at General Hospital, Bhandara.In Solapur, sub-inspector Shaukat Ali Shaikh, 57, posted at the wireless department, died at Ashwini Hospital on Saturday.In the six fatality, 40-year-old naik Rajesh Donde from Gondia district police lost the battle with the virus after over a week’s treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/six-more-cops-succumb-to-covid-19-toll-in-maharashtra-police-rises-to-223/story-bcRKNK5nuKePZ4bDL1W5RI.html
21-09-2020||City||Five deaths, 130 fresh infections in Ludhiana||With 130 positive cases of Covid-19 on Monday, it was a slight respite for residents as the number of infections was much lower than what the district had been seeing for the past few days. The death count remained at five for the second consecutive day. The district’s tally now stands at 16,425, while the toll is 668.All five casualties are males. They include a 72-year-old male from Jamalpur, an 86-year-old male from Panjeta village, a 45-year-old male from Kot Mangal Singh area, an 81-year-old male from Udham Singh Nagar and a 59-year-old male from Mundiyan Kalan.Earlier on Sunday, former district additional session judge SK Sharma succumbed to the disease.The positive patients include 19 contacts of positive patients, 31 patients from outpatient departments, 52 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illness, five health-care workers and a pregnant woman.Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The district seems to be moving towards a decline. Five deaths have been recorded for the second consecutive day, which also indicate that the fatalities are decreasing. This has been possible due to the restrictions imposed by the government and administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-deaths-130-fresh-infections-in-ludhiana/story-PQJzlaP8p5hvcFROYY07FM.html
21-09-2020||City||70-year-old murdered over fish theft suspicion in Palghar; one arrested||A 70-year-old fish monger was stoned to death by a couple on suspicion of fish theft in Dinkarpada in Palghar district.The victim, Narayan Chowdhary, used to catch fish in an overflowing nullah and sell it for a living. Santosh Mukane and his wife Pinti, who used to catch fish from the same nullah, suspected that Chowdhary was stealing their fish, which often led to fights, said senior inspector Jaykumar Suryavanshi, Wada police station. A similar fight took place on Friday. On Sunday night when Chowdhary was going to the market to sell the fish, the couple accosted him and Mukane picked up a few boulders and stoned Chowdhary to death. After this, the couple dragged the body into a desolate spot, covered it with leaves, and fled from the spot, said the officer.“The relatives of the victim approached us as he had not returned home, following which we started to look for him and found his body. His relatives then informed us about the fights with the accused, following which we called Mukane for questioning. However, Pinti had absconded. On Sunday night, we arrested Mukane for murder,” he said.Mukane was produced before the Wada court on Monday and has been remanded in police custody till September 25. The police are looking for Pinti. “We have sent the body for post-mortem and the report is awaited. We have seized the blood-stained boulders from the spot and sent it for forensic analysis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-year-old-murdered-over-fish-theft-suspicion-in-palghar-one-arrested/story-PoScmbqJGB4rZk5MXOqa7L.html
21-09-2020||City||4 men barge into factory in Ludhiana, rob Rs 4.43 lakh after opening fire at owner||In a broad daylight robbery, four armed men barged into a polythene factory at Shimlapuri and opened fire at the owner before fleeing with Rs 4.43 lakh on Monday afternoon.There were around 10 workers in the factory at the time of the incident.The owner, identified as Rakesh Kumar, managed to escape unhurt. He said that the men fired three rounds but the bullets missed him. Police have recovered the bullet shells from the spot. The factory owner told the police that he suspects the hand of Gaggu, a criminal lodged in Ludhiana central jail, who nurses a grudge against him. He also identified three of the miscreants as Aman Donkey, Gagandeep and Deep, all residents of Barota road.Shimlapuri station house officer inspector Varunjit Singh said that an FIR has been lodged on the complaint of the victim. The police will be bringing Gaggu on production warrant from the jail. The accused Gagandeep and Aman Donkey are already facing trial in various criminal cases, police said. It is learnt that gangster Sonu Kancha, along with his accomplices, had hacked one of his rivals Ramandeep to death with a sharp-edged weapon and injured Gagandeep at Matharu Chowk, Shimlapuri, on June 2. Gagandeep had suffered severe injuries in the incident and had been hospitalised. After recovering from the injuries, he took to crime again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-men-barge-into-factory-in-ludhiana-rob-rs-4-43-lakh-after-opening-fire-at-owner/story-TYYLUtZFKrJO2wZdZq04hL.html
21-09-2020||Election:||Social distancing, 1 lakh polling stations, visit to Bihar: EC prepares for upcoming polls amid Covid-19||The Election Commission of India is gearing up for the upcoming Assembly elections in Bihar by expanding resources for polling, keeping the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) disease outbreak in consideration. The Commission will boost resources deployed on ground to ensure lesser gathering and maximum following of Covid-19 safety protocols. The Commission will also decide on visiting Bihar within the next two to three days, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said on Monday. Arora was addressing an international webinar on hosted by ECI on ‘issues, challenges and protocols for conducting elections during Covid-19.Stating total number of electors in Bihar – 72.9 million, Arora said conducting polls in India pose formidable challenges, given the vast electorate, geographical and linguistic diversity.The term of the 243-member Bihar assembly ends on November 29 and elections are likely to be held sometime in October-November.The Commission has reworked the guidelines to conduct the polls in Bihar by reducing the number of electors per polling station from 1,500 to 1,000 and increasing the number of polling stations by 40 per cent from 65,000 to 1 lakh, Arora said, adding that these changes entail huge logistics and manpower implications.The CEC added that the poll body will work on extending facilities to senior citizens, women, persons with disabilities to make the exercise more people-friendly. In a bid to include people infected by the viral contagion, Arora said the facility of postal ballot facility will be extended to Covid-19 patients who are in quarantine or are hospitalised. Several states of India like West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu will witness polls in the first half of the year 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/social-distancing-1-lakh-polling-stations-visit-to-bihar-ec-prepares-for-upcoming-polls-amid-covid-19/story-vEYm7veRlUwmUuDN72REwJ.html
21-09-2020||City||Restructure developers’ business loans to revive realty sector: RERA to RBI||The real estate regulatory authority (RERA) has requested the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to allow developers’ business loans to be restructured to help the sector, which is going through a severe crisis amid the economic slump due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A majority of the around 600 promoters operating in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway are facing a liquidity crisis and are thus unable to deliver flats to homebuyers, the authority said in a letter to RBI.The RERA sent the letter in August  after it realised that work on most of the realty projects had been disrupted due to fund crunch, affecting the interest of homebuyers.In Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway alone, there are at least 600 ongoing realty projects, in which thousands of homebuyers have invested at least R50,000 crore, said an estimate made by the developers.“The financial institutions are reluctant in providing last-mile funding to promoters. As a result, most ongoing realty projects are facing problems and are in dire need of funding to finish and deliver. Therefore, we suggested to RBI to ask banks to restructure the existing loans so that promoters start getting funds to spend on construction and the sector is revived. We hope for a positive outcome on this,” said Rajive Kumar, chairman of UPRERA.The RERA said the restructure will allow borrowers (promoters) to get relaxations in payment time, reduced monthly instalments, change in interest rate and an opportunity to borrow more, among other benefits.The developers’ groups -- the national real estate development corporation (NAREDCO) and the confederation of real estate developers association of India -- have been demanding restructuring of loans for a long time, a move they say can help deliver many stuck projects in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas.“The banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFC) have completely stopped giving new loans and are not keen to offer last-mile funding, which was earlier easier to get to deliver projects on an advanced delivery stage. Fund crisis was already there before Covid pandemic. But now without banks’ support, it is not easy to handle the crisis,” said RK Arora, president of Uttar Pradesh NAREDCO, which has written to the ministry of finance.The developers have requested UPRERA to help them deal with the financial crisis.“We have been requesting all government bodies, including UPRERA, that without the restructuring of the existing business loans, it is hard to tide over the crisis and deliver units to homebuyers. We hope restructuring will be expedited to help revive the realty sector. We hope the UPRERA will help in finding a solution to the financial crisis,” said Prashant Tiwari president of the Western UP wing of the confederation of real estate developers association of India (CREDAI).“The RBI or the government should take much-needed and effective steps to address the financial crisis that the real estate sector has been facing for a long time. If this financial crisis continues longer, it will affect the homebuyers’ interest to a large extent because the developers are not delivering the projects,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of the Noida Extension flat owners welfare association.RBI couldn’t be reached for a comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restructure-developers-business-loans-to-revive-realty-sector-rera-to-rbi/story-GhfZ5eshkypCgbCaizGuJN.html
21-09-2020||City||Five runways feasible at Jewar airport, PricewaterhouseCoopers inform Yamuna authority||International consultant PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) has suggested the possibility of three more runways, in addition to the two recommended earlier, at the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar, scheduled to come up along the 165km Yamuna Expressway, said officials.According to the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), PwC has almost finished the techno-economic feasibility study into more runways proposed on the Airport.“The PwC gave a presentation on techno-economic feasibility report on Friday, informing us that three more runways are feasible on the 5,000 acres of land notified for the airport at Jewar, bringing the total runway capacity of the airport to five. The PwC will submit the report on this within a week’s time now, as the work is almost complete,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.The Authority, on February 29 this year in its 67th board meeting, had approved a decision to expand the airport. The board had then hired PwC to work out the plan, which started work on the techno-economic feasibility report (TEFR) for the second phase for this mega project.The airport project has been divided in two phases – two runways in phase 1 and three runways in phase 2.For the first phase the state government has acquired 1,334 hectares of land. The concessionaire – Swiss firm Zurich Airport International AG – is likely to start work at the site soon after travel restrictions, imposed due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease pandemic, are lifted.Land for the 3,666 hectares needed for the second phase will be acquired at a later stage. As per the original plan, the airport has been scheduled for completion by 2022.Once the techno-economic feasibility report is submitted, the state government will approve the same in the cabinet, before the land acquisition (for the second phase) for the three runways will begin on ground.“Once the report is submitted, in a week’s time, we will send the same to the state government, which will then send it to the cabinet for approval,” said Singh.Originally, the PwC had a mandate to prepare TEFR for four more new runways at this site.“However, only five runways can be developed on this land notified, as per discussions with PwC so far. If more runways are needed in the future, the state government can notify more land for the same, depending upon the requirement,” the CEO added.The Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) and Yeida hope that the airport concessionaire - Zurich Airport international AG - and the special purpose vehicle - the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited - sign the concessionaire agreement before October 15, given that restrictions over air travel are relaxed by that time.“Once the agreement is signed, Zurich AG will start work at the site,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-runways-feasible-at-jewar-airport-pricewaterhousecoopers-inform-yamuna-authority/story-8wPCOjMHX2jM39Sid1QahN.html
21-09-2020||City||Security guard assaulted during robbery at factory, assailants make off with ₹50,000 cash||Noida: A security guard, who is in his late twenties, was injured during a robbery at a food equipment processing factory in Sector 8 early Monday, while ₹50,000 was stolen. According to the police, the incident was reported in the morning around 4am, when the guard, Rishabh, alleged he was bound and injured by unidentified men.“There were two guards. Rishabh was posted at the main gate while the other guard, Sabir, was sleeping in a room next to the gate with the keys. Rishabh was injured while Sabir claims he was asleep the entire time and doesn’t know anything,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh. Police said there were no signs of forced entry in the building, which suggests that the burglars had insider help. The employees of the firm are being questioned and a search is on for the suspects, said the police.The factory has several CCTV cameras but the suspects decamped with the DVR, in addition to ₹20,000 from the owner’s office and another ₹30,000 from a printing press located on the first floor, said the police.“Based on the complaint of the owner, we have registered a case at the Sector 20 police station under Section 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the IPC,” said a police officer.According to Mehtab, the owner’s nephew, “The burglars entered the premises by jumping over the boundary wall, after which they held the guard at the main gate at knife point, before entering the building.”Police also said that a robbery had occurred in the same company almost a month back in which equipment worth ₹3.5 lakh had been taken.In a separate incident, a 24-year-old security guard was robbed of his duty rifle, in an area under the Bisrakh police.The victim, Akash Dixit, was on his way to work on Sunday night when three men on a motorcycle intercepted him, held him at gunpoint and robbed him of his rifle. Based on his complaint, a case of robbery (Section 392 of the IPC) was registered at the Bisrakh police station and a search is on for the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guard-assaulted-during-robbery-at-factory-assailants-make-off-with-50-000-cash/story-v2UFukglkLq9M5aRnoC64O.html
21-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 2 dead in hit-and-run accident on Hindon elevated road||Two young men, who were on a motorcycle, died in an accident on the Hindon elevated road in a case of hit and run, on Sunday night. According to the police, their motorcycle was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Vaishali, and the erring driver fled the spot. The victims, both residents of Arthala, were identified as Mohammad Sakib, 23, and Mohammad Arshad, 22. “They both died after their motorcycle was hit by an unidentified vehicle. An FIR was lodged but so far, there is no clue about the erring vehicle. It was a case of hit and run. The elevated road, at present, is without any surveillance system and it becomes difficult for the police to track erring vehicles in accident cases,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram). The 10.3km Hindon elevated road acts as a major bypass for commuters travelling between Delhi and western Uttar Pradesh, connecting Raj Nagar Extension to UP-Gate. The stretch, however, is without any CCTV cameras or surveillance systems in place to keep a check over speeding and erring vehicles in accident cases.The Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) in 2018 had proposed the integrated traffic management system (ITMS) project for Ghaziabad city and it included the elevated road. The authority, at present, has set the speed limit for vehicles at 80kmph on the elevated road, against its design speed of 100kmph.“The elevated road has high volume of traffic but it is without any surveillance. We had filed an RTI application raising our concerns with GDA, to which they replied that the works will be taken up under ITMS project. Now, the project is dropped. However, considering risk to commuters, the authority must get the project executed,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners. Under ITMS, costing about ₹70 crore, the authority had identified 18 corridors where hi-tech traffic surveillance and traffic management systems were to be installed. Earlier in January, some work was initiated at the elevated road to Tulsi Niketan, but the project ran into rough weather. Officials from the GDA’s engineering department said ITMS was dropped due to various issues, which included problems with the firm which was given the contract. “ITMS has been dropped from our side. It was include the elevated road. ITMS was one of the priority projects of the CM. We have stopped the work as fund sharing with other agencies was also an issue,” said VN Singh, GDA’s chief engineer. “We have also written to the state administration. In case they wish to restart the project, the urban development department should take steps. In case the government asks GDA to do the project, state officials should provide us terms and conditions and also decide the funding pattern,” he added. The foundation stone for ITMS was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he visited Ghaziabad in May 2018.For now, the elevated road is bereft of surveillance modes. “There were issues due to which the project could not take off. We had started the work for the first corridor of the Hindon elevated road but the authority stopped the project. There were also some funding issues and we got no payment. We have now sent representations to the office of the CM about the issues. Our firm has taken up as many as 10 projects in different cities across the country, including Lucknow,” said Neeraj Kushwaha, the director of the firm which was given the contract for ITMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-2-dead-in-hit-and-run-accident-on-hindon-elevated-road/story-00J1iLaDhhcaeaUIHt5O3L.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram conducts more than one lakh antigen tests since June, shows data||More than one lakh rapid antigen tests have been conducted in the district till now, as per the data shared by the district health department. Since June 24, when the first antigen test was conducted in Sadar Bazar, the district health department has conducted a total of 1,00,009 antigen tests till Sunday, while on Monday 1,004 additional tests were administered in both government and private facilities. Health officials, however, clarified that the target is to keep antigen testing below 40% of the total number of tests administered in a day. Till now, at least 2,31,468 tests have been administered in the district since the pandemic, including both antigen and the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. Health officials said that in compliance with the revised guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the first week of September, the focus is on increasing the RT-PCR tests overall, while restricting the antigen tests largely to containment zones. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Rapid antigen test is a useful diagnostic tool for mass survey and active surveillance especially in containment zones. As per the ICMR guidelines, the population in areas having widespread transmission of infection should be tested through antigen testing kits for early detection. In other scenarios, RT-PCR is being administered as it is easily accessible and more accurate. We are going with 60:40 ratio to keep a check on spread of infection.”According to Yadav, for the last one month 38% antigen tests are being conducted regularly, while 62% RT-PCR is administered. On Monday, out of the 3,001 tests, 1,997 RT-PCR and 1,004 antigen tests were conducted. “Antigen tests will remain below 40% as it is restricted to only Covid-19 affected areas,” said Yadav. The antigen diagnostic test detects proteins attached to coronavirus or within it by testing the sample collected from the nasal cavity using swabs. One of the advantages of the antigen test is its speed as it delivers the results in 15-20 minutes. However, it may not detect all the active infections as it is not as sensitive as the molecular RT-PCR tests. It means positive antigen test result is accurate, but there are chances of false negatives as well. Therefore, the negative results have to be confirmed through RT-PCR, especially in symptomatic cases. Data shows that of the one lakh antigen tests, only 2,766 were confirmed true positive. “The positivity rate of antigen testing is almost 2.8%. To ensure active cases are not missed, nearly 13,000 antigen negatives were administered RT-PCR, out of which almost 800 people were confirmed Covid-19 positive. RT-PCR is conducted in only those cases where the person is symptomatic yet negative for the antigen test,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma. On the other hand, private labs are doing almost negligible number of antigen tests compared to government facility. Every day, less than 100 antigen tests are being conducted across the seven private labs in the city. On Monday, only 83 tests were conducted in private facilities. According to lab representatives, as reported by HT earlier this week, antigen test is not preferred due to false negatives. Following up with such patients also becomes challenging if they come without a prescription.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-conducts-more-than-one-lakh-antigen-tests-since-june-shows-data/story-DwikyJ7nutmXnTO9dx0jsI.html
21-09-2020||Noida||Noida lab tests samples of parliamentarians for Covid-19||Noida’s National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research (NICPR) in Sector 39A is testing samples for Covid-19 of all MPs attending the ongoing parliament session that kicked off on September 14.Members of both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha need to mandatorily undergo Covid-19 testing through reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests—the gold-standard for testing for coronavirus testing— before entering the parliament for the ongoing monsoon session.The Noida lab, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 27 through video conferencing, has tested a total of nearly 60,000 samples so far. Dr Shalini Singh, director, NICPR said that the institute’s lab is now also testing samples of parliamentarians after they are collected by health officials in Delhi. “We are conducting RT-PCR tests for the lawmakers here. Our laboratory is equipped with 12 RT-PCR machines and four automatic RNA extractors. The lab has a capacity to test 7,000 samples in a day,” she said.“We also conduct tests of dengue and other viral diseases here. But since testing for Covid-19 is a top priority these days, we are mainly focusing on RT-PCR tests,” she said.Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Union minister of state for health and family welfare, said PM Modi had inaugurated the laboratory a video conference along with similar laboratories in Mumbai and Kolkata. “These are high-output laboratories which use either a single high-functioning machine that can test high volumes of samples or multiple machines to increase capacity and help increase testing capacity multifold,” he said.He further said that the biosafety level-2 laboratory, with a capacity of testing up to 7,000 samples daily, will not only help in ramp up testing in Noida, but will also facilitate testing in other neighbouring districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-lab-tests-samples-of-parliamentarians-for-covid-19/story-DSSos6hoh35u7wADSxRGKP.html
21-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad approves hiring of more lab technicians, to increase daily testing to 5,000 daily||The district committee tasked to approve expenditure on specialists and equipment for Covid-19 has approved the hiring of 20 lab technicians (LTs), which will be required for ramping up of testing capabilities. According to officials, the 20 technicians will form 10 teams, which will bolster testing capabilities by about 1,500 more samples every day. Ghaziabad district till September 20 had tested about 270,174 samples, which included 155,322 samples through the use of rapid antigen kits. The district’s test positivity rate on September 20 was 4.59%. The district health department earlier this month had raised a demand for 20 LTs, specialist doctors, nurses and cleaning staff for Covid duty. “We have approved the hiring of 20 LTs and these will help us in getting more tests done across the district. The proposal includes hiring of other specialists and staff. A decision will be taken up soon,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked state officials to conduct more tests to complete the one-crore target by the end of September. According to state officials, UP tested 8,676,686 samples till September 20. In first 20 days of August, Ghaziabad completed 59,773 tests at an average of 2,988 per day. In comparison, the district in the first 20 days of September tested 72,581 samples at an average of 3,629 per day. From September 14 to 20, the district enhanced testing and conducted 28,793 tests at an average of 4,113 tests per day. Health officials said they are presently taking up sampling in the range of 3,500-4,000 tests per day and aim at the 5,000-mark. “With the approval to hire 20 LTs, we will form 10 teams with each having capacity to collect 150 samples per day. With the new teams joining in, we will be able to take our daily testing up to 5.000 per day and even higher. At present, we were facing a shortage of LTs as there were 76 available and 12 of them left and three are on long leave. Two of our LTs were sent to the new RT-PCR lab at MMG Hospital. So, the new LTs will be of great help in increasing daily sampling/testing,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The officials said the new lab technicians will prove helpful for 100% testing of people in containment zones as per guidelines issued by Indian Council for Medical Research.The UP government has already allowed hiring of specialists. It also allowed contingency funds of Rs 5 crore each to the districts with a population of over 25 lakh. Ghaziabad district has received Rs 2.5 crore so far. “The expenditure for hiring LTs and other specialists will be met from these funds. Apart from lab technicians , we have demanded hiring of physicians, pathologists and anaesthetists, besides trained staff nurses and cleaning staff, exclusively for Covid-19 duties,” Dr Gupta said. The proposal mentions demand for equipment like high flow nasal cannula and BiPAP units, besides medicines such as Remdesivir, etc.The contingency funds are approved by a committee of officials headed by the district magistrate. It includes the chief medical officer, chief development officer and other officials. Ghaziabad district has 20 different testing facilities in the government sector, which includes static testing booths, mobile teams and mobile vans. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-approves-hiring-of-more-lab-technicians-to-increase-daily-testing-to-5-000-daily/story-Y0Yd4lY27dmKBqUHM2rSrN.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: With masks and physical distancing, students turn up for academic guidance sessions in govt schools||Students studying in classes 9 to 12 in government schools across the city visited schools for the first time in over six months on Monday for voluntary academic guidance sessions. Schools across the country were shut and exams suspended in mid-March when a countrywide lockdown was imposed to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19. Voluntary visits to schools for clearing doubts for a limited time period were permitted by the Central government as part of Unlock 4 guidelines. As part of the guidelines, students of classes 9 to 12 are permitted to visit schools in areas outside containment zones for academic guidance with the written consent of parents. In line with the SOP that needs to be followed during these guidance sessions, teachers across schools need to get a negative Covid test report and have Arogya Setu installed on their phones. Only 50% of teachers are permitted to visit schools for these academic sessions.Students’ visits to schools on Monday were unlike any other. Starting sharp at 8:30 in the morning, students wearing masks started trickling in batches of five as per their allotted time slots. Right at the entrance, they were asked to furnish the written consent document from their parents, subject to which they were given entry. While a security guard took the students’ temperatures, they were asked to sanitise their hands and register their attendance with teachers who sat near the entrance, all this while maintaining an optimum distance with the help of circles drawn on the floor. Teachers sat outside the classroom for these sessions and no blackboards were used. Further, students were only permitted to go out for water breaks and washroom visits, one at a time. Govind, an 18-year-old class 12 student at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that while he was excited to see some of his teachers and classmates after months, an eerie emptiness surrounded the school. “The building premises don’t feel like school anymore. There is silence all around. On routine days, during this time of the day, our playground would be brimming with students. There used to be so much noise and cacophony. It’s unusually empty today due to the absence of routine student crowd,” said Govind, who goes by his first name. Like most students, the commerce student was surprised when classes were called off in March. He had, however, not anticipated that the closure of schools would last for more than six months. “We were supposed to appear for our Maths exam when classes were called off. We kept thinking that it would take place soon but the day never came. Instead, a countrywide lockdown was imposed,” said Govind. In the days that followed, his classmates gradually jumped on the bandwagon of online classes while he was left behind. “A day before the lockdown was declared, the phone at my house was stolen. I had no idea what to do. For the next two-three months, I lost complete touch with my teachers, classmates, and even books,” said Govind, who spent his days playing Ludo with his three siblings. Due to lockdown restrictions, he was unable to move out or seek books or any assistance from seniors and classmates. “Once the restrictions eased a little, I arranged for my teacher’s number and called him. He said that I was lagging behind by several months. I purchased books since I didn’t have a smartphone and started covering the lessons,” he said. Monday’s visit gave him a chance to clear the doubts that he had in various subjects. A relieved Govind said that he was hopeful about covering up his missed lessons in the subsequent visits. “On an ordinary phone, it becomes difficult to understand complex concepts. There is disruption due to which one is unable to maintain concentration. It’s great that schools are finally allowing us to visit now,” he said. With schools facilitating academic guidance visits, a ray of hope has emerged for many other students such as Govind, who continue to struggle with access to smartphones and other technological devices. Rinki Sharma, a 17-year-old class 12 government school student, has been attending online classes via WhatsApp for the past six months. With only one smartphone in the house, she only gets a chance to study once her mother, who works as an ironer, returns back from work in the evening. “While our teachers readily explain things over the phone, sometimes there is a lag due to delays in accessing the phone. Hopefully, that should change with these visits,” said Sharma. Unlike her, Rinki’s mother was not too keen on sending her to school. “My mother was scared and skeptical since cases are rising in the city. But I convinced her somehow,” she said. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that 49 students in class 10 and 52 in class 12 had appeared for the academic guidance visits on Monday. “Everything was conducted smoothly since we had created different slots and placed a cap on the number of students in each slot. Our school is quite big and different buildings were allotted to class 10 and 12 for the guidance sessions,” said Sharma, adding that many more students had shown eagerness for these classes. “Students were very happy and enthusiastic about coming back to school. Many more are waiting for their slots to come up,” she said. Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that around 51 students from class 10 and 12 visited the school for academic guidance visits on Monday. Raghav said that the school was expecting the footfall to increase in the coming days. “We are yet to receive written consent forms from parents in classes 9 and 11. Once that is completed, the number of students will increase,” he said, adding that the school had invited parents for a PTM last week to given them a glimpse of the sanitisation procedures in place. “Parents saw that thermal scanning, sanitisation and other checks were in place. This gave them the confidence to send children to school,” said Raghav. Other schools that saw a tepid turnout said that many parents were fearful about the prospect of sending children to school. Asha Miglani, principal of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Sector 43, said that only two students had turned for the classes on Monday. “We had taken feedback from parents earlier this week. Parents are reluctant about sending children to school due to the spike in cases,” said Miglani. Most private schools said that majority of parents were not in favour of children visiting schools at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases in the city were increasing. Aparna Erry, principal, DAV Public School, Sector 14, said that the school had no plans of calling students any time soon. “For now, we have not taken any call on school visits for children. Moreover, our online classes have been taking place smoothly” said Erry.Kunal Bhadoo, director of Kunskapsskolan Schools, said that the school had sought feedback from parents but around 75% were not in favour of permitting these visits. “Initially, we had plans of calling those students who were willing to come for these sessions. However, around 75% of parents are not in favour of schools opening. We will continue with online classes as before,” said Bhadoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-with-masks-and-physical-distancing-students-turn-up-for-academic-guidance-sessions-in-govt-schools/story-h1pMjp6n8l1hOb9rRbhuVM.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara ties up with Lenskart for bachelors in optometry||Chitkara University has announced a four-year bachelors in optometry programme in collaboration with Indian eyewear retail chain, Lenskart. Commenting on the tie-up, Peyush Bansal, founder and CEO, Lenskart, said, “Our mission is to provide vision to India. India has a huge vision deficit with over 300 million people deprived of vision correction and hence solving this gap requires over 100,000 more high-quality optometrists. To develop this talent requires combined practical and academic experience.” With the partnership, Lenskart hoped to help develop the future workforce of vision care, that will be instrumental in shaping the future of primary eye care need in India, Bansal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-ties-up-with-lenskart-for-bachelors-in-optometry/story-WHs4Prl3kqiOqCcJVxx4gL.html
21-09-2020||City||More than 10,000 Covid-19 patients recovered in Ghaziabad so far||Even as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Ghaziabad, the district to its credit has successfully discharged more than 10,000 Covid-19 patients.As per data by the state health control room, the district crossed the 10,000-mark of total Covid-19 recoveries on September 19 when with 264 new recoveries, the total number of discharges reached 10,146 (out of 12, 153 total cases).Four districts where more than 10,000 patients have been successfully discharged in Uttar Pradesh are Lucknow, Kanpur City, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur.On September 21, Ghaziabad district’s overall recovery rate was 83.29 % with total 10,391 recoveries out of 12, 475 Covid-19 cases. “We have been focusing on early detection, quick testing and fast referral of patients to health care facilities. Even with home isolation in place, we are regularly tracking patients, and if they develop complications they are immediately referred to a Covid facility. So, with coordinated efforts between government and private facilities, we have been able to provide good treatment to our patients. Hence, the discharge rate or recovery rate is also on the higher side,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.According to records of the district health department, the Covid-19 recovery rate in the district was 76.39% at the end of May, 45.77% till June-end, and since then has been hovering above 80%. The recovery rate was 81.38%till July 31 and 80.88% till August 31.In Uttar Pradesh, the overall recovery rate on Monday stood 80.69%— 289, 594 recoveries out of 358, 893 patients.“The speedier contact tracing has also helped us get positive cases to facilities and start with their treatment at the earliest. At present, our contact tracing is nearly 99%. The virus if not detected on time among contacts which belong to high-risk groups can lead to health complications for them,” chief medical officer, Dr NK Gupta, said.The CMO added that the number of Covid-19 patients being discharged is also steadily increasing after the discharge policy for patients in home isolation and in Covid-19 facilities were changed. “The high rate of discharge is also due to clinical management offered in our hospitals which include use of high flow nasal cannula and BiPAP—used for providing non-invasive ventilation— which has proved helpful for patients having respiratory issues. During the initial months, the patients were getting discharged only after they get two successive negative reports. So, this took more time, nearly about 13-15 days, to get a patient discharged. Then, the discharge policy was changed and just one negative report was needed. At present, new discharge guidelines are in place and have helped us discharge patients within a maximum period of 10 days,” Dr Gupta said.“Since last month, we also started using medicines such as remdesivir among others for patients with mild and moderate symptoms, and it has given good results, “he added.As per the revised discharge policy rolled out on July 21, the mild asymptomatic patients will be discharged after 10 days of the preliminary test or seventh day of admission if they do not have symptoms. Likewise, the patients in home isolation are also marked as “recovered” after ten days of home isolation.Til September 19, the district had a 72.96% discharge rate for those in home isolation ( 2,259 patients recovered out of 3,096 patients).Experts have, however, said that the recovering patients should be tested more than once.“The discharge rate has definitely got better but it is also due to revised discharge guidelines. Earlier, the patients were getting discharged after their test was negative. Now, they are getting discharged after a certain period of time. So, it becomes vital that there should be proper monitoring of discharged patients and if possible, their test should also be conducted after 15 days of testing positive as well,” said Dr VB Jindal, president, Indian Medical Association, (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-than-10-000-covid-19-patients-recovered-in-ghaziabad-so-far/story-ZTBeYrF4OcAduadECJpSHK.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Over 1,20,000 children immunised in a two-day-long pulse polio drive||A two-day-long intensified pulse polio immunisation (IPPI) drive was launched by the health department over the weekend. The drive, which concluded on Monday, administered polio drops to 1,28,529 children — from newborn babies to children of five years of age. The door-to-door immunisation campaign covered 2,03,164 households, as per the data shared by the district health department.This was the second such IPPI to be conducted after a national immunisation day (NID) drive in January this year. This will be followed up with another drive in November this year. However, the subsequent two drives are known as sub-national immunisation days (SNIDS) and will be implemented only in 13 high-risk districts in Haryana. Last year, about 0.35 million children were vaccinated against polio in Gurugram. Health department officials did not reveal the specific immunisation target (or achievement) for the ongoing year, but mentioned that it is lower than in previous years on account of Covid-19. “Still, we managed to immunise over 1,20,000 people over the past two days. We thought we would not be able to cover more than 77,000 people initially as Covid has reduced our staff strength,” said Dr Naresh Garg, deputy chief medical officer and nodal officer for polio in Gurugram.“Every year, two IPPIs are conducted on SNIDS, and another on NID. Such IPPIs used to be more frequent, but have reduced in number over the years. The last case of polio we had in Haryana was in 2011, and in 2014 we were declared polio-free. Still, immunisation drives are needed in case of transboundary entry of the virus into the community. Other than immunisation, the health department audits all registered cases of acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) in the district to check if the virus has remerged,” Garg added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-over-1-20-000-children-immunised-in-a-two-day-long-pulse-polio-drive/story-9XzclCOYoLUd3a2YlA8ZFL.html
21-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Thieves break into five shops, decamp with cash, other items||Gurugram: A group of thieves allegedly broke open the shutters of five shops and decamped with several items and at least ₹1 lakh cash in Farrukhnagar on Monday morning. The police said that several teams were working to trace the suspects. According to the police, the incident took place between 2 am and 2.30 am in the main market near Sheesh Mahal. Preliminary probe has revealed that the suspects arrived in a car and used rods and cutters to break open the shutters. Of the five shops targeted, three sell garments while the rest are general stores, the police said. Rajesh Kumar, a grocery store owner whose shop was broken into, said, “It seems that the suspects planned to loot several stores in the same line. In the CCTV footage, five men can be seen alighting from a car and taking the cash box from my shop after breaking in. It happened within five minutes. The suspects escaped after a person, who was on a phone call on his terrace, noticed commotion and raised alarm.” Kumar filed a written complaint at Farrukhnagar police station on Monday evening, along with a list of stolen items, such as garments, groceries and cash from the five shops, the police said. The police said that according to the CCTV footage, the suspects had covered their faces and the registration number of the vehicle, a Santro car, appeared hazy. Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “A complaint has been received. At least ₹1 lakh cash and several items, whose list is being compiled, were stolen. The CCTV footage is hazy and it will be sent to the forensic laboratory for examination. A probe has been initiated and an FIR will be registered accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-thieves-break-into-five-shops-decamp-with-cash-other-items/story-zGFERzOVwnuQBpCXMgbCUN.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: TERI to survey Golf Course Road, suggest flood-prevention steps||Researchers at the TERI School of Advanced Studies will be conducting a three-month-long hydro-geological survey of Golf Course Road (GCR) and the Aravalli hills that run adjacent to it. The study, which is likely to conclude sometime early next year, will suggest a range of interventions to conserve rainwater and prevent urban flooding in the region. During recent floods in the city on August 19 and 20, the GCR stretch remained among the worst affected areas of the city, with the DLF Phase-1 underpass being rendered unusable for over 30 hours due to waterloggingCommissioned by IAmGurgaon — a city-based NGO known for eco-restoration projects such the Aravalli Biodiversity Park and the Wazirabad bundh — TERI’s upcoming study, for which a detailed proposal has been prepared, has also received the support of officials in the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). Over the past four weeks, representatives from TERI and IAmGurgaon have held meetings and conducted field visits with VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA and Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, to discuss the scope of the undertaking. The study, however, will not be funded by either of the two local bodies, said representatives of IAmGurgaon. The proposed study, according to experts at TERI, will focus on assessing four drainage channels, which originate in the Aravallis just above Golf Course Road, and traverse its carriageway before draining into a water body that collects along the nearby Chakkarpur-Wazirabad bundh. The first (and lowest-lying) of these natural creeks runs through Sector 26, while the other three are located in sectors 42, 54 and 56. “These channels are part of the natural topography of the area. We will be assessing their feasibility to retain run-off and recharge groundwater. Based on our assessments, we shall model a range of interventions that could potentially prevent repeated floods of the kind we have just witnessed. By harnessing these creeks, we may also find a more sustainable use for rainwater than simply draining it out,” said Fawzia Tarannum, of the School of Regional Water Studies at TERI-SAS. Tarannum, who is also an advisor with the district administration’s Gurujal society, added, “We will firstly conduct a satellite-based GIS survey, scrutinise older and existing drainage maps, see how the region’s topography has changed and how exactly it has changed the flow of water. We will also calculate the carrying capacities of these four creeks based on different weather scenarios, from light rain to heavy rain. Our assumption is that extreme weather events are bound to intensify, and that rainfall patterns will become shorter but more severe. An ‘unprecedented’ shower like Gurugram witnessed, in reality, has a lot of precedents.” Representatives from IAmGurgaon, which will be funding TERI’s study, said such intensive showers might strike the city again. “We have already seen it happen multiple times in just five or six years. At IAmGurgaon, we had been aware of these four Aravalli creeks since restoring the Wazirabad-Bundh. What we are trying to do is find a way to rejig the area’s natural drainage,” said Latika Thukral, founder, IAmGurgaon. She added, “We want to show the administration that there are alternative solutions to simply building more drains to carry the water off to Najafgarh.” Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA, and a member of a recently appointed Flood Protection Committee, said, “We will help with the study in whatever way we can. We have been looking into the matter ourselves. The problem is that GCR lies at the lower end of a steep, 15-metre elevation difference. Mining in the Aravalli areas like Mangar and Bandhwari around the Gurugram-Faridabad Road, and rampant construction and concretisation in the foothills have disturbed the natural drainage pattern. As such, water simply rushes down onto the carriageway.”He added that the GMDA, which took over the maintenance of Gurugram’s drainage system from the HSVP in 2017, would consider any viable interventions the study may present. Rohit Sharma, director, DLF Estate Developers Ltd, the private developer who is the custodian of GCR, said, “We welcome any study that is in the interest of Gurgaon and its residents. Our infrastructure along the Golf Course Road is sufficient, but due to unprecedented rainfall last month some issues arose. We have already taken stock of them, and would be happy to work with GMDA, MCG or any other official authority in the larger public interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-teri-to-survey-golf-course-road-suggest-flood-prevention-steps/story-PiEqSXG3pGdR6ZeDpXKmKI.html
21-09-2020||City||Three held for flinging mobile phones inside Bhondsi jail complex||The police on Sunday arrested three men for their alleged involvement in supplying mobile phones to inmates in Bhondsi jail by flinging the devices across the boundary wall of the jail complex. The police said their probe has further revealed that the men had supplied over two dozen phones to the jail inmates in exchange for money using the same modus operandi in at least five instances. Four mobile phones, which were meant to be thrown across the boundary wall, were recovered from their possession on Sunday. According to the police, the crime branch of DLF-4 received a tip-off that at least three men were on their way to Rithoj village with the intention of throwing a bundle, containing mobile phones, across the boundary wall of the jail complex. A raid party was formed to trace the accused men. Around 12 midnight, a sedan, which was heading towards Rithoj, was intercepted by the police near the jail. The car driver tried to reverse after spotting police presence, but the trio was caught by the police. The accused men have been identified as Sachin, Jaswinder alias Khannu, and Shehzad. Sachin and Shehzad hail from Tauru while Jaswinder is a native of Bhiwadi, Rajasthan, said the police. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “A probe has revealed that Jaswinder was arrested in 2018 in a case of illegal possession of weapons and was lodged in Bhondsi Jail. Inside the jail, he had met a criminal, identified as Deepu. Since Jaswinder’s release on bail, he and his aides had been supplying mobile phones to Deepu by flinging them across the jail complex in a packet. Deepu’s associates used to pay the accused for supplying the phones. The accused have a criminal history and three cases have been registered against them earlier.” A crime branch official, requesting anonymity, said, “Jaswinder and Sachin confessed that they had thrown at least 24 phones in the jail so far using the same method. The third suspect, Shehzad, said that his brother was lodged in jail and he wanted to be in touch with him.” The police said they will take Deepu on production remand and question him. Several instances of mobile phones and drugs being flung across the boundary wall of the jail complex have been reported in the past. The police said the mobile phones are used by the inmates to make extortion calls and contact their henchmen and aides to run their operations on their behalf. Last month, 12 mobile phones, ten batteries, five chargers, a 4 G SIM card, and two headsets, allegedly concealed in four packets, were recovered from the barracks during an inspection inside the jail complex. A preliminary probe had found that the packets had been thrown from outside and flung across the boundary wall of the jail complex. The easy access of mobile phones and narcotics among jail inmates had come under the scanner after the police had arrested one Dharambeer Chautala, who was earlier posted as deputy jail superintendent of Bhondsi Jail, on July 23. Chautala along with an associate, Ravi, was caught supplying mobile phones and narcotics to jail inmates. The police had recovered at least 11 4G SIM cards and 230 grams of hashish (a kind of narcotic) from their possession. Probe had found that one 4G SIM card was sold for over ₹20,000 to the inmates, who were using phones to run their networks outside the prison. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed to probe the matter, following which two more aides of the accused duo were arrested.A case was registered against the accused persons under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Prisons Act at Bhondsi police station on Sunday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-flinging-mobile-phones-inside-bhondsi-jail-complex/story-niITOga2tg9XGGkU245LLK.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: GMDA developing single-window online platform to address public grievances||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is developing a website, which will serve as a single-window, online platform for residents to lodge complaints against various public bodies operating in the city and track the status of their grievances, said officials on Sunday. The platform will enable people to lodge complaints either against a single civic body or multiple ones — such as the GMDA, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), the Gurugram district administration, the Public Works Department (PWD), Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) and Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) — via a single window, said GMDA officials.GMDA officials added that even the complaints that are received through emails, the CM window, toll-free numbers, social media and various mobile applications will be synched with the platform. This will allow people to register their feedback once all formalities are completed, said officials.VS Kundu, chief executive officer (CEO) of GMDA, said that such a platform will increase the accountability of public bodies. Such bodies can no longer deflect the responsibility of completing the work.Consequently, this will also prevent delays in taking action.“The development of this platform is our top priority. We have realised that there is a lot of public dissatisfaction as many offices are not responding to grievances of residents properly, including the GMDA itself. We don’t have a responsive public grievances redressal system in place. Hence, we are developing a platform, which will put all the government offices falling within the GMDA area under one single window. This will also ensure a two-way communication between authorities and residents,” said Kundu.Kundu further said that a single-window platform will also solve the issues pertaining to overlapping jurisdiction between various public bodies.“All complaints would be handled at a central level. A team of employees or outsourced workers would be forwarding the matters reported on the CM window, social media, customer care, or in writing, to the concerned public body. The status of matter would then be monitored online, and the complainant would also be kept in the loop. He or she will come to know which public body the complaint has been forwarded to and what is the current status of the complaint,” said Kundu.Kundu said currently, GMDA is in the process of establishing a framework. “Once the framework is in place, technology will then be used for implementing the same. We are looking at various models, both globally and domestically, in regard to the redressal of public grievances. Simultaneously, we are also streamlining our processes internally. We are identifying the various public bodies than can be included on this platform, their areas of jurisdiction, and the type of issues they address,” said Kundu, adding that once the framework is in place, GMDA will take a call on whether they have the necessary expertise and resources to build the platform on their own or do they need to float tenders to hire an outsourced agency to build the platform.Kundu said that as part of the Smart City project, a decision was taken in December last year for building a single-window platform, which can address all forms of public grievances. However, he said that work in this regard could not be initiated right away, and, as an interim measure, the call centre of the MCG was shifted to the GMDA office to address public grievances. However, this measure failed to “improve efficiency” of the public grievance system, he said.“We realised that the call centre was not improving the situation in any way and that public dissatisfaction was still very much prevalent. Hence, we decided to start taking steps towards the formation of an online platform that will include all relevant public bodies of the city in one single window and would be able collate all forms of public grievances,” said Kundu.Kundu said that using data analytics, the platform would be able to point out issues that are receiving the maximum number of complaints.This will prompt officials to come up with alternative measures to fix the problem.“Under the existing system, there remains a possibility that a person at a call centre may not attend a complainant’s call or deflect the matter entirely. Hence, we want to reduce human intervention and maximise the use of technology. A voice bot or a chat bot can help address common issues, and, if the need arises, an operator can then take over the matter at any given stage.The operator can access the background details and the history of the complaint from the platform’s interface,” said Kundu.Kundu also highlighted the fact that the platform would ensure complaints are not lost and help review and identify services or public bodies that are “less efficient” and, therefore, require greater monitoring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-gmda-developing-single-window-online-platform-to-address-public-grievances/story-AuHLQVrQ4G9dFJWGL43ayM.html
21-09-2020||City||Gurugram: MCG plans to host cultural events at its open-air theatre from next month||Gurugram: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is likely to resume hosting cultural events at its open-air theatre in Sector 29 from next month, said officials.“We are planning to start cultural events in our Sector 29 open-air theatre soon. Tentatively, we are looking at starting operations on October 2, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. A final decision on this would be taken by the end of this week,” said Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, MCG.The open-air theatre is the city’s main public cultural venue, and since March 2015, has provided a platform for singers, theatre actors, dancers, schoolchildren and other local artistes to perform.A senior MCG official privy to the matter said a decision on whether the events will be held with a crowd or the performance be streamed digitally would be taken depending on the willingness of the artistes.On August 29, the central government had allowed open-air theatres to resume operations across the country from September 21 as part of Unlock 4 measures. However, a maximum of 100 people would be allowed at such events.The MCG officials said that the 1,500-seating capacity venue has enough space to accommodate 100 people, keeping social distancing and other safety protocols in place.“Due to the coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, the mood of the city has been quite low. When the central government paved the way for reopening of open-air theatres, we immediately started working on the best possible ways to once again host cultural events in the city, with adequate safety measures, as it will give people a much-needed mood boost,” said Kaur.Kaur further highlighted the importance of artistes also needing a platform to start performing again. “Besides bringing about positivity, we felt that local artistes need to be promoted as they have suffered a lot during the last six months. By giving them a platform, they can showcase their talent while also provide entertainment to people,” she said.MCG hosts at least 30 events at the theatre annually, which can be watched by audience free of cost. If the event takes place on October 2, it will be the first time since the coronavirus outbreak that any government body in the city is hosting a public event.Local theatre artistes have welcomed the move. “It has been more than six months since our theatre group performed in front of a live audience. In the interim, our group has been practising online but it isn’t the same as performing on stage. If MCG resumes its cultural events, it will give hundreds of artistes like us a chance to once again engage with an audience and may also open doors to other opportunities for us on other forums,” said Suhasini Dighe Rastogi, a Gurugram-based theatre actor and director. Rastogi’s theatre group has performed 11 plays at the MCG’s open-air theatre based on adaptations of short stories from Anton Chekhov, O Henry, Rabindranath Tagore, and Munshi Premchand. Last year, the district administration had set up Kala Gram, a society for arts education. The objective of Kala Gram is to run weekly classes for providing training for theatre, various dance forms, classical and instrumental music while also hosting events where artistes can showcase their talent.The civic body officials said that Kala Gram’s office is being constructed near the Sector 29 open-air theatre and they are tying up with them to host the October 2 event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-mcg-plans-to-host-cultural-events-at-its-open-air-theatre-from-next-month/story-BZLoXL3Rp3L7iKklJALh5I.html
21-09-2020||City||Committee’s report on Gurugram floods delayed as three GMDA staff test positive for Covid-19||Gurugram: The seven-member committee constituted by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to probe the cause of recent floods in the city, following heavy rain on August 19 and 20, has not yet submitted a final report in the matter as at least three GMDA employees involved in the exercise tested positive for Covid-19. The initial deadline for the report was August 28. Confirming the delay, Pradeep Kumar, a committee member and chief engineer (infrastructure-II), GMDA, said, “We have made a lot of progress in terms of gathering data and conducting field work. Every single official in charge of a drainage beat has submitted their situation reports of what happened during those two days. But our three employees, including superintending engineer Mr Rajesh Bansal who is also a flood committee member, came down with Covid-19 in the past two-three weeks. Naturally, as they have had to undergo isolation, work has been delayed.”The committee is chaired by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran’s (HSVP) former engineer-in-chief, KK Bhugra. A Gurugram resident, Bhugra also played a key role in formulating a ₹298-crore ‘comprehensive drainage plan’ for Gurugram, whose implementation has been delayed due to prolonged talks with stakeholders in the second half of 2019, followed by the Covid-19 lockdown this year.“The committee chairman has received all the data and situation reports from us. We will have to speak with him to take things forward and come up with the mandated solutions, both short term and long term,” said Kumar, declining to comment on when the report is expected to be ready. As per an August 21 order issued by VS Kundu, chief executive officer, GMDA, “The flood protection committee will examine the causes of flooding specially in the underpasses at Golf Course Road, Medanta road, Rajeev Chowk and Iffco Chowk, which were submerged with stormwater rendering them unusable for normal traffic, and will suggest short and long term solutions... to prevent this from happening in the future.” Though reluctant to speak about the committee’s findings so far, Kumar said, “The main issue with Golf Course Road, as we can see it, is that the carriageway became overwhelmed with run-off coming down from the Gurugram-Faridabad Road and the abutting Aravalli hills. We will have to find a solution to either retain the water on the hillside or slow its course towards GCR.” Despite multiple attempts, the GMDA chief could not be contacted for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/committee-s-report-on-gurugram-floods-delayed-as-three-gmda-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-38hrApeIS2BqJ4zd4zbPcO.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Cong leaders protest against farm bills outside Panchkula DC’s office||Congress leaders on Monday protested outside the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office here and demanded immediate withdrawal of the agricultural bills introduced by the Union government. Holding placards, the Congressmen leaders raised slogans against the Central government though they could not enter the DCs office because of heavy police presence.An official received a memorandum by the protesters to hand over to the DC.Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta, who has recently recovered from Covid-19, demanded that the government withdraw the bills or bring about a fourth amendment to ensure stringent punishment to those buying products at a lesser cost than the minimum sale price.Strict checks should also be imposed on black marketing, she said.The bills will only benefit rich businessman and the poor farmer will be made to suffer, Mehta added. A common farmer was not that educated to understand the technicalities of the bills.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, passed in Parliament on Sunday, aims to ease all restrictions on trade of agriculture produce.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, also passed on Sunday, lays down a new architecture for contract farming in the country to ensure farmers can engage with one another more confidently, enable modern supply chains and investments by agribusinesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cong-leaders-protest-against-farm-bills-outside-p-kula-dc-s-office/story-s2gpHRxw8677NR8znFwNTL.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University V-C apologises, HC drops contempt proceedings||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday dropped contempt proceedings against Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar after his “unconditional apology”.The contempt proceedings were initiated against him and the varsity’s registrar earlier this year in a case concerning the promotion policy for the faculty of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital.The high court bench of justice Arun Monga while disposing of the contempt petition observed that before finalising the promotion policy, PU would grant an opportunity of hearing to the representative of the dental institute faculty. Earlier, the V-C had told court that the promotion policy framed by PU in 2007, based on the Punjab pattern, will continue to be followed for the dental institute faculty. He had further informed court that the policy would be put up before the senate for final approval.Last May, disposing of a plea from 37 faculty members of the dental institute, the high court had directed the varsity to take a final decision on framing their promotion policy within four months. PU kept dillydallying, and when on June 10 this year, the HC found that the order has not been complied with, it issued show-cause notices to the V-C and then registrar Karamjit Singh to respond by July 20.The registrar submitted his response on July 20, but the V-C failed to do so. This had invited sharp criticism from the bench. “This court is unable to understand the reluctance and hesitation shown by the vice-chancellor to respond to the contempt notice, which conduct apparently smacks of certain self conceit,” the bench had observed seeking response by September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-v-c-apologises-hc-drops-contempt-proceedings/story-DY8BTDLWKlqbHuveNsoxWO.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||PPCB conducts checks at dyeing units in Ludhiana, collect five samples||: With residents and elected representatives complaining against owners of dyeing units dumping untreated waste into the municipal corporation (MC) sewer lines, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) conducted a surprise inspection at 10 units in Focal point areas on Sunday. As per the information, two teams were formed for the inspections and they collected samples from five units.PPCB chief engineer, Ludhiana, Gulshan Rai said, ”As per sources, dyeing units dump waste in the sewer lines on weekends as government offices remain closed. The teams firstly inspected the sewer lines in the area. After spotting the colourful waste in the lines, raids were then conducted in the nearby dyeing units. The team suspected that untreated waste was being dumped in the sewer lines by five units, out of which four were dumping colourful waste. The samples have been collected and sent to the laboratory for testing.”MLA Sanjay Talwar has been complaining against dumping of untreated waste in the MC lines for a long time, which adds to the pollution in buddha nullah. Also excessive dumping of waste chokes sewer lines in different parts of his constituency, Talwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ppcb-conducts-checks-at-dyeing-units-in-ludhiana-collect-five-samples/story-xL2HZKQ5UE7jCFnI9oIvtM.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools reopen to virtually empty classes, some report zero attendance||Very few students chose to attend schools which reopened in the city for classes 9 to 12 after a gap of six months following the Covid-19 outbreak, with a few private institutes reporting zero attendance. UT administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore also urged teachers to get themselves tested and asked schools to follow protocols.As the ministry of home affairs ordered reopening of schools for senior students requiring “guidance” from teachers on various subjects, government institutes too received just 4% of the 25,000 odd students whose guardians and parents had filled the consent form allowing their wards to attend.Around 950 students were present in 93 government schools. Attendance, as a matter of fact, was higher in periphery areas and villages of Chandigarh as compared to the city, education department officials said.Badnore advises teachers to get testedMeanwhile, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore advised teachers to get medically tested for covid regularly. During the administration’s Covid-19 review meeting with medical institutes in the city on Monday, Badnore directed the UT education secretary to ensure that the Union government’s guidelines were strictly followed when students visited the school campus.The scenario in schools A round of the government schools revealed that no student had turned up at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS) Sector 32. Only one student attended class at GMSSS-35, two were present at GMSSS-20 and GMSSS-22 and three in GMSSS-33. Around 19 Class 12 science students turned up at GMSSS-46.Class 12 students from GMSSS-46, Mohammad Danish from Sector 45 and Aayush from Hallomajra, said they needed help with “difficult” portions of their subjects. “We had doubts in physics and chemistry and came to school to clear them,” they said, adding that around 10 students had been present in class.About five Class 10 students were present at Sri Guru Gobind Singh Public School-35, while 10 students from Class 12 are expected to attend on Tuesday. Of the two students HT spoke to, Amanjot Yadav of Mohali said lessons were easy to comprehend in class while Rohit Verma of Sector 56 said he had come to clear a few points in science and social studies, after which he would revert to online classes.Strawberry Fields High School-26 and DAV Model School-15 confirmed zero attendance.Some institutes including St Johns High School-26 and Bhavan Vidyalaya-27 are conducting online exams and will open in the first week of October.Parents changed their minds at last minuteA number of parents who had consented to their wards visiting school changed their minds at the last minute, said Reema Dewan, principal, Delhi Public School-40, where one child from Class 12 and four from Class 10 turned up . “Students who had come in on Monday also said they won’t come back on Wednesday as their doubts were cleared,” Dewan added.The UT education department has directed schools to open in a phased manner. The first guidance sessions will be organised for classes 10 and 12 and then for Class 11, followed by Class 9. Meanwhile, seven inspection teams of the UT education department visited the schools on Monday to ensure that social distancing rules were being followed. UT education secretary Sarpreet Singh Gill also visited GMSSS-15 and GMSSS-23, among other schools, to check the arrangements there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-reopen-to-virtually-empty-classes-some-report-zero-attendance/story-wkEGaJfeCgNZYEOaSEAGrI.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||School in Ludhiana seek parents’ consent sought before allowing students to attend schools||Most schools affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) have decided to take parents’ consent before allowing students to attend.The Punjab government has allowed students of Classes 9 to 12 to visit schools outside containment zones on voluntary-basis to seek guidance from teachers. Many schools said this is not the right time to allow this amid surging Covid-19 cases in the district.With all schools in the district conducting online exams in September, majority of them have decided to allow students to visit from October for doubt clearance.JK Sidhu, principal of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, said, “We may call students to school after October 4 to take guidance from teachers. We are conducting an online survey to take consent from parents.”The students will be instructed to follow all guidelines under national directives for Covid-19 management which include wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing and washing hands regularly, he added.Harmeet Kaur Waraich, principal of Nankana Sahib Public School, said, “We will allow students of Classes 10 and 12 to visit school for guidance from teachers in the first week of October. After taking consent from parents, we will call them on alternate days.”Vandna Shahi, principal of BCM School, Dugri, said, “We conducted a survey by sending Google forms to parents and over 30% of them have given consent. We are planning to allow students to visit school after September 28 and will first call students of Classes 10 and 12 on alternate days. If all goes well, then we will call students of Classes 9 and 11.”Several PSEB-affiliated schools had taken consent from parents and will allow students to visit schools from Tuesday. Authorities of BCM, Focal Point, have already informed parents and over 150 of them have given written consent to the school. Neeru Kaura, principal, said, “We have asked students of Classes 10 and 12 to visit the school for doubt clearance from Tuesday. We have made all arrangements and asked students to wear masks when they enter. We will follow all SOPs and social distancing will be maintained in classrooms.” Skill training in NSTIs, ITIs, permittedDeputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma, exercising his powers conferred under Section 144 of the CrPC, has permitted skill or entrepreneurship training at National Skill Training Institutes, Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and short term training centres registered with the National Skill Development Corporation or State Skill Development Missions or other ministries of central or state government.Likewise, the activities of National Institute for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Developments (NIESBUD), Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) and their training providers have also been allowed from September 21, subject to strict adherence of Covid-19 SOPs.The order also allows higher educational institutes to open for research scholars (PhD) and postgraduate students for technical and professional programmers requiring laboratories/experimental works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/school-in-ludhiana-seek-parents-consent-sought-before-allowing-students-to-attend-schools/story-XOql3jHpoJp9NLwhkKWFmJ.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||GMADA, Mohali MC get Lok Adalat notice on water tariff parity||The Lok Adalat (people’s court) has asked the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) and Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to file their reply by September 30 on the issue of extending water tariff parity to the residents of sectors 66 to 82. Residents of these sectors moved court after paying a higher water tariff of Rs 5.25 per kilolitre compared to other sectors under the MC with rates of Rs 1.8 per kilolitre. A decision in their favour will be a huge relief for the 50,000-odd residents of the aforementioned sectors as their water bills will be reduced considerably.Apart from pleading to the court to issue directions to GMADA to hand over the water tariff of their sectors to MC, the residents sought refunds from 2017 for the excess tariff paid to GMADA. It is to be noted that MC is making a bid to take over the functioning of sectors governed by GMADA for tariff parity, but the agenda point is yet to be approved by the local bodies department of Punjab. Shinderpal Singh (Bobby Kamboj) and Satvir Singh Dhanoa, MC councillors as well as local residents Jagdev Singh and Jatinder Sandhu say they have been fighting for parity for the past two years and paying excessive charges. “But MC and GMADA have not given any relief to us till date. The agencies have been making excuses for which residents are suffering. On top of it, stray cattle and blocked sewerage lines have made our lives miserable,” they add.However, it is to be noted that MC will be unable to take over the tariff till the Punjab government formulates the new water policy for issuance of new water meters. Residents also say property rates here are falling because of the high water charges.“For the past three years, people here hesitate to rent out their homes because of the high tariff. Those who are dependent on income from rentals, therefore, are the ones who are suffering the most,” says Surinder Singh, Former Shiromani Akali Dal councillor from Sector 80.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmada-mohali-mc-get-lok-adalat-notice-on-water-tariff-parity/story-KjXnsxt3iXMFwqxOOU7iYM.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Non-payment of fee: Parents protest against pvt schools in Ludhiana over students’ removal from WhatsApp groups||Members of revolutionary parents’ association protested against two private schools at Gill Road on Monday for removing students from WhatsApp groups and not allowing them to appear for online evaluation exams over non-payment of fees. The parents also alleged that district education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, has not issued a letter to schools which states that students’ names cannot be struck off rolls or removed from WhatsApp groups over non-payment of fee. The members of the association also said that the DEO should either get the directions implemented by schools or resign from her post.The parents alleged that the private schools in Gill road and Shimlapuri have removed their wards from the Whatsapp groups and they have been unable to continue with their studies. Bhagwant Singh, a member of the association, said, “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, several parents have lost their jobs, faced losses in business and have been unable to pay school fees. We want the DEO to take action against these two schools for removing the names of students by Tuesday, otherwise we will continue the protests.”DEO Swaranjit Kaur denied the allegations and said the direction were issued to all schools on September 7.“The letter has also been sent on the schools’ email ids and to principals to not remove the names of student from WhatsApp groups due to non-payment of fee. We will send names of schools violating the orders to the state education department so that action is taken against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/non-payment-of-fee-parents-protest-against-pvt-schools-in-ludhiana-over-students-removal-from-whatsapp-groups/story-hBrgyVTmbQbBq5vtWxJlHM.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kin of 32-year-old accident victim get Rs 15 lakh compensation||The mother and widow of a 32-year-old man who died in a road accident will get compensation of Rs 14.90 lakh, the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) ruled recently.Seema, 25, widow of Harish Chandra and Kailasha, 56, his mother, from Sohana village in Mohali , had sought compensation Rs 75 lakh against Kuldeep Kumar of Hoshiarpur and his brother Farmaish Lal of Kajheri village as well as ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd.Kuldeep Kumar was riding the motorcycle which hit Harish Chandra, leading to his death. His brother owned the vehicle, which was insured by ICICI Lombard.The dead man’s kin then filed a petition under the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988. However, even as the case was listed for filing of written statements by respondents, both parties moved a joint application on September 2 for disposal of the claim petition on the basis of an amicable settlement. The insurance company in a separate statement also made an offer of Rs.14.90 lakh as compensation.In view of the compromise between the parties, the court ordered that “ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, would pay a sum of Rs.14,90,000 to the claimants (the mother and wife of the deceased) within 60 days from today (September 9) towards full and final settlement, failing which it shall entail liability of paying interest at the rate of 9% per annum from the date of filing of present petition, till its realisation.”The court observed that 60% of compensation amount would be paid to the widow and the remaining 40% to the mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kin-of-32-year-old-accident-victim-get-rs-15-lakh-compensation/story-Ial06HiFNI9Ohc6B04DrWN.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||MNS workers demand local trains for public in Mumbai, stages agitation||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers staged agitations on Monday at various stations on the suburban railway network, demanding the resumption of local train services for the general public. While some MNS members were detained, the Railways issued a statement saying train services were not affected. Local trains have been suspended since March and a limited number of train services resumed in June for those working in essential services. On Monday, MNS staged agitations by boarding trains at various stations and protesting outside stations, demanding the resumption of regular train services. “Local trains are the lifeline of the city and it’s time the government allowed the general public to travel in them,” said MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande. In Thane, MNS leader Avinash Jadhav and around 30 supporters were detained at Naupada police station for two hours. “For the common man, getting to Mumbai for work regularly from Thane and beyond is very difficult. Not everyone can afford private vehicles. If buses can ply, why not trains?” said Jadhav. Twenty-four MNS workers protesting outside Kalyan station were also detained by police as were seven MNS workers at Ambernath. To avoid the police bandobast at Boisar station, some MNS workers walked along the tracks and boarded the train at Palghar. Senior police inspector Anil Sonawane of Palghar Government Railway Police said necessary action would be taken against them. Police were able to stop MNS protesters from boarding trains at Dombivli and Vashi. In a statement issued on Monday, Central Railways said no overcrowding was reported and the trains had run on schedule. State transport minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab said train services were limited as a precautionary measure. “We are unlocking in phases and being cautious. Our problem is that if we allow the full opening of train service and even if two people infected of Covid-19 travel in them, it will spread rapidly,” said Parab. The final decision on the resumption of local train services would be taken by the ministry of Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mns-workers-demand-local-trains-for-public-in-mumbai-stages-agitation/story-Mgzyo0Y8MWlq82ahNhPWMI.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps Medical Council of India for not ensuring colleges follow admission norms||The Bombay high court while asking the Medical Council of India on why it does not have any mechanism in place to verify whether students admitted to medical courses by private medical colleges are as per the state merit list, has said that it was not inclined to pass orders in favour of a student who did not secure an admission in a Pune-based private medical college. The student had claimed that while she had a better merit score, students with lesser merit or even those who were not eligible were admitted by the college and she was refused. The court observed that passing orders in favour of the student would mean displacing a student who had secured admission, but as those students were not a party to the petition it was not inclined to pass orders. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice G S Kulkarni while hearing the petition filed by Sunita Pal through advocate Amogh Singh was informed that after the regular rounds of admission for the medical course had been completed, a mop round was conducted to fill up the remaining seats. Singh submitted that Pal had received a call from the private medical college at Pune on July 30 asking her to reach the college and secure her admission by July 31. Singh submitted that Pal who is based in Mumbai was unable to reach the college on the said date due to the lockdown. Singh added that it was only later in August that Pal came to know that students who were much lower than her in the merit list or were not even eligible had secured admission. When she confronted the college, she was told said that as she had failed to reach on the given date she could not ask for a seat. Aggrieved by this arbitrariness of the college, Singh submitted that Pal approached the court on August 14. On its part advocate, Ganesh Gole for the MCI submitted that as per admission rules if it was found that non-meritorious student/s were admitted than such admission would have to be cancelled or the seat would have to be surrendered. However, after hearing the submissions, the court asked the college on the logic behind giving students only a day’s time to reach the college and take admission during the pandemic and lockdown situation. The court also questioned the state how it could allow the college to have such a system. “It seems that due to the pandemic only those students who were in and around Pune were granted admission even if they were less meritorious or not even eligible,” said Datta. He further asked the MCI why it did not have any mechanism to check whether colleges were adhering to admission norms and were admitting only those students who were as per the state merit list. The court while agreeing that the Pal had a valid point said that as she had not joined the less meritorious or ineligible students as a party in the petition who had secured admission in the private medical college it was not inclined to pass orders favouring her. “Passing orders would imply displacing a student already admitted. You should study better and score better and seek admission next year,” suggested Datta. The court, however, directed Singh to inform the court as to what course of action his client (Pal) wanted to adopt in light of the observations and posted the matter for hearing on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-medical-council-of-india-for-not-ensuring-colleges-follow-admission-norms/story-wIsBiNdjScRKaA87f7LWjN.html
21-09-2020||City||Ghansoli death: 3-year-old may have got stuck in sack and suffocated, say cops||Following the post-mortem report of the three-year-old boy who was found dead in a sack behind his residence in Ghansoli village, police are now investigating the possibility of the boy accidentally getting stuck inside the sack while playing, and ending up suffocating. Omkar Shankar Sathe was found dead inside a sack on Friday evening by around 3pm after he went missing from 12 pm. Police inspector Giridhar Gore, from Rabale police station, said, “The post-mortem report mentions the cause of death as asphyxia due to suffocation. The doctor has ruled out the possibility of throttling or smothering, as there are no such injury marks. Even if smothering happens, there are some marks left behind which is not found in this case. We are investigating if he would have accidentally got himself trapped inside the sack while playing.” After speaking to the family, the police have learnt that they never had any fights with anyone in the area, neither did they have any enemies. “We are not ruling out murder. But we are also investigating on the possibility of getting trapped by self and unable to come out,” Gore said The boy, a resident of Balaram Wadi, was last seen by his sisters aged six and nine, who were playing on the first floor. While the mother had stepped out to buy chicken, father a painter by profession and grandmother a vegetable seller had gone for their respective jobs. The boy was playing at the ground floor when the mother left, though his mother could not find him on return. After a frantic search of around three hours, they located a sack behind the building in which they found him dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghansoli-death-3-year-old-may-have-got-stuck-in-sack-and-suffocated-say-cops/story-gAauTSs2SNXg5lI8hhRFzH.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||No ongoing work during BMC inspection of Mumbai bungalow: Kangana Ranaut states in her rejoinder to BMC affidavit||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday alleged that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had acted with malicious intent when it undertook demolition work at her bungalow in Bandra on September 9. In her rejoinder to the affidavit previously filed by BMC, Ranaut claimed there were discrepancies in BMC’s affidavit and that no substantial alterations had been underway when the bungalow was inspected on September 7 by the concerned officer. The case will be heard next on September 22. Last week, BMC had filed an affidavit in Bombay high court (HC), opposing Ranaut’s plea challenging the demolition work carried out by the civic body at her premises and demanding Rs 2 crore in damages. BMC had stated Ranaut undertook unauthorised additions and alterations to her bungalow. The demolition was stayed by HC and Ranaut was allowed to amend her petition. In addition to demanding Rs 2 crore as compensation, Rananut said BMC had damaged nearly 40% of her bungalow and other movable assets. On Monday, Ranaut submitted her rejoinder, filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, pointing out alleged discrepancies on BMC’s part and accusing the civic body of attempting to cover up its illegal action by misinterpreting the amended petition she’d filed. In her rejoinder, Ranaut said BMC had failed to prove its allegations as it had not attached any photographs, which should have been taken when the designated officer inspected Ranaut’s property on September 7. She said this pointed to high-handed action by BMC. Ranaut further claimed that designer Manish Malhotra, who owns the adjoining bungalow, was given seven days to respond after BMC found similar alleged violations on his property, but Ranaut was given only 24 hours. Ranaut has also questioned BMC’s procedure and claims, alleging malicious intent. Ranaut’s petition is likely to come up for hearing before the bench headed by justice SJ Kathawalla on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-ongoing-work-during-bmc-inspection-of-mumbai-bungalow-kangana-ranaut-states-in-her-rejoinder-to-bmc-affidavit/story-UAJElriZWIhRkLthJgueVN.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||IPS officers tried hard to keep Fadnavis’s 80-hour government going in Maharashtra: Shiv Sena||A day after Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh dismissed reports of him having made any claims that a group of Indian police service (IPS) officers in the state had attempted to overthrow the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that an attempt was made to keep Devendra Fadnavis’ 80-hour government alive, but it was foiled.An editorial in Saamana on Monday said that some IPS officers were working as if it was their responsibility to prove majority on the floor of the House.Deshmukh, in an interview with a vernacular media outlet in Maharashtra, was asked if a group of IPS officers were working to topple the Uddhav Thackeray-led government. The minister said, “I do not wish to say anything publicly on this. All officers work diligently, but some officers can have different ideologies.”Following the interview, there were reports that Deshmukh had claimed that a plan to topple the government, hatched by some senior IPS officers, had been thwarted. Later, he issued a clarification stating, “This news is completely false... erroneous statements have been put into my mouth. Please see the video clip of the interview and you will realise that I had not said any such thing when I was asked to comment on whether there had been such a move planned by some IPS officers... I had only said that I cannot comment on such things openly.”The Sena mouthpiece said that several officers thought that the Fadnavis government will return to power after the 2019 assembly polls. “It was difficult for them to accept that despite having 105 legislators the BJP could not form the government... Some officers were involved in the early morning swearing-in [of Devendra Fadnavis] before the President’s rule was imposed... In a bid to remain in the CM’s good books, some police officials even tried to net legislators of smaller parties and some Independents. It is even true that the State Intelligence Department also played a role. Some officers were working as if they had taken up the responsibility of proving the majority,” the editorial said.Fadnavis, in a response to Deshmukh’s statement in the interview, said that no home minister has ever shown “distrust” on the police force. In a tweet on his official twitter handle, the former chief minister said, “To date, no Home Minister in the history of Maharashtra has shown so much distrust in his police force. It is not right to insult one’s police.”The editorial added that the state administration is “professional” and the “best”. “They do not have the power to make or break any government. It is not the culture of Maharashtra. If some minister thinks so that some officers are toppling the government then it sends a wrong message to people that the government is on a weak footing,” it said.It also indirectly slammed the BJP for thinking that officers’ lobby can help them topple the MVA government. It added that keeping an eye on elements who can pass on information to the opposition and work against the government is the job of the home department.“Some officers [who were involved] are still occupying high posts. They roam with confidence despite openly working to prevent Thackeray government from coming to power. The government could not do anything. The government is at danger from such a mindset. What does toppling the government mean? It is giving some information secretly to the opposition, to create an atmosphere of distrust against the government. Keeping an eye on such a mindset is the job of the home department. If it successfully does this task, then the future of the government is bright,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ips-officers-tried-hard-to-keep-fadnavis-s-80-hour-government-going-in-maharashtra-shiv-sena/story-qnzCjw8zvENmxI9yQ8SHSJ.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Snatcher held for attacking partner over distribution of stolen items in Chandigarh||A 21-year-old snatcher was arrested for allegedly trying to kill his partner in crime over the distribution of stolen items, Chandigarh Police said on Monday. Rajiv of Dadu Majra Colony attempted to murder Monu, also 21, with bricks and stones. The police had on Sunday morning received information about an unconscious man with blunt injuries lying near Sector 43-44 traffic point. A case under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) was registered at the Sector-34 police station. The injured man’s photo was sent to all police stations in tricity and he was later identified as Monu, also from Dadu Majra Colony. On the basis of a tip-off, the police then arrested Rajiv from Dadu Majra. As per the police, both Rajiv and Monu were habitual criminals and drug addicts. On the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, they had snatched a mobile phone and Rs 1,700 from one Hanuman near Sector-43 bus stand. They later entered into a scuffle over the distribution of the spoils and Rajiv hit Monu with bricks and stones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snatcher-held-for-attacking-partner-over-distribution-of-stolen-items-in-chandigarh/story-J5lo0vxlJ9srEcO6xWEH0K.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn, PGI not on same page about converting Infosys Sarai into Covid Hospital||The Chandigarh administration and Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are not on the same page regarding the conversion of The Infosys Foundation-Red Cross Sarai in Sector 12 into a 200-bed hospital for Covid-19 patients.The administration had formally written to the PGIMER to take steps to convert Infosys Sarai, which provides patients and their attendants visiting the hospital a place to stay, into a Covid facility. However, the institute had said that its focus right now is to cater to patients already admitted to its dedicated Covid-19 wards, which have almost 400 beds.The issue was discussed during the review meeting on Monday, too, wherein PGIMER representatives said that arrangements have already been made to accommodate around 100 more patients in private wards of the main Nehru Hospital building besides the existing dedicated Covid facility at Nehru Hospital Extension Block.What they say“The PGIMER had some reservations as the building is being used for the hospital staff performing Covid-19 duties. After today’s discussion, we are not insisting on converting Infosys Sarai into a hospital for now. However, we have not shelved the plan, and the PGIMER will have to convert it if Covid-19 cases increase,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.The UT administration twice in its press statements has said that Infosys Sarai will be developed as a hospital for Covid-19 patients and the institute will take necessary steps in this regard.“The focus is on augmenting the facilities in the already earmarked areas and catering to patients admitted there,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.A senior doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said: “Infosys Sarai can be converted into a Covid care centre, but not a hospital. Arranging logistics for such operations needs time as well as a huge workforce, which is not available at this point of time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-pgi-not-on-same-page-about-converting-infosys-sarai-into-covid-hospital/story-TiphKmU58Qu5K4DpMrzRlI.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||A breather: New Covid cases see a dip in tricity||The number of Covid-19 cases being reported daily has seen a gradual dip in the tricity, with only 440 fresh ones reported on Monday (September 21), down from 754 just three days back (September 18). The peak was witnessed on September 13, when 865 people had tested positive.Chandigarh, which has the maximum population in the tricity, has seen a gradual dip from 347 cases on September 15 to 240 on September 21. The daily count has remained below 300 since September 17 while around 1,500 tests are being conducted on an average every day.The number of people tested positive has more than halved in Mohali district from 337 on September 18 to 150 on September 21, while the number of tests has largely remained unchanged. Only 134 cases were reported on September 20. However, the number of cases as well as tests in Panchkula district have been fluctuating. When around 1,150 tests were conducted on September 16, 110 new cases had come to the fore. The tests saw a gradual decrease to 776 on September 20, while the number of cases stood at 133. Only 50 new cases surfaced on September 21.‘Number of factors need to be evaluated’“A number of factors need to be evaluated to see whether this is a real or pseudo dip in the pandemic,” said Dr PVM Lakshmi, a professor in the department of community medicine and school of public health at the PGIMER, who was also part of the central government’s team deputed to assist the Chandigarh administration in Covid-19 management. “To scientifically prove a dip, we need to take into account not only the testing numbers, but also the strategy employed. We need to see how and when contacts are being tested and what type of testing is being employed among other factors,” he said.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said the administration is not reading too much into the recent decline in numbers.“One factor (for decline) can be a dip in testing, but it has to be ruled out in the UT’s case as around 1,500 tests are being done daily for the past two weeks. A minor reason could be the increase in the number of antigen tests because more number of asymptomatic people are coming forward. Positivity among them is low, from which we can deduce that infection spread has decreased. But we need to wait and see whether this trend continues, “ he said. Dr KK Talwar, Punjab government’s adviser on health issues and former PGIMER director, said the situation is stabilising in a few districts of Punjab and same may be the case with the tricity. “If the number is decreasing, it shows that the situation is stabilising. But the emphasis should be on early detection of disease so that lives can be saved, “ he said. 3 succumb, 240 new cases in ChandigarhChandigarh reported 240 new coronavirus cases and three deaths on Monday. The Union Territory’s Covid tally has reached 10,298 while the toll stands at 123.A 36-year-old man from Palsora, who had acute kidney injury and diabetes, was among those dead. The other two were elderly men, aged 68 and 79, from Sector 24 and 15, respectively.As many as 7,411 people have recovered so far, of whom 273 were discharged on Monday, while 2,761 cases are still active.2 lose life, 150 test +ve in MohaliWith two more people losing battle against Covid-19, the toll has gone up to 163 in Mohali district. Also, 150 fresh cases were reported on Monday, taking the count to 8,512. Those who died included an 82-year-old woman from Phase 10 and 46-year-old man from Dera Bassi, both suffering from diabetes. Among the fresh cases, 50 surfaced in Dhakoli, followed by 41 in Mohali city and 26 in Gharuan. Meanwhile, 141 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 5,708. As many as 2,642 cases remain active.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “Unlike the rapid surge in the past 10 days, the district witnessed somewhat respite with pace of acceleration of cases slowing down coupled with improvement in the corresponding recovery rate.” 3 deaths, 50 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula district reported three casualties and 50 new cases, which took the tally to 5,110 and death toll to 67.Those dead have been identified as two men, aged 57 and 82, from Natwal and Sector 16, respectively, and a 65-year-old Barwala woman with diabetes. The octogenarian was also suffering from hypertension and diabetes.As many as 3,773 patients have been cured so far, while 1,270 cases remain active in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-breather-new-covid-cases-see-a-dip-in-tricity/story-FbF3aEDj1WNxK6C7Hml7CP.html
21-09-2020||City||2,247 new cases take Punjab patient tally close to 1 lakh||Chandigarh/Amritsar/Ludhiana/Jalandhar Forty-seven more fatalities due to Covid-19 in Punjab on Monday took the toll to 2,860, while 2,247 new cases pushed the infection tally to 99,930, just 70 short of the 1-lakh mark. Nine deaths were reported from Amritsar, seven from Jalandhar, five each from Ludhiana and Pathankot, four each from Kapurthala and Patiala, and two each from Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Moga and Sangrur, according to daily medical bulletin of the government. One death each was reported from Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Muktsar and Rupnagar. Among places which reported the maximum new cases are Amritsar with 255 patinets, Ferozepur (249), Ludhiana (245), Mohali (233), Jalandhar (221), Patiala (151), Bathinda (149), Gurdaspur (101) and Hoshiarpur (87). There are 21,661 active Covid-19 cases in the state, according to the bulletin. A total of 2,811 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. So far, 75,409 people have been cured of the disease. Fifty-nine critical patients are on ventilator support while 475 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 15,99,134 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-247-new-cases-take-punjab-patient-tally-close-to-1-lakh/story-55OZtXR5oPysg4kZxQLyUI.html
21-09-2020||City||Delhi govt launches data analysis programme for its officials||New DelhiIn an effort to boost data analysis, the Delhi government on Monday launched the Advanced Data Analysis Capacity Development Program for its officials. The capacity development program will run for a week for 25 Planning and Statistics Officers associated with the Planning Department of the state government. “We have plenty of data, but the important thing is to understand it. Its method of analysis, maintenance, and processing should be such that it helps us to meet future needs,” Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said while launching the programme online. The programme is being conducted in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Public Administration.Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said government officials need a deeper understanding of available data to plan the infrastructure needs accordingly. “Our Planning Department has to become an expert of data. It is your responsibility to provide clean data to all the departments of the government as per their needs on an immediate basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-launches-data-analysis-programme-for-its-officials/story-9HdVnB9CCgKg4aqDonzz5J.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Journalist Rajeev Sharma sent to police custody for a week more in espionage case||A Delhi court Monday sent 61-year-old journalist Rajeev Sharma, a Chinese woman and a Nepalese man, all arrested on charges of spying last week, to seven more days of custodial interrogation by the Delhi Police’s special cell. Police have also written to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) seeking its help in exploring how Sharma was allegedly paid through shell companies operated by a couple in China.Chief metropolitan magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat extended the custody of Sharma, Chinese woman Qing Shi, and Nepalese man Sher Singh after they were produced before the court at the end of their police remand. Sharma was arrested under the Official Secrets Act on September 14. The other two were booked under the same Act on September 19 for allegedly helping Sharma receive money from Chinese intelligence agents in lieu of information he allegedly provided them. On Monday, police sought eight days’ remand of Sharma while stating that they have written to the defence ministry about the “incriminating documents recovered from Sharma”. They said Sharma has to be “confronted with huge and voluminous data”. The police also said a lot of data was recovered from the cellphone and laptop of the three arrested persons. Appearing for Sharma, senior advocate Adish C Aggarwala, opposed the remand plea and said the investigation was not being conducted in the correct manner. He said all charges against his client were baseless and there was no evidence against Sharma with the police. Aggarwala had earlier told HT that police did not recover any classified document from Sharma’s Pitampura house (when he was arrested).“We also informed the court that the police have not provided us with a copy of the FIR. The bail application that we filed on September 17 was to be heard today ( Monday). The court directed the police to provide us with the FIR copy and reply on the bail plea by September 24,” Aggarwala said. Following this, the court sent Sharma to seven-day police remand and posted the matter to September 28. The bail hearing will also be on September 28, the senior advocate said. Special cell officers probing the case said Sharma was allegedly passing on “sensitive and classified information” to Chinese intelligence agencies since 2016, and was allegedly paid nearly ₹40 lakh through various channels, including Hawala transactions and shell companies. A senior officer associated with the probe said two sets of “classified documents”, running into nearly 15 pages and related to “India’s defence strategies at India-China border (Galwan valley)”, were recovered from Sharma’s Pitampura home, along with other incriminating documents that were found in his three email IDs and laptop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/journalist-rajeev-sharma-sent-to-police-custody-for-a-week-more-in-espionage-case/story-NJSXcaoiCkLca4fLEi6K0K.html
21-09-2020||City||J&K L-G launches home delivery of prasad for Mata Vaishno Devi pilgrims||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, who is also the chairman of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDB), on Monday formally launched home delivery of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi pooja prasad for devotees who may not be able to visit the famed Hindu pilgrimage, during the board meeting here at the Raj Bhavan.To get the prasad delivered at home in sanitized boxes, a devotee can make bookings through the shrine board’s website. Once the booking is done, the board ensures that the pooja is performed within 72 hours and prasad is dispatched through speed post.So far, around 1,500 packets of pooja prasad have been dispatched to devotees across the country through speed post for which the board has entered into an agreement with the postal department.Sinha, while chairing the first meeting of the shrine board since taking over in August this year, welcomed the members, and directed shrine board CEO Ramesh Kumar for phase-wise increase in the number of pilgrims from outside the UT based on objective assessment of the ground situation. It is pertinent to mention that yatra to the holy cave shrine was resumed from August 16, 2020, and all special poojas are available to the devotees, besides other rituals.The board also undertook a comprehensive review of its major infrastructure development projects, including those completed earlier, ongoing and the ones in the pipeline, aimed at bringing about further improvement in the facilities for the convenience of visiting pilgrims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-l-g-launches-home-delivery-of-prasad-for-mata-vaishno-devi-pilgrims/story-Xs66nf7S6WRyGq3cAYuTMK.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Riots accused says she is being harassed inside Tihar jail||Student activist Gulfisha Khatoon, who has been booked and arrested under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act as one of the alleged conspirators of Delhi riots, on Monday told a city court that she was being harassed by jail officers inside Tihar prisons. Khatoon said she was being called names, such as “educated terrorist”, and subjected to communal slurs by the prison officials. Khatoon is currently lodged in the women’s jail within the prison complex. Khatoon on Monday told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that she was being mentally harassed in Tihar jail and if anything happened to her, then prison authorities would be responsible. “I am facing discrimination by the jail staff. They are calling me an educated terrorist and hurling racist slurs at me. I am facing mental harassment here. If I harm myself only jail authorities will be responsible for it,” she alleged.Following this, the court asked Khatoon’s counsel to file an application in this regard. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for Khatoon, told court that he will take the necessary action. Khatoon was produced through video conferencing after a charge sheet was filed against her and 14 others for hatching a conspiracy and orchestrating the February riots in north-east Delhi that killed 53 people and injured more than 400.Responding to the allegations, the prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel said, “ These allegations are baseless.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/riots-accused-says-she-is-being-harassed-inside-tihar-jail/story-QEYsIyHCJzQ8zP73THAS6O.html
21-09-2020||City||Ludhiana hospitality sector fears shutdown amid stringent gathering curbs||The hospitality sector on Monday slammed the state government for not accepting their demand to lift the 30-person ceiling on gatherings.Owners of banquet halls, marriage palaces said the central government had allowed 100 persons at gatherings from September 21, yet the state government had not lifted the restriction. They said that such restrictions announced by the state government are taking a toll on their business.Owners of marriage palaces, banquet halls and tent dealers stated that the sector has already suffered losses of ₹70,000 crores and if the state government failed to provide any relief, the sector would collapse.Former president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Manjit Nagpal said, “How can businesses think of revival with such restrictions in place? No events were taking place due to restriction on gatherings since the lockdown began in March.”Hotelier Gurmeet Singh said, “A large number of people are participating in farmers’ protests including Congress MLAs and no social distancing norms are being followed. We are not against the farmers, but the government should also accept our demands so that we can earn a livelihood.” President of Marriage Palace Welfare Association Amarjit Singh Sant said, “We have submitted memorandums with the government and MLAs on different occasions, but they are still not paying heed to the problem. These policies of the government will result in large scale unemployment and many would be forced to shut down their business permanently.”Tent dealers had also observed a two-day strike in the state on September 15 and 16 seeking extension in gathering limit. They had said that the lockdown is not only taking a toll on their business but also on their mental well-being.Secretary of Punjab Tent Dealers Welfare Association, Ashok Sharma and member, Dimpy Makkar said, “Tent dealers at large have been forced to change their vocation and many of them are selling vegetables to earn a livelihood. This is also taking a toll on their health as the government has failed to provide any relief in terms of electricity bills, bank loan installments, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-hospitality-sector-fears-shutdown-amid-stringent-gathering-curbs/story-lJuccrNNlUiTVJDmeMYz0H.html
21-09-2020||City||Ludhiana DC reviews paddy procurement arrangements||With only a few days left to start procurement of paddy, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday, held a meeting with officials to review the preparations to ensure hassle-free, smooth and timely procurement of paddy crop. The meeting was attended by office-bearers of district commission agents association, rice shelling mills and commission agents besides DMs of procurement agencies and farmers.The DC, while, soliciting the support, urged rice shelling mills to provide their spaces for mandi yards so that the maximum number of purchase centres can be set up in the district to ensure smooth and timely procurement of the crop. He said that to maintain social distancing and avoid the spread of coronavirus, a similar concept for procurement of wheat will be adopted in which the procurement will be made in a staggered manner as farmers will enter the mandis with passes issued to them.While ensuring procurement of every single grain of paddy, he appealed to farmers and commission agents to cooperate with the district administration in this exceptional and difficult times. He also appealed farmers to bring paddy crops with prescribed moisture content to the grain markets for timely procurement.District Food Supplies Controller (DFSC West) Sukhwinder Singh Gill and DFSC East Harveen Kaur informed the deputy Commissioner that apart from 107 grain markets (mandis) in the district, 76 rice shelling mills and 27 temporary yards have been designated as procurement stations while they are trying to establish more purchase centres in the district. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner also directed district mandi officer (DMO) Devinder Singh to ensure all the necessary arrangements at grain markets for hassle-free procurement besides maintaining hygiene and social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dc-reviews-paddy-procurement-arrangements/story-bo65WEWuTFwRjjYrYPLWgJ.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||JNU entrance exam clashing with UGC NET, please reschedule, varsity student body tells NTA||A day after the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced the schedule for the entrance exams to various undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil and PhD programmes at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), the varsity students’ union raised concerns over the dates of exams.On Friday, NTA announced that it would conduct entrance tests for 101 courses offered by JNU, for the upcoming academic session, from October 5 to 8 in two shifts. However, the University Grant Commission (UGC)’s National Eligibility Test (NET) will also be conducted between September 24 and November 11 – including two papers on October 7 as well. JNU Students Union (JNUSU) has raised concerns that students wishing to appear for both exams may face issues in travelling. In a letter to NTA on Monday, the student body asked the examination agency to reschedule the exams and inform students at least a month in advance about the revised dates. “The UGC NET, also conducted by the NTA, falls on the same dates as the JNU entrance exams, rendering it impossible for many students to appear for both exams,” JNUSU wrote in its letter. The student body also pointed out that final semester exams of several universities will be continuing on the said dates, making it difficult for aspirants to appear for JNU entrance exams.“The dates have been announced just 15 days prior to the test. While the Covid-19 pandemic rages on and the transportation facilities are uncertain, this period is insufficient for students to plan their travel. Also, opportunities must be granted to students to change their centres before the announcement of the schedule,” said JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh.A senior JNU official said the entrance exams are conducted by the NTA and the varsity will follow the decision of the examination agency. Despite repeated calls and texts, NTA director-general Vineet Joshi did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-entrance-exam-clashing-with-ugc-net-please-reschedule-varsity-student-body-tells-nta/story-pfAgAd37PErG2t7ia7YouL.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Jewellery of schoolteacher murdered in Chandigarh missing from house||The police team tasked with investigating the murder case of a 40-year-old government school teacher couldn’t find her jewellery at her house during a search. Jyoti Rani’s decomposing body was found at her Sector-23 accommodation on the night of September 15. Her husband Mandeep Singh, 42, also a teacher at a government school, is the prime suspect in the case. He has also been booked for attempting to kill one of his sons, whom he had allegedly pushed into a canal near Ludhiana. Mandeep is currently absconding. The detailed statements of the couple’s salary accounts also revealed that they had less than Rs 2,000 balance in each account, investigating officials said. As per a probing officer privy to the case, police have been able to trace only one bank account each in the name of Mandeep and Jyoti so far, wherein Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,200 were found, respectively. As Mandeep had not talked to his father Surmukh Singh, a retired inspector from Punjab Roadways, in the last five years, no one in his family was aware if they had more than one bank account. “Bank accounts of the couple had minimal amounts and even the jewellery of the victim was not found in her house during a search,” Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vineet Kumar said. Police sources also pointed out that the family owned a property in Kharar and was considering selling it off. Missing son was to celebrate birthday on MondayThe nine-year-old son of the couple, who is still missing, was to celebrate his birthday on September 21. His grandparents, who already have the custody of his elder brother, are now worried about his well-being. Meanwhile, to ensure uninterrupted studies of the couple’s elder son, one of Mandeep’s college friends, Rajinder Singh Kamboj, who teaches at the government school in Sector 43, on Monday collected study material from the boy’s school. The couple’s sons, aged 13 and nine, studied at a Sector-33 private school, which already has decided to offer free education to the boys till Class 10. Jyoti Rani was found dead at her government accommodation by a police team from Ludhiana, which had come knocking at her house to drop her elder son. The police are yet to trace Mandeep Singh and his nine-year-old son, who was in the car when he pushed his other son in Neelon canal on the night of September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jewellery-of-schoolteacher-murdered-in-chandigarh-missing-from-house/story-T2hAycEC4xK44xeM4pvmzL.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police tweets prohibiting protests lead to confusion about weddings and funerals||A series of tweets put out by the Delhi Police Monday created some confusion and panic among people as it gave the impression that gatherings for weddings and funerals were now prohibited in the national capital. The confusion was cleared by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in the evening, when it issued a clarification that wedding gatherings of up to 50 persons and funerals gatherings of 20 persons were allowed till September 30, when the order will be further revised, taking into account the Covid-19 situation then.Citing an order of the DDMA, the Delhi Police Monday morning said people cannot be allowed to hold demonstrations in the city till September 30 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Amid protests against farm bills in the capital and elsewhere, the Delhi Police in a series of tweets informed people about the September 3 order of the DDMA which prohibits such activities.“The general public is hereby informed that in view of DDMA order dated 03/09/2020, “status quo” is required to be maintained with respect to prohibited/permitted activities in NCT of Delhi till 30/09/2020 (sic),” the Delhi Police tweeted.“As such, all political, cultural and social gatherings in NCT of Delhi shall remain suspended till 30.09.2020 (sic),” it added.A section of people mistook this to imply that wedding and funeral gatherings were also prohibited, a senior DDMA official said.Delhi Congress leaders and workers marched towards Parliament on Monday to protest against the new farm bills. The protesters were stopped and detained by the police on RP Road, the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-tweets-prohibiting-protests-lead-to-confusion-about-weddings-and-funerals/story-Hs7Ce9CeIKGtBPW29IYpUI.html
21-09-2020||City||Man held for cheating, blackmailing aspiring models||New DelhiPolice on Monday said they arrested a 37-year-old man for allegedly creating fake profiles of models and production houses on social media, and deceiving aspiring models in the name of giving lead roles in web series, and collecting their private and intimate photographs. The man, identified as Mam Chand, later blackmailed the aspiring models with their pictures. He used to impersonate established female models to target and deceive the aspiring models, deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse, said. “Chand is a resident of Sultanpuri. He was involved in a cheating case of Hisar in Haryana,” the DCP said. Police said a 17-year-old girl filed a complaint, alleging she was contacted by one Rashi Goel on social media. Goel introduced herself as a model, who was looking for new models for an upcoming web series, and asked for normal and unclothed photographs of the complainant for auditions, the DCP said. “The girl sent such photographs to Goel. But when Goel kept on asking for more photographs, the girl blocked her. Thereafter, the complainant was contacted by two persons, who sent her the same photos she had sent to Goel, and threatened her,” the DCP said. “During investigation, four social media IDs used to contact victims were identified. The accused was apprehended from outside his residence in Sultanpuri,” Alphonse said. Police said he used to contact potential victims from different fake profiles but never met them. “He claimed he never met any victim. An audition form was found in his mobile phone. Objectionable photographs of victims were found in the mobile phone of the accused,” the DCP said. Three mobile phones and four SIM cards were recovered from Chand’s possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-cheating-blackmailing-aspiring-models/story-VVS1GnkKCYzyedekJPJR5L.html
21-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Day after LIP workers clash with police, 2 ASIs transferred, FIR against party workers||A day after the turban of an elderly man associated with the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) was allegedly tossed by the police during a protest outside Payal police station, Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh has shifted two police personnel to Police Lines and marked an inquiry into the matter.The police have also registered an FIR against Manwinder Singh Giaspura and other protesters for violating social distancing norms.The SSP said that two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) have been shifted to Police Lines and a probe has been marked to SP (investigation) into the matter. He added that the police have been investigating to know if cops deliberately tossed an elderly protester’s turban or it came off accidentally.LIP leader Manwinder Singh Giaspura alleged that a villager from Maksudra was allegedly picked up by Khanna police after he had lodged a complaint against a sarpanch and a panch member for allegedly asking for bribe of ₹10,000 to get his case cleared under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).He also alleged that the cops tried to strangulate him with a piece of rope, passed caste-based derogatory remarks and tossed his turban before lathicharging the LIP workers. Later, cops also tossed the turban of an elderly worker and kicked him.Giaspura added that if action was not taken against the errant cops, they will stage a protest at the SSP office and also approach SC/ST commission.The SSP has refuted the allegations levelled by Giaspura. He said that the allegation of tying a rope around his neck is ambiguous. “At the time of the incident, 50 persons were present at the spot. No one saw SHO putting a rope around his neck,” said the SSP.“Is it possible that a policeman will dare to do such action in the presence of fifty-odd people,” he addedThe LIP workers had indulged in a scuffle with police personnel on Sunday evening during a protest. The police had lathicharged LIP workers to control the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-day-after-lip-workers-clash-with-police-2-asis-transferred-fir-against-party-workers/story-lPDzFY5BRD56lYv3InlibP.html
21-09-2020||City||Man who poisoned stray dogs in Khanna lands in police net||A man was arrested by the police on Monday for poisoning two stray dogs to death in Khanna. The City-2 police of Khanna have lodged an FIR against the accused under Sections of the Cruelty to Animals Act after arresting him.The action was taken after animal lovers had raised the issue of stray dogs being killed in the area. The accused has been identified as Ajay Kumar Bector of Krishna Nagar in Khanna.Two stray dogs in Krishna Nagar and Gulmohar Nagar of Khanna were found dead in mysterious circumstances, while several others had fallen ill in the past three days. When animal lovers had taken up the issue, they got to know from locals that a scooterist often offered food to the strays. The incident was also captured in the CCTVs.Animal lovers lodged a complaint at the concerned police station and the accused was traced on Monday. The police had set the accused free after he tendered a verbal apology. The accused’s parents told the police that their son is suffering from a psychological disorder. Not satisfied with the action taken by the police, animal lovers raised the issue with SSP Harpreet Singh, who ordered registration of an FIR.Inspector Ranbir Sharma, SHO at City-2 police station said that in the primary investigation the police found that the accused had mixed poison meant for killing pests and now they will question the accused to dig out more details. Sandeep Jain, an honorary state animal welfare officer (Punjab), Animal Welfare Board of India, said that killing or hurting any animal, including stray dogs is a crime. He appreciated action taken by the Khanna police against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-poisoned-stray-dogs-in-khanna-lands-in-police-net/story-RncvTVrHp5AvllRd21SW8K.html
21-09-2020||City||AICTS treats 1,650 Covid patients; 81% recovery rate highest among Pune hospitals||Pune: The Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences (AICTS) Pune has admitted more than 1,650 Covid patients since March this year. It has discharged more than 1,333 cases, with a recovery rate of 81%, one of the highest in the city. According to a hospital official, more than 322 civilian patients were admitted requiring critical care and 55 police personnel have been treated in ICU and discharged. The institute also gave a helping hand to the Pune Cantonment General Hospital by looking after over 40 patients requiring ICU care. AICTS deals with complex interventional cardiology, intricate cardio-thoracic surgeries, pulmonary and Interventional radiology and pathology. With the increase in Covid cases in the region in March 2020, there was a need to have a separate Covid hospital of the Army in Pune so that the multi-disciplinary Southern Command Hospital could continue treatment of non-Covid patients unhindered. AICTS was identified and converted into a Covid hospital for treatment of primarily service personnel, ex-Servicemen and their wards from March 29, 2020. “The hospital converted its 600-bed facility into a 400-bed Covid facility with 20 critical beds (ventilator), 30 intensive care unit (ICU) and 350 isolation beds. The institute has been a blessing for numerous Covid patients not only from the Armed Forces fraternity, but also civilian patients of Pune and neighbouring areas. AICTS has also been taking care of Covid-19 infected police personnel of Pune district and civilians on referral basis as directed by the designated civil administration,” stated a press note from Defence Public Relation Wing.The hospital has managed complex multi-organ failure cases and is also a key member in multiple research projects including the WHO study “Solidarity Trial” - an international randomised trial of additional treatments for Covid in hospitalised patients. At present, hospitalised patients with symptomatic Covid are given either injection Remdesivir or Interferon Beta 1a, which are being provided by the WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aicts-treats-1-650-covid-patients-81-recovery-rate-highest-among-pune-hospitals/story-LMhCcaX7bXvrJH2mi92TFM.html
21-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Farmers up the ante, burn effigies, copies of farm bills||Farmers upped the ante against the farm bills passed by the Union cabinet and staged protests at several villages in the district on Monday.Protesting under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Lakhowal, the farmers burned effigies, including that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with a copy of three farm bills at Lakhowal village. Similar protests will also be held in different villages in the coming days, they said.BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said, “Protests were organised by farmers in different villages including Chaukiman in Jagraon village, Jassowal near Dehlon among other areas of Khanna, Samrala, etc. The Union government is doing injustice to farmers and we will not let that happen. Similar protests would also be held in the coming days and a large number of farmers would participate in the statewide protest to be held on September 25.”Meanwhile, different kisan unions conducted meetings with different sectors to seek their support for the statewide protests.BKU Rajewal president, Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “Apart from conducting meetings with farmers, we are also conducting meetings with different sectors and traders’ associations. Transporters have already extended their support to farmers and we expect that markets would also remain shut during the statewide protest on September 25.”He said, “The Centre claims that the ordinances passed by the Union cabinet are not against farmers. By making such statements they are befooling farmers. A meeting of different farmers union would also be held on Wednesday wherein we would also contemplate further action plans.”Congress MLA holds protest by selling ‘pakoras’To express their solidarity with farmers, Congress MLAs and leaders organised protests in their respective constituencies on Monday.While participating in a protest held at Phullanwal chowk, MLA (Gill), Kuldeep Vaid took a dig at PM Modi by preparing and distributing tea and fritters (pakoras) among participants.Slamming the Centre over the farm ordinances, Vaid said that farmers would be left with no other option than to sell tea and pakoras to earn a livelihood.Protests were also staged in different villages of Dakha constituency wherein political secretary to CM, Captain Sandeep Sandhu also took part. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, MLA Surinder Dawar and MLA Sanjay Talwar and other party workers staged protests in Ludhiana west, central and east constituency respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-farmers-up-the-ante-burn-effigies-copies-of-farm-bills/story-TKXsHNYugDueEMuWelpufK.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Brothers arrested for murder bid in Chandigarh’s Dhanas||Two brothers were arrested for attacking a man with a sharp-edged weapon leaving him with injuries on his chest and legs in Dhanas, the police said on Monday.Accused duo Rahul and Nishu, both residents of EWS Colony, Dhanas, were arrested for assaulting Dharminder, 22, of the same locality, over an old enmity.Dharminder told the police that on Sunday night, he was sitting outside his house at around 9pm, when Nishu came and accused him of fighting with his younger brother Rahul. The two entered into an argument after which Nishu called Rahul. While Nishu held him down, Rahul stabbed Dharminder repeatedly in the chest and legs with a knife before fleeing. The victim was rushed to Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 from where he was referred to PGIMER considering his condition. A case under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/brothers-arrested-for-murder-bid-in-chandigarh-s-dhanas/story-7CrJD6F68Y0UAjnyr7ksNK.html
21-09-2020||City||Public-private collaboration can help battle Covid: Mohali DC||Enhanced cooperation between the public and private healthcare sectors can help battle Covid-19 effectively, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan while inaugurating the new Covid care ICU at Fortis Hospital in Mohali.Dayalan said that at the behest of the district administration, Fortis Hospital had stepped up its bed capacity to 120 including 75 level-2 and 45 level-3 beds. “Due to the presence of major healthcare establishments in the district, admission requests from neighbouring districts as well as states keep pouring in. So we requested private hospitals to scale up Covid care,” said Dayalan.“No single entity can do it alone, the very nature of the Covid-19 crisis calls for a response based on public-private cooperation. We need to work together to protect everyone, everywhere,” said Dayalan.Ashish Bhatia, COO, Fortis Hospitals, said, “I am pleased that in these trying times, our district has been exemplary with regard to public-private collaboration in the battle against Covid-19. Fortis Mohali has been at the forefront in this fight and has consistently supported Mission Fateh. We are pleased with the support provided by the civil authorities and remain committed to ramp up our services as and when required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/public-private-collaboration-can-help-battle-covid-mohali-dc/story-XGyvlNxLPgzWrDyn1Sp3rJ.html
21-09-2020||City||Covid impact: 75% high-end brand outlets cease operations at Chandigarh airport||The coronavirus crisis has cut a swathe through retail establishments at the Chandigarh international airport, forcing almost 75% of the shops to put up the shutters. Despite domestic flight operations resuming at the airport on May 25, 22 of the total 30 high-end brands’ outlets had to shut down owing to huge losses. The airport now only has eight shops, which hardly see any visitors. Retailers here say though their business has gained some momentum with about 15% improvement in footfall, passengers are still not willing to visit their shops amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The airport, too, is incurring a loss of nearly Rs 7 crore per month on various accounts. Losses suffered by the airport authorities in the past five months have been pegged at about Rs 50 crore. Before the lockdown, the airport saw at least 12,000 passengers, both at arrivals and departures, daily. The number has since come down to 1,000 a day. While 44 domestic and two international flights (Sharjah and Dubai) used to arrive and depart from the airport before March 23, only six to eight flights operate daily these days. One of the shop owners said they have requested the authorities to charge the rent on the basis of revenue share. “But the management issued a letter stating that the rent will be fixed as per the passenger traffic. Food, beverages, retail, and services have borne the brunt of the pandemic at the airport and if this continues, we will be forced to shut all shops,” the shop owner, who wished to remain anonymous, added.‘Will take some time to tide over this crisis’Chandigarh airport’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ajay Bhardwaj said, “We have asked the shop owners to pay rent on the basis of passenger traffic. Though our footfall has improved by 15% with about 3,000 passengers per day, we are still suffering a monthly loss of around Rs 7 crore. We will take some months to tide over these crises.”The airport’s main source of revenue is the aeronautical category, whereby the authorities charge Rs 800 per passenger from the airlines. For instance, a Delhi-bound flight with 80% occupancy pays about Rs 65,000 to the airport. The other sources of revenue are retail shops, office spaces, vehicle parking, and advertisements. Daily estimate of the total revenue generated by the airport was around Rs 30 lakh during pre-corona times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-impact-75-high-end-brand-outlets-cease-operations-at-chandigarh-airport/story-JPYIKhG99DDsWpgaY8tUCO.html
21-09-2020||City||PDP meets for first time after scrapping of Article 370||The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday held a meeting of its senior leaders here for the first time since Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was revoked by the Centre in August last year.The meeting was chaired by PDP vice-president Abdul Rehman Veeri in the absence of party chief Mehbooba Mufti, who is under detention, at the PDP headquarters here. As many as 21 senior leaders, including former ministers and legislators, were in attendance.The party spokesperson said it was observed in the meeting that while the internal situation of J&K is very precarious, the situation at LoC and LAC is also on the boil.“It was resolved that the party would continue to fight for resolution of the basic issues and advocate dialogue and reconciliation with all the stakeholders, as envisaged in the party’s roadmap, which has become more relevant than ever,” the spokesperson said.During the deliberations, the leaders opined that post-August 5, 2019, a false semblance of normalcy is being created in the Valley, which in fact resembles the peace of the graveyard.“People are still shell-shocked and unable to come to terms with what has happened. The situation has created a kind of a stalemate where nothing except all kinds of anti-Kashmiri steps like domicile law etc are being pushed in a hurry,” the party said.The PDP spokesperson added that the party leaders demanded immediate release of all political detainees, irrespective of their political ideology, whether lodged in Kashmir or outside.They also expressed anguish over the recent spree of killing of innocent people from Shopian to Sopore to Batamaloo and demanded that the perpetrators be brought to book and families be given justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pdp-meets-for-first-time-after-scrapping-of-article-370/story-hlqNJorzDppJLeo1sk4QXO.html
21-09-2020||City||Congress holds protest against farm bills in Ambala||Congress held protests against three farm bills in Ambala on Monday. Led by Congress MLAs from Mullana and Naraingarh, Varun Chaudhary and Shelley Chaudhary, respectively, the protesters along with Haryana Congress treasurer Rohit Jain submitted a memorandum for the President to Ambala deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma. Varun Chaudhary, while addressing the party workers, said this would be the first time in the history of the country that hoarding is being legally recognised. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote his name million times on his coat pant, but is not ready to write MSP in these three bills even once,” he added. This struggle of the farmers will not go in vain because those who have fought have never lost, the MLA said. Jain said the government should bring a fourth ordinance that gives legal rights of the MSP to the farmers, and there should be such a provision that if someone buys at a price less than the MSP, action is taken against him.The party also sought the rollback of the farm bills while demanding withdrawal of cases filed against farmers during Pipli rally and compensation for those injured in a recent lathicharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-holds-protest-against-farm-bills-in-ambala/story-tNC2YPceD5Bs4DvyphmCkI.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||PU panel proposes to allow phased return of research scholars to labs||A Panjab University panel on Monday proposed to allow research scholars to return to labs after seeking permission from the director higher education, Chandigarh, and the ministry of home affairs (MHA).It has also decided that research scholars will not be provided accommodation in the campus hostels and only those who have been conducting their studies for more than three years will be allowed in the labs.Many varsity scholars had been demanding accommodation and access to the labs, stating that their research has suffered after class work was suspended in March.During the meeting, the committee observed that providing accommodation in hostels will not be appropriate as many staffers have tested positive for Covid-19 on the campus recently.After the lockdown was imposed, more than 3,000 research scholars working in the varsity’s teaching departments had lost access to laboratories. Earlier this month, the Panjab University Research Scholars’ Association (PURSA) had submitted a representation to the university, seeking their return to labs and accommodation in hostels.PU’s dean students welfare (DSW) SK Tomar, who is also a member of the committee, said, “The panel discussed the ways of allowing the research scholars in our labs and it has proposed that they can return following approval from DHE and MHA.”He said only those research scholars will be allowed who are conducting experiment-based studies. “If the permission is granted, scholars will have to follow the safety norms while working in the labs,” Tomar added. The committee has decided that data will be sought from the departments regarding those research scholars who have been conducting their studies for over three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-panel-proposes-to-allow-phased-return-of-research-scholars-to-labs/story-9j79hez12Qu3Boh6UGoF5K.html
21-09-2020||City||HP Police traces 414 missing people in month-long drive||The Himachal Pradesh Police on Monday claimed that it has succeeded in tracing out as many as 414 missing people from the state during a month-long special drive launched in August this year.As per the official information, around 111 males, 252 females and 51 children, and the maximum number of persons were traced in the districts of Mandi (70), Sirmaur (62), Shimla (59) and Kullu (50).Director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said Himachal Pradesh has reported 18,571 missing persons since 2008, out of whom 16,958 people have been traced, while 1,613 persons continue to remain missing, adding that the maximum number of untraced missing persons are in Kullu (221), Mandi (207) and Baddi (194).Overall percentage of traced persons in the state is 91.31%, which is quite satisfactory, the DGP said.“During the one-month drive, various search teams were constituted at sub-division levels, consisting of 39 NGOs, 38 head constables, 89 male constables, 46 female constables, and 14 home guards. These teams visited 994 shelter homes, bus stands, religious places etc and screened 615 people including children,” the DGP informed.The police have been conducting such drives for the past several years, and 827 persons were traced during the drives in last three years.Two special drives were launched in 2013 and total 304 missing persons were traced out. Thereafter, a nationwide campaign to trace out missing children was carried out in 2015 and 2016, during which 51 missing children were located.During the year 2017, 210 missing persons (73 men, 137 women) were traced out, while in 2018, 252 persons (86 men, 166 women) and in the year 2019, 365 such persons (126 men, 239 women) were located.Kundu said this year’s special campaign remained most successful as compared to the previous ones carried out in 2017, 2018 and 2019, during which 210, 252 and 365 missing persons were traced respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-police-traces-414-missing-people-in-month-long-drive/story-H4g4r3MQBsAssmoCxK4P9J.html
21-09-2020||City||HC notice to Punjab, Haryana on plea challenging law for PCA appointments||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from Punjab and Haryana governments on a plea challenging law about police complaint authority (PCA) appointments.The plea has been filed by one Nikhil Saraf of Mohali who had sought quashing of Section 54 of the Punjab Police Act 2007, terming it contrary to the judgment of Supreme Court in Prakash Singh’s case. The Section 54 makes a former bureaucrat eligible for appointment as PCA head.He had also demanded that Punjab government notification of January 23, appointing Nirmaljit Singh Kalsi, former IAS officer as PCA head be also quashed. It has further been demanded that any appointment of a former civil servant as members of the PCA be quashed. The petitioner has also sought quashing of Section 59 of the Haryana Police Act 2007, which is also on same lines. It has further been demanded that state as well as at divisional-level appointments be made in accordance with apex court judgment. The court was told that the apex court judgment was binding on all the states which says the head of state-level complaints authority shall be chosen by the state government out of a panel of names proposed by the chief justice. Further, the head of the district-level complaints authority may also be chosen out of a panel of names proposed by the chief justice or a judge of the high court nominated by him, the court was told, adding that state’s provisions are in contravention of apex court judgment.The response has been sought by November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-notice-to-punjab-haryana-on-plea-challenging-law-for-pca-appointments/story-nKjttrcClJ8H7iTeLHdRTP.html
21-09-2020||City||Fallen HP soldier’s kin reach Raj Bhavan to return gallantry award||The family of a Kirti Chakra awardee soldier from Kangra district reached Raj Bhavan here on Monday to return the gallantry award to the governor as they blamed the successive state governments for failing to honour his sacrifice.Amit Chauhan of Kangra’s Chambi village had laid down his life in Operation Rhino of the 13 Grenadier of Indian Army against terrorists in Assam on September 15, 2002. He was posthumously awarded the Kirti Chakra in 2004.The fallen soldier’s 70-year-old mother, Rajkumari, said the government made false promises of honouring his son in the past 18 years.She said she was assured naming of a government high school in Kangra besides a memorial in her son’s name, but both were empty promises by the state government. This is why she decided to return the award to the President through the Himachal governor.“My son’s martyrdom was not recognised in nearly two decades. I don’t expect anything from anyone now,” Rajkumari said in disappointment.Amit’s brother said he feels proud to be related to a fallen soldier, but never expected such disgrace to someone who sacrificed his life for the country.As the slain jawan’s family members were interacting with the media outside the Raj Bhawan, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, whose convoy was passing by, invited the former to his office and assured them of looking into the matter. He requested the mother not to return the award.Thakur said, “I am going to find out every detail on why the promises made to the family were not fulfilled and ensure that they are soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fallen-hp-soldier-s-kin-reach-raj-bhavan-to-return-gallantry-award/story-NnCcOV7djK7U8x9Fan9OKJ.html
21-09-2020||City||Schools reopen in Haryana with few students amid Covid scare||Schools in Haryana reopened partially on Monday for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak in March.In line with the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines, students from Classes 9 to 12 have been allowed to voluntarily visit teachers for a limited time to seek guidance.According to the standard operating procedure (SoP) issued by the ministry of health and family welfare on September 8, only 50% teaching/non-teaching staff will be allowed on the premises, and attendance is not mandatory for students.Parent consent is mandatory, and the relaxation doesn’t apply to containment zones.Schools need to schedule activities and chart out a seating plan to ensure physical distancing of six feet, wherever feasible, among students and teachers.Sonepat district education officer, Joginder Hooda, said he visited a couple of schools to check and ensure that the standard operating procedures are followed. “Less number of students visited the schools on the first day. Teachers and other management staff followed safety guidelines. Only teachers, who had tested negative, were allowed to visit the schools. Students were allowed to visit the schools after a written consent from their parents,” the DEO added.The DEO said the teachers were instructed not to share books, chalks and dusters with other teachers and students. Also, the school authorities have modified the toilets and pedals have been installed to control water taps.“A five-minute break was given after a 40-minute class. One student was allowed at a time to go to the toilet,” he said. Students and teachers had undergone thermal scanning before entering the school premises.A senior education official, pleading anonymity, said many students did not visit the school on the first day as their parents are yet to give the school heads a consent in writing. “We will not allow any student to enter the premises without their parents consent. We cannot take any risks even though we are following safety guidelines,” he added.Govt school in Fatehabad shut as three teachers test positiveA government senior secondary school in Fatehabad city was closed after three teachers tested positive for coronavirus two days ago. The sanitation drive was conducted in the school and students were informed in advance not to visit the school till further orders, an official said.Parents refrain from sending kids to school In Karnal, most parents refrained from sending their children to school amid the rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state.As per the record of the district education department, there are 179 high and senior secondary schools in Karnal district and on an average three to five students came to schools to clarify their doubts. Officials in the district education department said that in some schools not even a single student came on the first day.A parent, Sumit Kumar said, “It is a very difficult time especially for children. We cannot send them to school as it is very risky because the number of virus cases are on the rise and online classes are a better option.”Karnal district education officer RK Choudhary said schools were reopened partially as per the guidelines and students were allowed entry only after thermal screening and sanitising hands and shoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-reopen-in-haryana-with-few-students-amid-covid-scare/story-SLz4qBBFv6RL49qQrVTBHK.html
21-09-2020||City||Brainstorming session on NEP: Want to make J&K an oasis of talent, says L-G Sinha||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said it is his dream to make Jammu and Kashmir an oasis of talent and that he would work tirelessly to make it a reality.Sinha was speaking at a brainstorming session on implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) he inaugurated at University of Jammu here.On the occasion, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, through a video message, congratulated Sinha for taking the lead and setting up a task force in J&K for formulating an effective plan of action for the implementation of NEP. He also ensured full support from the Centre in making J&K a knowledge hub.Calling J&K gifted with not only scenic beauty, but also brilliant minds, Sinha said the NEP will have far-reaching effects in the region.Sinha said the new education policy aims to overhaul the entire pedagogy in schools as well as institutions of higher education, thus it would ensure local empowerment while creating global talent.“There is a need to bring all education institutions in line with the new policy. It is essential to incorporate new skill sets, innovative activities, new research programmes, scholarships, e-learning modules and vocational training into the updated syllabus,” the L-G said.Work on setting up incubation centres and technology centres in Jammu should be expedited while ensuring a greater industry-academic relationship and promoting innovation through competitions and similar activities, he remarked.Assuring of the UT administration’s commitment towards the education sector, Sinha said ₹300 crore have been released for creation of new colleges as well as completion of those under construction in J&K. Similarly, ₹2,392 crore have been released for school and higher education sector of the UT. Centre has released additional fund of ₹500 crore for health and medical education, which will give boost to J&K’s existing resources, informed the L-G.In the context of the ongoing Covid pandemic, Sinha identified the immediate need to intensify research on epidemiology, virology and infectious diseases across universities to equip the nation against similar unfortunate events in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brainstorming-session-on-nep-want-to-make-j-k-an-oasis-of-talent-says-l-g-sinha/story-9LSv7c5ghKgNyNRVqtOutK.html
21-09-2020||City||Haryana Congress holds statewide protest against farm bills||The Haryana Congress held protests across the state on Monday against the Parliament’s nod to the contentious farm bills, which the party described as “black laws”. State Congress chief Kumari Selja led the protest in Jind, while former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda addressed the protesters in Sonepat. Senior leaders Ajay Singh Yadav and Kuldeep Bishnoi joined the protest in Rewari and Hisar districts, respectively. The party workers, who staged a protest at the district headquarters, submitted a memorandum addressed to the President through deputy commissioners. While addressing mediapersons, Hooda said the Congress has sought a special session of the Haryana assembly to discuss the “impact and ramifications” of the farm bills. He said the party will also move a resolution against these bills. He said they will not tolerate attack on the farmers’ rights. “These three ‘black laws’ are a direct attack on the MSP and mandi system which have been built over the last 70 years. The government made a law to encourage purchases outside the market but there has been no reference to the protection under MSP,” he added.Reacting over the ruling party’s allegations that these bills were part of Congress manifesto, Hooda said the BJP was spreading lies about the party manifesto and the recommendations of a committee headed by him.Hooda said crops like paddy, millet, cotton, moong and maize are being sold at a much lower rate than MSP and farmers are forced to sell these at minimal rates.“Everyone knows that the aim of open market is to get rid of MSP. If the farmer could get a good rate in the open market, then there is no need to arrange MSP in the country,” he said. Addressing the protesters in Jind, the party’s state unit chief Kumari Selja said the “anti-farmer” move of the Union government will “destroy the peasants”. “BJP is pro-capitalists, it does not understand the pain of the poor and the farmers. They hurriedly pushed through these bills. They even did not care to listen to the suggestion of the opposition members that bills should be referred to the select committee, which could have then taken a view of farmers, farm-labourers, arhitiyas (commission agents),” Selja said. Hitting out at the BJP, Selja said, “They accuse the Congress and opposition parties of misleading the farmers whereas the entire country can see the pain of farmers”. She alleged that under the present system, “big companies will exploit the farmers. Also, in case of any dispute, can ordinary farmers take on big corporates, how will a small farmer fight the legal battle?”. Selja said the Congress-led government in neighbouring Punjab raised its voice against these bills but the BJP-JJP coalition in Haryana is silent. “The state government has adopted silence. They are not raising voice in favour of farmers,” she said. “Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar should have raised the voice of farmers before the prime minister but he does not have the courage to do so. Deputy chief minister (Dushyant Chautala), who used to do politics in farmers’ name, too is not raising voice because hanging on to power is more dear to him now,” she alleged. In Karnal, party workers led by local leaders sat on a dharna outside the mini-secretariat. The protesters demanded withdrawal of the bills and submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. In Kurukshetra, party leader Ashok Arora said the new laws will affect farmers and labourers. He said the Congress will continue its agitation till the government withdraws these bills. In Ambala, protesters led by Congress MLAs Varun Chaudhary and Shelley Chaudhary, Haryana Congress treasurer Rohit Jain staged a demonstration near the DC office. Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary termed the bills a move to ruin the lives of farmers, who are already facing hardships. Through the memorandum, he said, the party sought the President’s intervention in the matter and asked him not to sign the bills. Similar protests were observed by Congress workers near the mini secretariat in Yamunanagar. WITH AGENCY INPUTS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-congress-holds-statewide-protest-against-farm-bills/story-I8K4No337vluW9B6sRWHEJ.html
21-09-2020||City||Four months on, Kathuria sees political conspiracy in his expulsion||Nearly four months after former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Chander Prakash Kathuria was expelled from the primary membership of the party after a video, purportedly shot as he jumped off the second floor of woman’s house in Chandigarh’s Sector 63, surfaced on social media, he has termed the incident a political conspiracy to defame him. As per the earlier reports, the leader, 51, was reportedly visiting a woman in the apartment for some official work when another person whom he did not want to meet turned up there. In a bid to avoid running into the person, Kathuria reportedly tried to descend from the balcony with the help of a cloth, and fell down after losing grip. He was admitted at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, with a fractured leg. After the incident, he was expelled from the primary membership of the party for six years. While addressing a press conference here along with his wife on Monday, Kathuria said that one Vikramjit alias Happy of Karnal, a relative of a local Congress leader, had hatched a conspiracy against him for political advantages. Kathuria did not rule out the possibility of involvement of local BJP leaders in the conspiracy. He, however, did not take any names.“The woman shown in the video is like my sister and I had known her father since 26 years. I had gone to their house to sort out a dispute between the couple,” he said. “However, there was some misunderstanding and the woman shown in the video saw Vikramjit outside her house. She asked me not to go out from the main door and therefore I tried to exit from the balcony,” Kathuria said. “I decided to get down from the balcony with the help of a cloth but lost consciousness and woke up in the hospital,” he added. He said the woman had also filed a police complaint against Vikramjit accusing him of threatening her guest. Kathuria said at that time he could not file a police complaint since he was in the hospital. “I have now written to Haryana home minister,” he added.“I am not against the party but there are some people who were behind the conspiracy and they should be exposed,” he said. Kathuria said he had tried speaking to the chief minister twice but did not get any response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-months-on-kathuria-sees-political-conspiracy-in-his-expulsion/story-0Sctno6L3tYreGoYciP8RO.html
21-09-2020||City||HC admits plea seeking regulations on web series’ content||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday admitted a plea seeking measures to control and regulate alleged illegal, anti-social, vulgar, abusive and anti-national content that is being broadcast on web series. The plea has been filed by a lawyer, Sukhchain Singh Gill. The high court bench of justice Arun Palli while admitting the plea observed that he was espousing the public cause and interest thus his plea needed to be registered as Public Interest Litigation and referred it to chief justice for ‘appropriate orders’. He had alleged that Sony Liv, an online platform that broadcasts various web series was streaming content without any certification or approval from any government authority. Recently, Sphere Origins Multivision Pvt. Ltd. produced a web series “Your Honor” and on viewing its content, it is apparent that it tends to bring the legal system, administration of justice and the judicial institution to disrepute, he had told court, supplying a copy of the content before the bench. Such content erodes public faith and confidence and also creates communal disharmony, he had claimed. The court was told that web series content is uncensored/unchecked as it is out of the purview of the Cinematograph (Amendment) Act, 1973. The Board of Film Certification, constituted for the purpose of sanctioning films for public exhibition examines the film to be exhibited on various public platforms. There is a mechanism in place to regulate movies being produced by Bollywood and other regional cinemas along with television shows by the TV industry. But there is none to regulate the alleged vulgar, violent, distorted and anti-social content exhibited in the form of web series, he had told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-admits-plea-seeking-regulations-on-web-series-content/story-FDOam5RvUevLOitBhcGJGK.html
21-09-2020||City||Uneasy over low rank in ‘ease of doing business’, Punjab writes to Centre||Chandigarh The Punjab government has conveyed to the Union commerce and industry ministry its dissatisfaction with the state’s low rank in the ease of doing business (EODB) survey despite having implemented reforms. The state government’s disappointment has been communicated by principal secretary, industries and commerce, Alok Shekhar in writing to Union secretary, department of promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), Dr Guruprasad Mohapatra. “Having implemented 100% reforms, it is disappointing to note that Punjab did not substantially improve its ranking as compared to last year,” according to the letter sent by Shekhar, on Monday. In the Business Reform Action Plan 2019 (BRAP-2019) rankings representing the performance of states and union territories on ease of doing business which were announced by DPIIT on September 5, Punjab was at 19th place, just one notch higher than the 20th rank the state got in 2017-18 when it was sluggish in implementation. The industries and commerce department was expecting a big leap in its ranking this time, hoping to break into top 10, and has been feeling let down by the survey findings. Director, industries, Sibin C said they were dissatisfied with the ranking and have expressed their resentment to the central ministry. “There is no clarity on how the states were ranked as the detailed survey report is still to be made available,” he said. Punjab had implemented all 178 of the 187 reforms applicable to the state. The DPIIT has also been requested to provide the questionnaire used to gather feedback, methodology followed for ranking the states and UTs and detailed score for each recommendation to enable the state government to identify the gaps. The states were ranked on the basis of implementation of business reform action plan in business regulatory areas such as single window system, access to information, labour, environment, etc. The EODB rankings, which were launched by the Centre five years ago to encourage competition among states for improvement in business environment to attract investments, also gave full weightage to feedback about the effectiveness of the reforms – an area that has not been the state’s strong suit. In 2016, Punjab had got 12th rank, but has not able to get anywhere close since, slipping to 20th position in 2018 due to non-implementation of 45% of the 372 action points for reforms in areas related to labour, single window system, environment clearances, construction permits, paying taxes, obtaining utility certificates, land availability and allotment, enforcing contracts, registering property and carrying out inspections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uneasy-over-low-rank-in-ease-of-doing-business-punjab-writes-to-centre/story-5jJKuSSfvr3dfKpb0bVIgI.html
21-09-2020||Pune||Pune RTO to start morning learning licence tests||With the unlock phase, Pune city is slowly reopening after the lockdown and many government offices have started functioning again. One of them is the Regional Transport Office (RTO), Pune, which had been closed due to the countrywide lockdown since the past four months and various works at the RTO has been stopped. The RTO has now started daily operations and citizens are making a beeline at the office premises to get their work done. In a bid to reduce crowd at the RTO and maintain proper social distancing, the RTO authorities announced that from Monday, September 21, the learning licence tests will be conducted from morning 7:30am to 6pm. Applicants will be called in seven different slots throughout the day. “Over the last few days, it was noticed that there is a heavy rush at the learning licence department, so we decided not to risk the public health during this pandemic and took the decision to start learning licence tests from 7:30am. Accordingly the revised online quota appointments will be given to the applications starting from September 21. There will be seven slots throughout the day of 1.5 hours each and in each slot only 100 applicants will be called to give the test. So, each day we will conduct 700 tests for learning licence at the department and will maintain proper social distancing,” said Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-rto-to-start-morning-learning-licence-tests/story-Epdt5wENRt5TqsndS3S5iM.html
21-09-2020||Pune||Burglars hit a jewellery store in Pune, decamp with valuables worth over Rs1.6 lakh||A jewellery store in Wakad was broken into and items from the shop were stolen in the early hours of Sunday.The shutter of the jewellery shop located at Datta Mandir road in Samartha chowk area of Wakad was busted open. Multiple suspects arrived in a car and were captured on the close circuit television (CCTV) footage. “At least three kilogrammes of silver and five grammes of gold, total worth Rs 1,66,000 was stolen. The CCTV footage is not very clear. We are on the lookout for suspects,” said senior police inspector Vivek Muglikar of Wakad police station.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/burglars-hit-a-jewellery-store-in-pune-decamp-with-valuables-worth-over-rs1-6-lakh/story-cpxyXVg0nSrWpCvIMHWBgP.html
21-09-2020||Pune||Can’t speak about certain things in public: Deshmukh on IPS officials trying to topple govt||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said he cannot speak of “certain things” in public, stressing that the claim about “some IPS officials attempting to topple the government”, was wrongly attributed to him in the report published by a local daily.Deshmukh was in the city on Sunday, interacting with reporters on various issues.On being his claim that “three to four senior police officials” were working to topple the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, Deshmukh said, “The remarks were wrongly attributed to me.”“If you see the video of my interview, it becomes clear that a certain part has been wrongly attributed to me. I only said I cannot speak about these things in public. After all, I am the head of the police department, which is my family,” said Deshmukh.The home minister refused to explain what are the things he cannot speak in public about.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/can-t-speak-about-certain-things-in-public-deshmukh-on-ips-officials-trying-to-topple-govt/story-VCmOx5QqfwOqNXLczzC0NJ.html
21-09-2020||City||New regional parties in Assam unlikely to merge; could join hands for 2021 polls||Several new regional political parties have formed in Assam with the intention of dislodging the ruling coalition, headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in the upcoming assembly polls that are likely to be held in the end of March and early April next year.Three parties -- Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) and United Regional Party-Assam (URPA) -- have been formed and another outfit by peasant leader Akhil Gogoi’s Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) is set to be announced later this week. “We waited until September 20 for the AJP to come together with us and form a united regional party. We will announce our new party this week because there was no positive response from them (the AJP),” Bhasco De Saikia, who is the president of the KMSS, told media persons on Sunday. Also Read: Schools in four northeast states reopen partially today after six monthsThe new parties have been floated by personalities and organisations that were at the forefront of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 stir in the state and espouse the protection of the rights of the indigenous communities in Assam. Two of Assam’s biggest student bodies -- All Assam Students Union (AASU) and Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) -- have formed the AJP.Journalist-turned-Rajya Sabha (RS) member Ajit Bhuyan has floated the AGM. Eminent filmmaker Jahnu Barua is one of the guiding forces behind the URPA. The regional parties will take on the ruling BJP-Asom Gana Parishad (AGP)-Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and the grand alliance announced by opposition Congress and perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF). “We want all regional forces to come together to fight the upcoming assembly polls. There is no other alternative in a bid to counter the ruling BJP-led combine and the Congress-AIUDF alliance,” said Jagadish Bhuyan, coordinator of the AJP. “But any decision on that would have to wait until November when AJP’s first political convention takes place, the party office-bearers are announced and a constitution is adopted,” he added. Bhuyan stressed that contrary to the view that the AJP is not in favour of all regional parties coming together his outfit strongly favours all the new political formations and the existing regional parties uniting under a single platform for the next year’s assembly polls. “We are of the view that we might not have one party, one flag and one symbol. But all regional forces must join hands to fight against the ruling BJP-led coalition and the Congress-AIUDF alliance,” said KMSS’s Saikia. Besides the AJP, the AGM, the URPA and the KMSS’s yet-to-be-named party, the existing regional outfits such as the Asom Songrami Mancha (ASM) and the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) are also expected to join the platform. “We welcome formation of the new parties, but that’s not going to affect our prospects in next year’s assembly polls. Our party has 42 lakh members and if each of them brings in just one additional vote we will get 84 lakh votes, which will be enough for a win,” Ranjeet Kumar Dass, BJP’s Assam unit chief had told HT recently. Congress’s Assam unit chief Ripun Bora told media persons last week that his party would want the AJP and all the other regional parties to join the Congress-AIUDF alliance if they were serious about dislodging the BJP from power. A few more political outfits are likely to be formed before the next year’s assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-regional-parties-in-assam-unlikely-to-merge-could-join-hands-for-2021-polls/story-dn0p9KmSNuV6IoMPnGuuuK.html
21-09-2020||Pune||Despite the Wadhwan e-pass issue Maha home minister backs Pune’s new police chief Amitabh Gupta||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said newly-appointed Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta’s track record has been good even though he was “punished for a misdeed”.This is in reference to an e-pass issued by Gupta to the Wadhwan brothers in violation of regulations during the Covid-19 lockdown, to enable their travel to Mahabaleshwar.Gupta, a 1992-batch IPS officer, took charge as Pune’s commissioner of police on Sunday, three days after his appointment was announced.A former principal secretary (special) at the Home department, Gupta, was accused of allowing the businessmen brothers Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel from Khandala near Pune to Mahabaleshwar in Satara district, amid the Covid lockdown.The Wadhwan brothers have been under the scanner in cases of financial irregularities involving Yes Bank and Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank.As the news of the brothers travelling to Mahabaleshwar created an uproar, Gupta was sent on leave while a departmental inquiry was initiated against him.“During the probe, he accepted his mistake. However, Gupta has a good previous track record. At the same time, he has been punished for his act,” said Deshmukh on Sunday while interacting with journalists in Pune.When asked what exactly was the punishment meted out to the IPS officer, Deshmukh preferred to remain silent.Maratha quotaOn the Maratha opposition to initiating the recruitment process for 12,500 posts in the police department, Deshmukh said a legal opinion is being sought on retaining 13 per cent of the posts vacant for the community, until the Supreme Court takes a decision on the matter.“The process of recruitment in the police department was initiated around two months ago and the cabinet approved it only recently after the Supreme Court verdict. Since the process of recruiting for 12,500 posts will take time and the government does not want anyone to be left out, it is planning to keep 13 per cent of posts vacant and reserved for the Maratha community,” said Deshmukh, responding to the opposition to the beginning of recruitment.Rajya Sabha MP Sambhaji Raje and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis have opposed the government’s move to go ahead with the recruitment process and termed it as, “rubbing salt in the wound”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/despite-the-wadhwan-e-pass-issue-maha-home-minister-backs-pune-s-new-police-chief-amitabh-gupta/story-rnFvZDtoExpmu6g8ui9ZWJ.html
21-09-2020||Pune||Barber booked for abetting wife’s suicide in Pune||A barber has been booked by the Pune police on Friday for abetting his wife’s suicide. According to the police, he blamed the wife for not being able to bear him a boy child and a case has been registered against his parents too.The couple is a resident of Narhegaon and had been married for 11 years. The accused are yet to be arrested. They had two daughters - a nine-year-old and another 10-year-old. “The woman died by suicide on September 13. She had visited her family in February and told her brother that her husband and his family had been mistreating her for not being able to bear a son,” said sub-inspector DB Khedkar of Sinhgad road police station who is investigating the case.A complaint was lodged by the woman’s brother. A case under Sections 498(a) (domestic violence), 306 (abetment to suicide), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sinhgad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/barber-booked-for-abetting-wife-s-suicide-in-pune/story-CE9mxGSRGYxzKgqAuQqRRJ.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||New sports complex to tap south Kashmir’s talent reservoir||Two kilometres away from town, under the shade of poplar and willow trees, a group of workers are busy cementing the interiors of an indoor stadium expected to be completed by next year.Sports officials say it will be one of the biggest facilities in south Kashmir to hone the sporting skills of young men and women from its four districts: Pulwama, Anantnag, Kulgam and Shopian. This will be the nursery to groom raw talent, especially in cricket.“This complex will have all the facilities for players of various games, a 50-room hostel where players can plan camps for two or three weeks,’’ says cricketer Pervaz Rasool, who has represented the Indian team and has a huge fan following across Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Rasool, who is also associated with the J&K Sports Council, which is building the complex, said the sports body had earlier developed facilities at the Higher Secondary Ground in Bijbehara through local resources and its impact is visible. “Now we have dozens of young talented players representing different events at the national level in cricket. Good infrastructure makes a difference.’’ State-of-the-art facilitiesBeing built at a cost of Rs 16 crore on 5.5 hectares, the new complex will have, apart from the indoor stadium, a cricket ground of international standards, a football ground, hockey stadium, skating rink, cycle track, modular synthetic basketball court, volleyball and badminton courts. “Work is underway and we hope that in the next five to six months most of the project will be completed. Because of its size it’s going to take time, what with winter approaching,” says Anantnag deputy commissioner KK Sidha.As all funds had been released by the government the deadline for the completion of the complex is 2021.The need for such a facility has been felt as south Kashmir has an abundance of talent, especially in cricket. “Boys as young as 12 or 13 from Bijbehara in Anantnag and other areas of south Kashmir have already played in the Ranji and the Indian Premier League (IPL). This year too one of our boys from south Kashmir is playing in the IPL in Dubai. Pervaz Rasool, who played for the national team, lives a few kilometers away from the sports complex,’’ says Sidha.Youths forced to go to Srinagar, JammuHimself a local from south Kashmir, Sidha stresses on the importance of the complex, saying youths from the area are usually forced to go to Srinagar and Jammu for training. “Once they have a facility, they can train here. Senior players will also get an opportunity to groom the younger ones.’ As cricket has huge potential, Sidha says 12 cricket practice wickets are also being set up in the district from administrative funds to attract the youth towards this game, and “their energy will be channelised towards sports activities.’’ Ishfaq Ahmad, junior engineer with J&K Sports Council, under whose supervision the complex is taking shape, says it will have state-of-the-art facilities. “This is going to benefit 3,000 youths of the entire south Kashmir area. Even players from other parts can come here as we are constructing a big hostel here. The multi-purpose indoor complex is under construction and Rs 4 crore is being spent on it under the prime minister’s development package and it will be completed within two months.” Locals too are enthused. “This complex will become the training nursery for future players. Many of our talented boys and girls couldn’t excel as they didn’t have any facilities. And if trained coaches are available it could be a game changer and give country future players in various games,’’ says Tasaduq, a sports columnist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-sports-complex-to-tap-south-kashmir-s-talent-reservoir/story-oaBeuhNDLwBoTPWfdphjfP.html
21-09-2020||City||Manipur govt puts all recruitment on hold as Covid-19 hits economy||The Manipur government has ordered to put on hold all the ongoing recruitment processes because of the adverse impact of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the north-eastern state’s economy and its precarious financial conditions.The state Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (personnel division) issued an office memorandum on the new policy decision on Saturday.The memorandum signed by Dr Rajesh Kumar, chief secretary, Manipur, said, “It is ordered that all the ongoing recruitment processes, including daily wage contract employment, muster roll, and direct recruitment, being undertaken by all the departments, including all agencies, societies, undertaking boards, etc under them, shall be put on hold with immediate effect until further orders in view of the adverse impact of Covid-19 on the state’s economy and its precarious financial conditions.”Also Read: Unlock 4: Students return to schools for academic guidance first time since March“This also includes the written test examination and viva-voce,” it added.The memorandum stated that any emergency recruitment process would be resumed only with permission from the department of personnel and “the approval of the competent authority”.Earlier, the state government had issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for those who are returning by flights to Manipur and those who come to drop or pick up passengers at the Bir Tikendrajit International airport in Imphal.However unlike some of the other north-eastern states such as Assam and Nagaland, the Manipur government is yet to take a decision on reopening of schools amid the viral outbreak.On September 11, state education minister Dr Thokchom Radheshyam had told media persons that the decision on reopening of classes from Monday (September 21) for Grade IX to XII students was not yet taken. Several rounds of meetings and conferences are being held with stakeholders on the feasibility and steps that are needed to be taken for reopening of schools.Manipur has reported 8,894 Covid-19 cases until Sunday. So far, 6,767 people have recovered from their viral infection, state health department officials said.The recovery rate is 76.08%, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manipur-govt-puts-all-recruitment-on-hold-as-covid-19-hits-economy/story-zuooVDYdLpmIw7etRc0uSJ.html
21-09-2020||Lucknow||Viral photo of cop holding a woman protester inappropriately draws criticism||A photograph purportedly showing a woman protester being held by a policeman in an inappropriate manner during a recent protest by young unemployed men and women in Lucknow has provoked outrage after it went viral.The protest was organised by Samajwadi Chatra Sabha, the students’ wing of the Samajwadi Party, near Lucknow University on September 17. HT could not independently verify the veracity of the picture.“This picture is so disturbing and violative of all decency in a democracy. This is extremely shameful and unacceptable,” said Nishi Pandey, a Lucknow University professor.“To protest is a democratic right. We do not deserve this manhandling. For student protests, police should be prepared for the presence of girl students and woman police personnel should be deployed. In no circumstances should policemen physically handle women protesters.”Also Read: Eyeing 2022 assembly polls, re-energised Samajwadi Party to begin battle from streetsRajesh Kumar Srivastav, an additional deputy police commissioner, said they have come to know about the picture and the matter is being looked into. “If anyone was harassed by anyone, the person is free to approach the police and lodge a complaint.”Rakesh Chandra, a philosophy professor at the university, said schoolchildren are now being made aware of good and bad touch and gender sensitisation has also been a part of the training of the police force for over a decade. “Restrain and propriety are to be displayed by all state functionaries even under strong provocation.”He said the absence of policewomen and physical lifting of the woman by a policeman is disturbing. “Where are the women police?”Sheela Mishra, the chairperson of the University’s Internal Complaint Committee, said it is shameful to see any woman being manhandled and abused in this manner. “Women must always be handled in a dignified manner even during protests and that too by women cops. There should be zero tolerance towards any kind of harassment towards women.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/viral-photo-of-cop-holding-a-woman-protester-inappropriately-draws-criticism/story-NDQurBwUGkyJ9iKrcsmX7N.html
21-09-2020||City||Lockdown announced in 12 districts of Chhattisgarh||The Chhattisgarh government on Monday announced that week-long lockdowns will be imposed in 12 of Chhattisgarh’s 29 districts , including state capital Raipur, amid a surge in Covid-19 cases.The curbs will be imposed from Tuesday in Surajpur and Balodabazar districts and in Korba from Wednesday. In Raigarh, the lockdown will start from Friday.“ Raipur district has been declared as a containment zone,” district collector S Bharti Dasan said in the lockdown order.The order said petrol pumps will provide fuel only to government vehicles and people, who have e-passes issued to ensure exemption of essential services from the lockdown. Also Read: Chhattisgarh police’s mobile app to provide online servicesEven grocery and vegetable shops will be closed during the lockdown along with all government, private offices, liquor shops, industrial units and construction sites. Inter-district borders will be closed during this duration and e-passes will be required for any movement, the order said. Chhattisgarh has reported over 67,500 Covid-19 cases over the last one month out of total 86,183 reported till now. On Sunday, Chhattisgarh reported 1,949 cases and 13 deaths, taking the death toll to 677. The state now has 37,853 active cases in 29 districts. The worst-hit Raipur district with 812 new cases continues to report a high number of infections. With 27,711 cases so far, Raipur district tops the tally in the state and has reported 319 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-announced-in-12-districts-of-chhattisgarh/story-5Db7aGbAT42pZCv0Wz1NNO.html
21-09-2020||Bhopal||19-year-old man rapes toddler in Madhya Pradesh||A one-and-a-half-year-old girl was battling for her life at a hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh district on Monday after a distant relative visiting them raped her in front of her five-year-old brother on Sunday when their parents were away for work, a police officer said.“The girl was admitted to a district hospital where her condition is stated to be serious,” said Damoh’s additional police superintendent, Shivkumar Singh. “... [the accused] is a distant relative of the victim’s father.”Singh said the accused had come to visit the family on Saturday night. “...[He] raped her as the mother of the victim had gone to a market and father had gone to a factory. When the mother returned after 15 minutes, her daughter was writhing in pain and there were bloodstains on her clothes while her son was in a state of shock,” said Singh. “The son told his mother that...[the accused] hurt her. The victim’s mother informed her husband and took the girl to a nearby hospital where the doctor confirmed the rape and referred her to the district hospital.”The 19-year-old accused was arrested on Sunday and was booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 376 (rape) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police said the accused has confessed to raping the girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/19-year-old-man-rapes-toddler-in-madhya-pradesh/story-WvocpUbadINroiqM3XXMuM.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Commission agents’ strike enters fourth day, farmers unable to sell produce||Even as the prices of Basmati have declined to around Rs 1,000 per quintal, paddy growers in Haryana are unable to sell their produce—thanks to the indefinite strike of the commission agents, which entered the fourth day on Monday.Due to the strike, the commission agents have not allowed traders to procure paddy and made farmers wait in the mandis for the past three days. Thousands of migrant labourers have been sitting idle since the procurement operations were stopped on September 18.The growers of early varieties of paddy like PUSA 1509 of Basmati and PR 126 of Parmal are bearing the brunt as the strike may cause a glut in the mandis, leading to a further fall in the prices.Also Read: Farm bills: PM Modi says farmers to get better prices because of reforms“My produce from four acres of land is lying unsold in the mandi for the past three days. There are no buyers because of the strike. I am unable to pay the labourers who harvested this crop,” said Sandeep Kumar, a farmer of Nilokheri, Karnal district.According to the farmers and the commission agents, there are no buyers despite the prices of some varieties of Basmati have declined to below Rs 2,000 per quintal. Last year, the price was Rs 3,000 per quintal.The farmers fear that the prices may drop further due to the ongoing strike as the government does not have any control over the private buyers and there is no Minimum Support Price for the Basmati varieties. Also Read: Congress MP says 12 parties have sought time to meet president over passage of farm bills, request him to not give his assentMoreover, the All India Rice Exporters’ Association (AIREA) has also extended its support to the commission agents as it has decided not to procure paddy until the government exempts the market fee even on paddy procured from the grain markets.In this regard, the AIREA has issued an advisory to private traders not to procure paddy till the government decides to withdraw the Market Fees and Rural Infrastructure Development Fee, which is around 4% on the paddy procured in the mandis of the state.However, the ahartia (commission agents ) had declared an indefinite strike, demanding the government withdraw the three ordinances passed by the Centre, but now that the bills have been passed in both the Houses, there is no clarity on how long the strike will continue.“The government has become uncontrollable and it is misusing the mandate to enact such anti-farmer anti-ahartia laws. But this will spread the agitations further if the government fails to resolve this issue,” said Ashok Gupta, state president of Haryana Anaj Mandi Ahartia Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/commission-agents-strike-enters-fourth-day-farmers-unable-to-sell-produce/story-LiW1reTT4l8Or7pvyGJdIP.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Solar fencing comes to rescue of farmers in Kangra||A state-run farm protection scheme has helped farmers, who abandoned agriculture due to the stray cattle and monkey problem, to return to farming in Kangra district. The district authorities have spent ₹10.31 crore under the Mukhyamantri Khet Sanrakshan Yojna, a flagship scheme of the state government, on fencing abandoned farmlands in the district, benefiting 784 farmers. Under the scheme, there is a provision of 50% subsidy on barbed wire and chain link fencing, 70% on composite fencing and 85% on solar fencing. The scheme was launched from 2016-17 to help farmers protect their crops from stray and wild animals, including monkeys. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said a total of 1,26,843 metres of solar fencing was installed, covering more than 12 hectares of abandoned farmlands where agriculture has been restarted. One of the beneficiaries, Rajendra Kumar of Gaggal near Dharamshala, said that he had abandoned farming a decade ago due to the stray animal problem. “Wild boars, monkeys and stray cattle would destroy crops. Two years ago, I approached the agriculture department for this scheme,” he said, adding he got 320 metres of solar fencing installed, covering 10 kanals. “Of the total cost of ₹3.5 lakh, I contributed ₹1.07 lakh, while subsidy worth ₹2.5 lakh was given by the agriculture department,” he said. Another beneficiary, Mithila Sharma of Siholpuri village in Shahpur panchayat, said that the stray animal problem was so rampant that he could not even grow turmeric or ginger let aside traditional crops. “This scheme helped me return to farming. Now, I grow not only traditional but cash crops also,” Sharma said. Narendra Dhiman, the regional joint director of agriculture, said the solar fencing carries solar energy produced current, delivering a severe but non-fatal shock to an animal coming in its contact, deterring it from entering a field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/solar-fencing-comes-to-rescue-of-farmers-in-kangra/story-p3Y6ifASFlFnB1tcO3JQLK.html
21-09-2020||Pune||32% Punekars used connections to get an ICU bed, only 5% went through routine process: Survey||An online survey conducted by a community social media platform found that over 32 per cent of the respondents said that they had to use “connections” and “clout” to get a Covid-19 ICU bed while only five per cent of the respondents said that they got a bed through the routine process. Pune has reported multiple cases wherein people had to struggle to get an ICU or a ventilator on time because of which some lives were lost. The survey had 653 responses from people living in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Of these, 32 per cent said that they had to use connections and clout to get an ICU bed, 10 per cent had to follow up aggressively and one per cent even used social media to draw the attention of the administration to get a bed. While 44 per cent said that they had to use all the former options to get an ICU bed. Three per cent also said that they had to pay a bribe to get an ICU bed. Only five per cent said that they got it through a routine process while the remaining five per cent said that they did not get it.Among the questions, the survey asked people to also include whether hospitals should mandatorily display real-time ICU bed availability on websites and building entrances. Of the 504 people who responded, 88 per cent said that it should be made mandatory while 10 per cent said no. The remaining 2 per cent replied as ‘can’t say’. Local circles is a community a social media platform that enables citizens and small businesses to escalate issues for policy and enforcement interventions and enables the government to make policies that are citizen and small business-centric. Sachin Taparia, founder of Local Circles which conducted this survey said, “We received many complaints from citizens from across the country about their family, friends or associates not being able to find an ICU bed at a government or a private hospital. We received about over 17,000 responses from citizens located in over 211 districts of the country.” He further said that among the total responses over 55 per cent said that they did not have any person in their network that needed a Covid-19 ICU bed. Pune received 1,157 responses but only those who did report any such experience were included and the rest were taken out of the sample. A senior doctor from Sassoon hospital requesting anonymity said, “I have at least five letters from MLA’s, MP’s and local politicians recommending patients who need either an ICU bed or ventilators.”Rajesh tope, health minister who was in Pune on Sunday inspected Sassoon hospital and also addressed the issue of bed shortage in the city. He said, “I will be in the city for two days now and will be visiting various facilities. I will also take a meeting with the owners of trust hospitals. All private hospitals with huge capacity will be there in the meeting. We will also increase the beds in Sassoon and recruit more doctors.”There have been multiple incidents which have been reported by Hindustan Times earlier too, that while the Covid-19 dashboard made for Pune division did reflect vacant ICU beds and ventilators in some hospitals, citizens often returned empty-handed because the hospital said they did not have any beds at the moment. As of Sunday evening, the Covid centre dashboard stated that there were only 16 ICU beds without ventilators and only one ventilator available in the entire city while PCMC showed 88 vacant beds for ICU without a ventilator and 14 vacant ICU beds with a ventilator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/32-punekars-used-connections-to-get-an-icu-bed-only-5-went-through-routine-process-survey/story-iwDwqbKIJOGC6rIZ3QttbI.html
21-09-2020||Pune||25 per cent increase in demand for ‘immunity booster’ eggs, says NECC, Pune||The promotion of eggs as a ‘rich source of protein’ and ‘immunity booster’ during the Covid-19 crisis has brightened the prospects of poultry farmers. The rising demand for eggs has led to an increase in egg prices in the city to Rs60 - Rs72 per dozen. Similarly, the packed eggs which were selling at Rs75 are now available at ₹90 for buyers. According to the National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC), Pune, the Covid-19 crisis has broken the back of the poultry farmers and the rising demand and confidence of the citizenry for eggs has led to an egg shortage and price rise. The domestic consumption of eggs for Pune is pegged between 35-40 lakh eggs on a daily basis while the current supply was around 25 lakh, NECC added. Shyam Bhagat, NECC, Pune president said, “The efforts of the government and people resulted in eggs being accepted as the most preferred unadulterated immunity booster. The citizens have shown full confidence in eggs as the sole immunity booster. There is no solution to Covid-19 as there is no medicine available. People are convinced that the eggs are the way to fight Covid-19. In government hospitals, eggs were given to patients to boost their immunity. The poultry farms had shut down due to the Covid-19 crisis leading to a shortage.”“Moreover, people started eating eggs in large numbers to protect their health and boost immunity leading to rising demand for eggs. The poultry farming industry which is currently facing a crisis can be revived due to this rising egg consumption trend.” Nana peth-based Bismillah poultry owner Yusuf Khan said, “There is a shortage of eggs in the market as there has been a sudden demand for eggs due to the Covid-19 crisis. Our buyers are buying double the number of eggs to increase immunity. Currently, we are selling eggs at ₹70 per dozen. Most of the consumers have increased their consumption of boiled eggs leading to increased demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/25-per-cent-increase-in-demand-for-immunity-booster-eggs-in-pune/story-ERDsKRn8cMkCflc39BEMjJ.html
21-09-2020||Pune||Residents want Khadda Market in Pune to be relocated; traders cry foul say false violations listed||The Covid-19 pandemic has taught residents a new way of living. Things which were the usual norm earlier have to be discarded now, including the overcrowded daily vegetable markets set up across the city serving residents with fresh produce. Norms of social distancing, sanitiser stands and wearing of masks have made setting up or restarting such local markets a dangerous proposition as it could lead to spreading of the Covid-19 infection.A similar situation has presented itself at the 40-year-old Khadda market of Pune Cantonment near Pul Gate. The market served at least a thousand residents living in the area before the pandemic started. The market stands empty currently owing to the lockdown enforced by the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB). However, residents now do not want the market to restart in the area and demand its relocation as they fear that restarting the market will lead to the spread of Covid-19. The market sees as many as 400 fruit and vegetable sellers operating there on a daily basis. Following the closure, the vegetable sellers have started occupying the entire road stretch outside the market leading to congestion in the area.A spot visit conducted by HT on Friday and Saturday revealed that the vendors, both vegetable and fruit sellers, were operating without any fear of the cantonment authorities and most of them were not wearing masks. Similarly, buyers were seen crowding the area and social distancing regulations were being violated.Shopkeeper Nilesh Kanse, who stays in the immediate vicinity of the market, said, “The rules which are applicable to Market Yard must also be applied here. Covid-19 will spread faster in the area if the market reopens as social distancing norms are not being maintained. We have petitioned the PCB seeking relocation of the market.”Parvez Qureshi, another resident of the area, said, “The market traders don’t operate by rules and regulations. There is no timing discipline and they are currently even dumping garbage in the area. We have informed the PCB administration and have asked the board administration to relocate them as they are a source of nuisance to us. Now, they are occupying roads and are not wearing masks and violating social distancing rules.”PCB vice-president Vivek Yadav, said, “The vegetable and fruit sellers have been selling their goods there since the past 40 years and due to the Covid crisis their livelihood has been affected. We will soon take a decision of either relocating them or restarting the market as they have been suffering huge financial losses over the past six months. A decision will be taken with due consultation of MLA Sunil Kamble and the board administration.”Someshwar Kale, a fruit seller, said, “We have been given legal rights by the board to operate at the Khadda market since the past four decades. Now, they are indulging in politics and our right to livelihood is being denied. We want the market to open so that we can feed our families. Currently with no income, we are starving and have no option but to occupy the roadside. Some vested interests, including area residents, are filing false complaints about violation of social distancing and not wearing masks. The area comes under CCTV surveillance and nobody is violating the rules. We are being targeted by the vested interests who want to start a parking lot in the area. Our union is planning to consider legal option to fight for our rights.”PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar, said, “We have received petitions from both the sides. Residents don’t want the market to open, but the traders want it to restart. The market was closed due to Covid-19 regulations related to health and hygiene. The decision was supposed to be reviewed after August 31, however, residents opposed the reopening on grounds of the Covid crisis. A decision will be taken keeping both the options on the table. Earlier, we had thought about relocating it to Golibar Maidan, but it is not feasible option. Currently, the entire area is functioning properly and there has been no increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the area. The matter is before the board and it will take a final call on the issue soon.” Area resident Rajshekhar Angre, said, “The Khadda market was shut down due to Covid-19 crisis and we don’t want the market to reopen as it might jeopardise our health. The PCB must look at other options. The public toilet is also currently not useable as traders are occupying the footpath there.”Though the area is near Bhavani peth, which has been a Covid-19 hotspot, currently there is no containment zone operational here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/residents-want-khadda-market-in-pune-to-be-relocated-traders-cry-foul-say-false-violations-listed/story-AZAEkv1jsQpkQhSGhyfaJN.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Structural changes at Ridge to save Shimla’s sinking heart||In a bid to save The Ridge from sinking in the heart of Shimla, the public works department is changing its structural design on the advice of experts from Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee. The experts have suggested better water drainage arrangements as the foundation of The Ridge may deteriorate if the problem is not rectified. A one-and-a-half metre step will be made separately along with the proposed 70-metre retaining wall for better drainage. “The Ridge has a higher elevation near the Padamdev complex, while the elevation is lower near Townhall. Therefore, a separate one-and-a-half metre step will be made for proper drainage. The final design of the step has been prepared and sent to IIT, Roorkee. Its tender will be put up after approval,” state PWD executive engineer AK Soni said. CRACKS SURFACE DUE TO LOOSE SOIL In recent years, the popular Ridge has developed cracks near Gaiety Theatre where it has been sinking. The Shimla municipal corporation (SMC) has been trying to save it from sinking further and has sought help from IIT, Roorkee. A hub of cultural activities, state and national level functions besides government events are organised at the Ridge that connects Scandal Point on Mall Road to Lakkar Bazaar, a wooden craft market. The Ridge rests upon a British-era tank used for water storage. Former SMC mayor Sanjay Chauhan says that when the British were constructing the Ridge, they dumped debris on its northern slope. The Ridge is resting on loose soil and the only solution to save it is to remove the muck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/structural-changes-at-ridge-to-save-shimla-s-sinking-heart/story-fkHhw1S5UVdS6F62jYYF3L.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana accuses Uddhav Thackeray govt of focussing on her instead of governing||Actor Kangana Ranaut continued her tirade against the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, and alleged that instead of governance, they are obsessed with her. Her latest tirade was in connection with a building collapse incident at Bhiwandi near Mumbai on Monday, where at least 10 people were killed. Ranaut tweeted: “Meanwhile Maharashtra government K-K-K-K-Kangana ... if they stop being obsessed with me they will know how the entire state is collapsing.” Meanwhile Maharashtra government क-क-क-क-कंगना ..... if they stop being obsessed with me they will know how the entire state is collapsing. https://t.co/qSUBGApLLAThe Sena chose not to respond.Sena Rajya Sabha (RS) member Sanjay Raut had remarked recently that the party would listen to her but would not react. A Sena spokesperson said on condition of anonymity that CM Thackeray made it clear not to give her any importance. “She is being used by the opposition party and we are only falling into their trap by reacting to her. She is making statements that are going against her after we started ignoring her,” said the spokesperson. Ranaut drew flak a day after she called the farmers protesting against the recently introduced agriculture bills as “terrorists”. Also Read: Kangana Ranaut says Anurag Kashyap is ‘very much capable’ of sexual assault, claims ‘many big heroes’ misbehaved with herThe comment evoked sharp reactions, which prompted her to issue a clarification that her jibe was aimed at those who were spreading disinformation about the new legislations. She clarified through a tweet: “People who spread misinformation and rumours about the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformation about farmer’s bills and causing terror in the nation. They are terrorists. You very well know what I said but simply like to spread misinformation.”Ranaut has been engaged in a running feud with the Sena. The ties have worsened after the Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities recently partially demolished her Bandra office on the ground of violation of building norms. The slugfest started when Raut in Saamana, the Sena mouthpiece, had asked Ranaut against returning to Mumbai since she had no faith in the Mumbai Police. This provoked Ranaut to compare Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) that led to all-round condemnation of her.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) recently provided Y+ security detail to Ranaut, which has further angered the Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-accuses-uddhav-thackeray-govt-of-focussing-on-her-instead-of-governing/story-1lnMCfayWFwupbQ4onYWNM.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB to summon Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh, Simone Khambatta||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is investigating the drug angle in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, will issue summons to actors Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta this week. NCB’s deputy director KPS Malhotra said, “Sara, Rakul, and Simone will be summoned this week.” Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death probe: Hearing on bail plea of Samuel Miranda, Dipesh Sawant and Bashit Parihar adjourned by Bombay HC till Sept 29The agency will summon them under Section 67 of the The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, after they were named by actor Rhea Chakraborty while she was being interrogated between September 6 and September 9 before being arrested, NCB officials said. Chakraborty has named the three in her statement, confirmed Malhotra. However, the context in which their names were taken is not clear yet. “Their roles can’t be given right now,” Malhotra said. Rhea, who is presently lodged in Byculla Jail, had, however, retracted her statements. A special NDPS court had on September 11 rejected bail pleas filed by Rhea and her brother Showik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-to-summon-sara-ali-khan-rakul-preet-singh-simone-khambatta/story-LErPPsQ9smRFJtyCvloodM.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body increases RT-PCR tests as doubts raised over accuracy of antigen tests||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities have decided to scale up its real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak as rapid antigen detection (RAD) test has proved to be less accurate. RT-PCR test will be aggressively conducted in high-rise buildings, slum clusters and hospitals within the jurisdictions of the civic body. Around 70% of the daily tests conducted in Mumbai are being done through the RT-PCR technique. RAD test is less preferred because of its unreliability. However, the BMC authorities recently procured an additional one lakh RAD test kits after they ran out of stock.Also Read: Maharashtra Covid-19 mortality rate now higher than Gujarat’sRAD tests are conducted on swabbed nasal samples that detect antigens that are found in the virus, Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19. Though the test results are available in less than 30 minutes, they are less sensitive, as compared to the RT-PCR technique.According to the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) under the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW), every positive report from RAD test will be treated as “true positive”, while negative samples will have to be compulsorily retested by using the RT-PCR technique. Also Read: Maharashtra teachers request education department for Covid-19 insuranceCivic officials said that RAD tests were introduced to balance out the inadequate supply of RT-PCR kits in the market and they are equally effective when their use is focused.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We are scaling up the RT-PCR tests in high-rise buildings and slum clusters as our daily Covid-19 tests have crossed the 15, 000 mark. However, the RAD tests will be more focused. We will conduct RAD tests on civic workers, people living in containment zones and healthcare staff.”Mumbai crossed the 10-lakh mark of Covid-19 tests on Sunday. The total tally stands at 10.04 lakh and the positivity rate is 18.13%, which had risen to 23% in July. So far, the city has reported 1.82 lakh Covid-19 cases. Around 1.55 lakh RAD tests were conducted since the technique was introduced in July. BMC data showed 10, 706 people have tested Covid-19 positive after undergoing RAD tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-increases-rt-pcr-tests-as-doubts-raised-over-accuracy-of-antigen-tests/story-vWVWeTmwVEPweEdemgwCmJ.html
21-09-2020||Patna||‘Step towards making India’s villages self-reliant’: PM Modi inaugurates highway projects, fibre scheme in Bihar||Days after launching the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) and other projects related to agriculture and animal husbandry worth Rs 294.53 crore, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated nine highway projects and the ‘Ghar Tak Fibre’ scheme via video-conferencing in poll-bound Bihar on Monday.“Today, India is working towards making its villages self-reliant. It is a matter of pride that this process is starting from Bihar,” PM Modi said.Also read: Farm bills will empower farmers, says PM Modi amid opposition protests“Countries that have focused on their infrastructure have seen fast development. Only Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government stressed on the importance of a robust infrastructure in India before the current government,” he added. The highway projects inaugurated cover a road length of about 350 kilometres and will be completed at a cost of Rs 14,258 crore.‘Ghar Tak Fibre’ scheme will connect all 45,945 villages of Bihar through optical fibre internet service, according to a PMO release issued on Saturday.“The fibre internet services programme is a “prestigious project” which will enable a “digital revolution” to reach the state’s remotest corner,” the release said.Also read: Ahead of Bihar Assembly Election, Narendra Modi inaugurates schemes, lauds CM Nitish, woos migrantsBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and deputy chief minister Sushil Modi were also present at the event. Both leaders thanked PM Modi for initiatives that aid in development of the state and criticised the Opposition for their behaviour in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday.“It is highly condemnable, there is a way to put forward your views. Also, the farm bills that have been passed in Parliament are in favor of farming sector,” Bihar CM Nitish Kumar said.“Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Ji is respected in Bihar and all over the country. The uncalled for incident which occurred with him in Parliament yesterday has hurt the people of Bihar. The people of Bihar will give a suitable answer to the Opposition,” Sushil Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/pm-modi-inaugurates-highway-projects-ghar-tak-fibre-scheme-in-bihar/story-SfTL8qoW9NjbLuNqnBpZIO.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray’s Bhiwandi event postponed following building collapse||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray postponed the e-opening of the Mankoli flyover in suburban Mumbai on Monday after the building collapse in Bhiwandi, where 10 people were killed.Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar were slated to inaugurate the flyover at around 1:30 pm on Monday.BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commission, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is undertaking the project, said, “Due to unavoidable reasons, the e-opening programme of Mankoli flyover is postponed.” This is the second event within a week that has been postponed by CM Thackeray. Also Read: 10 killed, ten feared trapped as building collapses in Maharashtra’s BhiwandiLast Friday, an event organised by MMRDA to lay the foundation stone of the 450-feet Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar statue was also postponed after a controversy erupted over the Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government not inviting opposition leaders and members of the social reformer’s family. On Monday, CM Thackeray was to inaugurate the left side of the Mankoli flyover in Bhiwandi that leads towards Thane on the Thane-Nashik Highway. On Monday morning, however, a building collapsed in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), where 10 people were killed. The rescue operations are still in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-s-bhiwandi-event-postponed-following-building-collapse/story-hh4zkUAy39pxzyY80fV6BO.html
21-09-2020||Pune||Car rams container truck in Pune, five killed||Five persons were killed in an early morning collision between a container truck and a car in Pune on Monday.The accident victims were identified as Shobha Sharangowda-Patil (38); Anita Siddheshwar Barde (40); Siddeshawar Chandrakant Barde (55); Shweta Siddheshwar Patil (23); and Santosh Mallinath Patil (38).The car was coming to Pune from Solapur and was following a container truck with which it collided at around 3:30 am. The accident occurred on the Pune-Solapur highway near Sheru Petrol Pump at Yavat, the police said.“The car was following the container truck, which came to an abrupt halt. This led the car to ram into the container truck and all five persons in the vehicle were killed,” said S Pansare, station house officer (SHO), Yavat police station.The driver of the container truck was identified as Amol Vilas Shinde. The container truck, registered in Virar, Mumbai, was also heading towards Pune, the police said.A case under section 304(a) (causing death by negligence) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against Shinde at Yavat police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/car-rams-container-truck-in-pune-five-killed/story-HoSzirsiI5OZ7HGQxzGvDI.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s butterfly survey: All you need to know||Delhi’s annual butterfly survey, conducted by Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), concluded with the sighting of 71 species this year. Here’s a look at all you need to know about the butterfly count in Delhi-national capital region (NCR) and how these sightings are an indicator of an improvement in environmental conditions.1) The first survey was conducted in 2017 with an aim to collate all recorded sightings of butterflies in Delhi-NCR and to create a platform to share and learn about different species of the insect.2) Among all the parks surveyed, 30 butterfly species were spotted at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park (22), Kamala Nehru Ridge (33), and South Delhi Biodiversity Park (12).3) Around 115 butterfly species are native to Delhi-NCR.Also Read: Delhi: 71 butterfly species spotted4) The sightings of butterflies are the first sign that the environment is improving.5) Some common sightings this year were Plain Tiger, Common Grass Yellow, Mottled Emigrant and Common Emigrant.6) Rare species such as Striped Albatross were also spotted at Sanjay Van and Common Mime at Asgerpur in Noida.7) Volunteers also spotted the Indian grizzled skipper butterfly for the first time in the Yamuna Biodiversity Park.8) Last year, the survey had spotted 66 species of butterflies, including some rare ones such as Brown Awl, Dingy Swift and Common Red Flash.9) In 2018, the volunteers had spotted 69 butterfly species and another 75 in 2017.10) Experts said many species were seen to have reacquired geographical areas, where they had become extinct, during the nationwide lockdown lockdown, enforced from March 25 in a bid to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-butterfly-survey-all-you-need-to-know/story-Z7BguVmWHlJR4ak8jhOHSO.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi could see its warmest September in 5 years: IMD||Delhi could see its warmest September in five years, according to India Meteorological Department scientists. The combination of high day and night temperatures with up to 80% humidity is increasing discomfort. “In 2015, the average temperature for the month was 36.1 degrees Celsius, this time it may be around 36 degrees Celsius. The western end of the monsoon trough has been around the Himalayan foothills for the past few days. There has been no western disturbance or low-pressure system that has moved up to Delhi so it has not rained. It’s not cloudy either. Its humid and hot. We are expecting very light rain tomorrow (Tuesday),” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi.Delhi has seen an 18% deficiency in rain during the monsoon season and a 62% deficiency in September. The maximum temperature had shot up to 38 degrees Celsius on September 18, 3 degrees above normal. Both maximum and minimum temperatures have been 2 to 3 degrees higher than normal at least for the past week making the weather sultry and uncomfortable.Also Read: Delhi’s AQI hits 148 as pollution begins to riseA low-pressure area is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards during next 2-3 days and become more marked during next 24 hours. Under the influence of this low-pressure area, widespread and heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha on September 21; over Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh on September 21 and 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-could-see-its-warmest-september-in-5-years-imd/story-1zsJD6jFfhUwBfkAD856GL.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||MNS boards local trains, stages agitation for reopening of services||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers on Monday morning staged an agitation over their demand to resume the operations of suburban trains --- the lifeline of Mumbai – for the public amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. MNS workers boarded trains at five railway stations in a bid to defy the travel ban imposed by the Maharashtra government because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Police stopped agitators in places like Dombivli and Thane.MNS leader Avinash Jadhav and his supporters were stopped at the entrance of the Thane station and later taken to the Naupada police station. MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande, who travelled by a train, said it’s high time the state government resumed the suburban rail operations for the public. Also Read: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, officials in Maharashtra adapt to new ways of governance“The local trains are the lifeline of Mumbai. The government must allow the public to travel by suburban trains. This trip was an attempt to send this message to the government,” said Deshpande. “When the buses have started operating in full capacity, it makes no sense to restrict travel by trains. People are spending hours by travelling in buses,” he added. The railways said train services were not affected due to the agitation by MNS workers.“No overcrowding has been reported at stations. Trains are running as per schedule,” said the Central railway in a statement. Also Read: Maharashtra teachers request education department for Covid-19 insuranceThe MNS had announced last week to hold an agitation on Monday morning. On Sunday, Railway Protection Force (RPF) had sent notices to the MNS to desist from holding the agitation. Mumbai’s suburban local railway network has been suspended for the public since March 22 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. On June 15, a limited number of local train services resumed for employees working in essential services.The ruling Shiv Sena said it is adopting a cautious approach to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.“We are unlocking in phases. The viral infection will spread rapidly if the suburban train services are thrown open for the public,” said Anil Parab, Maharashtra transport minister and a Sena leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mns-boards-local-trains-stages-agitation-for-reopening-of-services/story-0CANMGFvfb4elrs3jReUnO.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 mortality rate now higher than Gujarat’s||Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR) for Covid-19 infections overtook Gujarat’s on Sunday. It is now in second place in the national chart after Punjab. Maharashtra’s CFR increased to 2.7%, while Gujarat stood at 2.69%, and Punjab at 2.89%.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally reached 1,208,642 on Sunday while its death toll stood at 32,671. The state is battling to bring its CFR down at par with the national rate. A month ago on August 21, Maharashtra’s CFR stood at 3.32% and Gujarat’s at 3.43%, against the national rate of 1.89%. According to officials from the health department, a high CFR in some of the districts is leading to the high cumulative figure.Also Read: Maharashtra teachers request education department for Covid-19 insurance“The CFR in Mumbai is 4.6%, followed by Solapur (3.3%), Parbhani (3.2%) and Akola (3.1%), which are the districts/cities with highest rate. However, these districts have seen an improvement in the CFR in the last few weeks, as it used to be over 5% till a few weeks ago. Maharashtra’s death rate for the month of September (until now) is around 1.94%, and we hope to bring it down further in the next few weeks,” said an official of the health department.Another official, however, said that the weaker health infrastructure in some of the districts and a lackluster approach of the machinery in tracing high- and low-risk contacts have proved to be impediments in the treatment of critical patients. The official said that the state government’s My Family My Responsibility campaign launched last week will help state authorities identify patients with comorbidities and help bring them to health facilities fast. Also Read: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, officials in Maharashtra adapt to new ways of governance“The state government has failed to address the issues of weak infrastructure over the last six months of the outbreak. We are still struggling with the shortage of oxygen, medicines, besides the failure of tracking vulnerable people. There is no proper monitoring of the people who have come into the contact with infected patients,” said Dr Avinasht Bhondwe, Maharashtra president of Indian Medical Association.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said that the high rate of testing in Maharashtra is one of the reasons the high mortality rate has come to light. “Our number of tests per million is much higher than Gujarat’s and the rest of the country. We have been maintaining transparency in every aspect. Our weekly CFR has been ranging between 1.75 and 1.94% over the last few weeks. With concentrated efforts, we will be able to bring the overall rate down,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-mortality-rate-now-higher-than-gujarat-s/story-25LT5ZaHB3frX54xnPH8dP.html
21-09-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Low pressure to trigger heavy rain||A low-pressure over the Bay of Bengal is expected to trigger heavy rainfall in West Bengal over the next two days, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have said. “The low-pressure will trigger heavy rainfall in some districts of Bengal from Monday. The intensity of the rainfall will decrease in south Bengal on Tuesday. However, the districts in north Bengal will receive heavy rainfall on both Monday and Tuesday,” said Sanjib Banerjee, deputy director at IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata. Also Read: Moisture incursion delays monsoon withdrawal, season will end in 9 daysEarlier, the state disaster management and civil defence departments had warned the district administrations and the civic bodies that there could be a rise in water levels in rivers and waterlogging in some urban areas. Rains in the Darjeeling hills could trigger landslides, the district administrations in north Bengal were warned. Fishermen have been asked to return from the Bay of Bengal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who was slated to visit north Bengal on Monday for the first time since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak to hold administrative meetings, has postponed her trip to next week. Light intermittent rains have started in Kolkata since Sunday evening. On Monday morning, the sky is cloudy amid a drizzle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-low-pressure-to-trigger-heavy-rain/story-aRuftCQJpiqg6Rhp8YJnAN.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||After six months, it’s off to school in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, J&K and Chandigarh||Schools in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and the Union Territories of Chandigarh and Jammu and Kashmir reopened partially on Monday for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak in March. In line with the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines, students from Classes 9 to 12 have been allowed to voluntarily visit teachers for a limited time to seek guidance. According to the standard operating procedure (SoP) issued by the ministry of health and family welfare on September 8, only 50% teaching/non-teaching staff will be allowed on the premises, and attendance is not mandatory for students. Parent consent is mandatory, and the relaxation doesn’t apply to containment zones. Schools need to schedule activities and chart out a seating plan to ensure physical distancing of six feet, wherever feasible, among students and teachers. READY, SET, GO * Schools remained open over the weekend to make arrangements to receive the students. * Thermal scanning points set up at the entrance, teachers adjusted desks in classes to ensure the six-foot social distancing rule and municipal corporation teams sanitised the premises. * Teachers downloaded Aarogya Setu, the government app that informs one about Covid-19 cases in the vicinity, and take a coronavirus test before reporting for duty. * Students allowed to enter only with printed copies of their parents’ consent slip with their signatures. Students and teachers from containment zones not allowed. * Teachers to ensure students wearing masks properly. In between guidance classes, the teacher will not leave the class until the next teacher arrives so that students behave. * Videography of students leaving after classes to ensure that social distancing is maintained * Water bottles a must as canteens remain shut. * Only washable school bags allowed. * Washrooms with running water and liquid soap will also remain functional. Online classes of students will continue as per schedule. * Some schools are holding classes outdoors, weather permitting. * Inspection teams from the education department to ensure compliance with rules * The Punjab government has given its nod for opening higher educational institutions also from Monday. PhD scholars and postgraduate students pursuing technical and professional courses requiring experimental work are allowed to visit institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-six-months-it-s-off-to-school-in-punjab-haryana-himachal-j-k-and-chandigarh/story-x9jnO7QDGiIMnW8CpRCtxN.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Retired Navy man shot dead inside Dwarka apartment||A retired Indian Navy official (55), who was into real estate business, was shot dead by a man following an altercation in the parking area on the ground floor of an apartment at Pochanpur in south-west Delhi’s Dwarka on Sunday night, the police said. The victim, Balraj Deshwal, was shot in his face from a “very close range” and died on the spot. The alleged accused, Pradeep Khokar, is absconding, said Santosh Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (Dwarka), Delhi Police. “Gehlan Apartment, where the murder took place, was constructed by Deshwal and his three business partners. Khokar had purchased one of the flats and was staying in Gehlan Apartment. We have learnt that Khokar was to pay an outstanding amount of Rs 5 lakh to Deshwal. It’s not yet clear whether the murder took place because of a dispute over the payment,” said DCP Meena. The crime occurred place at around 8:30 pm, when Deshwal and one of his business partners were sitting in the parking space on the ground floor of the building. Khokar entered building while having an argument with a person over the phone, one of Deshwal’s partners told the police in his statement. “One of Deshwal’s partners told us that Khokar looked angry and was abusing the person on the phone. Soon, Khokar disconnected the call and got into an altercation with Deshwal without any provocation. During the argument, he whipped out a pistol and fired at Deshwal’s face from a very close range. Deshwal died on the spot,” said the DCP. Khokar fled the crime scene and Deshwal was rushed to an adjacent hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. A case of murder has been registered and teams have been formed to arrest Khokar. “We have learnt that Khokar got a job as a teacher in Haryana. The information is being verified,” added DCP Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-retired-navy-man-shot-dead-inside-dwarka-apartment/story-IKbD2X3YrIMFE4tvQ7KGpK.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi double murder case solved, three held||Eight days after two friends were shot dead within a distance of 600 metres and in 15 minutes of each other in north-east Delhi’s Dayalpur, the police have arrested three persons and claimed that the twin murder was a result of a personal and property dispute, officials privy to the development said on Monday. Three illegal firearms, a car and a motorcycle that were used in the murders have been seized along with 11 cartridges from the arrested persons identified as Javed alias Chickna (38), Sahabjaan (27) and Jaan Saif Ali (22).The arrested accused are residents of north-east Delhi. The arrested persons along with their associate, who is still absconding, had fired around 10 rounds at the two separate spots and killed their rivals, Farookh Pehalwan (45) and Abdul Hamid (47) in Munga Nagar and Nehru Vihar on September 12. The incident, which had occurred at night, had triggered panic among local residents. Pehalwan and Hamid had sustained four fatal gunshot injuries each. The murders had left Delhi Police baffled as around the same time another person, Sonu Rana, was shot dead near a traffic signal in outer Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar. The three men, who had killed Rana, had also fired around half a dozen rounds of bullets of which four had hit the victim. A fourth shooting and murder incident took place the following day on September 13 when three motorcycle-borne men had opened fire at a car, killing the lone man on the driver’s seat at a traffic signal near Hasanpur bus depot in east Delhi. In the twin murder case, the police said that two separate first information reports (FIRSs) were filed at the Dayalpur police station and multiple teams were constituted to probe the incident and nab the killers. During the probe, the role of Chikna and his associates emerged but all of them were absconding, said MA Rizwi, additional deputy commissioner of police (north-east), Delhi Police. On Saturday, a probe team received the information that the suspects would leave the city in a car. The registration number of the car was also shared with the police. Acting on the tip-off, a trap was laid and the three suspects – Chickna, Sahabjaan, and Ali Saif – were arrested on Sunday and the car was also seized. The three confessed to their crime and disclosed their fourth associate’s name. Though raids were conducted, the associate is yet to be arrested. During the interrogation, an investigator, who did not want to be named, said Chickna and Sahabjaan revealed that they had an enmity with Pehalwan because he was opposed to Sahabjaan’s bid to marry one of his distant relatives. Pehalwan and Hamid often humiliated Chickna and Sahabjaan over the wedding plan.“There was a near fatal attack on Chickna around a week before he and his associates killed Pehalwan and Hamid. Chickna suspected that the attack was orchestrated by the slain duo. Pehalwan’s brother Suleman had assaulted Chickna in a Delhi jail some months ago. Chickna took the revenge by killing Pehalwan and his friend Hamid,” said the officer.Chickna also had a property dispute with Hamid, he added. Pehalwan was a fruit and vegetable vendor at Okhla Mandi, while Hamid was into property business. Hamid was shot dead in his office in Nehru Vihar. Pehalwan was at his friend’s factory in Munga Nagar when he was killed, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/northeast-delhi-double-murder-case-solved-three-held/story-qxabbItXLQV7Uj0sTSBvxM.html
21-09-2020||Kolkata||BSF nabs two with Indian map, drugs near Indo-Bangla border||The Border Security Force (BSF) has said it has nabbed two people from a village along the India-Bangladesh border in West Bengal and seized an Indian map and 500 tablets of a party drug from them. “Some places were encircled in the map. We could not decode and have alerted the NIA [National Investigation Agency] officials,” said BSF’s deputy inspector general (South Bengal Frontier) S S Guleria. The two have been identified as Ruhul Mondol, 27 and Faruk Molla, 38, from Swarupnagar in North 24 Parganas. The BSF said it has also informed Narcotics Control Bureau about the drugs. West Bengal shares 2,216 km boder with Bangladesh, the longest international border in any state and also the most porous. NIA said on Saturday that it has busted an al Qaeda module and arrested nine people from West Bengal and Kerala who were allegedly planning to carry out terror strikes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bsf-nabs-two-with-indian-map-drugs-near-indo-bangla-border/story-69ekVTLCPVphVMczYqW0bO.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Three-storey building under construction collapses in central Delhi, one injured||One person was injured after a three-storey under-construction building collapsed in a residential neighbourhood in central Delhi’s Sitaram Bazar near Chawri Bazar early Monday morning. Two fire tenders and a rescue team from the Delhi Fire Services were rushed to the site for rescue operation. The injured person was rushed to a nearby hospital by the locals before the rescuers could reach the site, said fire services department chief Atul Garg. Also Read: 10 killed, dozens feared trapped as building collapses in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi“The person has received minor injuries. We have stopped the rescue operation. The building contractor has given us in writing that nobody is trapped under the debris. Three labourers were working there and throwing building construction materials inside when the building collapsed,” said assistant divisional officer (fire services) Rajesh Shukla, who supervised the rescue operation. Shukla added local residents told them that there was an old building at a plot that was demolished some months ago and a new building was being constructed. The ground and first floors were constructed on the 45-square-yard plot. The process of constructing the roof the second floor was going on and construction materials for the same was being arranged when the entire building collapsed, said Shukla. Municipal officials have been informed about the incident and they have been asked to find out if the building was being constructed illegally or the contractor had been flouting rules after obtaining permission for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-storey-building-under-construction-collapses-in-central-delhi-one-injured/story-SPTBJIkVSJETjkw9CvMdlN.html
21-09-2020||Lucknow||Varanasi: 1 out of 101 found positive in special Covid-19 testing drive at Ganga ghats||The health authorities in the temple town of Varanasi conducted coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test on 101 people at its five iconic ghats along the Ganges and only one person was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, two experts said.Rapid antigen detection (RAD) tests were conducted on morning walkers, wanderers, boatmen, priests and those taking a daily holy dip in the Ganges at the following ghats: Panch Ganga, Tulsi, Nishadraj, Rani and Bhadaini. Uttar Pradesh health department authorities carried out the drive at the request of Professor VN Mishra, a neurologist at Banaras Hindu University (BNU), who lives adjacent to Tulsi Ghat.Also Read: UP orders public address systems to sensitize people for Covid containmentProfessor Mishra spoke to Dr VB Singh, chief medical officer (CMO), Varanasi, and the Covid-19 test campaign was initiated at the five ghats from Friday. The initiative was launched at Tulsi Ghat. Professor Mishra thanked CMO Dr Singh for acceding to his request. “The state health department team conducted RAD tests since Friday on 101 people, including 10 morning walkers, priests, boatmen and those who taking a daily holy dip in the river. So far, one person has tested Covid-19 positive,” said Professor Mishra. He said about 900 people would be tested over the next five days. Dr Singh exuded happiness about the rest results. ‘The viral infection rate among the people living along the ghats is 1%, as compared to elsewhere, which is up to 7%,” said the CMO.He said 1,82,391 swab samples have been collected in Varanasi district so far. A total of 1,67,104 results were received out of which 1,55,575 and 11,529 tested negative and positive, respectively. Altogether 9,636 patients have recovered from their viral infection and 188 died of the contagion.The district still has 1,705 Covid-19 patients, he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/varanasi-1-out-of-101-found-positive-in-special-covid-19-testing-drive-at-ganga-ghats/story-kEZtfk4NTOehMj6Z9P8X6I.html
21-09-2020||Patna||PM to lay foundation of 9 highway projects, optical fibre network in Bihar today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of nine highway projects worth Rs 14,258 crore in Bihar via video-conferencing on Monday.According to a press release issued by PMO on Saturday, the project will help in the state’s overall development as better connectivity, especially with the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, will encourage economic growth in the area.Also read: PM dedicates Kosi rail mega bridge to nation, inaugurates several rail projects in BiharOut of these, significant road projects are six lanning of 39 km stretch of Patna Ring road, four lanning of Ara- Mohania section of NH 30, Bakhtiarpur- Rajauli section of NH 31 and four lanning of Narenpur - Purnea section of NH 131A.The PM will also inaugurate optical fibre internet services in state. Under these, all the 45,945 villages of Bihar will be connected through optical fibre internet service, according to the release. The Department of Telecom, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and Common Service Centres (CSC) will execute this project.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/pm-to-lay-foundation-of-9-highway-projects-optical-fibre-network-in-bihar-today/story-4QQGKUdPW8GJWEecC5rDiP.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi building collapse: Child pulled out alive from rubble||A child was among the 11 people rescued by a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Monday from under the debris of a collapsed building in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi.The three-storey building collapsed in the Patel Compound area of Bhiwandi on Monday morning, leaving at least eight people dead and several injured. The incident took place between 3 am to 3.30am.“The death toll has gone up to ten in Bhiwandi building collapse. Five more people have been rescued,” an official of the Thane Municipal Corporation was quoted as saying by ANI.The building, which had 24 flats, was more than 30 years old, according to Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC). “There is no confirmation on how many of the flats were occupied. Around 50-100 residents are fear trapped under the debris. The team has managed to pull out 11 residents alive while ten died. The building is more than 30 year old and we had served notice to the owner and residents recently,” he said.Twenty people were rescued by locals earlier. Operations are underway to pull the trapped residents out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-building-collapse-ndrf-personnel-rescue-child-from-rubble-8-dead/story-u1ZijCZPyt69OpU1QtTi5K.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||PM likely to open Atal Tunnel at Himachal’s Rohtang Pass on October 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate Atal Tunnel under the 3,978-metre-high Rohtang Pass on the Leh-Manali highway in Himachal Pradesh on October 3. Stating this while interacting with mediapersons in Shimla on Monday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said Modi will tentatively come to Manali on October 3 for inaugurating the tunnel and will also visit Lahaul-Spiti. He said that a decision on a public rally on the occasion is yet to be taken. State technical education minister Ram Lal Markanda said that Modi may address the public after the inaugurating the tunnel at Sissu or Keylong in Lahaul. He said that the Prime Minister would flag off a bus through the tunnel. “The government will honour elderly residents of Lahaul by making them the first passengers to cross this tunnel by bus,” he said. Markanda said that the tunnel will open new opportunities by giving a fillip to tourism and the economy of the tribal district. OVERCOMING CHALLENGES The Rohtang tunnel has been named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had announced the project on June 3, 2000. The work to build it was entrusted to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). The project faced several geological challenges that pushed the deadline since digging started in 2011. The project was to be completed in February 2015, but water ingress from Seri Nullah, ban on rock mining and the delay in land allotment for quarrying, and loose rock strata in the middle, delayed progress. The 9.2-km tunnel is the world’s longest above an altitude of 3,000 metres. It will reduce the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km and bring down travel time by 4.5 hours that will help expedite movement of troops to the border areas in Ladakh. It is a 10.5-metre wide single tube bi-lane tunnel with a fire proof emergency escape tunnel built into the main tunnel itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm-likely-to-open-atal-tunnel-at-himachal-s-rohtang-pass-on-october-3/story-LUuQpV3zN1OfuxY18UwVeN.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi House panel sends summons to top Facebook executive||The Delhi legislative assembly’s peace and harmony committee has sent a fresh notice asking Facebook India vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan to present himself for a deposition before the panel on September 23, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson and legislator Raghav Chadha said on Sunday.The committee, which is headed by Chadha, had on Tuesday issued a warning to Facebook India after Mohan failed to appear before the panel for its third hearing, despite having been summoned.“As a matter of law and Constitution, it is imperative for those who are sent notices/summons by the Committee, must appear before the committee and offer responses and solutions and raise all questions including those relating to the remit of the committee,” said the latest notice sent on Friday, a copy of which HT has seen.Facebook representatives did not respond to a request for comment.The committee had earlier said Facebook was in contempt of the Delhi assembly, and gave the social media company a “final warning” to heed the summons and appear before it, dismissing a letter sent by executives of the firm, declining to present themselves before the panel.In a letter, Facebook’s director (trust and safety) Vikram Langer told the peace and harmony committee of the Delhi assembly on Tuesday that the company’s India head, Ajit Mohan, could not appear before the panel because it was already deposing before a parliamentary standing committee, and contended that the firm‘s content regulation was outside the jurisdiction of the state assembly.On the latest notice sent to Mohan and Langer, the committee said, “It is inconsistent with law of privileges of a legislature, which extends to the committee and its members, to refuse to appear and send a letter, questioning the jurisdiction of not just the committee but of the Assembly of the NCT {national capital territory} of Delhi itself.” “Any defiance of the subsequent notice for appearance shall be deemed to be an act of breach of constitutionally guaranteed privileges of the committee,” Chadha said on Sunday, “The indifference exhibited by the representative of Facebook India is also a contempt to the people of Delhi who have reposed their faith in the committee to examine the current issue.”The first notice was issued to Mohan after the committee’s second hearing on September 12, in connection with complaints about the social media company’s alleged “deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content” in the country.The notice was issued after the committee, in its second hearing on August 31, said prima facie it had found that Facebook India was allegedly complicit in aggravating the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left at least 53 people dead and over 400 injured.The committee is investigating the matter after it took cognisance of “several complaints” received from the public based on an article published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14.“Overriding jurisdiction of the Central Government was cited as reasons for objecting to the notice for appearance which, to the committee, seemed like a sly attempt to evade responsibility and conceal facts… The frivolous technical grounds cited by the Facebook smacks of premeditated attempt to non- cooperation and ill- assistance with the proceedings in the committee. Reasons cited were demonstrably unsustainable and erroneous in nature. The committee is well within its jurisdiction to call and examine the Facebook officials before it,” said Chadha.He added: “The fallacious contentions raised in the reply to notice by Facebook, falls foul of the basic federal structure envisaged in the constitution but in the interest of natural justice, the committee has now decided to afford one last opportunity to Mr. Ajit Mohan to appear before the committee on September 23. Facebook must honour the proceedings taking place under the Delhi’s state legislature in the same manner as they did for the parliamentary standing committee. The committee has issued fresh set of notices to Mr. Ajit Mohan to ensure his presence for deposing before the committee* The report titled, Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics, had stated that the company’s officials, especially Ankhi Das, the public policy director for India, south and central Asia, allegedly cited business imperatives while choosing not to apply hate-speech rules to at least four individuals and groups linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).A bid to invoke hate-speech rules were allegedly glossed over despite concerns being flagged internally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-house-panel-sends-summons-to-top-facebook-executive/story-QPdRljekD9rIs8ZoywRdwL.html
21-09-2020||City||In fight against Centre’s agriculture ordinances, youth dominates farmer protests in Punjab||In the fight against three agriculture ordinances that were passed in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, the farmer protests across Punjab are getting an overwhelming support from youngsters who are dominating the agitations with their participation. Not only men, young women are also coming in large numbers to attend the protests organised by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugarahan) in the hometowns of chief minister Amarinder Singh and his predecessor Parkash Singh Badal at Patiala and Badal village. Moreover, the youngsters are helping the farmer organisations to run their social media accounts for live updates. “This is for the first time that the youth is actively participating and thronging to the protest sites. Of the gathering, almost 50% is youth, which is a positive sign for the movement against the draconian ordinances,” said Joginder Singh, state president of the union. Not only those from the farming background, those from teaching field, unemployed men and women besides students and research scholars are also coming in large numbers, he added. Parminder Singh (24) of Gharacho village in Sangrur district, who handles social media accounts of the union, said technology is a crucial role in getting huge response from youngsters. “We have around 49,000 followers on the union’s social media page. We can’t sit at our homes accepting this injustice with the farming community which is fighting for its survival,” he said.Ajaydeep Singh (29) said when thousands of farmers, many of them in their 50s and 60s, are sitting at the dharna sites despite the coronavirus threat, how could they sit in the comforts of their homes. People from various fields extend support People from all walks of life have extended their support to farmers against the agriculture ordinances. From Punjabi artists to economists, social activists to the members of the civil society have pressed upon the Centre government to roll back these ordinances. Balwinder Singh Tiwana, former economics professor at Punjabi University, Patiala, said these ordinances and bills are opening the way for entry of big corporate houses in agriculture, and they will ultimately capture the land and agricultural market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-fight-against-ordinances-youth-dominates-farmer-protests-in-punjab/story-X3AKfpnQNoEO6rPKfsNxyJ.html
21-09-2020||City||Mohali MC replaces ‘perfect’ footpath slabs, railings for ₹6 crore||The residents of Mohali are up in arms against the municipal corporation (MC) for replacing “perfect” footpath stones and railings with new ones in Phases 5 and 7 at a cost of ₹6 crore.Despite no recommendations from any expert or any policy in place, residents allege that since 2018, the Mohali MC has spent ₹50 crore on laying interlocking paver blocks in the entire city.In the last two years (2018 and 2019), MC has approved 624 development works, of which 281 pertained to laying of paver blocks alone. Surprisingly, 30% of paver blocks were replaced even when the old ones were in good condition. In 2019, though ₹10 crore were allocated for the laying work, the MC spent ₹25 crore on it.NS Kalsi, chairman of the Phase 4 RWA, has written a letter to the MC commissioner calling it was a wastage of public money, as stones and railings already in place were perfect and didn’t need replacing. “If the civic body does not stop misusing funds, we will be forced to move the Punjab and Haryana high court,” he said.MS Aujla, former director of town planning, local government, Punjab, who is a resident of Mohali, said, “The reckless laying of concrete blocks on roads is not environment-friendly. Certain portions of road berms (of a uniform width all along the road for a better street picture) must be kept and maintained concrete-free for greenery as per environmental norms.”MC has no policy on laying of blocksAround two decades ago, it was decided that paver blocks will be laid only in markets, but presently, these are used on pavements and even in parks. This, despite the fact that the MC has not formed any policy on laying of blocks in over a decade.Interlocking concrete blocks do not let water percolate, thereby hitting groundwater recharge, besides completely covering up the green space. As such, the blocks are laid as per the whims and fancies of the councillors, who seem to be in a race to get them installed in their wards.Former Congress councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said, “Civic body is replacing footpath stones on the demand of the market welfare and residents welfare associations and councillors. For paver blocks, there should be some concrete policy, he said.When contacted, MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said some of the works are undertaken after they are approved in the MC House. We only allot work when we get demands from associations or councillors, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-replaces-perfect-footpath-slabs-railings-for-6-crore/story-CVb9SKCFyhgbSzU2YZ0U6O.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Neighbours of arrested Chinese woman say she was ‘very aloof’||The residents welfare association of Ganga Apartment, part of a large gated society in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, is planning to approach the police to get verified all tenants who have already vacated flats, following the arrest of a Chinese woman resident in an alleged case of espionage. NS Mor, the RWA president, said, “Henceforth we are also planning to propose that a member of the RWA be witness during the tenant verification process when someone shifts to our society.”“We had never doubted the Chinese woman during her stay here, but her arrest has come as a shock for all residents of the society,” Mor said. Delhi Police’s special cell has arrested Qing Shi, the Chinese woman, along with a Nepalese man, Sher Singh, and an Indian journalist — all of whom have been booked under the Official Secrets Act for allegedly spying for China. Mor said some Chinese students had lived in the society previously, but as of September, Qing was the only Chinese person living there. Residents of Ganga Apartment said Qing and Singh were always “aloof”. Rajeev Kumar Mishra, a security guard in the society, said he saw the news of their arrest on television. He said, “The chequered orange top she wore in the image was one she frequently wore while leaving for work every morning.”“They never interacted with anyone. Whenever I went to collect the monthly maintenance charges from their flat, the Nepalese man would open the door only slightly and give the cash without saying much,” Mishra said.The security guard said that earlier this year, the duo had disposed of a rickshaw full of some electronic items such as transistors and speakers. “It came across as unusual, but I didn’t ask them anything,” Mishra said. Sandeep, who owns a general store below the duo’s second-floor flat, said his interaction with the suspects was limited to Singh shouting for drinking water from his balcony. “He would just say ‘paani’ and I would send a delivery boy. I always thought they didn’t know any Indian languages,” he said. A neighbour who didn’t want to be identified said the duo was “very very aloof”. “They were aloof to such an extent that her roof leaked for days on end about a month ago, but she didn’t raise the issue. Only when she heard me speaking about the same problem in my flat did she ask to keep her updated about any possible solutions,” the neighbour said. “I always worried that the Chinese woman could get cornered by people due to the ongoing hostilities between India and China, but no one could have guessed that she could be working against our country,” said the neighbour. Businessmen at the busy Mahipalpur market, where the duo had taken up an office, which police said they used to run an alleged “shell company” to receive funds from their handlers in China, had similar reactions to their arrests. The company, MZ Pharmacy, was running out of the first floor of a three-storey commercial building. The pharmacy office is located above a cellphone store, adjacent to which is another pharmacy, which receives customers frequently. The insides of the MZ Pharmacy office looked dark through the large glass windows in the front. Some bare wooden furniture was visible near the windows even as the shutters to the staircase leading to the office was found locked. “I would see the Chinese woman and a man visit the office every morning around 9-10 am. I wondered if they were husband-wife or business partners,” said Narender, a staff member at the other pharmacy. “The two would come together every morning and leave in the evening. The board outside their office said it was a pharmacy but they never had any customers. In fact, I don’t remember anyone else visiting that office in the last six months that I have been working here,” said Narender, who just gave his first name.The only visible sign that the floor served as an office is a 15x3 feet green board that read MZ Pharmacy in English.Qing, Singh and journalist Rajeev Sharma were arrested between September 14 and 19 after the special cell received inputs from a central intelligence agency about their involvement in the alleged espionage.Sharma’s wife, who is a teacher, remained unavailable for a comment despite HT reaching out to her through phone calls and text messages. Sharma is accused of passing on “classified and sensitive” information to the Chinese. His lawyer, senior advocate Adishi Aggarwala, has denied the allegations and quoted Sharma’s wife as saying that no “classified and sensitive” documents have been recovered from his home, contrary to the police version.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/neighbours-of-arrested-chinese-woman-say-she-was-very-aloof/story-cDgjXdCPsjLVq6qyFtfAyL.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh grain market traders to go on strike on September 22||The market welfare association of the Sector 26 Grain Market has given a call to hold a strike on Tuesday against high parking fees being levied on the traders amid losses in business due to the pandemic.President of the association Ram Karan Gupta said, “There is no provision for monthly passes anymore. For parking commercial vehicles, contractors charge upto ₹250 per day which we cannot pay. Moreover, as a part of their contract they can increase the parking fee yearly for the next four years.”General secretary of the association Mohit Sood added that due to excessive barricading by police outside the market and because of Covid, their business was badly hit. “We had sent a memorandum to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, but nothing has been done.” He added that all traders of the Grain Market will be on strike on Tuesday and if their demands were not met, they will organise more strikes.Chairman of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal Charanjiv Singh said that he had spoken to the association and the CBM would be supporting the traders on their strike on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-grain-market-traders-to-go-on-strike-on-september-22/story-Qu2Wq8gSIIjrpDv5yKKfSL.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 71 butterfly species spotted||Participants spotted 71 species of butterflies in the fourth edition of Delhi’s annual Big Butterfly Count, organised by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS).Sohail Madan, centre manager of BNHS at the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, said the survey was done to collate all recorded sightings of butterflies in Delhi-NCR and to create a platform to share and learn about different species of butterflies. Among biodiversity parks covered this year, 30 butterfly species were spotted in Yamuna Biodiversity Park, 22 were seen in Tilpath Valley Biodiversity Park, 33 in Kamala Nehru Ridge, and 12 in South Delhi Biodiversity Park.Apart from these, 41 species were spotted in Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park and 56 in the Aravalli Biodiversity Park.Around 115 butterfly species are native to the National Capital Region.“The sightings of butterflies is the first sign that the environment is improving. While many people share their sightings through pictures on social media but that doesn’t reach out to as many people. However, through a common medium all sightings can be recorded and can be later used by others,” said Madan.This year, volunteers also spotted the Indian grizzled skipper butterfly for the first time in the Yamuna Biodiversity Park.Experts said many species, during the Covid-19 lockdown, were seen to have reacquired geographical areas where they had become extinct.M Shah Hussain of Aravalli Biodiversity Park said, “Butterflies are a very important component of nature and their presence in any area in large numbers is an indicator of environment’s quality. The first action-based initiative for the conservation of butterflies was started in biodiversity parks, and to showcase butterflies to nature lovers, conservatories in natural settings were established in biodiversity parks”.Faiyaz A Khudsar of Yamuna Biodiversity Park said, “Butterfly sightings are proof of the efficient functioning of biodiversity. It shows that we have been able to successfully create an environment where such species can thrive.”Last year, the survey spotted 66 new species of butterflies, including some rare ones such as Brown Awl, Dingy Swift and Common Red Flash. The list also included common species such as Plain Tiger, Common Grass Yellow, Mottled Emigrant and Common Emigrant.In 2018, the volunteers spotted 69 butterfly species, and 75 in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-71-butterfly-species-spotted/story-UFdcrmBWDIUfnpD2EpgzOL.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The iron man of Sector 49||He is the ironing man, and generally addressed by his profession rather than by his name. “Many people call me press wale bhayya,” says Dharmendra Diwakar. His profession is not taking good care of him these days. “I would daily iron about 300 pieces of clothing before the (coronavirus-triggered) lockdown, but now.... yesterday for instance, I ironed 35.”In his early 30s, Mr Diwakar is chatting on WhatsApp video from his workplace—which consists of two tables and two irons, on the ground floor of a housing society tower in Gurugram’s Sector 49. The society has a multitude of multi-storey towers, and Mr Diwakar’s customers are spread among two of such towers. The other ironing men are similarly spread in other towers.Mr Diwakar’s business has plummeted because most of his customers rarely step out of their house these days, so they don’t feel the need to get their dresses ironed, he explains. “Another reason is that people are scared that they might get coronavirus from me.” With barely any earnings, Mr Diwakar’s debt to the local grocer is piling up. He’s also finding it tough to pay for the school fee of his three daughters—a helpful “didi” in the other tower, however, purchased a new smartphone for his kids so that they do not miss their online classes (occasionally longtime clients give him emergency cash).It was in this context that last night, at his one-room home in Bhondsi village, nearby, Mr Diwakar sat down with his wife, Roshni, for a brainstorming session on how to manage in the coming months. The couple eventually devised a “plan B”—Mr Diwakar would offer to his regular customers his services as a car washer.“This morning I rang many of the houses, and before anybody could say that there are no clothes to be ironed I asked them if they would let me wash their cars daily.”Mr Diwakar has already got two car washing assignments. Staring into the phone screen, he says, “I cannot break my spirit under any circumstances.”Later in the night, on reaching home, he poses with the entire family for a photo shoot. Everyone’s smiling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-iron-man-of-sector-49/story-MTauXUa4hQ84yzzIpZ6iuO.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Modi tweets in Punjabi, says agri legislations in farmers’ interest||In the wake of protests by farmers in Punjab and Haryana against three agriculture-related ordinances, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday assured the farmers -- through tweets in Punjabi -- that the proposed laws were historic and in their interest.“Main pelan vee keha si, tey ek vaar fer kehnda haan: MSP di vivastha jari rehe gi. Asi ethey kisana di sewa layi haan. Asi kisana di madad layi harr sambhav yatan karange tey ohna dian aaun valiyaa pirriyaan layi behtar jiwan sunishchit krange”. (I have said this before and I say this once again: the system of MSP will continue. We are here to serve the farmers. We will make all possible efforts to help the farmers and ensure better life for their coming generations),” Modi said in one of the series of tweets in Punjabi, hours after the passage of two of the three contentious agricultural legislations by the Rajya Sabha.The tweets come at a time when BJP’s alliance partner in the NDA, the Shiromani Akali Dal, has taken a strident stand against the legislations. Its MP and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Modi cabinet after the bills were cleared by the Lok Sabha. The Akali Dal has also appealed to the President not to give his nod to the legislationsEarlier, dubbing the passage of the farm legislations as a “watershed moment”, the Prime Minister said: “For decades our farmers were stuck in several obstacles and they had to deal with the middlemen. With passing of the (farm) bills in the Parliament farmers will get freedom from this. With this the efforts to double farmers’ income will get strength and their prosperity could be ensured.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/modi-tweets-in-punjabi-says-agri-legislations-in-farmers-interest/story-sbUFn2sRi0HC7BuROPfMGM.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI hits 148 as pollution begins to rise||After a month in which Delhi saw its cleanest air in five years, air pollution has seen an uptick in the national capital over the past few weeks. With monsoon drawing to a close and little possibility of more rainfall this month, the air quality may deteriorate further by the end of this month, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Unlike August, when the air quality was in the ‘good’ category for four days, and ‘satisfactory’ for the remaining 27, the air this month has mostly remained in the ‘moderate’ category.August was the cleanest month on record since 2015, from when air quality index (AQI) records in the city have been maintained.An AQI reading of 0-50 is considered ‘good’ (minimal health risk), 51-100 is ‘satisfactory’ (minor discomfort to sensitive people), 100-200 is ‘moderate’ (breathing discomfort to people with lungs and heart disease).Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) shows that the AQI this month slipped to ‘moderate’ category on September 5, with a value of 101. It improved to ‘satisfactory’ for a few days before again falling into ‘moderate’ on September 9, a zone it has remained in so far.On Sunday, Delhi’s overall AQI was 148, in the ‘moderate’ zone, as per the CPCB’s 4pm bulletin, up from 118 the previous day.“The spell of clean air days may almost be over now, as meteorological conditions are changing. The monsoon is set to withdraw by September-end, after which calm winds blow across the northwestern region that are not favourable for the dispersion of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre “Pollutants suspended in the air that were till last month being washed away by the rain and winds are likely to persist, in the absence of any such weather activity,” he added.He added that while August received the most rainfall in at least 10 years, September, which usually sees good showers every year, has not received adequate rainfall this year and will not be able to cover the deficit for this month. “The monsoon trough this month has remained mostly in the hilly regions. Only three days of light rain were recorded this month — on September 5,6 and 8. There is a system forming in the Bay of Bengal, which is likely to induce light rain or thundershowers on September 22-23, but even that will not be able to cover the deficit for this month,” Srivastava said.The Safdarjung observatory, which is representative of Delhi’s weather, has a rain deficit of 78% so far this month.Another IMD scientist, who did not wish to be named, said industrial and vehicular pollution was almost zero during the lockdown months. Then in July and August, even with curbs being eased in phases, good and continuous spells of rain kept the air quality in check. “Now, from the end of the month, the weather will slowly transition to calmer winds and a decrease in temperature neither of which are favourable for pollutants to disperse. Besides, it is also the time when stubble burning in neighbouring states begins, which adds to the pollution load,” the IMD scientist told Hindustan Times.The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) is scheduled to meet the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) next week to discuss an action plan to curb pollution in the major ‘hot spots’ across the city.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had, last week, asked all agencies to submit a winter action plan by September 21. The Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), put in place to deal with various levels of pollution, is enforced in Delhi and the National Capital Region from mid-October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-aqi-hits-148-as-pollution-begins-to-rise/story-WmtqmqblrqFX0H5X6GoRhI.html
21-09-2020||City||Three-day polio vaccination drive launched in Mohali’s high-risk areas||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday launched a three-day Sub-National Immunisation Day (SNID) drive by administering drops of oral polio vaccine (OPV) to children below five years of age nearby Jujhar Nagar village here.Speaking at the state-level programme organised by his ministry, Sidhu said that polio drops will be administered to children across the state from September 20 to September 22. He added that due to the spread of the coronavirus, the drive will cover only high-risk areas, migratory population, brick kilns, construction sites and urban slum areas.Sharing details about teams engaged in the drive, the minister said, “The target is to give polio shots to around 6,80,800 children across the state for which a total of 8,436 places have been identified. A total of 5,530 door-to-door teams have been pressed into service, with 656 mobile teams. The total number of vaccinators, ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwife) and Asha workers is 14,749, 3,097, 11,965, respectively, whereas a total of 1,031 supervisors will carry out surprise checks to monitor the drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-day-polio-vaccination-drive-launched-in-mohali-s-high-risk-areas/story-s4C1Evw4ML01pW6OXn4YxH.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Will resign from Khattar govt if MSP discontinued’||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday said he will resign from the chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government if any attempt to discontinue procurement of farmers produce under the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system surfaces. In his first official reaction to the current controversy surrounding the Centre’s three farm legislations and fears of farmers that the objective of the central law was to dismantle the MSP at later stage, the deputy CM said there is not a single line regarding eliminating MSP in three farm Bills. He said the crops of the farmers would be procured on the MSP and the farmers would have the right to sell their crop in the market openly in case they received price higher than the MSP. In a statement, he made it clear that farmers would have the right of MSP and urged the farmers to not get misled. Accusing former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda of trying to misguide the farmers for furthering his own political interests, Dushyant Chautala said not only did Hooda himself advocate open market for farmers but also signed on such recommendations of a committee set up by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh during regime of UPA as its head. “Why the former CM is adopting double standards on this and what is the reason behind misleading the farmers,” he asked. “The Congress party supported contract farming in its vision document during its first tenure of UPA and now Congress is opposing the Bills for political gains whereas they will open new avenues of progress for the agriculturists.” The deputy CM said that in coming paddy and maize procurement season each grain would be procured on MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-resign-from-khattar-govt-if-msp-discontinued/story-gSAMMJfMSXDqEuVDfqT5uJ.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ highway siege hassles commuters in Haryana||Thousands of farmers on foot, two-wheelers, tractors and in cars poured out of the hinterlands and staged sit-ins at various state and national highways in Haryana on Sunday, blocking the traffic for about three hours to express their anger against the Centre’s three agriculture Bills. The sit-in began at 12 noon as farmers started parking their vehicles in the middle of the highways. The police and civil administration, already under direction to deal with the agitating farmers with “tact and patience”, didn’t stop the protesters from reaching the dharna sites. Over three-hours later and after having aired their anger and demonstrating unity, the farmers lifted the road blockades. The agitation ended on a peaceful note with police exercising restraint and farmers also refraining from provoking the law enforcement agencies. But the protest caused huge inconvenience to the commuters even as the police personnel, who had been on their toes since Saturday evening, diverted the traffic to alternative roads. The farmers went ahead with the protest even after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar invited them for talks on Saturday and urged them to call off the stir. As the farmers were not relenting, the Home department had issued directions to deputy commissioners and district police chiefs to ensure that the agitation stays peaceful. Sunday’s protest was held 10 days after police lathicharged agitating farmers at Pipli in Kurukshetra. Following the incident, farmers staged sit-in protests in every district until Saturday. The undercurrent of the police action was visible as thousands of farmers, especially in Northern and central Haryana, came out in support of stir spearheaded by Bhartiya Kisan Union led by Gurnam Singh Charuni. “The protests were peaceful and over 17 farmers’ unions participated. The next course of action will be decided later,” Haryana BKU chief Charuni said, urging farmers to also support the nationwide stir on September 25. “The protests remained peaceful. Traffic was restored after the farmers lifted the blockade around 3pm,” said Kurukshetra SP Astha Modi. BKU received a huge support from farmers in Kurukshetra as farmers held sit-ins at five locations and almost all the state and national highways. Backed by commission agents, farmers blocked most of the roads in Rohtak, Jind, Sonepat, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, and Hisar. The farmers also blocked highways such as Ambala-Roorkee, Ambala-Panchkula, Jind-Delhi, Ambala-Kaithal, Karnal-Ladwa-Shahbad, Karnal-Assandh and Kurukshetra-Pehowa road, Rohtak-Panipat, Rohtak-Hisar, Jind- Delhi, Jind-Kaithal, Jind-Patiala, Dadri-Jhajjar, Sirsa-Fatehabad. The farmers, however, did not block the Delhi-Chandigarh national highway. Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha’s state chief Phool Singh Sheokand said the farmers’ unions will hold protests on September 25 also. SUPPORT FROM POLITICAL QUARTERSApart from the Congress and Indian National Lok Dal, the MLAs of Jannayak Janta Party, the coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana, also reached at the protests sites and extended support to the farmers. JJP’s Shahbad MLA Ram Karan Kala met the protesting farmers while another JJP MLA Jogi Ram Sihag (Barwala segment) joined the agitating farmers. Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu, after visiting dharna sites in Rohtak, Meham and Charkhi Dadri, said: “If these bills aren’t withdrawn I will launch hunger strike from October 2.”Meanwhile, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja, in a statement issued on Sunday, said, “September 20 will go down as a black day in the history of India. The BJP government has hit the very soul of the nation by hatching a conspiracy against the farmers in the form of three farm- related Bills. At the root of these Bills is a move to snatch the farmers’ right to sell produce under the MSP. These Bills will ruin the farmers and benefit some capitalists.” Terming the new agriculture laws as ‘black laws’, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in a tweet said, the government is adopting a dictatorial attitude. “The farmers are not happy with this so they are protesting on the streets. The Congress will also stage a sit-in against the black laws,” he said. INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said, “It is condemnable to go against the farmers of the entire country and pass the anti-farmer bill in Parliament today. This law is a death warrant for farmers. The Central Government, intoxicated by power, forgot that farmers are the backbone of the country.Responding to the opposition attack, Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister JP Dalal said, “Some politicians have become used to indulging in petty politics in the name of the farmers. It would have been better had they read the Bills in detail before issuing statements. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in the Rajya Sabha reiterated that the crop procurement will continue at the MSP like before.” (inputs from Neeraj Mohan and Sunil Rahar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-highway-siege-hassles-commuters-in-haryana/story-Mggq6lGCj5R6nukLiACM5K.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 29 fatalities, 2,305 fresh infections||Twenty nine patients succumbed to Covid-19 while 2,305 others tested positive for the virus in Haryana on Sunday, as per the health bulletin. While the death toll has mounted to 1,149 (798 men, 351 women), the number of people so far tested positive in the state has reached 1, 11, 257. The 29 fatalities were reported from 16 districts and the fresh cases were recorded from across 21 districts. Three people each died of the infection in Ambala, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Sirsa. Two fatalities each due to the Covid-19 infection were reported in Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar, Panchkula, and Yamunanagar, while one person each lost the battle to the infection in Gurugram, Rohtak, Mahendergarh, Bhiwani, Nuh, Fatehabad and Kaithal. Gurugram was the worst-hit with 405 fresh cases, followed by Hisar 257, Sonepat 234, Faridabad 203, Ambala 180, Panipat 141, Panchkula 133, Sirsa 110, Karnal 88, Yamunanagar 82, Fatehabad 77, Rewari 41, Rohtak 76, Palwal 50, Mahendergarh 56, Jhajjar 24, Bhiwani 35, Kurukshetra 51, Nuh 4, Kaithal 43, and Charkhi Dadri 15. As many as 2,547 patients recovered on Sunday, taking the overall recoveries to 88, 697. The active cases in the state stand at 21, 411. The number of critically ill patients stood at 378, including 60 on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-sees-29-fatalities-2-305-fresh-infections/story-CRjmUYT6ZQtRln9S7qIL6N.html
21-09-2020||City||Gunman with Y’nagar ADC attacked, seized truck snatched away||A few days after Ambala additional deputy commissioner (ADC)Preeti and her RTA team was attacked while on challaning duty, the mining mafia allegedly attacked a gunman attached with Yamunanagar ADC Ranjit Kaur and took away a truck seized by her on Saturday night. ADC-cum-RTA secretary Kaur said they had seized the truck while on challaning duty in Sadhaura area around 12 pm.Sadhaura station in-charge Chootu Ram said that they have booked Rahul of Ambala’s Barara area for obstructing officials on government duty and other charges. The accused had allegedly come in a Fortuner car and thrashed the police personnel, before snatching his mobile and the truck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gunman-with-y-nagar-adc-attacked-seized-truck-snatched-away/story-yr0Ar3rx8kGXkdfVBVWcYP.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||3 years on, Haryana’s youth world champions still await cash awards||Three years after they made the country proud at the Youth World Championship held in Guwahati in November, 2017, four Haryana boxers are still awaiting the cash incentives promised by the state government.The boxers-- Nitu (48kg), Sakshi (54kg), Jyoti Gulia (51kg) and Shashi Chopra (57kg), had all won gold medals at the championship and are entitled to a cash award of ₹10 lakh as per the Haryana government’s sports policy.Nitu and Sakshi, both hailing from Dhanana village in Bhiwani, went on to win gold medals in 2018 too when the championship was held in Budapest, Hungary. Four other girls from the state had also made it to the podium that year. While Anamika (51kg, Rohtak) and Manisha (64kg, Kaithal) won silver medals, Neha Yadav (+81kg, Kaithal) and Jony Phogat (60kg, Rohtak) won bronze medals.The six of them had also won gold in the national championship held prior to the world meet. For the gold in two world championships and one national event, Sakshi is entitled to get a cash award of ₹22 lakh, while Neetu, who had an additional gold medal in the 2018 Asian Youth Championship, has to get a cash award of ₹24.5 lakh from the Haryana government. Jyoti, who hails from Rohtak’s Rurki village, has to get ₹12 lakh each for her gold medal in the 2017 youth world championship and 2017 national meet while Shashi Chopra (Hisar) has to get ₹10 lakh for her performance in world meet.But none of them have got any incentive from the state government so far. “Since 2017, we haven’t got any cash award for our achievements at the national and international competitions. In the first week of August, we (Sakshi and Neetu) got a message from the office of the district sports officer (DSO), Bhiwani, that the award money has been sanctioned and they will get it transferred to our respective bank accounts. It’s been more than a month since then but we have not received anything,” says 20-year-old Sakshi, whose father is a farmer. “In 2015, when I won gold in the junior world championship, I got a cash award of ₹20 lakh. Now, as per the new sports policy, the cash award for sub-junior, junior and youth categories has been reduced to half and three-fourth. But we have not even got the slashed cash award,” adds Sakshi, who is now part of the senior women team.“I am from a humble farming background, and yet to get a job. So cash awards are very important for players like me. With this (incentive), we can contribute to our family and also take care of our training whenever we are not at national camps,” says Jyoti, 19. When contacted, Bhiwani DSO Satvinder Gill, said, “We have forwarded the case of Nitu and Sakshi to the head office in Chandigarh and from there, it has gone to the finance department (FD) for the release of the money. Once it is cleared from the FD, we will get the money and immediately transfer it to the players’ accounts. We will follow-up with the head office regarding this issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-years-on-haryana-s-youth-world-champions-still-await-cash-awards/story-oyWWN4drEflTF5hClmNrvO.html
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA elections 2020: Sans gatherings, department visits, campaign a low-key affair||With the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections being conducted amid the pandemic this year, the campaigning for the polls has also changed.Instead of gatherings and visiting departments, the two rival groups contesting the elections are preferring the use of online platforms to reach out to the teaching community of the varsity.The election of the office bearers of PU’s teaching body is scheduled to be held on September 25 and 26. The Mritunjay-Naura group, which is backed by the syndicate’s Goyal group, is contesting against the rival Khalid-Sidhu group.Contrary to the previous years, most of the teachers are taking classes from home, so visits to the teaching departments for campaigning won’t be happening this time. Door-to-door campaigns on campus are also on a decline.From the Khalid-Sidhu group, Mohammed Khalid, who is contesting for the post of president against Mritunjay Kumar, said, “Keeping the prevailing situation in mind, we have appealed to the contestants of our group to use digital platforms and electronic media like emails and WhatsApp to reach out to colleagues.”No gatherings are being held on campus for the purpose of campaigning this year. Physical meetings are held with only a few people at a time amid precautionary measures.Mritunjay Kumar said, “We are avoiding physical meetings as much as possible and we only meet those who allow us. We reach out to the teaching community through phone calls and social media.”As per a strategy chalked out by the returning officer for the election, voting will be carried out at two venues, English auditorium and evening auditorium. The different departments will be allotted one of the four time slots, starting from 8.30am to 11.30am up to 3.30pm to 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/puta-elections-2020-sans-gatherings-department-visits-campaign-a-low-key-affair/story-KxhA1ScS1xibLkNGWBBo4N.html
21-09-2020||City||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, officials in Maharashtra adapt to new ways of governance||From being accustomed to clearing a large number of files daily to solving issues on Twitter and Facebook, officials are adapting to the new ways of governance, especially amid the Covid-19 pandemic. HT speaks to a few government officials to understand the change. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation After taking up his role as the assistant commissioner of G-N ward in Mumbai in June 2019, Dighavkar started a campaign called the “footpath challenge” on Twitter. He asked citizens to send pictures/videos of broken or potholed footpaths – a common problem in the city – and said the municipal corporation would fix it within 24 hours. “The campaign went on for three-four months, by when we undertook repairs at almost 169 locations,” Dighavkar recalled. As a ward official, he also created WhatsApp groups, including representatives from different citizen organisations. His jurisdiction includes the central areas of Dadar, Mahim, Prabhadevi and even India’s largest slum – Dharavi. “There is a separate group for each suburb - Dadar, Mahim, Dharavi – where residents post complaints about illegal construction or garbage issues. We try to address these as soon as possible,” he said. In the limelight for his ‘Dharavi model’ to control Covid, which was also hailed by the World Health Organization (WHO), Dighavkar also used Twitter to create awareness on social distancing, the current trends in the ward and steps being taken by the municipal corporation to deal with the pandemic. Until recently, Dighavkar also shared information with citizens on facilities being created by the corporation for Ganesh visarjan. Dighavkar said during the lockdown, he received pictures from citizens of crowding on Twitter, which the ward would address. He said one needs to be careful about the information being put out, as it can be “interpreted wrongly.” Ask him if social media has changed his governance style and Dighavkar says, “I will not say that social media has changed our style of governance. I would say that it is yet another forum for complaint redressal.” Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, environment and climate change, Maharashtra government A senior bureaucrat of the Maharashtra government, when Manisha Mhaiskar was deputed to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as part of the Covid-19 task force in April 2020, coronavirus was still “unknown” and BMC was also facing a lot of flak from citizens. Mhaiskar then began a series of posts on Facebook, which she called “Coronavirus Task Force” (CTF) or the “glass half full” narrative. She used the medium to spread awareness about Covid-19, when it was still emerging, the work being done by BMC, the general dos and don’ts and even risk assessment charts. “The risk assessment chart was widely shared by people. It analysed various daily activities based on risk of exposure and advised people to follow the risk assessment chart in their new normal daily life,” said Mhaiskar. She added the posts were also a way to document the kind of work being done by BMC in tough times. In her role as a principal secretary of the environment department, Mhaiskar is contemplating thinking of connecting to people via social media and encouraging them to undertake a pledge to save the environment. “Even if you take a small pledge, of using only cloth bags from now on, you are helping save the environment,” she said. Ask her about using social media for governance and she says, “The same question was asked when computers were introduced. Any new invention is just another tool. It depends on how one uses it,” she said. Suman Chandra, district collector, Buldhana As the district collector of Buldhana, in the Amravati division of the state, Suman Chandra started an initiative called e-lokshahi, a dedicated helpline number through which people could register their complaints, or just WhatsApp it. “Once we receive such complaints, they are sent to the departments concerned. Not all problems are addressed via this medium, but administrators at least get a feel of what is bothering people and try to resolve them,” said Chandra. The administrator is also active on Twitter and her account is open to general complaints, many of which she looks at solving real-time. “It (Twitter) helps me build a great rapport with my district citizenry,” she told HT via WhatsApp. Ask her about this style of governance and Chandra says, “Leveraging technology to address public grievance is a great way to bridge the gap, especially during Covid-19.” Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner, BMC A senior bureaucrat of the Maharashtra government, Ashwini Bhide has a huge following on Twitter (55.7K). Bhide, as the additional municipal commissioner at Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, has been sharing Covid data on Twitter and also addressing various queries by citizens. In her previous role as the managing director of Metro-3, a fully-underground Metro corridor in Mumbai, Bhide was constantly hailed for the valuable updates she would post about the progress of the project. Bhide did not wish to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-19-pandemic-officials-in-maharashtra-adapt-to-new-ways-of-governance/story-2BSW3swTD1l78BT7kNsRPL.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Modi government’s bills on farm sector: Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi parties yet to decide its stand; Left outfits to protest against Centre’s move||Even as the Maharashtra unit of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has planned a protest on September 25 against the three agriculture sector bills passed by the Centre in the Parliament, the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is yet to decide their stand on the issue. The three parties have not discussed any plan so far to stage any agitation together to oppose the ordinances.The three central ordinances, which would bring far-reaching impacts in the sector, led to large-scale protests by farmer groups in Punjab and Haryana. AIKS general secretary Ajit Nawale announced that the organisation will hold protest across Maharashtra. He added that the protest has the support of 208 other farmer bodies.The passing of the ordinances in the Parliament yet again revealed the lack of coordination between the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – the ruling partners in Maharashtra. While the Congress opposed the three ordinances, NCP did not support or oppose the bills openly but demanded that the Centre build consensus on the issue across the country. The Shiv Sena committed a flip flop as its Lok Sabha member Arvind Sawant “welcomed” the ordinance in the lower house but Rajya Sabha parliamentarian Sanjay Raut, took a critical view of the bill. The change in stance came after Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar spoke on Saturday evening. Speaking to HT, Raut said, “Sharad Pawar is a tall leader in India and was the country’s agriculture minister for 10 years. They [the Centre] should have involved him [in discussions]. These bills, according to him [Pawar] are in favour of the farmers. However, there are some points that need discussion. There is no point in opposing without any reason. The Shiv Sena and NCP have a neutral stand on these bills.”“[All India] Kisan Sabha’s protest is fine, but most of Maharashtra’s farmer bodies have welcomed the reforms,” Raut added when asked on the protests by the Left-affiliated farmers’ body.Raut also dismissed speculations over the lack of coordination within the MVA. He said that the change in Sena’s stance on the ordinance came after former Union minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the cabinet in protest of the bills.State NCP spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that the central government is “anti-farmer” as it wants a few corporate houses to control the agriculture sector through the ordinances.“MSP guarantees minimum remuneration for farmers’ produce. Once it is abolished, farmers can be exploited easily. This will further result in the elimination of APMC markets in due course of time because these markets will start losing business. After a point of time, it will become financially unviable to run them,” Malik said. Minimum Support Prices (MSP) is a guarantee for the farmers to get minimum remuneration for their produce, which has been struck down in the new laws.“The Centre’s plan is to eliminate the farmers’ network. It is also like giving licence for illegal hoarding to a few big players, who will control the market as well as its prices. The prices of commodities will be inflated as per their whims and fancies. In a way, it is not only harmful for the farmers but also for the consumers as they will also be looted,” he added.Meanwhile, Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the party will decide its stand soon. Congress chief ministers Amarinder Singh (Punjab) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) are opposed to the provisions of the bill which was passed in the Rajya Sabha by a voice vote amid protests by Opposition parties on Sunday. With two sets of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) legislations that delinked the sale of vegetables and fruits only in mandis (markets) and recently opened up the sale of all agricultural goods, Maharashtra is unlikely to be impacted by the central ordinance. The state government has already amended laws to allow farmers to sell directly without going to APMC. The bulk buyers can also directly procure the products from farmers. However, the scale of procurement by such buyers is much less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/modi-government-s-bills-on-farm-sector-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-parties-yet-to-decide-its-stand-left-outfits-to-protest-against-centre-s-move/story-ay81vfEnr8h6KvfnZd7i6H.html
21-09-2020||Lucknow||A re-energised SP to begin its battle from the streets||Having reactivated and revamped most of its district units and frontal organizations, the Samajwadi Party (SP) is now set to do what it does best when out of power -- taking to the streets, with an eye on the 2022 UP assembly polls. Most of the district units and frontal organisations were lying dormant since party president Akhilesh Yadav had dissolved them after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls debacle. “In the last three weeks, the party has appointed presidents, vice presidents and, in some cases, more office-bearers of the district and mahanagar units and frontal organisations. Whichever districts are left will soon get their office-bearers,” said SP MLC Sunil Singh ‘Sajan’. He said the party has had made hundreds of appointments in Yuvjan Sabha, Mulayam Singh Youth Brigade, Chatra Sabha (students wing), Mahila Sabha (women’s wing), Adhikvakta Sabha (lawyers wing) and Vyapaar Prakostha (traders wing) etc. “The party is fully reactivated and re-energised. We took to the streets earlier also during the past several months. First we have a major statewide protest -- as called by the party chief Akhilesh Yadav -- on Monday and the effect of the party’s reactivation would be visible then,” said a newly appointed district president. The Samajwadi Party has given a call to all its units -- up to the tehsil level -- to protest on September 21 against the state government over “unemployment, farmers’ issues, collapsed law and order and corruption in health services in these Covid-19 times, he said. The party has also issued instructions to the units to submit memorandums (addressed to the governor) to the district officers at tehsils and district headquarters during the protest, further said. Meanwhile, the party’s state president also has started doing video conference meetings with district units since Friday. Till now, only Akhilesh had been doing video conferencing with party leaders in districts. Akhilesh, as a customary practice, had dissolved all district and frontal organisations and state units (barring the state president’s post) after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which, despite an alliance with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the SP could win only five seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/a-re-energised-sp-to-begin-its-battle-from-the-streets/story-DfZWt74AjJhe35lw7TdPmN.html
21-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Many containment zones have same addresses||As the number of cases continue to rise in Ghaziabad, a closer look at the publically available list of containment zones reveals that the district administration has considered a case as a containment zone.For example, under Sadarpur locality, there are two containment zone, and both have the same address. In Kavi Nagar, there were 11 containment zones with the same address in K block. The numbers suggest that of the total containment zones declared in the district, many of them may represent a single household.Containment zones are created on the recommendation from the health department. Thereafter, the administration officials, called as incident commanders, are tasked to supervise the sealing and timely de-sealing of the zones.According to the district administration, while there were 336 containment zones on September 1, by Saturday this had gone up to 617. Totalling the number of cases reported from these zones on Saturday, there were on an average 4.3 cases per containment zone.During the 19 days of September, an average of 413 containment zones were defined per day.According to the list of containment zones published by the Ghaziabad district administration on September 19, localities like sector-23 of Sanjay Nagar (43 containment zones), Kavi Nagar (56), Indirapuram (68), Vasundhara (49), Vaishali (95), Govindpuram (46), Raj Nagar (42), Shastri Nagar (40) and Rajendra Nagar (51) figure prominently among the localities with high containment zones.District malaria officer, GK Mishra, who defines containment zones, said that once people are tested and found positive for Covid-19, they were to be grouped into a single address and labelled a containment zone. “We are still in the process of doing that,” he said.Meanwhile, residents continue to claim that authorities were lax in securing containment zones with hardly any barricading to stop people from moving around. “The management of containment zones has been poor at the ground level even if it may appear strong on paper. It is primarily due to this the district figures in the list of top 10 districts in the state having highest number of Covid-19 cases. Further, the RWAs were also not involved. Had the civil society been actively involved, they would have made a lot of difference at ground level,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation.“In Saturday’s instance at Model Town, we had two cases of Covid-19. However, till Sunday no containment zones got defined. So, we are clueless what the officials are doing,” he added.RWAs while saying that containment zones are no longer seen added that people should take up containment activities.“The containment zones are somehow not visible at ground level. Even people seem to have got more relaxed with opening up of activities. During initial months the apartment owners’ associations were very strict about health protocols but with time they also got relaxed. One of our AOA has now shutdown certain activities in the highrise as cases have continued to come in. So, it is time that people in localities consider imposing restrictions otherwise mixing of population will invite more cases,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners.To secure the containment zones, municipal commissioner MS Tanwar on September 11 had told HT that he has got prepared bundles of specially marked strips which have been sent to different police stations and police posts for securing the containment zones.“The work for securing the containment zones is to be done by the respective incident commanders (generally sub divisional magistrates of the areas) and police deploys personnel to secure them. We have deployed about 550 personnel for containment zone duties,” said Ghanshyam Singh, superintendent of police (crime) and department’s nodal officer for Covid.When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey referred the issue of containment zones to Shailendra Singh, additional district magistrate (city).“The sealing is taken up by incident commanders. We feel that there has to be better coordination with police as regards the containment zones. The strips which the corporation has got prepared have been given to police. On Monday, it will be ensured that the containment zones under the jurisdiction of city areas will be secured,” Singh added.The medical experts however believe that contact tracing and 100% testing in containment zones will help reduce spread of infection.“Given the number of bigger localities in the city with high cases, the concept of containment zones has almost become blurred with opening of activities after lockdown. It would be a better idea to trace contacts at fast pace and get all persons in the area tested to filter out suspected cases. It is possible nowadays as people are not averse to testing with facilities like home isolation in place,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-many-containment-zones-have-same-addresses/story-TvDtzfZuq8Y8bCafNzMlUP.html
21-09-2020||City||No helmet, no entry: Noida residents spread road safety awareness||Noida: A group of residents from sectors 74 to 79 (commonly known as 7X sectors) have come forward to spread road safety awareness among the two wheeler riders in the city. They have started an initiative -- ‘no helmet, no entry’ -- which is aimed at making people understand the importance of wearing a helmet.“The idea originated from the district administration’s ‘no helmet, no fuel’ rule where riders are denied fuel at petrol pumps if they don’t wear helmets. Ours is a similar concept where we request riders coming to and going from residential areas to wear helmets for their own safety,” said Brajesh Sharma, a member of the 7X sectors welfare team that has started the initiative.The group has already carried out the drive for four weeks in which they covered several high-rises in the 7X sectors. “We took help from various apartment owners associations as well to request both the residents and visitors alike to abide by these rules. People need to understand the fact that these rules are in place only for their safety,” said Rakesh Jha, another member of the team.He said that the members had come up with the idea after several accidents were reported from the area.“We will continue the initiative for at least another month. Most of the riders without helmets we encounter with have an excuse that they just came out for a couple of minutes. But mishaps can happen anywhere at anytime and that is what has to be understood. During the drive in sectors 74-75, we also involved police personnel from a PCR van parked there who helped us in requesting the public to follow the rules,” said Sharma.The group on Sunday morning covered the market area in Sector 41 and will continue to cover other shopping complexes and residential areas in the city.When asked about the initiative, Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, said, “Change comes from within. We always encourage civil society’s participation and efforts. Such efforts are appreciated and they help in bringing out necessary change. We can enforce law, but that will only help to a certain extent. Last month 20,000 challans were issued for not wearing helmets only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-helmet-no-entry-noida-residents-spread-road-safety-awareness/story-sP4MeJAQJYqleubFDTROiJ.html
21-09-2020||City||Coastal road work in Mumbai: No nod to move corals for now||The mangrove cell of the Maharashtra forest department has temporarily stalled clearances for translocation of corals for the coastal road project until the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) clarifies certain details. On September 3, BMC had applied for wildlife clearance and submitted a proposal to move 18 coral colonies across Worli and Haji Ali for further reclamation of the project. Corals are protected marine species sporadically spread across rocky intertidal regions along the Mumbai coast. They garner the same protection as a tiger or elephant under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act (WLPA), 1972, and permissions are needed from the principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF-wildlife) before translocation of the species. Through a letter issued by the Mumbai Mangrove Conservation Unit (MMCU) under the state mangrove cell on Thursday, officials have raised multiple queries that BMC needs to respond to.“We have been told that BMC plans to reclaim the two coral patches by October 17-18. However, approval cannot be granted until we have more clarity on certain issues,” said DR Patil, divisional forest officer, MMCU. “Maps submitted with the proposal by the contractor are not attested by any official authority. Details regarding the project justification, copies of environment and coastal regulation zone clearances and legal status of the project before various courts have not been submitted so far. These documents need to be examined by the senior most officers of the forest department, and should not be taken casually.”According to BMC’s proposal, the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Goa, had identified two species of corals from the Rhizangiidae family (Oulangia and one unidentified species) with 18 colonies documented across 0.251 sqm (almost 3-ft) in Worli region of the project site, and another species (Dendrophylliidae family) along with Rhizangiidae across 1.1-ft area at Haji Ali. The translocation is to be undertaken by NIO scientists, BMC said.Patil added that so far all details had been submitted by BMC’s contractor and he was receiving repeated calls from BMC on the status of their proposal. “We have asked BMC to appoint an engineer who can help us with the verification of details on-field and on paper rather than the contractor. It would take us at least 10 days to complete formalities at MMCU level, and then the proposal would be vetted by the additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell), and finally the PCCF (Wildlife) in Nagpur. Based on the current status, clearance may not be met by the required time frame (October 17-18),” said Patil. Niranjan Khanolkar, chief engineer (coastal road), BMC said, “We will fulfil all requirements and clarify queries as soon as possible.”Meanwhile, environmentalists opposing the project plan to challenge BMC’s proposal before the Supreme Court. “BMC should not have been allowed to start work on this project without obtaining requisite clearances,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust, adding that under the WLPA, Schedule I species can be destroyed only in case they pose a threat to human life. For example, a confirmed problem animal involved in conflict (tiger or leopard) with humans, requires prior approval from the PCCF (Wildlife) before capture. “There is no provision in the WLPA to permit the destruction of a Schedule I species for facilitating a project that should have been designed to avoid the destruction of corals,” said Goenka.Meanwhile, BMC has said they are yet to allocate ₹2.9 crore budgetary plan for marine biodiversity conservation and monitoring (MBMP) for the coastal road project as directed by NIO, which in its September 2019 report found the presence of six coral species along the south Mumbai coast, presence of dolphins, 17 bird species, and rich benthic marine life. A senior BMC official said it was the responsibility of the contractors to allocate the required funds. BMC has reclaimed over 53 hectares of the sea along south Mumbai for the 9.9-km coastal road, which is to be an eight-lane highway connecting Princess Street Flyover to the southern tip of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coastal-road-work-in-mumbai-no-nod-to-move-corals-for-now/story-6zcBOB1DztUiPlCP2T6dnM.html
21-09-2020||Noida||Four development projects to be ready by month-end in Noida||The Noida authority on Sunday said it will complete work on four projects, worth nearly ₹220 crore, by the end of this month.These projects include an underground car parking in Film City Sector 16A (being developed at a ₹110 crore budget), another underground car parking in Sector 3 (₹62 crore), Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park in Sector 150 (₹ 23 crore) and Biodiversity Park in Sector 91 (₹25 crore).Due to the Covid 19 pandemic, work on these four projects was disrupted and these could not be opened for the public earlier, but, now, the authority officials said, they have expedited work on these projects so these are opened for the public use without any delay.“We are giving finishing touches to these four projects so that these can be completed by September end, and be open for public use at the earliest,” said Rajiv Tyagi general manager, Noida authority.The 1400-car capacity, three-storey car parking project, proposed on an area of 19,202 square metres in Film City, was started in July, 2015 with a December, 2016 target. But the project missed several deadlines. The coronavirus triggered lockdown further disrupted the work. Officials said that it will be opened for use by September end. Similarly, work on the car-parking facility at Sector 3’s F block started in January 2016, and supposed to be ready by July 2017. The project will now be ready by September end and will have a 450-car capacity, said officials.The authority had in January, 2016 conceived the idea of developing a park in the memory of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. But work at the site in Sector 150, which is home to newly built group housing towers, started only in April, 2018. According to the Noida authority officials, it has planted 2,000 trees, 75,000 shrubs at the park, so far.Spread over 75-acre green area along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, the Biodiversity Park in Sector 91 once ready would be the city’s largest park. The authority has planted as many as 4,322 traditional trees including neem, jamun, banyan and mango besides 19,625 ornamental trees.Both these parks are expected be open to the public by the month-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-development-projects-to-be-ready-by-month-end-in-noida/story-HZrPW84NVgPxSyAzx8s5WI.html
21-09-2020||Noida||Two injured in accident on Noida Expressway||A 40-year-old man and his 14-year-old son were injured in a hit-and-run case on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway near Sector 143 on Saturday night. Victims Mahesh Kumar and his son Shonty were walking towards Pari Chowk when the accident happened. Police said they were able to recover the car’s number plate from the spot. While boy suffered fractures to his right leg and hand, the man suffered only minor injuries. Both were out of danger, said police They were returning to their home in Chhapraula village in Greater Noida from sector 17 at around 9pm when the incident happened.Kumar said they were hoping to catch a bus or an autorickshaw back home. “A speeding car tried to overtake another vehicle when it hit my son. It then went on to hit the side barricade of the Expressway. The car’s registration number plate fell, but the driver fled,” he said. Kumar informed police and a team from Surajpur police station reached the spot and admitted the duo to a private hospital.Lokesh Chahal, police post in-charge, Sector 143, said, “We have registered an FIR under Section 279 (rash driving) and Section 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC against unknown driver,” he said. “We are scanning the CCTV footage and also using the registration number plate details to trace the suspect. We will soon arrest the person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-injured-in-accident-on-noida-expressway/story-p8gPDWwfxKcmPOcoLk2p7M.html
21-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: NHAI to install surveillance cameras on Eastern Peripheral, Delhi-Meerut e-ways||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started securing the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) and the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) with the installation of high-resolution cameras. These will help in incident detection, check speeding and general surveillance, said officials. The 135-km EPE inaugurated in 2018 connects Kundli to Palwal, both in Haryana, while passing through Baghpat, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts in Uttar Pradesh. The 60-km DME connects Akshardham in Delhi to Meerut in western UP. “About 133 such cameras will be installed on the EPE by March next year, each one kilometre apart and alternatively one either side of the expressway. They will be able to rotate and view upto 500 metres on either side.,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. The live feed will be routed to a control room, still under construction, at Dasna interchange. Eighty sub-control rooms along the EPE will be responsible for the general maintenance of the cameras and serve as a backup too.The speed limit on the EPE are 120kmph for cars/jeep and 100kmph for commercial vehicles. According to records, there were about 271 accidents on the EPE since May, 2018 to August this year. Last week, HT reported that the NHAI had begun installing barriers and boards to check trespasses into the EPE by people living in the vicinity. “The cameras will detect all such instances. At the main control room, our staff will be monitoring movement of vehicles and instances of speeding. When the cameras detect a speeding case, the control room will be alerted, the vehicle identified and information shared with the local traffic police. Likewise, in case of an accident, help will be rushed to the spot. A similar setup is underway at the DME where three sub-control rooms will be connected to the main control room at Dasna,” Garg said. The 14-lane DME project, having six dedicated expressway lanes, is divided into four phases with 8.4-km phase 1 (Akshardham in Delhi to UP-Gate) and 22.3-km phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) already operational and is expected to have 78 cameras. While phase 1 has 13 cameras installed, phase 20 have phase 3. Once completed, 19.3-km phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) will have 15 cameras and 31.8-km phase 4 (Dasna to Meerut) will have 30 cameras. Both phases are scheduled to be completed by December this year and are expected to have the cameras installed by then too.The installation protocols and camera specifications will be similar to the ones at the EPE. Of the three sub control rooms, one at the CWG flyover near Akshardham and another at Chijarsi (at the Pilkhuwa flyover in Hapur) are already operational. The NHAI last week proposed to the Union ministry for road transport and highways the speed limit for the DME be increased to 120kmph for cars/jeeps and 100kmph for commercial vehicles. Box: surveillance camera installation Eastern Peripheral Expressway: 133 rotating cameras by March, 2021 Delhi Meerut Expressway: 78 cameras by December 2020All cameras will be installed at a distance of a kilometre from each other and will be connected to the main control room at Dasna The EPE will have 80 sub control rooms, while DME will have three. All will be connected to the main control room at Dasna The entire setup of cameras, sub control rooms and main control room will help in general surveillance, detection of speeding and incidents||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-nhai-to-install-surveillance-cameras-on-eastern-peripheral-delhi-meerut-e-ways/story-ZGFt9dTDzRAayu9xL2YRAJ.html
21-09-2020||Noida||UPSEE 2020: 71% attend exam for admission to BTech, MBA programmes||At 71.46%, the Uttar Pradesh State Entrance Exam (UPSEE, 2020) saw its lowest turnout in four years on Sunday. Officials attributed the fall in attendance partly to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Over 115,000 had applied to sit for the exam, organised by the APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (APKJAKTU) for B.Tech and MBA seats in its 756 affiliated institutes across the state. The number of applicants this year too was the lowest in four years.In 2019, the turnout was 89.5% (of around 150,000 applicants); in 2018 it was 86% (156,000 applicants); in 2017 92% (156,000 applicants).Commenting on the drop in applicants and turnout, APJAKTU pro vice-chancellor professor Vineet Kansal said it appears some students did not take the exam due to fears of catching the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. “However, it is also possible that some students may have scored well in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) mains and may be hoping to secure their admissions using that score. Besides, some students might have taken admission in other private colleges/universities as UPSEE has been delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.APJAKTU had set up 206 exam centres – 187 in UP and 19 in other cities, including Delhi, Chandigarh, Patna, Mumbai, Bhopal and Jaipur. Gautam Budh Nagar had six centres – one in Noida and five in Greater Noida – where a total of 3,000 students appeared. The varsity does not have separate data on Noida colleges.The JSS Academy of Technical Education in Sector 62 was the only exam centre in Noida, while Greater Noida had five exam centres – IIMT College, Accurate Institute of Management and Technology, GL Bajaj Institute of Technology & Management, Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology, and Dronacharya Group of Institutions.Professor Vineet Kansal, Pro Vice Chancellor of APJAKTU and its UPSEE 2020 coordinator, said the exam was held in three shifts – 9am to 11 am, 12 to 3 pm and 3.45 to 6.45pm. The B Tech exam started from 12 while MBA and MCA papers were administered at 3:45pm. In the morning shift, papers like BPharma, Bachelor of Fine Arts, etc. were held.He said the process went smoothly. “The university had issued a WhatsApp bot number and connected all nodal officers of exam centres. The officers shared all information about the examination process on the WhatsApp group in real time. No incidents of cheating or using unfair means in the papers cropped up. We had set up isolation wards (at the centres) but no candidate was found to have high temperature or fever,” Kansal said.It should be noted here that while 89.50% of the registered students appeared in last year’s UPSEE exam(1.50 lakh out of 1.66 lakh), 2018 saw 86% of the registered candidates (1.56 lakh out of 1.75 lakh) show up, while 2017 saw 92% of the registered students (1.56 lakh out of 1.69 lakh) take the exam.Rajeev Agarwal, director GL Bajaj Institute of Technology & Management, and nodal officer for the examination centres at JSS Academy and IIMT College, said all protocols for the Covid-19 pandemic were followed. “Candidates were required to carry their UPSEE hall ticket and valid photo ID proof. They were also required to wear face masks. They were allowed to enter only after their temperature was found to be normal. A maximum of 24 candidates were allowed per examination hall,” he said, adding that the candidates’ mobile phones and electronic gadgets were deposited outside the exam hall to ensure fair means.Neha Kumari, a candidate, said she was satisfied with the preparations made by APJAKTU. “The officials ensured social distancing inside and outside the exam centre. I hope to make a good score,” she said.UPSEE 2020, earlier scheduled on August 2, was postponed to September 20. Kansal said the results will be declared by October 20, and the counselling will start after October 25.The exam is a gateway to various technical and professional courses like BTech, MBA, MCA, BArch, BPharma and MTech, among others, in educational institutes across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/upsee-2020-71-attend-exam-for-admission-to-btech-mba-programmes/story-VoPLckjEXGSqOy6p00NhZI.html
21-09-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar suffers fourth Covid death of the month||Gautam Budh Nagar recorded its fourth Covid-19 death of the month on Sunday, taking the total to 49, according to the Uttar Pradesh government daily health bulletin.With 3,398 Covid-19 positive cases in September so far, highest of any month, the district administration believes it still has things under control and that the trajectory is on expected lines. Officials said they will continue increasing surveillance and testing. The overall count of Covid-19 cases in GB Nagar district is now 11,342, of which 9,615 have recovered. The district at present has 1,678 active cases. District magistrate Suhas LY said: “It was anticipated that once the economy began to unlock, there will be a surge in Covid-19 cases. Staying indoors is not an option anymore in order to bring the economy back on track. What is more important that the people must be cautious, practice all guidelines and take precautions, to reduce the transmission of this deadly virus.”The DM further said that the caseload rise is mainly due to strict contact-tracing, increased testing, low specificity in rapid antigen tests and a possible reverse migration of workers returning from their homes to the city. “Our focus is on reducing the number of deaths and curing maximum patients. For that, we have adapted ‘tracking, testing and treating’ methodology, in which our health officials are ensuring maximum contact tracing, testing nearly 4,000 people every day and treat the infected patients as per their symptoms,” said Suhas. District chief medical officer Dr. Deepak Ohri asked people not to drop health protocols even as the economy inevitably opened up. “It is not a fight only for doctors or health officials against this virus. Everybody needs to be well-equipped,” he said. “Some people are arranging social functions and not wearing masks, which could prove detrimental in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-suffers-fourth-covid-death-of-the-month/story-DzZVdQnIz8OCSApQTFsu2L.html
21-09-2020||City||Greater Noida: One more arrested in Sher Singh Bhati’s murder case||Noida: A 40-year-old man was arrested on Sunday in connection with the murder of Sher Singh Bhati alias Sheru Bhati in Dadri on September 8. The police have already arrested three suspects for allegedly stabbing Bhati to death over some personal dispute. The man arrested on Sunday was identified as Khussan, a resident of Mewatiyan mohallah in Dadri, the police said, adding that a countrymade gun and three live cartridges have been seized from his possession. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the police had arrested three suspects -- Jamshed, Shoeb and Wasim -- on September 9. “Primary investigation showed that the victim and suspects had personal enmity. Bhati had slapped Wasim a day before the incident took place. The suspects made a plan and attacked the victim to take revenge,” he said. Pandey said that the police investigation found that the fourth suspect, Khussan, was also involved in the murder. Khussan, who was arrested from Kathera road in Dadri, had informed the three suspects about Bhati’s movement resulting in the murder, the police said. According to the police, Khussan is a seasoned criminal wanted in nine cases, including rioting, criminal conspiracy, Gangster Act, etc. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody, the police said. Bhati’s father Fateh Singh had filed a complaint at Dadri police station against three suspects -- Jamshed, Shoeb and Wasim. In his complaint, Singh said that Bhati had gone to buy some medicines from a local store when the three suspects reached the spot and attacked him with a sharp knife. “My son raised an alarm and some local people reached there for rescue. We also reached the spot and saw the suspects fleeing the spot waiving the knife,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-one-more-arrested-in-sher-singh-bhati-s-murder-case/story-o3l42NcYu0UyxpYhRJ37ZN.html
21-09-2020||City||UP defers partial opening of schools till further notice, say officials||Officials of the Ghaziabad district administration on Sunday said the state government has deferred the partial reopening of schools planned for Monday, that would have allowed students from class 9 to 12 to voluntarily come to school for seeking academic guidance, till further notice.Keeping in line with the guidelines issued by the Central government for “unlock 4”, the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari on August 30 had issued directions allowing students from class 9 and above to come to school from September 21. However, the officials on Sunday said, they have received directions from the state administration schools will not be allowed to open on Monday and will permitted to open partially on a later date (which is yet to be notified).Officials from the district administration, who did not wish to identified, that reopening of the schools was probably deferred in view of the rising cases of Covid-19. As per the state health control room data, the total Covid-19 case tally in the state had reached 354,275 on Sunday.“As per the earlier guidelines, schools would open partially from September 21. But we have received directions from the state government that another date will be issued,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate(DM) , Ghaziabad.In the meantime, the DM said, the administration will focus on preparing for opening schools in the district. “ We have asked the education department officials to utilise this time to spread awareness among parents; take written consent from parents if they wish to send children to schools, and engage with schools on setting up virus-free premises,” the DM said.The DM nominated the district inspector of schools (DIOS) and also the basic education officer to start the preparatory works. The DIOS has been asked issue a helpline number on Monday where parents can seek information about opening of schools.“The respective sub-divisional magistrates have also been asked to ensure compliance of the new directions. The local bodies such as municipal corporation and others will help schools with guidelines related to cleanliness and sanitization,” Pandey added.Similar arrangements are also being taken up in the neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar district.“So far, we have not received information from any school that they will be holding academic counselling sessions for students between classes 9 and 12. Also, parents are also reluctant to send children to schools due to the pandemic,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.The parents’ bodies also said they are not inclined to send children to schools for such sessions.“Parents are not eager to send their children to schools. We are not aware if any schools want the students to come for classes and at this point, we will oppose such requests. Parents know that it will be difficult to prevent the children from getting exposed to the virus outside, and no one wants to take any kind of risks,” said Yatendra Kasana, president, All Noida schools’ parents association.Parents are not willing to send children to schools in view of the pandemic. We held various meetings with many parents and they were not willing to send children to schools. It is our request to the state government not to allow opening of schools till the number of cases reduce considerably or a vaccine becomes available,” said Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson , Ghaziabad Parents’ association.Office bearers of Independent Schools’ Federation of India said they will wait for further instruction from the state government on opening schools. “We will not open schools for counselling sessions till we get another date and we get directions from the UP government,” said Subhash Jain, president of the federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-defers-partial-opening-of-schools-till-further-notice-say-officials/story-0WvBGTHVkjvNlCM1sKJzEI.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram gets 495 additional Covid beds; 50% of ICU beds in use||Following directions from the district administration, an additional 10 percent of hospital beds in the district have been reserved for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The fresh directions from the administration have added 495 hospital beds to the 1,740 that were already reserved (across 42 hospitals and healthcare centres in Gurugram), taking the total tally of Covid beds to 2,235. The upgrade also adds 61 beds to the district’s ICU bed capacity — including 23 that will have ventilator support.Of the 2,235 beds allocated for Covid treatment, 1,975 are general beds with oxygen facility (up from 1,541 beds earlier). As of September 20, data showed, that at least 540 of the 1,541 beds (or 27 percent) were occupied. Meanwhile, occupancy of available ICU beds stands at exactly 50 percent, with 130 beds (of total 260) currently in use. The total number of ICU beds include 102 ventilator beds, of which 60 are currently in use. The number of patients on ventilator support has increased by 39.5 percent over the past two weeks, data suggested.Despite a steady increase in the number of active cases over the past fortnight, occupancy rates of beds have not changed much. General bed occupation has increased by only two percent, while ICU bed occupation has, conversely, reduced by 10 percent since September 8 (despite a 62 percent increase in active cases during the same time).“This is because most of the active patients are actually young, asymptomatic and don’t require hospitalisation,” said Dr Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, pointing out that over 50 percent of Gurugram’s active cases comprise people between the ages of 20 to 40. “They are pulling through with home isolation, allowing us enough capacity to absorb an increase in hospitalisation rate in coming weeks,” said Dr Prakash.In view of a rising number of Covid infections, district authorities had taken stock of bed availability on September 7, following which an order was issued by the deputy commissioner, Amit Khatri, on September 14, under the Epidemic Disease Act and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The order (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times) stipulates that 35 percent of all available beds in public and private facilities in the district are to be reserved for Covid-19 patients. “It was earlier 25 percent. The additional beds allocated after last week’s order are all from private hospitals as Civil Hospital does not have the capacity to allocate more beds,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-gets-495-additional-covid-beds-50-of-icu-beds-in-use/story-UvEbgdSfJd0xnO8ZwLQGYO.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana BJP, government assure farmers that MSP will not go||The Haryana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) assured farmers of the state that their interests would not be harmed with the passing of three agriculture bills in Parliament on Sunday. This, they said, included continuation of purchasing produce at the minimum support price (MSP).The statement comes at a time when the party has been putting all efforts, including an appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to allay fears that farmers will lose out with the passage of the bills, now awaiting the President’s assent. Farmers in Haryana and Punjab have been at the forefront of protests against the new legislations, which includes allowing farmers to sell outside the Agricultural Produce Market Committees, deregulation of farm foods and contract farming.The state party chief OP Dhankar, also a prominent farmer leader, said that the new system would prove beneficial to farmers. Farmers will now be able to sell produce directly to the market without relying on middlemen and also find markets across the country thereby helping them get better price for their product, he said.Dhankar was addressing a hurriedly called press conference at the PWD Guest House in Gurugram. “The Haryana government will procure each and every grain of paddy in the coming procurement season and this will prove the lies being peddled by the opposition,” he said, adding that the state would empower farmers to engage in peri-urban agriculture and directly satisfy the needs of urban markets. “The opposition particularly Congress is trying to create a false perception but the fact is that these same reforms were promised by it in its manifesto. The farmers will realise that they have got a great opportunity and they should take advantage of market instead of letting middlemen make all the money,” said Dhankar. To safeguard the interest of farmers, he said, the period of contract has been limited to five years and this will ensure that farmers’ land won’t be taken over by the contractor. “Assets created by a contractor will go to the farmer if it is not removed within stipulated time.” Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal, who was also in Gurugram said that the new laws will improve the lot of farmers significantly.Earlier in the day, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala from the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), a coalition partner of the BJP, said that he would resign if any attempt to discontinue MSP system emerged. Dushyant also said that the Congress supported contract farming in its vision document during its time in the Centre, and that it was now opposing it for political gains. The Congress rejected the allegation. “The government should make it clear in writing that the MSP system would not be eliminated. It should have been mentioned in the Bills. Also, the contract farming bills takes away the right of farmers to approach the civil courts for justice, which is grossly unfair,” said Captain (retd) Ajay Singh Yadav, senior Congress and leader and former minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-bjp-government-assure-farmers-that-msp-will-not-go/story-27PWltDkvvzjY7FZNCIgpJ.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Police deployment intensified in Sadar Bazar||Following the armed robbery on Saturday, the Gurugram Police has increased the deployment of personnel in the Sadar Bazar area, where most of the jewellery shops in the city are located. The police said although the number of robbery cases have come down in recent times, they wanted to further curb them. As per police officials, while earlier as many as six cases were reported in a week, nowadays only four cases are registered in a month. The police also checked the CCTV cameras in the area, and found that nearly 160 cameras were operational. The CCTV footage gave them crucial leads that helped them to identify the accused.The members of the Gurugram Jewellers’ Association said they will meet the commissioner of police on Monday to ask for greater police vigilance and to ensure that the safety of the shopkeepers are taken care of. Members of the association said that although cops are regularly patrolling the area, they wanted the presence of police personnel in plainclothes to do rounds of the area and keep a close watch on suspected miscreants. Bhoop Singh, a 71-year-old jeweller, said their work involved precious metal that put them at a high risk. “We need police protection as suspects take advantage of the crowd in the area to flee the spot,” he said. Another shopkeeper, said that hiring a single armed security guard costs around ₹35,000 a month that increases the overhead costs. “We deal in jewellery and cash. Most of the time, we carry cash on our way home. We feel unsafe as the police presence in the area is very thin. While, for the past two days, deployment has increased, we need a permanent solution,” he said. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that dedicated teams have been formed, which have been directed to keep a close watch on the jewellery shops in the area. He also said that police personnel would also be deployed even at night when shops are closed. “We have increased the number of police personnel deployed in Sadar Bazar. Further, the station house officer(SHO) of the local police station has been asked to send a report every night after the market closes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-police-deployment-intensified-in-sadar-bazar/story-04K2IqgClBVpbkKyQAi7FK.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram murder-suicide: Police recover note, probe property dispute angle||The police has recovered a note from the pocket of a man, who shot his father dead on Saturday afternoon and later died by suicide. Police said that they have found a note from victim, Ravinder Dahiya’s pocket, who along with his 62-year-old father were found lying in a pool of blood in a room of a paying guest accommodation in Laxman Vihar in Sector 9. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Dahiya had written six lines in the note alleging his wife and in-laws for harassing him for the last 10 years ever since his marriage. He held them responsible for him taking the extreme step. “We have booked the wife and in-laws for abetment of suicide under section 306 of Indian Penal Code and are investigating the matter,” he said. On Saturday afternoon a 32-year-old lawyer had shot his 62-year-old father before turning the gun on himself in Sector 9 A . Police suspect that the incident could have been a fallout of a property dispute, which is being probed. Police said Rajveer Dahiya, who had retired from the Delhi Police, and his son Ravinder Dahiya, had constructed two houses in the area, with the one in Laxman Vihar turned into a paying guest (PG) facility in 2016. Sangwan said Rajveer used to stay at the PG facility and manage it too and Ravinder helped him. The duo had employed a woman from a nearby eatery to cook meals twice a day and make tea between 3pm and 4pm for those staying there. “She claims that when she went to the PG at around 3pm, she found the bodies lying in a pool of blood,” said Sangwan. The dead person’s family were soon informed who called the police, he added. Ravinder allegedly pumped two bullets into his father before shooting himself, said police. Manjeet Dahiya, Ravinder’s younger brother, told police that Ravinder was upset over property and marital issues. “The in-laws always pressurised my brother and threatened him to lodge a criminal case against him and send him behind bars,” he said. A case under IPC section 302 (murder) was registered against deceased Ravinder, and sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (common intention) against his in-laws at Sector 9 police station on Saturday late evening, but no one has been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-murder-suicide-police-recover-note-probe-property-dispute-angle/story-uzZ4vt4UyOuXaxWFO5OqfP.html
21-09-2020||City||Gurugram records over 5,600 cases in just three weeks of September; mortality rate continues to dip||Gurugram: In just three weeks of September, Gurugram recorded 5,686 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), exceeding August’s total reported caseload of 2,952, the district health department data shows. In June, there were 4,716 cases, the highest monthly aggregate so far, which health department officials regard as the period of Gurugram’s first peak in infections. On Sunday, the district reported 405 new cases. Health department officials and experts have reiterated caution against non-essential public movement and emphasised on the importance of maintaining hand hygiene.As per the health department’s data, Gurugram saw a 25% increase in the number of active Covid-19 cases over the past week, during which it also registered an average of 369 new positive cases each day (up from 275 new cases each day the week prior). Gurugram currently has 2,793 active patients, up from 2,232 a week ago, on September 13.The district’s test-positivity rate (TPR) over the past week remained consistently above the World Health Organisation’s recommended benchmark, ranging between 10 and 13%. The WHO recommends achieving a daily TPR of 5% before easing restrictions on public mobility. This is up slightly from a positivity rate of between 9 and 11% observed the week prior.Even with the increase in cases, though, mortality rate has continued to drop, resting at 0.9%, down from 0.97% a week ago. Despite having accumulated over 5,000 new cases so far this month, the district has seen only 18 deaths in the three weeks of September. In June, which saw the highest new cases in a month so far, the number of Covid deaths was much higher, at 94. The district recorded one new death due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total toll to 160. A week ago, the death toll stood at 147.“This is a result of different factors. For one, fewer active cases in a younger age bracket have symptoms, and are less prone to worsening of symptoms. Second is that home isolation is working well for such patients. The cases we are seeing are also milder in nature, but why that is, will require further inquiry,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, the health department’s district surveillance officer for Gurugram.The district’s total tally of Covid-19 cases now stands at 17,828, up from 15,249 a week ago. This is equal to an average of 2,579 new cases in seven days, the highest weekly aggregate since the outbreak began in March. The daily growth rate in new positives, as of September 13, was 2.3%, and has remained above 2% for at least three weeks now. This is also reflected in the sharp contraction of Gurugram’s doubling rate, which stands at 44 days as of September 13. For comparison, in the last week of August, the doubling rate was around 81 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-records-over-5-600-cases-in-just-three-weeks-of-september-mortality-rate-continues-to-dip/story-E9RWpnSzkTF91SPbMZnXaK.html
21-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Sarpanch molested in Pataudi village, FIR registered||Gurugram : A 35-year-old Sarpanch of a village in Pataudi was allegedly molested by two men on Friday, said the police. According to officers, the victim alleged that two men had molested, assaulted and threatened her for life.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the victim on Friday evening went to visit a doctor at Pataudi with her son due to his ill health. They were accompanied by her nephew. “After the doctor conducted her son’s check-up, the three went to a friend’s house in ward 12. The victim, in her complaint, has alleged that that during her visit, Mitu (Amit) and his friend approached her and started misbehaving with her. When she tried to resist, they started assaulting her,” the senior officer said. Police said the suspects were allegedly carrying wooden sticks in their car and had chased the victim with an intention to hit her. Sangwan said the villagers, hearing the noise, rushed to the spot and gathered around the victim and rescued the three. The suspects allegedly also threatened to kill the complainant while fleeing, the police added.A case under sections 323 (assault), 34 (common intention), 354 B (molestation) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC was registered at the Pataudi police station on Saturday. The police suspect personal rivalry as the cause of the attack. Police said the suspects are absconding and further investigation is being conducted by the police in this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-sarpanch-molested-in-pataudi-village-fir-registered/story-q9NFw02Z539Ar6vGbvwQVM.html
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Govt schools open for academic guidance visits from today, pvt ones to stay shut for now||Gurugram schools are all set to open partially for voluntary academic guidance visits of students in classes 9 to 12 from Monday. While most private schools were planning to call students on a voluntary basis for practical sessions, they later decided against doing so immediately as the number of cases began surging in the district again. Government schools, on the other hand, are expecting a good number of students to turn up for these visits, with teachers supposing that the lack of smartphones being an important factor that will prompt students to visit schools. As part of the Unlock 4 guidelines, students of classes 9 to 12 were permitted to visit schools in areas outside containment zones for academic guidance, with the written consent of parents, starting from Monday. As per the SOP for a partial reopening of schools for these visits, teachers need to produce a negative Covid test report and have Arogya Setu app installed on phones. Schools have been asked to arrange these sessions in a staggered manner. Students living in areas outside containment zones will only be allowed for these sessions in slots. Asha Miglani, principal of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Sector 43, said that school teachers got tested for Covid in various PHCs on Sunday and they’d be allowed to report to work for classes only if they get a negative Covid report. “In line with directions from the department, all teachers are getting tested for Covid-19. Some teachers couldn’t get the tests done today and will be doing it tomorrow. Only those teachers who get a negative test will be asked to take sessions for students who need to get their doubts clarified,” said Miglani. Based on the feedback received from parents, Miglani said that not many students were expected to turn up. “Parents are worried about lessons but safety continues to be of utmost importance for many of them,” said Miglani. She said that the school had asked teachers to allocate slots to different students. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that while most teachers in her school had been tested for Covid, a team of doctors would be visiting the school on Monday for further tests. “We expect around 70% of students to come for these classes. Many of them come from backgrounds where there they do not have access to smartphones. Physical visits will greatly benefit such students,” said Sharma. Parents of students in government schools said that they’d consider sending their children to schools for occasional visits in the coming days. Sangeeta, whose son is a class 10 student of Government Senior Secondary School, Manesar, said that she’d consider sending her son for these sessions if he felt the need for assistance. While she expressed concerns about safety due to the rising cases in the city, she admitted that sharing a single phone within the household was leading to disruptions in lessons. “We are worried about sending our son to school, since cases have only been increasing in the city. At the same time, my son is in a senior class and might need assistance that we can’t provide at home. We might send him to school in the next few days depending on the situation,” she said. Many private schools said that they’d wait for the situation to stabilise before calling students. Aparna Erry, principal, DAV Public School, Sector 14, said that the school had no immediate plans of calling students. “Our school will be busy with examinations this month. For now, we have not taken any call on school visits for children,” said Erry. Dhriti Malhotra, school principal, Manav Rachna International School, Sector 46, said that the school was yet to take a decision regarding academic visits since it was already engaged as one of the centres for the CBSE compartment exams for Classes 10 and 12 that start from Monday. “We will be conducting the compartment exams first. Once the exams get over, we will be able to take a decision on if students can be called back on a voluntary basis. If at all we call students, it will be in very small batches for practical sessions,” said Malhotra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-govt-schools-open-for-academic-guidance-visits-from-today-pvt-ones-to-stay-shut-for-now/story-qB9kaTMEUBu3tk9ZMRpTJJ.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Very heavy rain warning for Tuesday in Mumbai, Thane; IMD upgrades alert to orange||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday upgraded its rain warning for Mumbai and Thane to an orange alert — heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places — for Tuesday. A yellow alert has been issued for Monday with a forecast for heavy rain at isolated areas or thunderstorms accompanied by lightning with gusty winds.“Active monsoon conditions and enhanced rain activity is expected up to September 22 due to the development of a low-pressure area over northeast Bay of Bengal, which will strengthen surface level winds, and its convergence along the west coast,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.Though a yellow alert had been predicted for Sunday, no rain was recorded between 8.30am and 5.30pm. Over the past 24 hours — between 8.30am Saturday and 8.30am Sunday — the Santacruz weather observatory recorded 12.4mm rainfall while Colaba received 2.8mm rain. “While light to moderate rain was recorded over 24 hours ending Sunday across Mumbai and Thane, northern suburbs of Mira-Bhayandar received heavy rain. Heavy rain is expected along north and south Konkan and isolated areas of interior Maharashtra on Monday and Tuesday,” said Hosalikar.The drop in rain activity led to a rise in temperatures on Sunday as Santacruz recorded the maximum temperature at 32.4 degree Celsius, 1.7 degrees above normal, while Colaba recorded the day temperature close to the normal mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/very-heavy-rain-warning-for-tuesday-in-mumbai-thane-imd-upgrades-alert-to-orange/story-kCRLnyRLyIMcX3BCgjouFM.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Double whammy: After Internet access, school books elude poor students||Six months into the current academic session, many economically disadvantaged parents in the national capital have complained that their wards have not been provided with the promised free textbooks and stationery by private schools, in violation of caveats of the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009.The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has summoned as many 45 private schools after receiving several such complaints within the last one week.The delay in the distribution of books has added to the woes of students from Economically Weaker Section (EWS) families, who are already struggling to access virtual education at a time when schools have been shut in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The 42-year-old mother of a Class 8 student in Victor Public School in north-east Delhi’s Maujpur said that she and her husband have been out of work since March due to the Covid-enforced lockdown. “Both of us were working in a garment manufacturing factory. We lost our jobs during the lockdown in March. We are still looking for employment. Our daughter could not attend online classes between April and June because even though we have a smartphone at home, we could not afford the Internet package. Now my sister has started recharging my phone with a monthly Internet package, just to help my daughter. But she is having a hard time without books,” the mother, who wished not to be named, said.The mother, who is a resident of Vijay Park said that she has been visiting the school since April for the textbooks. “The school turns me away every time and asks me to contact them later. I would have bought her the books if I was not out of work,” she said.School in-charge Shrawan Kumar said the delay took place due to the prevailing situation. “The school is also going through a financial crisis, since only 10-15% of the parents have paid the fees for this academic session. We are trying to get books and distribute them among students as soon as possible,” he said.Under the RTE Act, 2009, 25% of the seats in entry-level classes — nursery, KG and Class 1 are reserved for EWS students. The Delhi RTE rules specify that students enrolled under the EWS/DG (disadvantaged group) categories in private schools are entitled to free textbooks, writing material and uniforms, for which the government reimburses a fixed amount.Ranjana Prasad, a member of DCPCR, said that the commission has been receiving similar complaints against private schools on a daily basis since April. “We have summoned around 45 private schools within the last one week. A majority of them have agreed to provide textbooks to students at the earliest. The schools cannot deny providing books to the EWS students,” she said.The father of a Class 6 student enrolled in Cambridge Foundation School in Rajouri Garden, under the EWS category, said that his child has not received books from the school yet. The father, a resident of Tilak Nagar, who was working as a driver in a private firm before losing his job in March, said his son could not appear in recently concluded half-yearly exams due to the unavailability of textbooks.“He has started taking online classes now after a gap of almost four months using a second-hand smartphone. But he still doesn’t have books, and that’s why he is having a hard time understanding anything. We have been contacting the class teacher, but there is no response. He had missed last term exams as well due to the unavailability of a device. And now that I have managed to get a second-hand smartphone for him, he does not have books to prepare for another exam,” he said, requesting anonymity.School principal Anita Puri did not respond to calls,texts and emails sent by HT for a comment.Deepak Singh, an autorickshaw driver and father of a Class 7 student at a private school in south Delhi, said, “The school has given us textbooks only for Hindi and English. We are still waiting for more books and stationery.”Ekramul Haque of Mission Taleem, an organisation working for EWS children in Delhi, said, “We have received hundreds of complaints from parents in this regard. We have forwarded the complaints to the education department as well. A majority of these students are either not attending virtual classes or have very little access to them. At least they should have books to study at home.”A senior official in Delhi government’s education department said that they have also been receiving such complaints from EWS parents. “The DoE is looking into the complaints. We have already sent communications to several schools following which they have distributed books among students,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/double-whammy-after-internet-access-school-books-elude-ews-students/story-VUNdcJ5fNz2ZMCcZMFq6nJ.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Convict on parole hangs himself at police station hours after being arrested for raping a minor girl||Out on parole after being convicted in a case of robbery and murder and another of rape, a 40-year-old man allegedly raped a 14-year-old girl in an outer Delhi locality on Saturday and died allegedly by suicide hours later while in police custody at a station on Sunday.Senior police officers said the man hanged himself in a lockup at the Samaypur Badli station, and that the guard deployed outside the cell had been suspended.However, the man’s relatives alleged that they saw the police beat him up in the police station on Saturday night, and questioned how he was able to kill himself despite being in police custody.The man hailed from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh, and lived in Delhi’s outskirts for over two decades.“In 2005, he was arrested for a robbery and murder case registered in north-east Delhi’s Khajuri Khas. He was convicted in the case, but not before he raped a 10-year-old boy in outer Delhi in 2012. He was convicted in the latter case as well,” said Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north).He was released on parole on February 2 this year.His parole was extended due to the pandemic, and he was due to return to jail on October 17, his lawyer Rakesh Kaushik said.But on Saturday, the man allegedly raped a 14-year-old girl in her home in outer-north Delhi. “The girl’s mother, a labour worker, was not at home when the incident took place, and her father is no more,” Sharma said.The girl and her family filed a complaint on Saturday morning, and the police tracked him down based on her description later that evening. He was arrested and booked for rape and under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.The man’s nephew, at whose factory he worked while on parole, said he reached Swaroop Nagar police station with some other relatives around 11.30 pm on Saturday after receiving a call from the police.“We saw a group of policemen beating him up with sticks and banging his head against the wall. They were also forcing him to drink alcohol. We weren’t allowed to meet him and were shooed away,” the man’s nephew alleged. DCP Sharma did not respond to these allegations.Around 9am, the family said they received another call from the police calling them to Samaypur Badli police station. “We were told that my uncle had hanged himself. How did he make arrangements for a suicide in a compound that also houses the DCP’s office,” the nephew asked.The Samaypur Badli police station, where the alleged suicide took place, operates out of the same compound where DCP Sharma’s office is located.Sharma said the man had to be shifted from Swaroop Nagar to Samaypur Badli police station because the former does not have a lock up. However, they did not specify when he was transferred.“We have preserved CCTV camera footage and have suspended the guard who was deployed outside the lock-up,” Sharma said, adding that the metropolitan magistrate has been informed about the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/convict-on-parole-hangs-himself-at-police-station-hours-after-being-arrested-for-raping-a-minor-girl/story-NWs5w7roP1dnlfvZ4VqAgP.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Couple commits suicide in North Delhi||A married couple was found dead at their home in outer-north Delhi’s Siraspur, with the police suspecting they poisoned themselves. Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), said a preliminary enquiry has revealed both were depressed because their son did not have a child after nine years of marriage, allegedly due to medical issues. “This would often lead to the couple and their son quarrelling. A few days ago, the couple decided to move out and live in a rented house in the same neighbourhood,” Sharma said. On Sunday afternoon, the couple’s son-in-law visited them to find both of them unconscious. The evidence suggested that they had consumed poison, Sharma said. They were rushed to a hospital where both were pronounced dead on arrival. The 50-year-old man worked as a security guard at a godown in Alipur and his 48-year-old wife worked at a factory nearby. The police have initiated inquest proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/couple-commits-suicide-in-north-delhi/story-l2K9z2TU95WOsCeXEmkfkO.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Experts raise concerns over the relaxation in age criteria for nursery, Class 1 admissions across Maharashtra||Two days after the state education department relaxed the cut-off date for age criteria to nursery and Class 1 admissions in the state, experts have raised concerns over the new norms. As per a government resolution released on September 18, a child has to complete three years by December 31 to be eligible for pre-primary/nursery admissions. Similarly, the child should have completed six years by the same date for admission to Class 1. The earlier cut-off date for both these admissions was September 30. This effectively means that a 2.5-year-old and a 5.5-year-old child can get admission to nursery and Class 1 respectively from 2021-22. Rohan Bhatt, trustee, Children’s Academy Group of schools said, “For CBSE/ICSE schools which begin their academic year in April, even a child who is two years, three months old will be eligible for nursery admissions. This is a big concern for educationists as it might have a detrimental impact on the development of children who start schooling at such a young age. Several research studies have shown the importance of age-appropriate learning which might not be achieved in this case.” Swati Popat Vats, president of the Early Childhood Association said that there will also be a disparity between two children whose age differs by six months. “For example, 2.5-year-olds are able to use sentences of two to three words, while three-year-old toddlers can usually use sentences of up to five words or more. Curriculum designed for nursery is more in line with the three-year-old development domains and 2.5-year-olds would struggle to cope with it,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/experts-raise-concerns-over-the-relaxation-in-age-criteria-for-nursery-class-1-admissions-across-maharashtra/story-p4OZ4SxWwXNJ2EjEfkGfGP.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||Woman gang-raped in Shangri-La hotel, one arrested||A 27-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by five men in a room at Shangri-La Hotel on Ashoka Road-Janpath on Friday night, the police said. A senior officer associated with the investigation said the woman had been seeking a personal loan of Rs 18 lakh. One of the accused, identified as Manoj Sharma, 48, had offered to give her Rs 7 lakh at the hotel. Sharma has been arrested and four others, including a woman, have been booked on charges of gang rape and causing hurt on a complaint by the rape survivor, said Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi). “We are searching for the other suspects,” said DCP Singhal. The survivor is a married woman who works in the tourism industry. “She was in dire need of money and was looking to get a personal loan,” said the DCP. Police identified the arrested suspect, Sharma, as a private contractor. “On Friday evening, he had called the victim to a spot outside the hotel. He was accompanied by a woman. When the victim reached there, they told her to accompany them to the hotel,” said another investigator. “Four men were already inside the hotel room when victim was taken there. The five men gang-raped her while the other woman allegedly instigated and provoked them to sexually assault her,” said the officer. “Sharma dropped the victim to her home in South Delhi. The woman called the police after reaching home,” the officer said.A spokesperson for Shangri-La Hotel said, “The Delhi Police is currently looking into an incident which allegedly took place at the hotel. We are unable to provide any details as this is an ongoing investigation. The hotel is extending its full support to the authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-gang-raped-in-shangri-la-hotel-one-arrested/story-7pAyZsWT0ah2L6l6j1pj7N.html
21-09-2020||Noida||G Noida authority junks safari project, offers land for film city||The Greater Noida authority on Sunday offered to set up a film city on the 550 acre land, which earlier had been demarcated for a unique Night Safari project. The authority on Sunday said it has scrapped the safari project and requested the Uttar Pradesh government to give necessary approvals for the development of the film city. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has also offered the land it had earmarked for developing a Film City Centre in 2018 to the state government.“We have decided not to continue with the Night Safari project, which could not materialise due to ecological issues. So, we have decided to develop a film city on the 550 acres land earmarked for the safari project. We have prepared a proposal and will send it to the government for necessary approvals on Monday,” said Narendra Bhooshan chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.Former UP chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav had in 2005 planned the recreational project, including Night Safari in Greater Noida but it could not be developed due to fund crunch.The Yogi Adityanath government had in January 2019 decided to revive this project, which was slated to have a Disneyland-like recreational and other entertainment facilities.“But the government later realised that managing wildlife would involve a lot of ecology related issues and it might not be viable. Therefore, we have now decided to use the 550 acres land for a film city. The best part is the location is suited for the film city with airport connectivity, world class Yamuna Expressway, high-rises, Surajpur bird sanctuary, Formula One track, well-planned industrial towns and other facilities,” said Bhooshan.The land use of the 550 acre plot is described in the official documents as ‘institutional green’.“As per the land use norms, we can allow construction of studios on 200 acres of land with ground plus a maximum eight floors. At least 8 lakh square metres area can be developed for film shooting, as per initial estimates. It would be the best suited location for filmmaking,” said Bhooshan.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had asked officials on Friday to find a suitable land to set up the country’s ‘biggest’ film city in the Gautam Buddha Nagar district including the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida, officials said. The CM gave the directions during a meeting to review development projects in the Meerut division--comprising Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Baghpat and Gautam Buddha Nagar districts.The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) chief executive officer Arun Vir Singh has also written to UP government, offering 500 acres land in sector 21 located along 165km Yamuna Expressway for developing the film city. Singh said , “The Yeida had earmarked sector 21 as Film City Centre in 2018 and we had taken this land from farmers to develop a film city.” However, the project didn’t materialise. During his tenure, former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had also tried to lure filmmakers to the state but the state could not receive any investment in developing film production facilities, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/g-noida-authority-junks-safari-project-offers-land-for-film-city/story-TPlgymkYPhftOcuLtqutIO.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||CBSE focus on safety as it readies for conducting compartment exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has thrown in a bunch of strict safety measures in place to check the spread of Covid-19 as it gears up to start conducting its compartment exams for students of Class 10 and 12 from Tuesday onwards. From doubling the number of examination centres to seeking Delhi Police’s help to prevent crowding outside centres, the board is trying to do it all in order to ensure safety and security of the students during the exams.This year around 2,37,000 students from India and 16 other countries will be appearing in the compartment exams. Students of Class 10 will be appearing in a maximum of two subjects and those in Class 12 will write their exam in one subject. The board has increased the number of examination centres from 500 (last year) to 1,268 this time around to maintain social distancing. In Delhi, the exams will be conducted in 247 centres.The CBSE on September 4 — despite vociferous protests by students and parents against conducting retests amid the raging pandemic — had announced that compartment exams will be held between September 22 and 30. The board had to earlier suspend exams of classes 10 and 12 after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the nation. The exams were later cancelled and students were evaluated on the basis of the average of exams in which they had appeared.The Directorate of Education (DoE) on Friday issued a notification asking all principals of schools that have been turned into a CBSE exam centre, to ensure smooth movement of students and teachers on exam days. “Further, the heads of these schools are also directed to ensure continued water and electricity supply during exams, and health support (in case required) . Delhi Police is also directed to support in preventing overcrowding outside exam centres,” the notification stated.All the candidates have been asked to wear a face mask and to carry their own hand sanitisers in a transparent bottle, along with a water bottle. The exam will be conducted between 10:30am to 1:30 pm. The answer book will be distributed to candidates between 10am and 10:15 am.Among the centres in Delhi, is Sarvodaya co-ed vidyalaya in Rohini sector-8. School principal Awadhesh Kumar Jha said that they are ready with sanitisers, masks, thermal scanners. “The rooms will be sanitised before the arrival of students. We have also drawn circles at a distance of 5-6 metres outside the school for students to ensure social distancing during entry. The school has also written to the Delhi police requesting their personnel be posted outside the building to avoid crowding,” he said.Many students and their parents have been protesting against the CBSE’s decision of conducting an exam amid the pandemic. Students had also launched an online campaign with the hashtag #cancelcompartmentexam2020. A plea seeking cancellation of exams has also been filed in the Supreme Court. The matter will be next heard on Tuesday. Sidhi Sawant, a student, took to Twitter to vent her opposition against the move, “If our exams are not cancelled then we want all the exams which were cancelled previously (because of COVID-19 pandemic) to happen compulsorily for all students. Why we are being treated differently amid a Pandemic (sic),” her tweet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cbse-focus-on-safety-as-it-readies-for-conducting-compartment-exams/story-Ngd1pqP0fkbgspesNmpueL.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||73 ‘low-performing’ Delhi govt schools to be adopted by mentors||The Directorate of Education (DoE) has identified 73 ‘low-performing’ government schools across Delhi on the basis of their performance in CBSE Class 10 exams this year. The schools will now be adopted by the directorate officials who will monitor their academic performance throughout the year.In a circular issued on Friday, DoE’s inspection cell said, “On the basis of result analysis of Class 10 CBSE result, for the session 2019-20, the low performing government schools have been identified for adoption. All the concerned officers of the directorate are requested to adopt the allotted school for monitoring the academic performance during the session 2020-21.”While a majority of these schools have overall pass percentages in Class 10 between 50% and 60%, some have also recorded pass percentage as low as 21%, 34% and 38%.The officials will carry out inspections in their allotted school at least once in a fortnight. They will help schools identify low performing subjects and students and chalk out a plan to improve their performance in the current academic session. “The mentors are expected to visit the respective schools at least once in a fortnight and submit an inspection report in the inspection branch within three days and a copy of the same to be given to the head of schools for the action taken report,” the circular added.The inspection performa carries parameters like — steps taken to improve attendance/ involvement of students in online classes / regular classes; whether the action plan for improvement of low performing students is prepared and followed; and if the schools have requisite online study material for students. At a time when schools are have been forced shut in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, learning have become digital with classes shifting online.An official at the Delhi government’s education department said that the idea behind the adoption is to prepare an action plan for these schools. “Despite Delhi government schools performing better than last year in CBSE class 10 exams, the performance of some schools are still not up to the mark. The mentors will now monitor the academic performance of these schools and help them improve,” the official said.The performance of government schools in Delhi improved by around 11 percentage points, from 71.6% in 2019 to 82.61% this year, in CBSE class 10 exams. Of 1,005 schools from which students took the class 10 exams, 147 achieved 100% results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/73-low-performing-delhi-govt-schools-to-be-adopted-by-mentors/story-LTPHwAWXtRSLBtNTk0wAlO.html
21-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally crosses 1.2 million||Maharashtra on Sunday surpassed another grim mark of 1.2 million confirmed Covid-19 cases with 20,598 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 12,08,642. The latest 100,000 cases came in four days, the state’s fastest leap so far. It took the state five days to go from 1 million to 1.1 million.The state continued to report over 400 fatalities for the third day straight with 455 deaths, pushing the toll to 32,671. Active cases in the state improved to 291,238.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 2,209 new infections and 44 fatalities, taking the city’s total cases to 184,439 and deaths to 8,469. The state health department said 29 cases have been added to the total due to the reconciliation of 27 in Mumbai and one each in Vasai-Virar and Sindhudurg district. In terms of testing, Mumbai crossed the 10 lakh mark. On Saturday, 13,077 tests were conducted and with that, the total tests reached 10.04 lakh at an overall positivity rate of 18.13%.For the third straight day, the number of recoveries in the state was more than the fresh infections reported. On Sunday, 26,408 patients were discharged, which took the tally of recovered patients to 884,341. The recovery rate in the state improved to 73.17%.The absolute number of deaths has been on the higher side for a few weeks now, though the case fatality rate (CFR) is witnessing a decline.However, health experts argued that the higher number of Covid-19 cases makes the CFR drop. In the last eight days alone, the state has reported 3,486 fatalities, which is an average of 435 deaths during the period.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “We must not view it in terms of absolute numbers. The CFR is an important parameter. Each death is a matter of concern and important for us, but the CFR has reduced from 4.5% in June to 2.70%. It is declining in different regions as well. The count of infections itself is huge, the absolute number of deaths will seem higher.”Maharashtra, as per the data of the state medical education department, went to the second spot in the country for highest CFR after Punjab. Maharashtra surpassed Gujarat, which for a long period had occupied the top spot, but was later dislodged by Punjab. Punjab’s CFR is 2.88%.The state has so far tested 58,72,241 samples, which has a led to an overall positivity rate of 20.58%. In the previous 24 hours, the state tested 86,094 samples, of which 20,598 tested positive. The positivity rate in the last 24 hours was higher than the state’s overall rate at 23.92%.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continued to contribute 25% of the daily caseload with 5,209 new infections in the region and 99 fatalities (including Mumbai’s death count). Pune district saw 3,726 new cases on Sunday. Pune city clocked 1,774 new infections and 37 deaths, while Pimpri-Chinchwad added 732 new cases and 10 deaths. Pune rural areas reported 1,220 cases and 29 deaths on Sunday.Nagpur city is inching closer to 50,000 Covid-19 cases with 1,612 new cases taking its tally to 49,520. It also reported 35 deaths, taking its toll to 1,457. Nagpur rural areas reported 535 new cases and 19 deaths.A senior health department official said the situation in Nashik city and its rural areas is becoming a concern. On Sunday, Nashik reported 620 new cases and four deaths, while its rural areas saw 258 new cases and nine deaths. The official said that fresh cases are in the range of 500-600 for the past three-four weeks. “However, it has not gone out of control so far. We are taking measures to control the spread,” he said, requesting anonymity. In September so far, Nashik city has reported 16,702 new infections and 151 deaths, while its rural areas have reported 5,911 new cases and 107 deaths.Currently, 18,49,217 people are in home quarantine and 35,644 people are in institutional quarantine.For Mumbai, the one lakh tests mark was crossed on May 6, two lakh on June 1, three lakh on June 24, four lakh on July 14, five lakh on July 29, six lakh on August 9, seven lakh on August 22 and eight lakh on September 3.Starting July 7, BMC had relaxed the testing norms, removing the clause that made prescription from a registered medical practitioner mandatory. BMC officials, however, claimed the number of people getting tested in private laboratories on their own is not substantial.Further, on Sunday, 1,47,807 patients have recovered and were discharged post Covid-19 treatment in Mumbai. The city’s recovery rate is 80.13%. There are 27,787 active cases in Mumbai and fatality rate is 4.59%.Meanwhile, on Sunday, BMC announced that it will install hoardings to educate citizens on how to live with Covid-19 as part of its ongoing campaign ‘My family, My responsibility in the city. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Sunday said, “We will have 700 hoardings in the city followed by hoardings on 3,000 bus stops and 3,500 BEST buses. Every citizen must join to win this war against Covid-19.”Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday appealed to medical practitioners across the state to use oxygen “judiciously”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-tally-crosses-1-2-million/story-siFaHVA4bywbSBPQHL5SwL.html
21-09-2020||Delhi||SC panel asks Delhi govt to increase homeless shelters in view of Covid||The state level monitoring committee, which was constituted following Supreme Court order, on night shelters has asked the Delhi government to increase the number of temporary shelters to ensure adequate physical distance is maintained between occupants this winter in view of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.In a meeting held last week, the committee asked the Delhi government’s Delhi Urban Shelter improvement Board (DUSIB), which is responsible for running the shelters for homeless people, to prepare this year’s Winter Action Plan conforming to the Covid-related norms.Indu Prakash Singh, member of the monitoring committee, said, “There is a need to draw up the winter action plan now, as we will need more temporary shelters this time as physical distance has to be ensured between individuals. The existing capacity of shelters will reduce this time. We have asked DUSIB to prepare a detailed plan and share it with us. We have also told other government agencies not to demolish or close any shelter home, especially those operating in porta cabins, on their land.”According to a senior DUSIB official, aware of the development, the board is planning to set up more temporary tents this time. It is also planning to make two of its under-construction shelter home buildings at Dwarka and Geeta Colony, each with a capacity to house close to 300-400 people, operational by November, said a DUSIB official.The DUSIB has 211 shelter homes in various parts of the city. During the winter season, the board sets up temporary shelters depending on the requirement. According to DUSIB officials, the board on an average sets up 50-60 additional tents annually during the winter season.“While the number will increase due to social distancing, we will have to assess the demand. We may have to set up 100-125 tents. The details are being worked out. We are planning to set up bigger tents or temporary structures, as we have to make arrangements for toilets, water, etc also. We can accommodate more people in these tents,” said a DUSIB official, who was part of the meeting.According to DUSIB officials, nearly 18,000 people can be accommodated in the existing night shelters. “But on an average, only 11,000-12,000 people use our facilities. So, we already have additional space. Our two buildings in Dwarka and Geeta Colony will also be operational soon,” said the official.The NGOs running the night shelters in the city say that managing people during winter will be a challenge. During the lockdown, the homeless shelters could accommodate more people. “But during winter, everyone sleeps inside. We need to create adequate space.As compared to last year, we have more people at our shelter homes right now. The cases of covid are on a rise. We should plan for the winter now,” said Rajesh Kumar, national executive director of Society For promotion of Youth and Masses, which manages 24 shelters for homeless people across Delhi.The Delhi government did not offer a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-panel-asks-delhi-govt-to-increase-homeless-shelters-in-view-of-covid/story-BgSKBrNslJWHmFmfYL4ETP.html
21-09-2020||Pune||City receives heavy rain on Sunday evening||Most parts of the city received heavy rainfall after 5:30pm on Sunday. At a few places, thunderstorms accompanied with lightning activity were also recorded, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Between 5:30pm and 8:30pm, Shivajinagar received 11mm rainfall. Pashan recorded 9mm rainfall. “There is a fresh flow of westerly winds from the Arabian Sea. Besides, there is an east-west sheer zone formed. Due to an increase in moisture levels caused by high day-time temperatures, all these factors will caused rain over Pune,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head, weather department, IMD, Pune.“For the next 48 hours, the intensity of the rain will be strong and then, the next 24 hours will see light rainfall,” added Kashyapi.The intensity of rainfall was strong at places like Hadapsar, Aundh, Camp, Wanowrie, Kondhwa, Katraj, Pimpri and Chinchwad on Sunday evening. At places like Fatimanagar and Salisbury park, the intensity of rain was moderate.However, rainfall activity receded in most of the parts by 8pm. Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri district have been also given warning of extremely heavy rain at isolated places for Monday.“A low pressure area is developing over northeast of Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood on Sunday which is likely to become more marked over northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during subsequent 24 hours. The major systems will influence weather of peninsular India and Maharashtra,” added Kashyapi.The maximum temperature of the day was 32.4 degrees Celsius while minimum was 21 degrees Cesius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/city-receives-heavy-rain-on-sunday-evening/story-wnVzBN9WHqM5k3s8aoROrO.html
21-09-2020||Pune||Man booked for practising medicine without licence in Pune||The Pune police have arrested a man for treating people without a registered medical licence at a clinic in Katraj.The man, who is yet to be arrested, operated the clinic under the name of Todkar Sanjeevani Nisargopchar Kendra near Katraj bus stop.“On September 18, the officials of the health department found an advertisement for an immunity booster for prevention of coronavirus. The health officer went to the clinic and found a lot of people waiting to get the powdered medicine there. There are also videos of the accused with patients on the social media. We were unable to find him at the clinic which was later sealed by Pune Municipal Corporation officials.,” said assistant inspector S Chiwadshetty of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station who is investigating the case.A complaint has been lodged by Dr Deepak Pakhale, health officer for Zone 3 of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).The police are investigating how many people the man have treated.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 33(2) of Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961, has been registered at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-booked-for-practising-medicine-without-licence-in-katraj/story-ue3Qyx7xeiBg4QqKGK7tRI.html
