22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University allows appointment of additional staff for online final-semester exams||Panjab University (PU) has allowed the appointment of additional staff for the smooth conducting of the ongoing examinations of postgraduate and undergraduate courses.The online final-semester examinations began on September 17, and are being conducted in three slots a day. The question paper is made available to the students ten minutes prior to the start of the online examination on the varsity’s official website.In a communique addressed to the heads of affiliated colleges and regional centres, PU controller of examination has informed that appointment of additional staff for the conduct of online examinations has been allowed.Inderpal Singh Sidhu, assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, and PU senator, said, “Since the exams are being conducted online this time, and at many colleges where the number of students is high the supporting staff is facing issues, I had requested the university to allow the colleges to appoint additional staff.”Colleges and regional centres have been allowed to appoint three assistant superintendents and an electrician who will be paid remuneration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-allows-appointment-of-additional-staff-for-online-final-semester-exams/story-yP3lqD9qyu6iUpECL1bqJP.html
22-09-2020||City||Kharar liquor vend cashier robbed of Rs 15 lakh in broad daylight||Four bike-borne men robbed a liquor vend cashier of ₹15.3 lakh in broad daylight, Kharar police said on Tuesday. The victim, Rajesh Kumar, was on his way to deposit the money in an SBI bank branch near Kharar bus stand around 9.15am, when four masked men turned up on two Royal Enfield motorcycles and one of them hit him with a stick. The incident took place near gurdwara Akali Daftar, the police said. Rajesh, who was on a Honda Activa, tried to resist, but the robbers overpowered him and snatched his bag containing the cash.Kharar station house officer (SHO) Bhagwant Singh said when Rajesh reached a narrow lane near the gurdwara, he was stopped by two bike-borne men. “Two other persons, meanwhile, were following him on another motorcycle,” he added. He said two of the accused have been caught on the surveillance cameras installed near the crime scene. Registration number of one of the motorcycles is also partially visible, the SHO added. Rajesh, who has injured his hand, was working for Baljinder Singh, the liquor contractor. Baljinder had been running his office from a house, where other staff members were also present. The police are exploring all angles while investigating this case and have reportedly questioned at least 20 people so far.As per the police, the stolen cash was the payment received in the last three days, which Rajesh was going to deposit in the bank.An FIR has been registered against the unidentified accused, the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-liquor-vend-cashier-robbed-of-rs-15-lakh-in-broad-daylight/story-6vNXJvtamGKUxO1GOZ0W7I.html
22-09-2020||Noida||Broken boundary wall has residents concerned about their safety||Residents of a highrise in Noida sector 137 are concerned for their safety because of a broken boundary wall.According to the residents of Exotica Fresco society, a portion of the wall had collapsed almost a month ago due to severe water logging.“There is no rain water harvesting, because of which it accumulated near the boundary wall during last few heavy spells of rain. This led to the structure weakening, and one day a portion collapsed. It has been 45 days now and remains unrepaired leaving the society exposed,” said Kunal Zutshi, a resident.He said that the open boundary has becomes a security concern for the residents.“We had to ask one of our regular guards to keep guard at the open portion. This is just cutting into our already feeble resources. We don’t want to wait for a major security issue to happen and have been requesting the builder to repair it as soon as possible,” said Zutshi.The residents also had to move their vehicles parked in that stretch of the society and place them elsewhere.“Over time we have had several maintenance related concerns. Our basements are water logged every monsoon. But nothing is as urgent as the broken boundary wall. Anyone can come in and go without being monitored. It is leaving us in a vulnerable position and their has been no response to our requests to repair the damaged wall. Such a negligence is specially catastrophic during the current pandemic,” said Mohit Khullar, general secretary, Apartment Owners Association.The estate manager said that the design for the wall has been approved.“The collapse happened a month back and getting architectural approval for the design too some time. But we are working on it and it should be repaired soon,” said Pawan Kaliwal, the estate manager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/broken-boundary-wall-has-residents-concerned-about-their-safety/story-6N6Ozcugfe6ooXc9Kd2w7O.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Fake call centre racket targeting senior citizens busted, 6 arrested||Six persons were arrested on Monday for running a fake call centre racket in Zirakpur in which mainly senior citizens were targeted and defrauded of cash after being made to pay a “fee” to get their hands on what was claimed to be the maturity amount from insurance policies.Rs 4 lakh and about 30 mobile phones were recovered from Yogesh Verma (38) of Dhakoli; Pranav of Ambala Cantonment; Manish Kumar Rai of Dera Bassi; Subham Bhardwaj of Sunny Enclave; Arjun Yadav of Sector-17, Panchkula; and Rakesh Kumar of Dera Bassi.  SIM cards of different service providers and 10 registers and diaries were also seized. The call centres were busted after Nirmal Singh (83) of Sector 44 complained to the police that he had been cheated of Rs 16.54 lakh by fraudsters who promised to send him Rs 25 lakh that they claimed was the maturity amount of his insurance policy. Nirmal Singh said he had received a mobile phone call in June 2020 and was told about an old insurance policy of Rs 25 lakh that was maturing and that he had to deposit a fee and documents for the funds to be released.Taken in by them, and after receiving several mobile phone calls, Nirmal Singh ended up paying Rs 16.54 lakh to the fraudsters.A similar complaint was lodged later by Ajudhya Dass Rajpoot of Sector 42, who lost Rs 2 lakh to fraudsters who promised to pay him the maturity amount of his Reliance Nippon insurance policy maturity. Police said Yogesh Verma and Manish Kumar Rai were the masterminds of the operations and had set up the call centre. The other men were hired by them and given mobile phones to make the calls. They targeted senior citizens who had purchased insurance policies from different companies and lured them to deposit the money to get a huge amount supposedly after their insurance policies matured. The accused were produced in court on Tuesday and remanded to three-day police custody. A case under section 419, 420 and 120B of IPC was registered in police station 34, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fake-call-centre-racket-targeting-senior-citizens-busted-6-arrested/story-vAJnFLj5Kdq1j6Bc848a3K.html
22-09-2020||City||Water supply to Gaur City high-rise halted, two maintenance agency officials booked||A group of high-rise residents on Monday evening protested against the society’s maintenance agency for allegedly stopping water supply for more than five hours.Residents of Avenue 6 in Gaur City alleged that the agency arbitrarily increased the maintenance fee by nearly 60% on Monday and when the residents objected to the hike, the staff allegedly stopped the water supply to high-rise which is home to nearly 1,100 families.Amarjeet Rathore, an Avenue 6 resident, said that agency responsible for the maintenance of the high-rise increased the rate of upkeep charges from ₹1.25 to ₹2 per square feet, without discussing the hike with the flat owners. “Notices mentioning the new rates, applicable from October 1, surfaced on the notice boards on Monday. When the residents objected to the hike, the maintenance agency removed security guards from the society and also stopped the water supply,” he said.Rathore said residents of the high-rise, where a few Covid-19 patients are also under home isolation, faced a lot of problems and gathered together in protest around 6pm on Monday evening. A team from Bisrakh police station soon reached the spot to resolve the issue. The police said the called independent plumbers who restored the water supply late in the evening.Another resident of the high-rise, Brijwasi Singh, filed a complaint with the police against two officials of the maintenance agency – RK Maurya and Ashish Nirula – alleging that essential services to had been stopped due to which the residents especially children, women, and elderly people were troubled. “The maintenance fee should have been increased after due deliberation. In wake of the pandemic, we feel that this is not the right time to increase the fee,” Singh said.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said, based on Singh’s complaint, a case has been registered against the two agency officials under sections 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life),188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of Epidemic Act.Ashish Narula, deputy general manager of the maintenance agency said that it was disheartening to see that the residents had filed an FIR against him and Maurya even as “they tirelessly worked to provide best of services even during the pandemic risking their lives”. “The residents have ignored the fact that we charge barely ₹1.25 ft for maintenance services. The charges have not been increased since inception of the society in 2014. The residents have stalled efforts to increase the charges of 15% every year, a clause which is already there in the agreement,” Narula added. He further said that the current maintenance fee is too little and cannot meet the expenses including the salaries of the maintenance staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-supply-to-gaur-city-high-rise-halted-two-maintenance-agency-officials-booked/story-VR12FgU9zRVjV0E9vJe5HN.html
22-09-2020||City||Sub Lieutenant Kumudini Tyagi: The engineer who chose the ocean over office||Sub Lieutenant Kumudini Tyagi has been to her home in Ghaziabad just once in the last two years, ever since she joined the Indian Navy.When they heard of her achievement of being one of the first women to operate from flight decks of warships and stay on board the vessels, her parents Pravesh and Manjula Tyagi were elated.“It is a moment of pride for all of us. We could not attend the ceremony on Monday due to the pandemic. But, all of us at home are eagerly waiting for her to arrive home as we have been able to meet her only once ever since she joined the Navy. But, of course, service comes first,” said Pravesh. Sub Lieutenant Kumudini joined as ‘Observers’ (Airborne Tacticians) in the helicopter stream, along with Sub Lieutenant Riti Singh. They are the only women are among the 17 officers who were awarded “wings” on graduating at a ceremony held at INS Garuda, Kochi on Monday. They were trained for a variety of roles, including navigation, flying procedures, tactics employed in air warfare, anti-submarine warfare and airborne avionics systems. The family is native of Kharkhauda in Meerut and shifted to Ghaziabad in 1983. Kumudini, her parents said, completed her schooling from St Paul’s Academy and later from Ch. Chhabil Dass Public School in Ghaziabad. She then joined ABES engineering college in Ghaziabad where she achieved a BTech in computer science. In 2018, she She is the first from her family to join the military.“She did not join the company which selected her as part of the college placement and neither did she attend other interviews. During her schooling and college, she had deep interest in the defence forces. We never stopped her from pursuing her dreams and she has shown us that she achieved what she aimed for,” said Pravesh. Her grandmother, Rajesh Kumari, said that she was overjoyed with her achievement. “I am feeling jubilant and she has made us all proud,” she said. The living room of the Tyagi house has photographs of her in uniform and her mother, Manjula, who was eager to speak about her feats while undergoing training before she got commissioned. “She was a driven child and she put in about 10-12 hours each day into her studies. She would run across the residential block for hours with earphones on. Her determination got her selected in the third attempt,” she said. Tyagi’s brother Apoorv had also cleared the written examination of the combined defence services. “He is aiming to join the Indian Army. Even as we know about the situations developing at our borders nowadays, we don’t mind our daughter going in for a combat role. It is part of her job and I know she will be ready for it,” said Parvesh. With their induction, warships will no longer be no-go zone for women naval aviators. Earlier, entry of women was restricted to the fixed wing aircraft that took off and landed ashore.“She has made us all proud and has also made name for the city. The Ghaziabad district administration will be eager to felicitate her whenever she comes back home from her duty. Her achievement is also a big motivation for other youngsters who wish to join defence forces,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sub-lieutenant-kumudini-tyagi-the-engineer-who-chose-the-ocean-over-office/story-Z9PGEJ5kt4rU7AFqfI4NBM.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Three held with 500-gram opium in Ludhiana||Sudhar police arrested a couple and their accomplice for drug peddling on Monday and recovered 500-gram opium from their possession.The accused have been identified as Lekhraj, 50, of Panj Garayiyan village, his wife Gurmeet Kaur, 45, and their relative, Rajpal, 27.Sub-inspector Jasveer Singh, station house officer at Sudhar police station, said the accused were arrested near Premjit government hospital during a special checking. He added that they were on a motorcycle, and on frisking, the opium was recovered from their possession.During questioning, the accused said they procured the opium from Malerkotla and came to Sudhar to deliver the consignment. The SHO added that they have no past criminal record. More important information is expected from the accused during questioning, he said.A case has been registered under Sections 18, 61, 85 of NDPS Act and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code against the accused at Sudhar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-held-with-500-gram-opium-in-ludhiana/story-dbj79X4qTJOmBzd01UEx2J.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Brush with generosity: Tricity artists get together to help freelancers hit by Covid crisis||A post by sculptor Harpal Shekhupuria on Facebook, seeking the support of artists with government jobs to help freelancers hit hard financially by the Covid-19 crisis, has got a heartwarming response. Artists from the tricity and Punjab have come forward to contribute what they can and form a transparent group to help those in need.“I have a private job,” says Shekhupuria, “but I am doing what I can to help artists and will continue to do so. I have been a freelance artist and I know the trials and tribulations one has to go through for sheer survival.” Gurdeep Dhiman, who does have a government job to support his creative endeavours, feels, “this is a time when all should come together as a community to help one another without prejudice.”Most artists have decided to come together for the cause instead of approaching art bodies, which many feel promote a few select names for workshops and sponsorships. Some have even questioned their alma mater in not empowering the students with skills and modern facilities to be able to survive in the competitive art market. Senior sculptor Jaswinder Singh, an awardee of the Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi and a master’s in fine arts degree holder draws attention to the problem, saying: “All my degrees are for sale as I have no other means of survival!” However, as he is 50 and experienced, Jaswinder Singh is confident of managing on his own. But he wonders what youngsters graduating from art colleges now will do after being “disheartened in the world outside.”There are very few opportunities for freelancers in the city right now with some of them saying they were disenchanted with the functioning of the North Zone Cultural Centre which in a camp before the Covid-19 outbreak ignored talented freelance artists and got students from the college at daily wages. When asked what could be done to help young artists, Bheem Malhotra, chairman,Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademy, says: “The administration has promised us partial interim financial grants and we will try to help artists through workshops. At a personal level, I have been helping some artists get paid work outside.”Two young sculptors, well appreciated for their works, have decided to support themselves with daily needs shops. The road is tough but well-known photographer Randeep Maddoke, lauding Shekhupuria’s initiative, says: “These are hard times, but we must make a sincere attempt to overcome and help the artists in crises in these Covid times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/brush-with-generosity-tricity-artists-get-together-to-help-freelancers-hit-by-covid-crisis/story-dZmDITQbaXBso3o08qPSXN.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Ludhiana MC launches campaign to turn solid waste into craft||With an aim to improve its rankings in Swachh Survekshan and involve the public in solid waste management, the municipal corporation (MC) launched the “Waste to Wow” campaign in which competitions will be held among the residents for home composting and initiatives taken to transform waste into craft.The campaign was launched during a one-day capacity building workshop on Swachh Survekshan 2021 organised for MC officials at Bachat Bhawan on Tuesday. It was attended by mayor Balkar Sandhu, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, project director (solid waste management) Puran Singh and councillor Mamta Ashu. MC officials were directed to implement source segregation and door-to-door collection of waste.Over two dozen sweepers/sewermen of the MC were also honoured as “Best safai sainik” for performing their duties well.Under the campaign, the MC will also establish a lab with the help of NGOs, where waste will be converted into craft and an online campaign will be launched to gift handmade items made out of waste on festivals. Joint commissioner Swati Tiwana said, “Clean cards will be given to residents who wish to or are doing home composting in their houses by September 30. The sanitation staff will monitor the progress and sign the card for 40 days, which will be a proof that home compositing is being done by the resident. After 40 days, certificates would be given to 12 residents through draw of lots.”Further, a competition is being started wherein residents will be asked to upload pictures of their craft on the MC’s Facebook page from September 30 to November 30. The winners would be given the certificate of “Pride of Ludhiana”.With an aim to involve councillors for establishing compost pits in all 922 parks of the city, a competition would also be held and best performing councillors with more number of parks with pits, would be given ‘Swachhagrahi’ award. The MC will also start a workshop in association with NGOs where waste will be converted into useful items and then distributed among residents, Tiwana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/swachh-survekshan-2021-ludhiana-mc-launches-campaign-to-turn-solid-waste-into-craft/story-zeLHwpSRbWXsRgXmSRp34H.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Road-widening project at Ludhiana village: SGPC refuses acquiring of gurdwara land||Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority’s (GLADA) road- widening project in Ayali Kalan village might have hit a roadblock with Shiromani Gurudwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) refusing to give consent for acquiring its land which is in the name of Gurdwara Sri Thada Sahib. A board has been installed at the said land worth crores by the gurdwara management opposing the acquisition. Earlier, residents of Ayali Kalan had opposed the road widening project stating that around 6 acre (out of 32 acre) of SGPC land is being acquired for the benefit of a private contractor in the area. The width of the road has to be increased from around 20 to 100 feet. The residents had also submitted a complaint with the SGPC and chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh stating that the land was initially allotted for construction of a hospital, college etc. Following this, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal had also written to the CM on September 17 to demanding that the land not be acquired. Villagers Kulwant Kaur and Gurpreet Singh said, “The land cannot be acquired as it is on the name of the gurdwara and was allotted for construction of hospital and college decades back. It is a conspiracy to benefit a private contractor. If a road has to be widened, then land on both sides of the road has to be acquired equally, but here the authorities are only acquiring land at one side. We have also submitted a memorandum with GLADA authorities and gurdwara management has also installed a board at the site against land acquisition.” GLADA additional chief administrator (ACA) Bhupinder Singh said, “The road has to be widened and land will be acquired for the same in exchange of the award amount. Few residents have approached us with their demand that the gurudwara land should not be acquired. Till now, we have not received any directions from the state government to stop the project and we will forward the proposal to acquire the land to the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/road-widening-project-at-ludhiana-village-sgpc-refuses-acquiring-of-gurdwara-land/story-b2fQiebMDtRBbSIWNLLWzN.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Over 10,600 people in Mohali fined ₹49 lakh for not wearing masks||Over the last six months since the lockdown after the Covid-19 outbreak was imposed, the district police have slapped fines of Rs 49.23 lakh on 10,678 persons for not wearing masks. Those who jumped home quarantine and violated social distancing norms and spat in public places were also fined for not adhering to the guidelines of the state health department. Besides people who chose not to wear masks, three persons violating home quarantine rules were fined Rs 6,000 while 43 found spitting at public places were penalised Rs 4,300 collectively. Seven others ignoring social distancing norms paid up Rs14,000. On Tuesday, 60 persons were challaned for not wearing masks and Rs 30,000 collected from them. The senior superintendent of police, Mohali, Kuldeep Singh Chahal, said the state government had imposed penalties in case of violation of instructions and guidelines regarding prevention and control of Covid-19 according to regulations framed under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. For better pandemic management the rules had been made more stringent and fine amount increased.The fines include Rs 500 for not wearing a mask in public places; Rs 2,000 for violating home quarantine instructions as well as social distancing norms by owners of shops /commercial places and by vehicle owners. However, fines for buses are Rs3,000, for cars it’s Rs 2,000 and for auto rickshaws/two wheeler owners it’s Rs 500 All officials not below the post of BDPO, Naib Tehsildar , ASI. and any other official authorised by the deputy commissioner can impose the aforementioned penalties . Non-payment of fine attracts proceedings under section 188 of IPC as per the regulations framed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-10-600-people-in-mohali-fined-49-lakh-for-not-wearing-masks/story-sEXNxZGVIL9bPTifbiz0rK.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government promises Maratha community reservation under EWS||After the Supreme Court stayed reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and educational institutes, the state government on Tuesday decided to extend the reservation meant for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) to the community. The EWS category will now get a share of social-economic schemes outlined for the Maratha community.After the uproar among the community members that led to the statewide protests in the backdrop of the Apex court decision on September 9, the state cabinet discussed the issue in its marathon meeting on Tuesday. The cabinet decided to extend the 10% reservation meant for the EWS to the Maratha community to safeguard the quota in jobs and college admissions. The community has also been assured to simplify the process to secure the quota after the shuffle in the category. The EWS quota is meant for the people with the annual family income below ₹8 lakh. The three-judge bench of the Apex court, on September 9, stayed the reservation to Marathas in jobs and education for 2020-21, while transferring the case to a five-judge constitutional bench. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act 2018, gives reservation of 12% and 13% in employment and admissions respectively, to the community members. The decision taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday allows the Maratha community to seek the benefit in 10% reservation given to the EWS by the Central government last year.Public works minister Ashok Chavan who heads the cabinet sub-committee on reservation announced the decision after the cabinet meeting. “We will ensure that the certificates needed for the EWS quota are issued and the legal issues involved are resolved at the earliest. The state government will try to safeguard the interest of the Maratha community even while abiding by the interim stay given by the Apex court. On the other hand, we have also approached the court for the vacation of the stay,” he said.Chavan said that the schemes formulated for the Maratha youths to enable them to appear for competitive exams, extend capital investment for enterprising youths and hostels for the students will now be made available for the entire EWS category. “We have made a financial outlay of ₹600 crore for the scholarships for higher education, ₹130 crore for SARTHI (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research, Training and Human Development Institute), the institute established for educational, social and financial development of the community, ₹400 crore for the Annasaheb Patil Financial Backward Development Corporation funding enterprising youths from the community. All these schemes will continue to cater to the community as they have been extended to EWS category. If needed the state government would not hesitate to make additional provision for these schemes,” he said.Chavan also announced that the criminal cases registered against the Maratha protesters will be withdrawn in the next one month. He said that barring 26 cases which are of the serious nature, other cases have been withdrawn and the remaining will be decided upon immediately. He said that the process of guaranteeing jobs to the legal heirs of the protestors, who lost their lives in Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will be completed immediately. Maratha community leaders, however, have said that this could not be an alternative. “The decision has raised more questions. First of all, we have been made to compete with other open categories in the quota with a lesser per cent of reservation. Secondly, how is the government going to assure that the students, who have already secured the admissions or jobs under SEBC will be accommodated under EWS with the same documents submitted? How can this be legally tenable? The government has been boasting about the financial assistance under various schemes, but many of them are in shambles and we had to protest for their effective implementations in the last couple of years,” said Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha. Earlier, the state government had clarified that the Marathas seeking the reservation under SEBC, will not be entitled to the quota in EWS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-promises-maratha-community-reservation-under-ews/story-N1Q97vliOCvb4LOgENjCMJ.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||97-year-old from Mumbai’s Nallasopara defeats Covid-19||A 97-year-old retired farmer has defeated the Covid-19 virus after undergoing treatment at a Nallasopara hospital for a week. Ramchandra Krishna Patil is a resident of Achole village, Nallasopara (East). He stays with his grandson Vaibhav who is an ex-corporator of the Vasai civic body. “When my grandfather tested positive, we were home quarantined. He underwent treatment at a Star Hospital for a week, and was discharged on Monday,” said Vaibhav.“His strong willpower helped him defeat the virus. The hospital treated him free of cost and showered rose petals on him at the time of discharge,” he added.Meanwhile, Palghar district has so far recorded 32,668 Covid-19 cases, around 21,031 cases have been reported in Vasai-Virar civic area. Around 623 deaths have been reported in Palghar district, while 421 deaths have been reported in Vasai-Virar areas, as per data from district information office (DIO) Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/97-year-old-from-mumbai-s-nallasopara-defeats-covid-19/story-Tk0uATWKyoA4UzK95kxbyK.html
22-09-2020||City||3 tremors reported in Dahanu within 3 hours on Tuesday||Three tremors were recorded in Dahanu with the epicentre at Dhundhalwadi on Tuesday morning within three hours. The first tremor of 3.5 magnitude on the Richter Scale was felt at 2.50am, the second of 2.1 magnitude was at 4.12am and the third tremor of 2.0 magnitude was recorded at 5.49am said Vivekanand Kadam, chief of the Palghar disaster management response department. There was no loss to property or casualties due to the minor quakes said Kadam.On September 11, around eight tremors were recorded in four hours in Dahanu and Talasari villages.Earlier this week, Palghar district officials had visited the villages, and awareness programmes are being conducted. Ashima Mittal, sub-divisional officer, Dahanu, said that local tehsildars have been instructed to inspect the tremor-affected villages. The government has provided large tents to be set up in open spaces in the Dahanu and Talasari villages so that residents can take refuge in them during the tremors. Mock drills are also going to be carried out in the villages to make people aware of the dos and don’ts during such natural incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-tremors-reported-in-dahanu-within-3-hours-on-tuesday/story-pjR4u72QPHPQfZoU4PcGYP.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s 21-40 age group most exposed to Covid-19 antibodies: Private lab||A sero-survey by a private laboratory in the city has found that those between 21 to 40 registered the highest positivity rate of antibodies. Metropolis Laboratory conducted a sero-survey based on samples collected between June and August. The high positivity rate suggests those in the age group of 21-40 comprise the majority of those who have recovered from Covid-19 in Mumbai. Metropolis’s data also suggests more women in the 21-30 age group contracted Covid-19 and men aged between 31-40 were most affected by the infection. For its sero-survey, Metropolis studied 16,697 random samples collected between June 26 and August 17. Of these, 11,623 samples were from men and 5,074 were from women. The overall positivity rate for antibodies was 33%. These recovered people are now potential donors of plasma as studies suggest antibodies decay after three to four months. The sero-survey also noted differences in positivity rates between age groups and genders. While 31.8% of the samples from men aged between 31-40 tested positive for antibodies, the percentage dipped to 23.9% for those aged between 21 to 30. Those between 41-50 years and 51-60 years recorded 21.4% and 11.6% positivity rates respectively. Of the samples collected from women, those between 21-30 years recorded a positivity rate of 27.4%, followed by 23.2% for those aged between 31 to 40 years. Those between 41-50 years recorded 19.2% positivity while those in the 51 to 60 age group recorded 13.3%.The survey also found some samples did not test positive for antibodies despite having tested positive for Covid-19. Dr Nilesh Shah of Metropolis Laboratory said, “The data indicates that immunity for everybody is different as 20% of the 167 samples who had previous history of Covid-19 tested negative for Covid-19 antibodies. Also, in case of age wise data, the positivity rate is higher in the younger age group because they probably have more exposure outside when compared to the older age group.” Subhasree Ray, clinical nutritionist and public health professional, also said men and women in 21-40 years’ age group are likely to be the most exposed to the infection. Geographically, the highest positivity rates in the city were in Parel (44%), Borivli (W; 39%), Sion (39%), Saki Naka (38%), Khar (38%), Mulund (37%), Malabar Hill (35%) and Worli (33%).The lowest positivity rates were in Kandivli (19%), JB Nagar (18%), IIT-Bombay (17%), Grant Road (17%) and Churchgate (17%).A survey carried out in the city by private laboratory Thyrocare, using 8,376 samples collected between July 3 and August 7, found a positivity rate of 28.89% . High positivity rates were recorded in areas that were Covid hotspots, including Govandi (57%), Dharavi (54%), Worli (42%), Chembur Extension (48%) and Mazgaon (40%). The results of the second phase of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) sero-surveillance, which is being carried out in three wards, is expected this week. The first phase found 57% from slums and 16% from other residential areas had been exposed to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-21-40-age-group-most-exposed-to-covid-19-antibodies-private-lab/story-D41A8c8lYl3j1wUB4Ezd1I.html
22-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: 40 families from neighbouring 3 buildings evacuated overnight||In the wake of collapse of Jilani building in Bhiwandi on Monday, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) evacuated 40 families living in three neighbouring buildings overnight, as a precautionary measure. The civic body disconnected the power and water supply to the buildings. Pankaj Ashiya, BNCMC commissioner, said, “These three buildings are in extremely dangerous condition. Those who were homeless were sent to the nearest community hall and school temporarily, till they find a permanent place.” Most of the residents went to their friends’ or relatives’ houses, with some even spending the night on the road. “We were asked to move out and also informed that they will cut the power and water supply. We rushed out immediately. We have nowhere to go, I am an autorickshaw driver and my earning is badly hit due to the lockdown,” said Noor Mohammad Momin, 50, a resident of one of the three buildings. BNCMC chief on Tuesday ordered ward officers and assistant municipal commissioners to check dangerous structures in other parts of the city and conduct structural audits of such buildings. “In the wake of the incident, we have again asked the officers concerned to check the extremely dangerous buildings and get their audit done at the earliest. Our team has also started serving notices to such buildings all over again,” said Ashiya. Some of the survivors from Jilani building, too, were struggling to find a shelter for the night. “I lost my two kids in the incident. My wife, sister-in-law and 12-year-old son were rescued. I spent my entire night at the spot, as I have no place to go. My wife and sister-in-law went to her mother’s place with my son. I also tried searching for some of our belongings, but they were fully damaged,” said Abidh Mohammad Ansari, 40. Khalim Ansari, 57, who was away at the time of the incident, said, “My wife and son were home, but they had a narrow escape. My belongings are gone. My family is staying at a relative’s place, but I am clueless about where to shift in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-40-families-from-neighbouring-3-buildings-evacuated-overnight/story-6hYmW6ITY3LyxtDFd8AR6N.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||45-yr-old robbed of ₹25k, mobile phone in Ludhiana||Three unidentified people hit a motorcycle-borne man on the head with an iron rod and robbed him of ₹25,000 and his mobile phone at Katani Kalan village on Monday night. The victim, Lakhbir Singh, 45, of Rayian village, said the incident took place when he was returning home from Rajpura. He added that the accused hit him on the head with an iron road, damaging his helmet, and then robbed him. After the accused left, he sounded the police.Assistant sub-inspector Jasvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case has been registered against three unidentified people under Sections 379-B (theft) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Koomkalan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/45-yr-old-robbed-of-25k-mobile-phone-in-ludhiana/story-3gJyQ0TnVnvD5edzUuQNEJ.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Police report highest Covid case count in September, Mumbai Police worst hit||September is proving to be one of the worst months of the Covid pandemic for the state police force, with the month’s death count reaching 73 after seven more fatalities were reported among police personnel on Tuesday. In August, 54 deaths were reported, while the number was 43 in July, 33 in June and 23 in May. In April, only three policemen had succumbed to the disease. “Eight days are left for the month to end and we are just praying that the situation doesn’t get worse,” said a senior police officer. The death toll among state police is 229.According to the Maharashtra Police, 263 new personnel got infected on Monday. With this, the overall caseload of the state police now stands at 21,574. According to information provided by Manoj Patil, superintendent of police (control room), holding additional charge of assistant inspector general of police (law and order), the force has 3,548 active patients while 17,797 have recovered fully. At present 10,542 policemen are in quarantine.On Tuesday, the state police control room received information of the death of seven policemen from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Pune city, Pune rural, Akola and Gondia districts. In Mumbai, a 28-year-old constable from Ghatkopar police station succumbed. Mukesh Thakur, who had joined the force at the age of 22 had also been battling blood cancer since the past few years. On September 13, he contracted the virus and was undergoing treatment at Manodaya Cancer Centre in Nashik. Originally from Igatpuri, Thakur was living with his wife and son at Titwala.Navi Mumbai police have recorded two deaths. Shantilal Koli, a 55-year-old assistant sub-inspector posted at the NRI Coastal police station and head constable Vinod Pataskar, 45, attached to the headquarters, both succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday at DY Patil Hospital in Navi Mumbai.Pune city police recorded a fatality as assistant sub-inspector Bhagwan Nikam died of the coronavirus. Attached to the special branch, the 55-year-old was receiving treatment at Commandant Hospital in Wanawadi, but his condition deteriorated and he succumbed on September 17.Pune rural police also recorded a Covid death. A 47-year-old head constable Sanjay Gilbile from Mansar police station lost the battle with the disease and died on Sunday at Dinanath Mangeshkar Hospital.In other Covid casualties, two head constables from Akola and Gondia districts lost their lives to the coronavirus. Raju Khedkar, 52, and Imran Kazi, 56, were attached to the Akola headquarters and Ramnagar police station, respectively. Khedkar died on Monday at Sarve Upchar Hospital, Akola while Kazi succumbed on September 17 at KTS District Hospital.So far, Mumbai Police has been at the top of the list of forces with most Covid-infected personnel and casualties. In Mumbai, 5,785 cases of Covid infection have been reported till Tuesday, of which 80 have succumbed. A senior IPS officer said that 75% of infected policemen in Mumbai have already recovered and resumed duty. The city police’s mortality rate is 1.38%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-report-highest-covid-case-count-in-september-mumbai-police-worst-hit/story-bcPfuzGSdBugRwOp5twjUM.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||GRP arrests four MNS workers for protesting, travelling on Mumbai local train illegally||Local crime branch, unit 2, of the Government Railway Police (GRP) on Tuesday arrested four Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) party workers including a corporator, for illegally travelling in a local train. The four were also booked for protesting at several railway stations on Monday and demanding that train travel be opened to the public.Police said the arrested four include Sandeep Despande, 47, an MNS corporator from Dadar, along with Santosh Dhuri, 50, from Prabhadevi, Gajanan Kale, 41, from Nerul and Atul Bhagat, 57, from Uran. All the accused were produced before a Kalyan railway court and remanded in magistrate custody for 14 days. “We received information that the four had boarded a train from Vangani railway station on the Central Railway line on Monday morning. Seeing the police bandobast they got down at a remote railway station. As they travel illegally we started a search operation to trace them,” said a GRP officer. A case was registered by the GRP under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Disaster Management Act, 2005, Covid-19 Act, 2020 and Indian Railway Act.“We arrested the four from a chowk in Karjat. They got down at a remote railway station on the central line and were heading towards Lonavala. Our team was following the car they were travelling in and traced them to Karjat,” said Uttam Sonawane, senior inspector, local crime branch, unit 2, GRP. Despande told media persons, “Whatever we did was for the benefit of general people. The government and police authorities are pressuring us by adding section 153 and 156 of the Indian Railway Act, which is for travelling on the train roof and throwing stones. We only travelled on the train, and we are proud that we are fighting for commuters for whom this is the only travel option.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/grp-arrests-four-mns-workers-for-protesting-travelling-on-mumbai-local-train-illegally/story-fcO36HEcyMyPtAL2XxaGXL.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||South Mumbai surpasses 3,000-mm mark, highest seasonal rain in a decade||South Mumbai has set a rain record this year with the highest seasonal rainfall in 10 years (2011-2020) and this is only the fifth time in 119 years that over 3,000mm rain was recorded. The weather observatory at Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, surpassed the 3,000mm mark with light to moderate rain between Monday and Tuesday. Moderate showers were recorded through the day in Mumbai on Tuesday. Between 8.30am and 8.30pm, Colaba recorded 50.4mm rain while 21.6mm was recorded at Santacruz, representative of the suburbs. Intense heavy showers were recorded late Tuesday evening post 8.30 pm across isolated areas in south Mumbai. South Mumbai has recorded 3,050.9mm rain between June and September 22, 8.30pm. Seasonal rainfall is representative of the quantum of rain recorded between June and September, the duration of the southwest monsoon in India. According to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), this is the first time in 10 years (2011-2020) that the weather station recorded over 3,000-mm rain. In 2010, Colaba had recorded 3,169.1 mm but thereafter the highest seasonal rainfall was recorded in 2011 (2,878.8mm) followed by 2019 (2,732.4mm). Over the past decade, the lowest rainfall was recorded in 2012 at 1,433.9mm. Over the past 119 years (1901-2020), IMD data showed Colaba recorded its highest all-time seasonal rainfall in 1954 at 3,423.1mm while its lowest all-time rainfall was recorded in 1918 at 584.4mm. In 1958 and 1983, Colaba had recorded 3,382.4mm and 3,329.8mm, making it a total five such years (including 2020) in over a century that 3,000mm rain was recorded. “Generally the trend shows Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs, receives much more rain than Colaba, but 2020 has been an exceptionally good monsoon year for entire Mumbai and Maharashtra,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD. The average seasonal rainfall for Colaba is 2,066mm and it was surpassed on August 5. The weather station recorded 524.5 mm rain in June, 1,229.5 mm rain in July, and 1,132.7mm rain in August, which included the exceptionally heavy rainfall recorded between August 4 and 5 of 331.8 mm rain over 24 hours. “There have been seven low-pressure weather systems so far this monsoon and the most recent one allowing moderate rain over Mumbai currently. These systems kept weather systems active along the west coast leading to intense rainfall activity witnessed especially during the month of August when the low-pressure system was active 27 days out of 31 days of the month,” said Mohapatra. In September so far, south Mumbai has recorded 165.4 mm rain against the monthly average of 330.4mm while the suburbs recorded 145.2 mm rain against the mean for the month at 341.4mm. Between June and September so far, the suburbs recorded 3,306.3mm rain, the second wettest monsoon in 10 years. Meanwhile, the weather bureau has predicted heavy to very heavy rain across isolated areas between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning and a yellow alert (heavy rain across isolated areas) for Wednesday. “Under the impact of the low-pressure weather system over the northeast Bay of Bengal, lower level southwesterly winds brought moisture over the Konkan coast leading to cloud bans moving from south to north over Konkan from the Arabian Sea with cloud height varying from 5 to 10km from the surface leading to active monsoon conditions,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD. South Mumbai and the suburbs both have witnessed 55% excess rainfall through the season so far, with over a week still to go. Maharashtra has recorded 17% excess rainfall. RAIN RECORD FOR SOUTH MUMBAI YEARS WHEN RAINFALL CROSSED 3,000-mm AT COLABA (1901-2020) 2020 – 3,050.9 mm (From June 1 to September 22 8.30pm) 2010 – 3,169.1 mm 1983 – 3,329.8 mm 1958 – 3,382.4 mm 1954 – 3,423.1 mm (all-time high) 1918 – 584.4 mm (lowest – all time) (Source: IMD) SEASONAL RAINFALL OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS (2011-2020) 2020 – 3,050.9 mm (highest in 10 years) 2019 – 2,732.4 mm 2018 – 1,779.3 mm 2017 - 2,253.4 mm 2016 – 2,507 mm 2015 – 1,604.8 mm 2014 – 2,134.7 mm 2013 – 2,371.2 mm 2012 – 1,433.9 mm (lowest in 10 years) 2011 – 2,878.8 mm (Source: IMD)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/south-mumbai-surpasses-3-000-mm-mark-highest-seasonal-rain-in-a-decade/story-BPiCvG8sjAh6EqaQ8H2jyL.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department orders inspection of four private schools in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai over fee hike||A few days after the state education department formed committees to address complaints concerning fee hikes in private schools, it has now ordered an inspection of four such schools in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. In a circular issued by the office of the deputy director on September 16, two committees of department officials have been formed to look into the complaints of parents from different schools. Officials appointed by the department will inspect the documents of St Josephs’ School in Panvel, Euro school in Thane, Universal School in Ghatkopar and Bright Start Fellowship International School in Grant Road pertaining to the last seven years. While Euro School did not respond to requests for a comment, Universal School said that it would respond after “taking legal opinion”. A spokesperson from the Xaviers’ Group which runs St Joseph School said, “The concerned education official has issued a letter to the school on September 10 and the same has been replied to.” Officials at Bright Start Fellowship School could not be reached for comment. “Private schools have the power to fix their own fees as per the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fees) Act, 2011. However, the Act has set some rules regarding a cap on the percentage fee hike, duration after which it can be imposed and has also laid down the procedure for its approval by the Parent Teachers Association. However, some parents have alleged that schools are not following these norms. We have thus asked for an inspection of such schools to verify their documents,” said a senior official from the department. Last week, several parents of students from different schools in the city met Bacchu Kadu, state minister for school education. Jayant Jain, president of the Forum for Fairness in Education coordinated with the delegation of parents from around 35 schools. In the days to come, the department plans to inspect more schools. “We are doing it in phases as we are short-staffed due to Covid-19 restrictions,” added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-orders-inspection-of-four-private-schools-in-mumbai-thane-navi-mumbai-over-fee-hike/story-FvaPvDRkfD2i0IJM9h1qSJ.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for extorting ₹11.4 lakh from neighbour||The Bangurnagar police on Monday arrested a 54-year-old freelance consultant while accepting extortion money of ₹11.4 lakh from his neighbour. The arrested accused Vinayak Upadhyay had threatened the victim stating that he would register a complaint under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act for allegedly molesting his daughter in 2012.Sujitkumar Gunjkar, assistant police inspector said, “The accused threatened complainant stating that he had molested his daughter in the year 2012 for which he was now planning to file a police complaint against him. The accused asked the victim to pay ₹65 lakh to avoid a police complaint.”The complainant who works as a manager at a multinational company told police in his statement that on September 16, Upadhyay met him and told him that in 2012 he had molested his daughter and that time she was a minor. He threatened that he will file a police complaint against me.”The next day Upadhyay gave me a complaint letter which contained a fake story of molestation. The complainant told his wife about Upadhyay’s letter after which the complainant’s wife visited Upadhyay and asked him the reason behind such a fake letter. Upadhyay later emailed her explaining what he exactly wants from them. Upadhyay wrote in an email that he wanted ₹65 lakh of which ₹62 lakh should be in cash all in ₹500 denomination and said he wanted ₹2.80 lakh as tax. “The accused sent the content of that email on her WhatsApp too. The family then decided to file a police complaint and they approached us and gave a written complaint,” said Gunjkar.A case under sections 384 (Punishment for extortion), 385 (Putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 389 (Putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion), 503 (Criminal intimidation) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code. On Monday he came to Goregaon to receive the first instalment and we arrested him red-handed while accepting cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-extorting-11-4-lakh-from-neighbour/story-PCyl6YsXPb9cpWTLrrj6zN.html
22-09-2020||City||Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut to be added as party in Kangana Ranaut’s plea in Bombay HC||Mumbai The Bombay high court on Tuesday asked actor Kangana Ranaut to implead Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut in her petition for threatening her with ‘Ukhad diya’ – the title of an article in Sena mouthpiece Saamana – after the demolition and the designated officer of H-West ward for alleged illegal demolition of some parts of her Pali Hill bungalow on September 9. Raut will have to be impleaded by Wednesday and appear before the court through a lawyer the same day.When Ranaut’s petition came up for hearing before a division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla, senior advocate Aspi Chinoi along with advocate Joel Carlos representing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) informed the bench that the rejoinder filed by the actor to the BMC affidavit had some new allegations and hence the civic corporation required time to respond to them, which the court allowed. Ranaut’s advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, who was led by senior counsel Birendra Saraf, however, objected to the extension sought by BMC, alleging the civic authority was resorting to delaying tactics to deviate the case. He further submitted that the officers concerned who were involved in the demolition work had provided them with additional photographs of the alleged unauthorized alterations and additions on Tuesday. In her rejoinder, Ranaut had pointed out that BMC in its notice had provided only one photograph of the alleged ongoing illegal work in the bungalow which proved that the BMC’s allegation against her was false. After hearing the submissions the bench had queries to both Ranaut and BMC. While referring to the evidence of verbal abuse by Raut, which Ranaut had submitted to the court, Kathawalla sought to know whether she wanted to implead him in the petition as well. While initially Saraf sought time and was reluctant to implead Raut, stating that he would argue on the aspect of malice in law, on the insistence of the court, as to giving Raut a chance to defend himself in the face of allegations made against him by Ranaut, Saraf acceded. Similarly, the court also directed the impleadment of officer Bhagyawant Late who had filed the affidavit on behalf of BMC. The court then asked BMC to explain the applicability of the 2012 circular in the demolition of parts of Ranaut’s bungalow. The circular has warranted demolition within 24-hour notice in the event of any danger to life of the occupier or any other person. In light of this, the court sought to know as to whose life was in danger which prompted BMC officers to carry out the demolition on September 9 after serving a notice on September 8. The court also wanted to know the status of the notice issued to designer Manish Malhotra who was also served a notice under 354 (A) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act on the same day as Ranaut. Ranaut had mentioned that while Malhotra was given a seven-day period to respond to the notice, she was not afforded the same which showed malice and malafide in BMC action. The court while posting the hearing for impleadment of Raut and Late on Wednesday, directed BMC to file its response to Ranaut’s rejoinder by Thursday and posted the petition for hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-to-be-added-as-party-in-kangana-ranaut-s-plea-in-bombay-hc/story-wsMQ6V8dmoOg9548Zpnm6N.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar observes one-day fast in support of eight suspended Rajya Sabha MPs||To express solidarity with eight Rajya Sabha members from opposition parties who were suspended, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar observed a one-day fast on Tuesday. He also criticised Harivansh Singh the deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha, saying that his behaviour was objectionable and does not suit the reputation of the Upper House. “I have decided not to have meals today to express my support to the eight members of the Rajya Sabha. The members wanted a proper discussion on the farm bills but the deputy chairman chose to pass them without discussion and that too with a voice vote. His [Harivansh] actions do not suit the reputation of the House. He should have at least allowed the members to speak,” said Pawar while interacting with reporters at YB Chavan Centre, Nariman Point on Tuesday.Pawar also questioned the intention of the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi-led government over clearing three farm bills in haste that aim to bring reforms in the agriculture sector.The eight MPs were suspended for the remaining part of the current monsoon session by Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu for their “unruly behaviour” with the deputy chairperson on Sunday. The MPs began a fast late on Monday against their suspension. On Tuesday morning, Singh met the protesting MPs and offered them tea but they refused.“I’m happy that they didn’t touch the tea offered by the deputy chairman and continued their fast..,” Pawar added.“I have never seen such behaviour by a presiding officer in any of the Houses where I was a member, in the last 50 years,” he said.The ideas of Gandhi were never destroyed like this in the country before, Pawar said.He also said the NCP didn’t support the bills. “Supriya Sule in Lok Sabha and Praful Patel in Rajya Sabha have clearly expressed the party’s stand on the bills. We have also opposed them but that didn’t make much difference,” Pawar said.He also expressed support for the nationwide agitation organised by farmers’ organisations on September 25. Questioning the intention of the Centre regarding the farm bills, Pawar said there was no reason to clear the bills in haste. “Parliamentarians doubt the Centre’s intention because the government is claiming to make the market free for all and also boasts that farmers can sell their produce wherever they want to in the country. At the same time, the government imposes a ban on the export of onions. There is a contradiction in what it is saying and doing,” the former Union agriculture minister pointed out.The NCP leader also clarified that he could not attend the proceedings of the Upper House yesterday as he stayed in Mumbai to discuss the Maratha reservation issue following the stay on its implementation by the Supreme Court (SC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-observes-one-day-fast-in-support-of-eight-suspended-rajya-sabha-mps/story-9pTCiPsTxERurszJPkCIAL.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||MNS warns filmmakers in Maharashtra of forcibly stopping shootings if Covid-19 protocols flouted||In the backdrop of the death of veteran Marathi actor Ashalata Wabgaonkar due to Covid-19 she had reportedly contracted during the shooting of a Marathi TV serial, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has warned producers to strictly follow the safety guidelines.The MNS Cine Workers Association has threatened that they will stop shootings if the producers flout guidelines. Ameya Khopkar, president of the association said, “Some producers, in order to cut costs, are not following the protocols issued by the government in view of the Covid-19 threat. They are putting the lives of the actors and the technicians at risk. I am warning that if we find any such case, we will crack down on such elements and stop their shoots.”Wabgaonkar, 79, was a well-known actor who had worked in over 100 Marathi and Hindi films like Woh Saat Din, Ankush and Namak Halal. She reportedly got infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, on the sets of a Marathi serial she was shooting at Satara. She was admitted to a private hospital where she succumbed to the virus.The Maharashtra government, as the part of its Mission Begin Again, had permitted film shootings to take place from June 1 but framed various guidelines. These included social distancing, shooting in secured premises and restrictions on crowds.Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Chitrapat Mahamandal (ABMCM), an association of Marathi filmmakers agreed that the protocols need to be followed strictly. “We have formed a flying squad which will pay visits to the various sets and check whether they are following the guidelines. We will even complain to the police if we find any lethargy on this issue,” said Meghraj Rajebhosle, president, ABMCM. However, he said that MNS should not forcibly stop the shootings. “The MNS can check but forcibly stopping the shoot is wrong. They should follow the due process of law,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mns-warns-filmmakers-in-maharashtra-of-forcibly-stopping-shootings-if-covid-19-protocols-flouted/story-5t0HL4dHUhfJJW12xY9twM.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||More of hear(t), less of marginalisation: A social enterprise champions the cause of the hearing-impaired||This International Day of Sign Languages (September 23), let’s hear it for and hear from those from the community, and those propagating inclusivity. According to the World Federation of the Deaf, there are approximately 72 million deaf people worldwide, with more than 80% living in developing countries. Atulyakala, a Delhi-based social enterprise founded by Smriti Nagpal, is empowering the community through various design-led initiatives. Explaining how they work, she says, “The most important part for our enterprise was to get as many persons from the deaf community involved in ideation and creation.Our ratio is 80-20; most of our team members are hearing-impaired. All the channels, from designing to social media management, sales and marketing, are handled by them.” A part of the proceeds from the sales goes towards the education of hearing-impaired children. “We have tied up with two schools, in Jaipur and in Maharashtra. We help get them more Sign Language teachers,” she says.   #Atulyakala #Humansofsign #Deafcommunity #ISL #Signlanguage #Hands #learning #education #Travel #igtv #YouTube #youtuber #youtubevideos #instagood #bloggers #interesting #love #happy #art #communityfirst #awareness #signlanguagelove #isign #deafness #lockdown #together #quarantine #deafculture #india #artistsA post shared by  Atulyakala (@atulyakala) on Apr 1, 2020 at 7:43am PDTSmriti has two elder siblings who are hearing-impaired, so Sign Language became a naturally-acquired skill. Her journey as a Sign language interpreter began when she was working with Doordarshan. And as she forayed further, she started finding gaps. “In India, there was not a formal Signing code for a long time. We used to follow American Sign Language, which has cultural differences. Words as simple as mother and women differ in the way they are Signed. Now that we have Indian Sign Language (ISL), it has become more standardised,” she explains.  Final out come of all the hard work gone into the making of one art that defies all odds - the art of deaf. . . . #Heartproject #Atulyakala #Humansofsign #Deafcommunity #events #artistsofig #art #abstractart #painting #workshops #socialevents #foracause #ifoundawesome #sodelhi #delhigram #trending #february #instagood #instadaily #instagram #indianartists #DilliA post shared by  Atulyakala (@atulyakala) on Feb 22, 2020 at 4:30am PSTInteraction with other hearing-impaired persons who wanted to lead a life of dignity in a profession of their inclination was what birthed Atulyakala. “I soon saw that there were so many such people who were into arts, photography and design. I started interacting with students at Delhi College of Art as they have a reservation for hearing-impaired persons,” she says. But there was a catch – despite having a reserved category, these schools and colleges didn’t have teachers well-versed with Sign Language. And that’s how teaching the language became an integral part of what she does professionally. “I don’t expect everyone to learn it, but at least they should not be surprised about its existence,” she says.  An ensemble of all cheerful faces comprising the team, without a slightest trace of draining energies poses for the last photo of the day! . . #Atulyakala #Heartproject #Humansofsign #happyfaces #cheerful #socialevents #art #artistsofig #signlangauge #trending #delhigram #workshops #goodvibesA post shared by  Atulyakala (@atulyakala) on Feb 22, 2020 at 5:22am PSTIn the course of this telephonic interaction, Smriti helps us get insights into the lives of some of her team members. Over text messages, she helps us e-meet two of her team mates - Bhupinder Singh, 27, and Shivam Singh, 18.  Meet Bhupinder - He is our in house graphic designer and also a sign language trainer. He’s the one who brings life to all our designs ! He loves bright colours and is very social ! . . . #Atulyakala #humansofsign #deafbutnotdumb #signlanguage #graphicdesigner #designs #artistofinstagram #artforchange #artlife🎨 #design #socialenterprises #deafcommunity #deaftalents #indiantalents #artrevolution #vocal4local #trending #fridayvibes #inclusionmatters #inclusion #instagram #delhincr #ınstagood #fashionindia #media #learnwithatulyakala #indiansignlanguage #teachersofinstagram #independenceweek #independenceday2020A post shared by  Atulyakala (@atulyakala) on Aug 14, 2020 at 6:35am PDTBhupinder dons many hats and has been working as a graphic designer, product designer and Sign Language trainer with Atulyakala since 2018. He wishes to see deaf friends in more creative jobs, and not be discriminated. “I feel very happy in teaching Sign Language as it helps to cover the communication gap between hearing and deaf people. I connect to people via my art and I want to create an inclusive society for all,” he shares.   Meet-Shivam He will meet you at our noida outlet and showcase you the products. . . . #Atulyakala #humansofsign #deafcommunity #deafbutnotdumb #signlanguagelove #artists #socialenterprises #changemakers #deafculture #deaftalents #vocal4local #madeinindia #handcrafted #localkeliyevocal #sundayvibes #trending #shoppingday #noida #incredibleindia #livelovedream #instagram #happyfaces #teamwork #giftingideas #ınstagoodA post shared by  Atulyakala (@atulyakala) on Aug 16, 2020 at 4:59am PDTShivam, a self-confessed social bee, works in Sales. “I love meeting and talking to new people. I will meet you at our Noida outlet and showcase you the products,” he shares. He is currently studying in the 12th standard and believes that Delhi is the city where his dreams will come true. “They regularly conduct Sign Language workshops, which are now done online. It is free for all and anyone can join in, and also volunteer in various roles. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/more-of-hear-t-less-of-marginalisation-a-social-enterprise-champions-the-cause-of-the-hearing-impaired/story-fPI9DOXTji0TpMBPs9M9zK.html
22-09-2020||City||LIP president urges Punjab CM to lead opposition protests against farm bills||Slamming the state government for not supporting farmers in their fight against three agriculture ordinances that were passed in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, Lok Insaaf Party’s (LIP) president, Simarjeet Singh Bains said that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should have led a march to Delhi where all the like-minded parties and farmer bodies would follow the path. Addressing a meeting of LIP supporters in Dugri area on Tuesday, Bains said that on Wednesday his party would be organising a motorcycle rally from Fatehgarh Sahib to the Parliament in Delhi, where a protest would be staged. Bains said, “Captain Amarinder Singh had said that he is not in favour of the bills so he should come on streets and lead all the like-minded parties to protest against the Union government. We will not end our agitation until the ordinances are rolled back.” Bains also slammed Shiromani Akali Dal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal for befooling farmers by resigning from the cabinet. Bains said that resignation is just an eyewash and SAD still stands with the BJP government.SAD to block traffic on FridayFormer cabinet minister and senior SAD leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said that the agriculture ordinances will not be beneficial for farmers and the nation. To oppose the ordinances and support farmers, SAD will hold protests and block traffic for three hours on September 25, he said.Grewal said that they have chalked out a strategy to oppose the ordinances and will hold protests which will force the government to change its decision.Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said that following the call of party president they have assigned the duties for protest. He said that earlier, the party president had opposed the ordinance in Lok Sabha and now the party will come out on streets to stand with farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-should-have-led-opposition-protests-against-farm-bills-lip-president/story-bAyridPJiMEgy8fYLwWQtO.html
22-09-2020||City||550 appear for CBSE Class 10, 12 compartment exam at 7 centres in Ludhiana||As many as 550 students of the total 575, appeared for the compartment examinations for Classes 10 and 12 conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday.The Board had set up seven examination centers in city schools. Since the exams are being held during the pandemic, candidates were asked to wear a mask and carry sanitisers with them. Social distancing was also followed during the exam. The examination was conducted from 10.30 am to 1.30 am. Class 10 students appeared for the social studies examination, while students of Class 12 who had opted for additional subjects took the exam today. Display boards were put up at examination centres to inform students regarding seating arrangements and the staff was deployed at the entry gate for carrying out thermal screening of candidates. Only 12 students were accommodated in one classroom while maintaining social distancing. At every examination centre, all necessary precautions have been taken by school authorities.As per school principals, Class 12 students who did not take the examination today will appear in the additional subject while all students of Class 10 were present.CBSE’s city coordinator and principal of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, Paramjit Kaur said, “The examination was conducted in a smooth manner at all centers and social distancing norms were followed. In our centre, four of the total 100 students were absent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/550-appear-for-cbse-class-10-12-compartment-exam-at-7-centres-in-ludhiana/story-aR6n6a7ab1YxWwoujFUNfM.html
22-09-2020||City||PSPCL imposes ₹13- lakh fine for power violations in Ludhiana||To curb the menace of power thefts in the city, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials of the west circle in central zone, Ludhiana, conducted a massive raid in the West division area comprising Millerganj, Himmatpura, Bajigar Mohalla, Giaspura, Guru Nanak Colony, Mahadev Nagar, Samrat colony and Ganpati enclave of Sahnewal on Tuesday.The raid was conducted following the directions of A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL and DPS Grewal, director distribution.Over 18 teams (distribution XEN’s SDOs and JE’s) conducted the raid in the wee hours of Tuesday. The teams checked a total of 484 connections and imposed a fine ₹13 lakh on consumers for power theft and misuse of meters. Of total connections checked, 21 cases of power theft and 19 UUE cases were detected.PSPCL officials will continue to conduct the systemic raids in the near future to curb the menace of power thefts in the city and to ensure that residents are free from glitches of such unscrupulous practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-imposes-13-lakh-fine-for-power-violations-in-ludhiana/story-026VGBnDNF8oIs18AIcTzH.html
22-09-2020||City||3,304 fresh Covid cases, 62 deaths reported in Pune district on Tuesday||Pune: On Tuesday, Pune district reported 3,304 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours. A total of 62 people were declared dead due to the infection, as per the state health department. Currently, Pune district has a total of 2.67 lakh Covid cases, of which 2.01 lakh have recovered, 5,369 have been declared dead due to the infection and 59,774 are active cases. Pune rural reported 1,110 new cases, taking its final count to 53,404. Eighteen deaths reported on Tuesday puts the toll at 1,097, according to the state health department. As per the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), Pune city reported 1,414 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the total count to 1,44,265. A total of 42 deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to 3,303. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 780 fresh cases, taking its final tally to 69,350 with two deaths reported on Tuesday. The PCMC death toll stands at 968. As per the state health department, 20,206 patients were discharged across the state, taking the final discharged count to 9,36,554. The recovery rate in the state is 75.36%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.69%. Currently 18,70,200 people are in home quarantine and 34,982 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-304-fresh-covid-cases-62-deaths-reported-in-pune-district-on-tuesday/story-pREe0aV54Tp7wKkuE3Sh6K.html
22-09-2020||City||Six private schools in Ludhiana get notice for removing students from online groups over fee||District education officer, (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur on Tuesday served show-cause notice on six private schools in the city for demanding fee from students and removing them from WhatsApp groups.The schools had violated the orders of Punjab and Haryana high court and state education department by asking parents to deposit fee.After receiving several complaints from parents against the school authorities for not allowing their children to appear for online evaluation exams over non-payment of fees, Kaur has asked the authorities to submit a reply as to why their no-objection certificate (NOC) or affiliation should not be cancelled. The schools have been given two days’ time to submit their reply to the department. Swaranjit Kaur said, “Show-cause notices have been issued and two days’ time is given to schools to submit their reply.”The erring schools are Green Land Convent School, Chandigarh road and Dugri, GRD Academy, Hambran Road, Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road, DGSG School, Shimlapuri and BCM School, Sector 32, Chandigarh Road.The orders also state that on May 14, the state education department had directed all private schools not to remove students from rolls if parents are unable to pay the fee. The Punjab and Haryana high court on June 30 has also ordered that if parents are unable to deposit the tuition fee of their ward, the schools cannot derive the student of his right to education and cannot remove their name from the school. In the last two months, parent associations have staged several protests against the school authorities for removing students from online groups and not allowing them to appear in the online examination over non-payment of fee.In the last five months, the general branch of the Ludhiana education department has received a total of 137 complaints from parents against private schools, of which 129 were fee-related.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-private-schools-in-ludhiana-get-notice-for-removing-students-from-online-groups-over-fee/story-yBAxeSUNMx8csfQF1w4XiK.html
22-09-2020||Pune||Locked down Fashion Street hawkers seek reopening of market||At least 448 hawkers operating at Fashion Street in Pune Camp, a popular shopping destination between MG road and East Street where clothes, footwear, watches, artificial jewellery and other accessories are available at throwaway prices, have demanded reopening of the marketplace. The Pathari Seva Sangh, a representative body of the fashion street hawkers led by its president MV Akolkar, says it has suffered a loss of approximately six crore due to the lockdown.A few days ago, some hawkers with shops located at the entrance of the market restarted their business without permission and faced action by the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) authorities and the cantonment police for violation of the Epidemic and Disaster Management Act. Hawkers cite tough financial conditions, including serious survival issues, as the reason behind their demand to reopen the market, which has been under lockdown for the past six months. The MG road hawkers and Pathari Seva Sangh has demanded that the market, which has an approximate annual turnover of 12 crore, be reopened at the earliest wherein norms like social distancing, extensive usage of sanitisers and mandatory wearing of masks will be followed. The PCB administration, meanwhile, has scheduled the matter to be heard before the board members and a final decision is awaited. PCB chief executive board Amit Kumar, said, “We have received representation from the hawkers’ association seeking to restart their business. We have heard their grievances and the final decision will be taken only after the matter is discussed in the next board meeting. We have also written to the Pune police regarding opening of stalls at Fashion Street and Khadda Market without board permission. This step has been taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the area.”Hawkers union president Akolkar, said, “We had demanded reopening of Fashion Street. Social distancing and all other health-related guidelines will be followed. We had suggested reopening the market on alternate days, but the board has not given permission to us till date. The lockdown has affected the hawkers and their families and they are being reduced to penury due to the longstanding shutdown.”Yusuf Osman Khan, vice-president of the association, said, “The market needs to be reopened at the earliest. When markets under Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC ), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and other areas are being given permission to operate, then why are we not permitted to restart our business?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/locked-down-fashion-street-hawkers-seek-reopening-of-market/story-pVdXtmnpoNjomZNqKjwUsI.html
22-09-2020||Dehradun||8 undertrials escape from makeshift prison in Uttarakhand; 4 caught||Four undertrials were caught by police by evening after eight of them escaped from a makeshift prison near Haridwar in the morning, said officials. The undertrials were kept in a government shelter for beggars which was turned into a makeshift prison in the lockdown period to keep the undertrials in quarantine for seven days as a precautionary measure amid the pandemic, said police. They were to be moved to a jail in Haridwar on Tuesday morning.“As soon as the incident came to light, police reached the makeshift prison about 15 km from Haridwar city and took stock of the situation,” said Kamlesh Upadhyay, Superintendent of Police, Haridwar (city).“Whole area was cordoned off. Search teams were immediately deployed in the area to find them. All the police stations in the district were put on high alert. Till evening, with the efforts in place, police succeeded in nabbing four of them who are now being interrogated to know the whereabouts of the remaining four,” said Upadhyay. The officer informed that a hunt is still on to find the remaining four escapees and they are scanning the CCTV camera footage of the area. Lakhpat Butola, station house officer, SIDCUL police station, who is involved in the hunt, said, “The escapees were identified as Sagar Chauhan, Nishant Verma and Nishu Verma, all residents of Roorkee, and Wajid, resident of Haridwar; Rajat, resident of Chamoli; Shubham Pawar, resident of Dehradun; Vipul resident of Manglaur and Bittu Kumar from Saharanpur are others.”Butola added, “Among those who escaped, five belong to the notorious Kaleem and Narendra Valmiki gang.”Following the incident, AP Anshuman, inspector general (jail), has asked all the jail superintendents in the state to “assess the security arrangements of their jails”.“The incident happened in the shelter for beggars which falls under the monitoring of the district magistrate and not the jail department. Hence, the security arrangement was the responsibility of the district administration. But, we have directed all the jail superintendents of the state to assess the security in their jails and submit a report in the next few days,” said Anshuman. He said, “Based on the report, necessary steps would be taken to ensure that such an incident is not repeated in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/8-undertrials-escape-from-makeshift-prison-in-uttarakhand-4-caught/story-8m0hLPSx1Z8nFuoQRew7bO.html
22-09-2020||City||Covid situation: Pune administration cites manpower shortage as main hurdle||PUNE: The district administration on Tuesday admitted that trained medical manpower is a major challenge before government and private hospitals to address the Covid-19 situation in Pune.Addressing a press meet, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said that steps are being taken to recruit more medical staff.“Along with health infrastructure, the main challenge is trained manpower shortage. To address the issue, the administration has been holding meetings with various organisations. With Covid cases increasing in Pune, Pimpri- Chinchwad and Pune rural areas, the state government’s health department predicts shortage of beds by October 2. We conducted meetings with private hospitals to address this issue.”The divisional commissioner said that private hospitals are facing trained manpower shortage. “Private hospitals are ready to increase their bed count, but are unable to do it due to manpower shortage. We have assured them to provide adequate staff. The government machinery will take steps to utilise all its available trained medical manpower. We have reached out to private medical staff, but some are not willing to accept our offer citing personal reasons. We are providing various options like working in government hospitals, private hospitals, managing telecommunication and other sectors related to Covid care to private doctors,” Rao said.Kumar said, “The civic administration called a meeting with various doctor organisations on September 18. Discussions are on and we hope that many doctors who are into private practice and other medical manpower would come forward to address the pandemic issue.”Rao said, “We will increase the bed capacity in Sassoon General Hospital by adding 300 beds. The government hospital is also facing manpower shortage. I have instructed the management to hire any agency that is willing to provide required staff. Even medical college students are also hired by the hospital.”The divisional commissioner said that the administration is not planning to seek help of doctors from other states as Pune has adequate resources. “We are requesting organisations working in medical sector to come forward and join us. About 50 per cent of nursing staff working in Pune is from Kerala.”‘Convert 1,700 beds into oxygenated beds’Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has instructed private hospitals to convert its non-oxygenated beds into oxygenated facility by September 30. The administration said that around 1,700 oxygenated beds will be available from private hospitals.“These beds come under the 80 per cent reservation for government purposes, but they are non-oxygenated. We have assured private hospitals help to convert beds into oxygenated beds. Private hospitals will also be provided assistance to streamline oxygen supply and sort out manpower issue,” Rao said.Centre stops PPE, testing kit supplyDivisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that the central government has stopped providing personal protective equipment (PPE) and testing kits for Maharashtra. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is going to raise the issue with the Centre. Even the Lok Sabha MPs are following it.” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-situation-pune-administration-cites-manpower-shortage-as-main-hurdle/story-nGzqdmsSBcvNcglGMT0NPO.html
22-09-2020||City||Farmer union members boo BJP leaders at media briefings in Sangrur, Barnala||SANGRUR Members of farmer unions on Tuesday staged protests outside the venues in Sangrur and Baranal where BJP was holding press conferences to condemn opposition parties over their anti-farm bills stand. In Sangrur, BJP’s Kisan Morcha state general secretary Maninder Kapial and district chief Randeep Deol were addressing the media when members of Kirti Kisan Union started raising slogans against the Modi government. Police intervention saved the situation from getting out of hands.In Barnala, members of BKU Lakhowal and Lok Insaaf Party demonstrated outside the local rest house where BJP members were briefing the media. “When farmers raised slogans, the BJP leaders left the venue. We will not allow BJP men to misguide the people of Punjab. Farmers will oppose BJP leaders in villages and towns across the state,” said Bhupinder Longowal, state convener of Kirti Kisan Union’s youth wing.Sangrur district BJP chief Randeep Deol said some people were trying to take political mileage by opposing the bills. “The agriculture bills are pro-farmer but so-called farmer leaders are suppressing our voice,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-union-members-boo-bjp-leaders-at-media-briefings-in-sangrur-barnala/story-n2rgyHW3KugaCiwPAxGaOL.html
22-09-2020||Election:||3 lakh returnee migrant workers added to voters’ list in Bihar||The Election Commission has enrolled around 6.5 lakh new voters over the last six months, among them an estimated 3 lakh migrant labourers who returned home during the Covid-19 lockdown, as part of the ongoing updation of the voters’ list ahead of the assembly polls due in October-November.The voters can apply online or through physical mode for inclusion and deletion of names.“Our assessment is that out of the 30 lakh migrant returnees, 10-12 % had no voter card. They were enrolled in the electoral rolls at the quarantine centres opened to lodge them upon their return from various states during the nationwide lockdown in April-May. By that calculation, the number of migrant returnees in the revised voters’ list would be around 3 lakh,’’ said an election officer, seeking anonymity.Another EC official said reports from districts suggest that 85-87% of migrant labourers already had voter cards though a large section usually did not vote in elections as they were not able to come to their native villages during elections because of work.A large number of migrant labourers has stayed put in their native villages after returning from various states during the lockdown and officials say they could exercise their voting right this time.The EC is expected to release the updated voters’ list in coming weeks after the announcement of assembly polls.As per the final publication of electoral rolls published on February 7, 2020, the number of voters in Bihar stood at 7,18, 22,450 out of which 3,79,12,127 are men and 3,39,07,979 women. The number of third gender voters stood at 2,344.Bihar’s additional chief electoral officer Ranjita said the exercise of revising the voters’ list was still going on.Meanwhile, there are reports that a full EC team, led by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, may visit the state soon to assess the poll preparedness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/3-lakh-migrant-worker-returnees-added-to-voters-list-in-bihar/story-CXjD4gEzHG1wNRTBaLi9vO.html
22-09-2020||City||Capt to take up medical oxygen supply issue with PM today||Chandigarh As Covid-19 cases continue to surge in Punjab, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered ramping up of facilities in the 13 districts with the maximum case fatality rate (CFR) and augmentation of medical oxygen supplies from within and outside the state to ensure that there is no shortfall. Amarinder said he will also raise the issue of augmentation of oxygen supplies from other states with the Prime Minister in Wednesday’s virtual conference. “I will urge the Prime Minister to issue the necessary directions to these states (Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand), which are currently Punjab’s main source of medical oxygen,” he said in a statement after a review meeting of the Covid situation in the state. The chief minister said though the CFR, currently at 2.89%, has been progressively coming down, it is still higher than the national average, with 13 districts reporting the highest figures. Nine of these districts account for the maximum CFR, requiring urgent upgrade of their Level-3 facilities in both government and private sectors, he said. These are Kapurthala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Tarn Taran, Hoshiarpur, Ropar, Moga, SBS Nagar and Ferozepur. Most of the deaths are occurring in hospitals, with nearly half being reported from private tertiary care hospitals. Need for optimum use of resources: TalwarExpressing concern over the state’s high CFR, Dr KK Talwar also underlined the need to ensure optimum use of resources across the state, with adequate manpower and facilities as required in various districts. The chief minister asked the departments to work towards bringing the death rate in these GMCs to below 10% at the earliest. The CM was informed that the ICU occupancy in these GMCs is currently at 212 out of the total availability of 283. He was apprised by medical education secretary DK Tiwari that while there was no shortage of oxygen in the state at present, if occupancy goes up to 100%, more supplies would be needed. “Nodal officers deputed to monitor the supplies from the three units in Himachal, Haryana and Uttarakhand are keeping the supplies streamlined,” the CM was told. Cabinet Ministers Balbir Sidhu and OP Soni stressed that oxygen should be diverted from industry if required, while chief secretary Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that so far 10 medical oxygen generation licences have been issued to industrial oxygen units in Punjab, in addition to 14 medical oxygen repackaging licences. She said that efforts are on to also procure oxygen from Rourkela. ‘Covid Fateh Kit’ launched for patients Chandigarh Capt Amarinder on Tuesday launched the ‘Corona Fateh Kits’ for distribution among all Covid patients in isolation, whether at home or in hospitals. An official spokesperson said that 5,000 of the 50,000 kits ordered by the state government have already been received and the remaining supplies are expected within a week. Amarinder, while launching the kit, directed the DCs to ensure that the deliveries are prioritised and all the 18,000 active patients in isolation receive the kits within the next one week. The kit consists of 18 items, including pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, essential medicines and Kaadha, among others, along with educational material and instructions on use of medicines. Instructions for patients and care givers are provided in the kit, which also contains a self-monitoring log chart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-to-take-up-medical-oxygen-supply-issue-with-pm-today/story-HkacMTSiMU5kvy1ncwzqhI.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government transfers 25 IPS, 9 HPS officers||The district police chiefs of Kurukshetra, Karnal, Sirsa, Jind, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Hisar were among 25 IPS and nine HPS officers who were transferred by the Haryana government in a major reshuffle on Tuesday. An official spokesperson said Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP) Astha Modi was transferred and posted as deputy commissioner of police (DCP headquarter) Gurugram. She has been replaced by DCP traffic Faridabad Rajesh Duggal. Hisar SP Ram Punia has been posted as Karnal SP replacing Surinder Singh Bhoria while SP, GRP, Himanshu Garg has been posted as Jhajjar SP. Sirsa deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Arun Singh was transferred as DIG, HPA, Madhuban; Jhajjar DIG Ashok Kumar was posted as DIG, State Vigilance Bureau; SP Charkhi Dadri Balwan Singh Rana is now Hisar SP; Bhiwani SP Sangeeta Rani was posted as AIG provisioning and administration; DIG, PTC, Sunaria, Om Parkash was posted as DIG, Jind. ADC to governor Sumer Pratap Singh was posted as Bhiwani SP. HPS officers—Bhupinder Singh and Vinod Kumar— have been posted as SPs of Sirsa and Charkhi Dadri respectively. Director of investigation, Haryana State Human Rights Commission, M Ravi Kiran was given the additional charge of IG, state vigilance bureau. DIG (law and order) Rakesh Arya was given the additional charge of DIG, railways and commando. Kulvinder Singh, DIG, HAP, Madhuban, has been posted as joint commissioner of police, Gurugram. Nazneen Bhasin, SP, RTC, Bhondsi was given the additional charge of commandant second IRB, Bhondsi. Kirat Pal Singh, SP, commando, Newal was posted as commandant fourth battalion HAP, Madhuban. Kuldeep Singh, commandant, third IRB Sunaria, was posted as SP, state vigilance bureau. Krishan Murari, SP, HPA, Madhuban was posted as commandant third IRB, Sunaria, with additional charge of SP, PTC Sunaria. DK Bhardwaj, commandant, second IRB, Bhondsi was posted as DCP/traffic, Gurugram. Sulochana Kumari, commandant, fourth IRB, Manesar was posted as SP,SCB, Faridabad. Surinder Pal Singh, commandant, fourth battalion HAP, Madhuban was posted as SP, GRP, Ambala with additional charge of SP, law and order. Rajender Kumar Meena, Commandant fourth battalion, HAP was posted as ADC to governor. Smiti Chaudhary, commandant, first battalion HAP, Ambala city was given the additional charge of SP, crime against women. Nikita Gahlaut, DCP, headquarters, Gurugram was posted as DCP, Manesar. Arpit Jain, DCP, NIT, Faridabad was given the additional charge of DCP, headquarters, Faridabad. Maqsood Ahmed, DCP, Ballabgarh, Faridabad was posted as DCP, East, Gurugram with additional charge of CEO mobility, GMDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-government-transfers-25-ips-9-hps-officers/story-X2qXRnWvKxtHjgYU9p4tuJ.html
22-09-2020||City||Sukhbir asks Capt to call special session to revoke amended State APMC Act||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to hold a special assembly session immediately to revoke the amended State Agriculture Produce Markets Committee (APMC) Act of 2017. In a statement, Sukhbir asked the chief minister not to practise deceit with farmers by shedding crocodile tears at their fate as he (Amarinder) was the author of a similar legislation in Punjab and continued to stand by his own anti-farmer Act. The SAD chief said the chief minister could not run with the hare and hunt with the hound, asking him to tell the farmers and ‘khet mazdoors’ why he was refusing to rescind the State APMC Act, 2017, which he implemented in Punjab as the chief minister. Sukhbir asked Amarinder if he could show the moral courage to disassociate himself from the Congress manifesto of 2019 which called for removing the APMC Act altogether. He also said that the chief minister should apologise to the farming community for encouraging corporatisation of the farm sector by accepting the Montek Singh Ahluwalia committee report which calls for reducing procurement of foodgrain. “The CM should scrap the committee and reject its report,” he said, calling it (report) a death warrant for Punjab farmers. On the three agriculture marketing bills passed by both Houses of Parliament, the SAD president said the special assembly session should also discuss the Congress party’s role in framing of the ordinances which later became bills. The CM was a member of the high-powered committee which framed the ordinances and even sent finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal to participate in a meeting of the committee in Mumbai, he claimed, adding that subsequently the Congress government even sent a note to the Centre agreeing with many of the provisions of the ordinances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-asks-capt-to-call-special-session-to-revoke-amended-state-apmc-act/story-b2mUgoCFGAFkglVli9FwXO.html
22-09-2020||City||ED launches parallel probe into multi-crore GST evasion racket||Patiala The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has started a parallel probe into the multi-crore GST evasion racket, taking note of the inter-state links. The Punjab Vigilance Bureau has already arrested around 12 tax officials and the role of as many is under scanner for their collusion in letting transporters evade taxes in lieu of bribes. The ED is already probing the illegal liquor scam. Now, the ED has written to Punjab Vigilance Bureau and GST department, seeking information on the companies and officials involved in the scam, it is learnt. “GST is a major source of government revenue for Centre as well for states, and it’s being siphoned through a nexus between officials and traders. Vigilance bureau probe has found fake bills generated by Ranchi-based firms and GST input tax credit taken in Punjab and Haryana. Some Delhi-based people are also involved. While Haryana GST collection has increased, Punjab has not seen any substantial hike, which hints at evasions. The ED has decided to launch a probe to look deeper into the racket,” said an ED official of Delhi, requesting anonymity. He said ED’s Jalandhar office has been given a go ahead to start the probe. Assistant director, ED, Ritesh Srivastava, confirmed that he has sought details, but refused to share information. As per sources, Jalandhar ED office on September 8, through Srivastava, sought details from the vigilance bureau about the FIRs, modus-operandi and the disproportionate assets amassed by the GST officials. Later assistant director Deepak Rajpoot sent another reminder to the vigilance bureau. The VB officials confirmed ED communications. “We will keep probing our angle, as state government has given clear instruction that tax evaders will have to face the music,” said an official. Meanwhile, the Punjab and Haryana high court has rejected anticipatory bail application of two GST officials who are on the run after being named by the VB in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ed-launches-parallel-probe-into-multi-crore-gst-evasion-racket/story-HST5qXIT18ltpH7k0cVrWJ.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Stubble burning: 332 villages identified as red zones in Haryana||In anticipation of stubble burning incidents across the state, the Haryana agriculture department has identified red, yellow/orange and green zones in every district on the basis of incidences of crop residue burning last year. An official spokesperson said 332 villages fall under the red zone and 675 in yellow zone. Additional chief secretary (ACS), agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal said the Haryana government has also decided to provide financial assistance to 11,311 individual farmers who have applied for agricultural implements under the crop residue management scheme ‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for In-Situ Management of Crop’, in the current growing season. The total assistance of about ₹155 crore at the rate of 50 % will be given. The department will also provide 454 balers, 5,820 super seeders, 5,418 zero till seed drills, 2,918 choppers/mulchers, 260 happy seeders, 389 straw management systems, 64 rotary slashers/shrub masters, 454 reversible mould ploughs and 288 reapers to the beneficiaries.Online applications for agricultural implements were invited from individual farmers and societies till August 21. As many as 11,311 farmers applied for 16,647 implements, against a target of 2,741, in the individual category, he said.The state government has also decided to give preference to small and marginal farmers in hiring of machinery from Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs), and in providing equipment to individual beneficiaries under the scheme. A comprehensive plan has been approved for crop residue management to prevent stubble burning. It included fusion of in-situ and ex-situ crop residue management techniques, apart from monitoring activities through a dedicated control room, and registration of FIRs against violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stubble-burning-332-villages-identified-as-red-zones-in-haryana/story-7oAgIrHF1NUYz3uOgUlH5H.html
22-09-2020||City||Haryana farmers unhappy over Centre’s MSP hike||A day after the Union government hiked the minimum support price (MSP) of wheat by ₹50 per quintal, an increase of just 2.6%, along with other Rabi crops, farmers in Haryana are not happy with the decision.The MSP of wheat has been increased from last year’s ₹1,925 to ₹1,975. As per the data, the percentage of hike in MSP for wheat has been reducing since 2018-19. In 2018-19, the MSP of wheat was ₹1,735 (6.8% hike from 2017-18), ₹1,840 (6.1% hike in 2019-20), ₹ 1,925 (4.6% hike in 2020-21) and ₹1,975 (2.6%) this year.Dayanand Punia, secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, said the BJP had promised to provide ₹2,100 per quintal for wheat crop ahead of 2014 state assembly elections but farmers are yet to get that price. “The BJP leaders had been protesting across the state against the then Hooda government for failing to address the farmers’ issue. Now, even they have failed to do so after coming to power.”He said, “The BJP has been in power for the last six years but we have not got MSP of ₹2,100 for wheat crop as promised. The new MSP is just an eyewash as the Centre announced it on A2+ FL (family labour) not on C2 formula, which farmers have been demanding.”Another farm leader, Ramandeep Singh Mann, said the input cost of farming has been increasing but the Centre has been reducing the percentage of MSP rise every year for wheat since 2019. “As per Centre’s data, the composite input price index (CPI) which includes human labour, machine labour, seeds, fertilisers, manures, insecticides and irrigation charges has been increased by 6.6% from last year but the increase in MSP of wheat is only by 2.6%,” he said.“The centre has announced MSP for wheat at ₹225.50 per quintal less than the actual figures as per C2 formula,” Mann said, adding that the government’s new MSP hike will drag farmers into poverty.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said the Centre has given a reply to the opposition, who have been accusing the government of ending the MSP and mandi system by introducing the farm bills. “The hiked prices for Rabi crops will help in doubling farmers income,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-farmers-unhappy-over-centre-s-msp-hike/story-nmMqp44VdQFlHY8w8XHFyO.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi LG asks expert panel to suggest measures to tackle Covid-19 situation: Report||In view of rising coronavirus cases in Delhi, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday asked a six-member expert panel to come up with suggestions to deal with the current Covid-19 situation and ramp up health facilities in the national capital, sources said.Baijal held a meeting with the members of the panel among who are Indian Council of Medical Research Director-General Balram Bhargava, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria and National Centre for Disease Control Director Sujeet Kumar Singh.The expert panel will hold another meeting in the next few days to discuss the strategy to arrest the spread of the coronavirus in the national capital and it is likely to submit its report by September 30, the sources said.“The LG has asked the six-member expert panel to come up with suggestions on how to tackle the current Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Also, it will suggest measures to ramp up heath facilities, including beds,” a source said.Before September 20, the national capital recorded over 4,000 Covid-19 cases a day for five consecutive days.The city recorded 4,071 cases on September 19; 4,127 on September 18; 4,432 on September 17; 4,473 on September 16 and 4,263 on September 15.On Monday, 2,548 new cases were reported as only 33,733 tests were conduct on Sunday.Earlier in the day, the Delhi High Court stayed the AAP government’s order directing 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients.However, the Delhi government said it would challenge the high court order on Wednesday.A Delhi government functionary said that it is extremely important to reserve ICU beds in private hospitals to deal with rising coronavirus cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lg-asks-expert-panel-to-suggest-measures-to-tackle-current-covid-19-situation-in-delhi/story-ZFIRynUAFciNHfIxCQBG9N.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mountaineering hones leadership skills, confidence, says HP CM at ITBP event||The nation is indebted to the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) for its sacrifices. Gruelling expeditions undertaken by the police force, such as the recent summitting of Leo Pargial Peak, code named Yodha, in the Himalayas, developed leadership skills in the men, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday.He was presiding over a flag-in ceremony of the ITBP at the sector headquarters in Shimla.The CM also lauded the ITBP’s role in undertaking rescue operations, strengthening border security, handling counter insurgency, besides protecting the integrity of the Indo-Tibetan border. Thakur, who also received the guard of honour, said the border police force was playing a vital role in protecting the country’s borders and the HP government was committed to provide it all possible assistance. Referring to the ITBP’s Special Mountaineering Force that trained officers and men in mountaineering and skiing, the CM congratulated the team which recently undertook a mountaineering expedition to the Leo Pargial Peak, located at the southern end of the Zanskar Range in the western Himalaya area. The 17th Battalion Reckong Peo undertook the expedition from August 20, 2020 to September 5, 2020. Such gruelling treks developed leadership, discipline and confidence among troops, besides improving their ability to face uncertain and critical circumstances with bravery and courage, the CM said. He also praised the team’s efforts to clean areas it covered during the expedition and collect about 50 kilogram of non-biodegradable garbage. The state government was laying special emphasis on strengthening the road infrastructure and other means of communications in the border areas to facilitate the local people and the armed forces, the CM said. The 260-km border that HP shared with China was being safeguarded by ITBP with dedication, he added.Thakur was on the occasion presented with the flag taken by the team to Leo Pargial and a memento.Later,he visited an exhibition set up by the ITBP. Deputy inspector general, sector headquarters, Shimla, Prem Singh, welcomed the CM and other dignitaries to the event.The team that had successfully summitted Leo Pargial was led by deputy commandant Kuldeep Singh and deputy commandant Dharmender Thakur and included veteran member and head constable Pradeep Negi, head constable Kaku Kedareta, constable Ashish Negi and others, Prem Singh said.The ITBP would continue such adventure sports in future to generate interest among the youth, he said.The commandant, 50th ITBP Battalion, Vijay Deshwal, proposed a vote of thanks on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mountaineering-hones-leadership-skills-confidence-says-hp-cm-at-itbp-event/story-NzLblETIO0WmnZ8t9CShnJ.html
22-09-2020||City||Auto gang targeting kurta-pyjama clad people in Ludhiana busted||Police on Monday busted a three-wheeler gang that robbed at least 40 people in the past two months. The gang used to target people wearing kurta-pyjama as it was easy to take out cash and valuables from their pockets. Police have recovered 12 stolen mobile phones and three auto rickshaws used in the crime from their possession. The accused have been identified as Sanjeev Sharma, 28, of Shimlapuri, Rakesh Kumar, 25, Aatma Ram, 27, Karan Kumar, 30, and Amarjeet Singh, 34, all residents of Pratap Nagar area.Joint commissioner of police, Bhagirath Singh Meena said the accused used to target people on the route between bus stand, Clock Tower and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, as they assumed that people going to the hospital and markets near Clock Tower carried large sums of money.The accused were arrested from the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Interstate Bus Terminal following a tip-off. The Joint CP revealed that three of the accused already have cases of snatching and thefts registered against them and had come out on bail recently. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma said that Karan Kumar and Amarjeet are the kingpins of the gang. Both own auto rickshaws and used to drive it while the others sat posing as passengers and robbed the passengers.The ADCP added that in most cases, the crimes were not even reported. However, the accused have confessed to robbing at least 40 people. “It seems that people who lost lesser amounts did not lodge complaints,” he added.“The accused are drug addicts and executed the crime for easy money,” the ADCP added.A case under Section 379 (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-gang-targeting-kurta-pyjama-clad-people-in-ludhiana-busted/story-Flb80hycElpNBnunKjhImM.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab allows use of miller premises for staggered paddy procurement amid Covid-19||To ensure smooth and seamless procurement of paddy during the Kharif season amid Covid-19, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced a slew of amendments to the custom milling policy (CMP) 2020-21, including allowing use of miller premises as mandi yards. The chief minister approved deletion of clause 12 (j) of the CMP for this purpose. The clause deals with those millers who are also commission agents/arhtiyas and, under existing rules, were not allowed to be allotted to the agency for which they were operating as commission agents, according to an official spokesperson. The decision was taken by the chief minister on the basis of a proposal of the food and civil supplies department, after examining the concerns raised by the Punjab Rice Industry Association. The CM has also given the nod for other amendments in the CMP provisions, including restoration of the bank guarantee clause and sale of existing mills. With the go-ahead to restoration of the bank guarantee clause included in CMP 2020-21 to the previous year’s provisions, the required bank deposit percentage will come down to 5% from the existing 10%. Under the amended rules, the miller shall now have to submit a bank guarantee to the agency concerned before the actual storage of paddy in his/her premises, equal to the value of 5% of acquisition cost of free paddy above 5,000 MT. The bank guarantee shall be released on delivery of due rice to Food Corporation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-allows-use-of-miller-premises-for-staggered-paddy-procurement-amid-covid-19/story-Bh9PlKdzFj1SufxGVCA96I.html
22-09-2020||Pune||BJP backs rent waiver on PMC-owned properties||Two elected members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have demanded the waiver of rent on properties owned by the civic body during the lockdown period. BJP elected members Mahesh Wabale and Ajay Khedekar have placed a proposal before the standing committee, demanding waiver off the rent on PMC owned properties which have been leased out. Wable said, “PMC owns many properties mainly sports complexes, vegetable markets and various stalls in the city. During lockdown, these establishments did not generate any income. Many of them are not in a position to pay the rent. Considering the situation, the PMC should waive off their rent for the period of lockdown.” The proposal was put forward to the civic body’s standing committee for approval. BJP is the ruling party in the PMC and the proposal has raised eyebrows at a time when the civic body is finding different ways to generate revenue. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “PMC itself is struggling to get revenue and to manage its expenditure. It would be wrong to waive the rent completely. I personally do not want to a waiver since PMC did not ask them for additional rent during the good times.” According to Rasne, the committee will discuss the proposal and will take a decision on it. “It is true that all commercial establishments have received a setback but PMC requires more money to give proper health service to the citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/amid-cash-crunch-bjp-members-demand-rent-waiver/story-LYm3R6nwHA94EcXi4aqutN.html
22-09-2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh flays UP govt over film city, calls it ‘SP project’||Samajwadi Party’s (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh (UP) was all set to take credit for the proposed film city project that was envisaged during his party’s rule.Yadav made the comment hours before UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath was scheduled to meet nearly three dozen film personalities, including actors, director and singers, in Lucknow to discuss the ambitious project.“Now, the BJP government is ready to cut the ribbon to take credit for the SP regime’s film city. But neither acting of any BJP actors nor any of their dialogues are turning out to be useful. The BJP movie has turned out to be a flop show. The film will soon be off-screen because those who made the real picture have been booked in advance,” he tweeted in Hindi.The SP leader hinted in his tweet that his party would come back to power and the ruling BJP would be dislodged in the 2022 assembly polls. Last Friday, the CM had announced his plan to set up “the biggest and the most beautiful film city of the country” in Noida.During a meeting to review development works in the Meerut division on Friday night, he had asked state government officials to find a suitable plot of land in or around Noida for setting up the film city.On Saturday, actor-director Kangana Ranaut and singer Anup Jalota had praised the CM for the announcement.Filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar called on the CM at his official residence in Lucknow the following day to discuss the project.On Tuesday, many personalities related to the film and entertainment industry, including Kailash Kher, Udit Narayan, Anup Jalota and Nitin Desai, are slated to reach the CM’s residence to participate in the meeting.Anupam Kher, Bhushan Kumar, Vivek Agnihotri, Ravina Tandon, Priyadarshan, Murad Ali Khan, Manoj Muntazir are among the 24 film personalities, who are scheduled to attend the meeting via a video-conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/akhilesh-flays-up-govt-over-film-city-calls-it-sp-project/story-ZJ8kDR2ljHlRxtkxVgnuLK.html
22-09-2020||Pune||Property tax amnesty: decision likely today||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is likely to offer an amnesty for property tax defaulters in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Against the background of Covid-19, many people lost their jobs and income. Even commercial establishments are facing problems and are not able to pay the property tax. To facilitate them and get more revenue to the PMC, we are thinking of approving an amnesty scheme for property tax.” The proposal would likely come before the standing committee on Tuesday and a decision will be taken, Rasne said. The administration has also prepared a proposal to waive off fines for defaulters. BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “I had a meeting with the BJP’s office-bearers and we decided to bring in an amnesty scheme for property tax to bring some relief to citizens.” Mulik said, “Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne and leader of the house Dheeraj Ghate were present at the meeting. We discussed the proposal.” BOX ₹4,700 crore in duesBJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “PMC has ₹4,700 crore in dues of property tax. Of the ₹4,700 crore dues, ₹2,100 crore is the basic amount and ₹2,500 crore is fines. If the PMC gives some relief in fines, it would help the citizens, and defaulters would come forward to repay their tax bills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/decision-on-pmc-amnesty-scheme-for-property-tax-defaulters-today/story-1jpL5EjDd1J8KA8AKCytFJ.html
22-09-2020||Patna||Over 90 child labourers rescued from Rajasthan brought back to Bihar’s Gaya||Over 90 child labourers from Bihar were rescued and brought back from Rajasthan on Tuesday. Earlier, 141 child labourers from Bihar were rescued by the anti-human trafficking squad of the Rajasthan government a couple of weeks ago. Some of these children were rescued from bangle and jewellery factories located in various districts of Rajasthan. Around 40 children from Bihar were rescued from a bus, which was about to enter Jaipur.Out of the 141 rescued children, 94 arrived in Gaya on Tuesday.While among the rest of the 47 children, some have reportedly tested Covid-19 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive in Jaipur and some are awaiting their test reports of the viral infection. The 94 children, who came back to Bihar, will be quarantined for the next 14 days. These children belong to Gaya, Jehanabad, Nawada, Rohtas, Begusarai, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Madhubani and Katihar districts.“Gaya has been made the transit point for these rescued children, who belong to various districts of Bihar. Officials from different district protection units have been asked to reach Gaya to receive the children,” said Rakesh Ranjan, chairman, child welfare committee, Gaya.Initially, these children would be produced before the child welfare committee and later they would be handed over to the child protection units of the respective districts, he added.“They will stay in Gaya at a dedicated state government-run Covid-19 care centre (CCC) on Tuesday. We have arranged separate accommodation facilities for them in a bid to avoid the spread of the viral infection. Three buses have been arranged to send them back to their respective native places on Wednesday,” said Dibyesh Sharma, who heads the child protection unit in Gaya district.Before handing over these children, their parents or guardians would be asked to give a written assurance that they would be quarantined at home for the next 14 days, he added.Suresh Kumar, a social activist, said it is believed that some of these rescued children belong to the migrant workers, who had returned to Bihar during the 68-day nationwide Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions. These children must have again gone back to Rajasthan to earn their livelihood, he added.“Buses from states such as Rajasthan, Punjab and Tamil Nadu have been seen at various locations in Bihar over the past few weeks. Employers from these states seem to be looking for their workers and have been sending vehicles to ferry the labourers back to their workplaces,” he said. Ranjan attributed lack of awareness and education to the social problem. “In many cases, it was noticed that children were sent by their parents to work in factories to earn money. They considered these children as a medium to earn money,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/over-90-child-labourers-rescued-from-rajasthan-brought-back-to-bihar-s-gaya/story-LgRlWpg8BqZtgdhKHvaEhP.html
22-09-2020||Pune||Pune district enjoys better than average rainfall in September||Heavy rainfall on Monday across the city, following intense heavy showers on Sunday in east Pune, saw Pune district cross the mark for average rainfall received in September. So far the district has received 154.9 mm of rain, 56.2 mm more than the normal average (98.7mm). The recorded rainfall received at Shivajinagar and Lohegaon over Sunday and Monday, stood at 36.9 mm and 10.8mm, respectively. Till Monday, 8:30am, Pashan received 32mm of rain. “It is a very healthy monsoon season for Pune and rainfall activity will continue for a few more days,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune. “Vigorous monsoon activity over Pune district will continue for the next 48 hours. For Pune’s ghat areas, a red alert has been issued on Tuesday. In Madhya (central) Maharashtra, also, heavy rain is forecast for Tuesday,” added Kashyapi. On Wednesday, moderate rain with thunder and lightning are forecast for Pune, while from Thursday to Sunday, a light rain forecast is in place. The catchment area of the city also received rain on Monday, though the water resources department stated that no water will be released from Khadakwasla dam. Three dams supplying water to the district – Khadkwasla, Warasgaon and Panshet are at 100 per cent capacity, while the Temghar dam, also in the catchment area, is at 98.19%. BOXX 1 Headline: Pune district’s good monsoon Strap: Pune district has received 234mm in excess of its average rainfall September Actual rainfall received till September 21: 154.9mm Average rainfall received in September: 98.7mm Overall Actual rainfall received till September 21: 754.5mm Average rainfall received: 511.5mm Embed Retail vegetable prices skyrocket due to downpours The heavy rain lashing the city since Sunday has resulted in a shortage of vegetable supply to the city leading to an increase in vegetable prices. According to traders at Market Yard, retail vegetable prices have seen a minimum of a 25 per cent increase. Vilas Raikar, a wholesale trader said, “Supply has reduced considerably due to the heavy rain. So, prices have increased in the last few days.” Meher Patel, a camp resident, said, “There has to be a price control body in place so that citizens are not fleeced.” BJ Deshmukh, administrator, Agriculture Produce Market Committe (APMC) said, “We are closely monitoring the situation and it will normalise soon.” Rise in retail prices Coriander From Rs 15 to Rs 30 Potato From Rs 20 to Rs 45 Tomato From Rs 25 to Rs 50 Onion From Rs 35 to Rs 60 Fenugreek From Rs 25 to Rs 35-Rs 40||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-crosses-rainfall-average-for-september/story-fQJfSafb57OdbLFIrQ398N.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt cuts market, rural development fee for basmati to 1% each||The Punjab government on Tuesday announced reduction in the market development fee (MDF) and rural development fee (RDF) rates from 2% to 1% each to provide a level playing field for basmati traders and millers from within and outside Punjab, particularly in the light of the provisions of the new farm bills. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh made the announcement. The move will help keep Punjab basmati competitive in the international market and provide relief of Rs 100 crore to basmati traders/millers, according to an official spokesperson. The change comes with the caveat that no refund of any fee will be allowed to any paddy/rice dealer/miller/trader for the export of the basmati paddy/rice to other countries from the state. The chief minister’s announcements came in response to a proposal of the Punjab Mandi Board, made after examination of the representations received from the Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association and the Punjab Basmati Rice Millers and Exporter Association. The basmati exporters and millers had petitioned the state government to charge a lumpsum cess of 1% in place of all other levies. The association had submitted that with the farm ordinances coming into force, the disparity in fee and other charges among the basmati producing states would be around 4%, making the rice industry in Punjab economically unviable as it would be unable to compete with rice exporters in Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, which had exempted market fee from agricultural produce. They had also pleaded that Punjab-based exporters would not be able to cover the additional cost of taxes, which is 4% plus, making it difficult for them to remain in business. This trend may force them to purchase paddy from other states to remain in competition with their counterparts in Haryana, UP and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-cuts-market-rural-development-fee-for-basmati-to-1-each/story-5J3hV0XhadnjMI8rgah3sK.html
22-09-2020||Pune||Eight killed in three separate accidents on Pune-Solapur highway stretch||Five people from Pune were killed in a collision between a container truck and a car at Yavat, around 50 kilometres from the city, on Monday.The deceased have been identified as Shobha Sharangowda Patil (38); Anita Siddheshwar Barde (40); Siddeshawar Chandrakant Barde (55); Shweta Siddheshwar Barde (23); and Santosh Mallinath Patil (38). They were all residents of an area near Khadi Machine chowk, Kondhwa.The deceased Siddeshawar Barde, a 55-year-old, was driving the car registered in Pimpri Chinchwad.While Anita Barde was the wife of the driver, Shweta was his daughter, and Shobha Patil was Anita Barde’s sister. The family members were returning from Solapur after visiting relatives, according to a complaint lodged by Sharangowda Patil (45) husband of Shobha Patil.According to police officials, the car was heading from Solapur to Pune and was following a container truck with which it collided around 3:30am. The incident happened on the stretch of the Pune-Solapur highway in the vicinity of Sheru petrol pump in Yavat, according to the police.“The car was following the truck and it came to an abrupt halt because of which the car rammed into it and the people in the car were killed,” said constable S Pansare, station house officer, Yavat police station.The driver of the container truck has been identified as Amol Vilas Shinde, a resident of Walekhindi village in Jat taluka of Sangli. The truck, registered in Virar, Mumbai, was also heading towards Pune, according to the police.A case under Section 304(a), 279, and 338 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Yavat police station against Shinde.In another accident along the Pune-Solapur Highway stretch in Yavat, two people headed towards Karanataka were killed in a car collision in the late hours of Sunday.One of the deceased has been identified as Kashinath Balkonde. The second deceased has not been identified, said poliec. “Those two cars were headed towards Karnataka and collided with each other in the night,” said police inspector Bhausaheb Patil of Yavat police station.This incident happened hours before the container accident in an area called Sahajpur located 11-12km away from the spot of the container accident.A similar case was registered at Yavat in this accident as well.In the third accident in Yavat, an unidentified body, in what police believe to be a hit-and-run case, was also found on Monday morning, according to Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/eight-killed-in-three-separate-accidents-on-pune-solapur-highway-stretch/story-QWr5E21So4WD6UAQSbv34L.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court tells BMC to seal unauthorised Wadala temple, stops its demolition||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities to seal an unauthorised temple at Wadala and stayed its demolition until further order. The court while hearing a contempt petition was informed that though a May 19 order of the HC had ordered the demolition of the temple and restricted any religious activity, recent Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations were still organised there.The court refused to grant permission to the BMC authorities to demolish the temple on Wednesday.A two-member HC division bench, comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing the contempt petition filed by Fletcher Patel through advocate BG Tangsali was informed that in May the BMC had assured the court that the temple would be demolished after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions were relaxed. In light of the assurance, the court had directed the civic body to ensure that there was no access to the temple. However, the order was violated as religious activities were held, including the recent Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. Tangsali submitted that this was a blatant violation of the court order and, as a result, the contempt petition was valid. The advocate, who represented the BMC, admitted that religious activities were performed in the temple. He apologised on behalf of the civic authorities for their failure to comply with the court order and assured that the demolition of the temple would be carried out on Wednesday.The court heard the submissions and observed that prima facie there was contempt of its May 19 order. It directed the petitioner and the BMC to ensure that the contemnors -- those responsible for the rebuilding of the temple – appear before the court on September 29 when the plea would be heard next. The bench also directed the BMC to file an affidavit along with an apology before September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-demolish-wadala-temple-before-we-hear-contemnors-hc-to-bmc/story-bMZIgMkRZSiL7UKjhKjb6I.html
22-09-2020||Kolkata||Driven out of guest house for being Muslims, say 10 madarsa teachers||Ten madarsa teachers from West Bengal’s Malda district alleged on Monday that they were thrown out of a private guest house in Kolkata’s Salt Lake because of their religious identity. They said they had booked three rooms in advance ahead of their visit to Kolkata for some official work at the state education department.Sadek Ali, the headmaster of Krishnapur Madrasa Education Centre, told reporters that he has never faced such humiliation in his long career as a teacher. Ali and his colleagues, in their police complaint, said when they reached the guest house on Monday morning after travelling overnight from Malda, they were told that no room was available and were sent to another guest house. At the second guest house, the teachers were allowed to stay for three hours before being asked to go.Also Read: Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan’s photo circulated on dating app, complaint lodged“They were sent by another guest house. We told them that they would have to vacate at 9 am as we were expecting other guests. They left at 9 am,” Gautam Pal, manager of the second guest house.An employee of the second guest house, who did not want to be named, said after the arrests of six suspected al-Qaeda operatives, locals objected to the stay of teachers at their guest house.Jahangir Ali, a second teacher in the group, said, “We never expected this kind of humiliation in Kolkata.”Actor Kaushik Sen and poet Joy Goswami condemned the incident, saying the arrest of the suspected al-Qaeda members cannot be used as an excuse to isolate people from a particular religion.Md Salim of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said Bengal has always been known for its secular values. “This cannot be tolerated. Trade licence of the guest house must be cancelled.”Officers at East Bidhannagar police station said three employees of the second guest house have been arrested for throwing out the teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/driven-out-of-guest-house-for-being-muslims-say-10-madarsa-teachers/story-N13PA9cXVEiFiBJYBYu1RO.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||HP University offers direct admission in PhD programmes||Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) is offering direct admissions in Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) programmes for 2020-21 in 22 departments with 66 seats through online applications.The last date of submission of forms is October 3, 2020.Eligible candidates are required to have a master’s or a professional degree declared equal to it by a corresponding statutory regulatory body with at least 55% marks in aggregate or its equivalent grade ‘B’ in the University Grants Commission (UGC)-7 point scale or an equivalent degree from a foreign educational institution accredited by the Assessment and Accreditation Agency.Candidates also should have qualified UGC NET (junior research fellow or JRF), UGC-Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (JRF) INSPIRE, Rajiv Gandhi Fellowship/ Maulana Azad Fellowship/ Awardees of Teacher/Fellowship/ Sponsored by Indian Council of Social Science Research, Department of Biotechnology-JRF, Indian Council of Medical Research or any other department of the government of India.A notification regarding this has also been issued by the university.A relaxation of 5% marks may be allowed for ST/SC candidates, differently abled and other categories.In case seats remain vacant, then an entrance examination will be conducted for admission in the PhD programmes in December 2020 and notification to this effect will be issued subsequently. It will also be available on the university’s official website. Only in-service teachers of HPU or colleges affiliated to the university and disabled students can apply for one supernumerary seat in all the departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-university-offers-direct-admission-in-phd-programmes/story-1znIy8RBxwHUMQLTIB77XL.html
22-09-2020||Lucknow||Saubhagya scheme for electrification: 82% rural power bills unpaid in UP since April||The Saubhagya scheme of universal household electrification appears to be turning into a major financial worry for the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government-owned power distribution companies (discoms). The scheme was launched in the state on October 11, 2017. A majority of the consumers are not paying bills for their power consumption. Data showed that 82.27% of rural consumers have not paid even a single electricity bill during the current financial year since April. While around 17% among the over two crore rural consumers have paid their bills at least once in the current financial year.Arvind Kumar, additional chief secretary (ACS) (energy) and the chairman of UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL), pointed out to the sorry state of affairs via a few tweets on Sunday. ‘We drew a lot of flak over power supply issues. The attached figures indicate that 17.73% or 36.98 lakhs of our rural consumers have paid at least once since April 1. While 171.64 lakhs, out of the total 208.62 lakh consumers, have not paid even once,” he tweeted without referring to the Saubhagya scheme.“Though the situation is slightly better in Paschimanchal at 28.26%, it is worse in Purvanchal at only 12.51%,” he cited in another tweet. “The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak has also led to a downturn of 2%, as compared to last year. Consumers need to pay up if we want to move towards a 24-hour uninterrupted power supply mechanism,” Kumar said. He put out a break-up of figures of various discoms. Of the total 2,086,16,63 rural consumers, 36,98,0,60 paid at least one bill between April and August.Data showed that 21.26% consumers paid their bills in Agra discom during this period, Lucknow discom (14.32%), Meerut discom (28.26%) and Varanasi discom (12.51%), which brought out the rear. The Varanasi discom has been in the news for a possible privatisation bid.The situation in urban areas across UP is relatively better. However, the proportion of urban consumers paying their bills has come down from 81.68% in 2019 to 72.49% to date. “Purvanchal is lagging far behind other discoms,” Kumar pointed out. Of the total 3,76,55,707 households in UP, only 2,2487,787 had electricity connections as on October 10, 2017. The remaining 1,51,67,920 households did not have electricity when the Saubhagya scheme was launched in the state on October 11, 2017. Of the total unelectrified households, over one crore were in the rural areas alone.Many rural consumers are not paying their electricity bills out of bad habit. But several others have defaulted because they either did not receive their bills or got inflated ones, said people who are familiar with the matter. “Around 80 lakh rural consumers were indulging in pilferage before the Saubhagya scheme was rolled out. Most of these consumers are reluctant to pay their bills after they were provided electricity connections,” they said. “We are determined to improve our response to your problems and to move towards a 24-hour supply of electricity in rural areas. However, our consumers will need to cooperate by clearing their bills on a monthly basis. Together, only we can achieve the target of 24x7 power supply,” Kumar appealed to the rural consumers through another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/saubhagya-scheme-for-electrification-82-rural-power-bills-unpaid-in-up-since-april/story-BbrmWOEb2zuN4KxXPvTkNM.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB summons Bollywood talent agency KWAN’s CEO||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the drug angle into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has summoned Bollywood talent agency KWAN Agency’s CEO Dhruv Chitgopekar. KPS Malhotra, deputy director of NCB, confirmed that Chitgopekar has been summoned to join the ongoing investigation. Chitgopekar reached the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) guesthouse, where NCB officials are questioning people, around 2 pm. Sushant Singh Rajput’s talent manager Jaya Saha also reached the guesthouse to join the investigation.Also Read: Actor Rhea Chakraborty, brother Showik move Bombay HC for bailHowever, Malhotra denied that any summons was send to KWAN employee and Deepika Padukone’s manager, Karishma Prakash.“No summons have been issued to Prakash. But we will summon her later this week,” Malhotra said.The NCB has also summoned Shruti Modi, former business manager of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to join the investigation Tuesday. Modi had not joined investigation till 3.30 pm on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-summons-bollywood-talent-agency-kwan-s-ceo/story-jolifRIaX39UKbiUiqZi7L.html
22-09-2020||Patna||Five Maoists arrested from Bihar’s Jamui, Gaya districts; one from Kolkata||Bihar police, with the help of security forces, arrested five hardcore Maoists late on Monday from Gaya and Jamui districts of the state while another wanted Maoist was caught in Kolkata. Two of the arrested men carried rewards of Rs 15 lakh and Rs 50,000 respectively.CPI’s regional committee member of Magadh zone, Rahul Yadav (50) alias Bada Vikas alias Sirji, was arrested from Bhraunda village under Gurua police station area when he was on way to Palamu.Also read: Rs 10 lakh hike in ex-gratia for Odisha cops and staff killed by MaoistsActing on a tip-off, a CRPF team of 159 battalion nabbed him in a joint operation with district police. Rahul, said to be on the run for the past 30 years, was the most active member in the regional committee of the Maoist group and had been involved in a number of violent incidents.CRPF DIG Om Prakash Yadav said the Jharkhand government had, on July 31, 2020, announced a reward of Rs 15 lakh for his capture.Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra on Tuesday said that more than 48 cases were lodged against Rahul with different police stations of Bihar and Jharkhand. Mishra said one of Rahul’s aides, Jitendra Yadav, had also been caught. Yadav is said to have been working as a courier in the Maoist organisation.Police said that Rahul is a close associate of Maoist commander Sandeep Yadav. Police said another wanted Maoist carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 was nabbed from Kolkata. Jamui SP Pramod Kumar Mandal said following Ramesh Hembram’s arrest in Kolkata , a joint police team of SSB’s 16th battalion and Jamui police nabbed Arvind Sao alias Tenua, Rajesh Soren and Raju Soren.All the three were allegedly involved in collecting levy for zonal commander Arvind Yadav and area commander Prakash Rana. Three cell phones were recovered from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/six-maoists-arrested-from-bihar-s-jamui-gaya-districts/story-NxtzchoDzkHaKSXQAIlV9J.html
22-09-2020||Pune||Pune police recover 18 firearms, 27 ‘live’ cartridges ; 6 held||The Pune police have arrested six people and recovered 18 firearms and 27 live cartridges in a raid conducted in Fursungi, Hadapsar, on Sunday night.The arrested people have been identified as Arbaz Rashid Khan (21), Suraj Ramesh Chinchane alias Gulya (22), Kunal Namdev Shejval alias Yash (19), Jayesh Raju Gaikwad alias Jay (23), Sharad Bansi Mallav (21), all residents of areas in Shirur, and Vikas Bhagat Taur alias Maharaj (28), a resident of Yerawada, according to the police.The six were produced in a local court and remanded to police custody till September 25.Khan, who is the main accused in the case, has multiple serious cases registered against him. Shejval, who also has multiple cases against him, was named in a firing case registered at Vimantal police station. Collectively, the group has an extensive criminal record, according to the police.A stolen motorbike was also recovered from the arrested group of people.“They were first found with one weapon. Afterwards, weapons were seized from their homes and other places. More and bigger recovery is expected after custody interrogation of these men,” said Suhas Bawache, deputy commissioner of police, zone 5, Pune.“This recovery has helped prevent crimes that could have been committed using these weapons. More people will be arrested in the case,” he said.The arms were sourced from an area in Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border and were meant for sale to criminals in Pune, according to the police.“Some weapons may have been for their use, but the others were for sale as these weapons fetch a margin of profit in the market. Among criminals there is a network where the buyers come to know about the availability of weapons from such people,” added Bawache.A case under Sections 3, 7, and 8(25) of Arms Act along with Section 37(1)(3) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Hadapsar police station against the six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-recover-18-firearms-27-live-cartridges-6-held/story-eVF46tED6ydmKa1hYN3I1O.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, brother Showik move Bombay HC for bail||Actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, both arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NBC), have moved the Bombay high court for bail and their applications are likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday.Their lawyer, advocate Satish Maneshinde, said the bail applications are scheduled to come up for hearing before justice Sarang Kotwal on Wednesday.The 28-year-old actor and her brother were arrested by NCB after WhatsApp chats regarding use of drugs surfaced during an investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Their bail applications were turned down by a special NDPS court on September 11, 2020.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput case: Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody extended till October 6 by special NDPS courtRhea was arrested after being interrogated by a NCB team for three consecutive days, on September 6, 7 and 8, 2020. According to NCB, the actor was “involved in illicit trafficking of drug and she financed drugs for... Sushant Singh Rajput.” Similar allegations are levelled against Showik and stringent sections of the NDPS Act, 1985 were slapped against the two.Meanwhile, a special NDPS court remanded Rhea to further judicial custody. Public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said the special NDPS court on Tuesday extended Rhea’s judicial custody to October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actor-rhea-chakraborty-brother-showik-move-bombay-hc-for-bail/story-jyKMC2HE71862hlhLI7h6I.html
22-09-2020||City||Goa to approach SC to modify Tarun Tejpal trial timelines in view of Covid-19||The Goa government will approach the Supreme Court to seek an extension in the timelines that the apex court had set for the completing the trial of disgraced former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal. With the trial court under instructions to complete the case by December this year and keen to secure the presence of the complainant whose inability to be present in Court for cross examination is holding up the progress of the trial, the court had issued a bailable warrant to secure her presence in court. The victim then approached the High Court seeking the suspension of the warrant, which was granted as interim relief. “Unless the petitioner approaches the Apex Court and seeks extension of time fixed earlier, there is nothing much either this Court or the trial Court could do,” the High Court observed. The prosecutor assured the Court that the State has been making all efforts to approach the Apex Court and get the time frame relaxed or refixed—at the earliest.“As seen from the record, the trial Court is in a predicament. It has been tasked with completing the trial in this case in a time-frame: by December 2020. And that time-frame was fixed by the SupremeCourt. So we cannot blame the trial Court for the procedure it has adopted and the directions it issued to secure the presence of the petitioner—the victim and principal witness,” the High Court single bench of Justice Dama Seshadri Naidu said. The victim has been facing problems to come down to Goa from Delhi during the pandemic. She has also pleaded that she has been suffering from a respiratory infection and is very prone to any health hazards if she undertakes the journey under these circumstances. The victim had earlier approached the court seeking cancellation of the bailable warrant citing health as her reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goa-to-approach-sc-to-modify-tarun-tejpal-trial-timelines-in-view-of-covid-19/story-VTopS0qcwRv8r5W9oxC2mO.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||No Covid relief, hospitality sector in Punjab to observe black evening today||The hospitality sector in Punjab will observe a ‘black evening’ on Tuesday against the state government’s “indecisiveness” in extending relief to them during the Covid-19 crisis.Satish Arora, state president of the Punjab Hotel, Restaurant and Resorts Association, said all hotels and restaurants will switch off lights from 8 pm to 8.30 pm as a mark of protest.Arora said the state authorities had backtracked on their assurance to support the industry which has suspended work since the lockdown was imposed in March.“Since bars are closed, we expect exemption on annual license renewal fees from April to September. As there was no business done due to the lockdown, we demand permission to clear electricity bills and property tax in instalments. But the government is indifferent to our legitimate demands,” he added. Earlier, assurances of help had come from a group of ministers (GoM) from Punjab, including finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, cabinet ministers Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria. They, along with excise department officials, held a meeting with a delegation of the association in Chandigarh and said they would recommend to chief minister Amarinder Singh the waiver of annual license fee for bars for the year 2020-21 from April to September, in view of the losses suffered due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Also, representatives of the state hospitality industry were assured that quarterly assessed fee levied on bars for the first two quarters, ie, April to June and July to September, 2020, would be waived.On August 14, the Punjab excise and taxation department had started renewing the annual licences for pubs and bars even as these outlets remained closed due to restrictions on serving alcoholic beverages.“Our ‘halla bol’ campaign is aimed at exposing the shallow assurances given by the GoM. As the government has not notified any relief to the hospitality sector, the state excise department has started mounting pressure on us to deposit the fee, or else licenses would be cancelled. The hospitality industry contributes significantly to the GDP, but during the crisis we are not getting support from the government,” said Arora.Meanwhile, assistant excise and taxation commissioner (Bathinda) Sukhwinder Singh said on Tuesday that the state government had not taken a decision on the license fee waiver.“The bar owners are required to submit an undertaking that they will pay the fee from April to June if the state government does not give any rebate for the three-month period. There is no deadline for renewal,” he said.There are 1,500 bars and over 500 pubs in various districts. Hardly anyone has applied for licence renewal across the state, say sources in the excise department and hospitality sector.Excise licences for liquor vends, pubs, bars and restaurants are renewed annually by March-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-covid-relief-hospitality-sector-in-punjab-to-observe-black-evening-today/story-xHkbfEbnrA5oDYk4aCQp9J.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Commission agents end strike as Haryana govt bows to demands||Thousands of paddy growers in Haryana heaved a sigh of relief as commission agents ended their strike, resuming procurement operations in most mandis. The strike ended after a delegation of commission agents met with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala late Monday, and procurement operations resumed early Tuesday.Under fire due to the strike the Haryana government on Monday night announced that the market fee and rural development fee on cotton and Barik Dhan (a paddy variety) will be reduced from 2% each to half a percent. An official spokesperson said the dues for luster loss and other outstanding payments to be made to the commission agents will also be released soon. Also Read: Farm bills, sifting the grain from the chaffTalking to Hindustan Times, Ashok Gupta, the president of Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiya Association said, “We have ended the strike as the government has agreed to accept most of the demands and resumed procurement on Tuesday morning.”Gupta said that the government’s decision to reduce the market fee and rural development fee has come as a big relief to the commission agents, traders and the farmers, as this will ensure that most of the produce is procured inside the mandi. However, procurement operations did not resume in several grain markets as commission agents said that they needed written assurance from the government to end the confusion. “Procurement could not be resumed as the traders did not come to procure paddy (Basmati) by Tuesday evening. It will take a day or two to resume procurement in all mandis in the state,” said Naresh Kumar, a commission agent who works at the Kurukshetra grain market.Also Read: Haryana to sell farm produce at 1 per cent in market: Dushyant ChautalaBut officials of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing department said that they have released the payments of the deductions made from the commission of the ahrtias (commission agents) for luster loss during wheat procurement season. “The meeting (with ahrtias and rice mill owners) ended on a positive note. All the issues have been sorted out and both ahrtias and rice-millers have agreed to end their protest. The written notification will be issued by Tuesday evening,” a senior officer of Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/commission-agents-end-strike-as-haryana-govt-bows-to-demands/story-N9dUODW3wczk6fa8RH9eWL.html
22-09-2020||City||Eight prisoners escape from temporary jail in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar||Eight prisoners, who were under mandatory quarantine at a makeshift prison in Haridwar, fled on Tuesday. They were due to be shifted to the district prison after the quarantine.“Whole area has been cordoned off... search teams were immediately deployed. All police stations, check posts...have been put on high alert. CCTV footages are also being scanned,” said police superintendent Kamlesh Upadhyay.Lakhpat Butola, a police officer, said the prisoners fled from rear gate of the prison into a nearby forest. “...we are carrying out a combing operation...,” said Butola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-prisoners-escape-from-temporary-jail-in-uttarakhand-s-haridwar/story-ni3f8Bf9bdOAdlcbnhTCzH.html
22-09-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru riots : NIA formally takes over probe in two cases||The National Investigation Agency has formally taken over the investigation in two cases pertaining to the violence that broke out in the city on August 11 night over an alleged derogatory social media post by the relative of a Congress MLA.According to the NIA, a team headed by an IG-rank officer is camping in Bengaluru in connection with the probe into the cases, in which the provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act have been invoked by the state police.“In pursuance of Ministry of Home Affairs order under section 6(4) and 8 of NIA Act 2008, the NIA took over the investigation of two cases of arson and violence wherein Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act had been invoked by state police.The two cases were registered at DJ halli police station and Kadugondanahalli here.The cases were registered under various sections of IPC, Prevention of Damage of Public Property Act and Karnataka Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Property Act.More than 300 people, including some SDPI members, have been arrested in connection with the arson and violence in the city on August 11 night, targeting the Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy and his sister over a purported inflammatory social media post.Four people died in the violence, including three in the police firing.The BJP has blamed the SDPI, a political outfit of Popular Front of India, for the riots and demanded a ban on the organisation.The SDPI has however rejected the charges as ‘baseless’.In a statement on Tuesday, the NIA said, “The mob was protesting the derogatory social media (Facebook) post about Prophet Mohammed made on August 11 at around 4 pm by Naveen, nephew of the MLA allegedly insulting the religious sentiments of Muslims.” The State Secretary of SDPI, Muzamil Pasha had earlier called a meeting and directed the members of Popular Front of India and the Social Democratic Party of India to instigate the mob and incite violence, the NIA said. The mob went on rampage in DJ Halli, KG Halli and Pulakeshi Nagar and attacked the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations and vandalised the property of police stations including government and private vehicles parked in the police stations.The mob also attacked the house of the MLA and Naveen before attacking the police stations, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-riots-nia-formally-takes-over-probe-in-two-cases/story-SrV9G2u0oyMay2vIL7TfjK.html
22-09-2020||City||Forces recover arms, ammunition dropped by Pak drone in Jammu’s Akhnoor||Security forces on Tuesday recovered a cache of arms and ammunition dropped by a Pakistani drone across the Line of Control (LoC) in the Akhnoor sector of Jammu division in the Union Territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K).It was the fifth such incident since June 20 when a similar arms-laden drone was shot down by the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel at Rathua in Kathua district’s Hiranagar sector. Also read: Official probing Sopore man’s death asks family, public to record statementsPakistan, which is desperate to fuel terrorism in the UT, has adopted the latest modus operandi of using drones to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money.A J&K Police official said that a Pakistani drone dropped arms and ammunition at Sohal Khad -- a dry rivulet -- in Pallanwala, which is located about 12 kilometres (km) from the Akhnoor sector. The arms and ammunition were dropped in the rivulet and the drone flew back into Pakistani territory, he added. He said the area was located at a crucial intersection of the LoC and the International Border (IB).“We have recovered a packed bag that contained two AK-47 assault rifles, three AK magazines, 90 AK bullets, measuring 7.62 millimetres (mm), two pistols and pistol magazines along with bullets,” he added. On September 19, a Pakistani drone had dropped arms and ammunition across the LoC in Jammu’s Rajouri district for three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants. The LeT militants had come from Pulwama in the Kashmir valley via the Mughal road and had picked up the consignment before security forces arrested them. The militants have been identified as Rahil Bashir alias Ayaan Bhai (20) of Tickan in Pulwama; Amir Jaan alias Hamza (25) of Kakapora in Pulwama; and Hafiz Younus Wani alias Zubair (19) of Shopian. Security forces had seized two AK-56 assault rifles, six AK magazines with 180 rounds of ammunition, two Chinese-made pistols, three pistol magazines with 30 rounds of bullets, four grenades and Rs 1 lakh in cash from the arrested trio. Dilbagh Singh, director-general of police (DGP), J&K, said though detecting weapons being dropped via drones in hilly areas was a challenging task, security forces were taking counter measures to thwart the nefarious designs of Pakistan-based subversive elements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forces-recover-arms-ammunition-dropped-by-pak-drone-in-jammu-s-akhnoor/story-DSIf6KrJRhQC9nTC98AXEM.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Police unprepared, failed to anticipate scale in numbers, shows data||The February riots in north-east Delhi coincided with US President Donald Trump’s visit when the national capital was on a high alert. The deployment data related to the violence-hit areas cited in one of the charge sheets filed in connection shows how police were unprepared or had not anticipated the scale of the clashes. The Delhi police have been criticised for not anticipating the scale of the riots despite multiple intelligence warnings of a major communal flare-up. At least 53 people died while 400 others were injured in the riots.On February 23, when the first incidents of violence were reported from Jafrabad, there were only 1,393 police personnel deployed. The data on the police deployment is mentioned in the charge sheet that police filed last week in connection with the conspiracy behind the riots.Also Read: Delhi riots charge sheet details money trail, accused deny allegationsOn February 24, when large scale violence broke out in parts of northeast Delhi, there were only 1,361 police personnel on the ground. On February 25, the third day of the violence, only 1,399 police personnel were posted. Most cases of rioting, murders, and violence were reported between February 23 and 25. On the night of February 25, national security advisor Ajit Doval visited the riot-hit areas along with current police commissioner SN Shrivastava, who was transferred back to the Delhi police on the evening of February 25 to control the riots.Records show that following Doval’s visit, the strength of the police personnel on the ground increased almost four times. With additional reinforcements from the Centre, there were 4,291 personnel from police and paramilitary forces, which increased to 4,756 on February 28.Between February 24 and 27, the charge sheet shows that the fire department received at least 242 calls of arson from the police and residents. Records show that the most--95--fire calls were received on February 25. During the clashes, a tyre market in Gokalpuri, a parking lot with over 150 cars in Shiv Vihar, and houses of residents were burnt. The lone woman, who died in the riots, Akbari Begum, 85, died when rioters set her house afire in Bhajanpura on February 25.Also Read: Delhi Assembly panel issues fresh notice of appearance to Facebook India VPIn the charge sheet, the police have also submitted a report from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) about the cancellation of services because of the violence. The DMRC, in the report, said it incurred “unspecified huge revenue loss due to closure of Metro Stations and disruption in services”.The Delhi Transport Corporation, which runs a fleet of government buses, suffered losses of over Rs 5 lakh as its five buses were damaged.The charge sheet says at least 1,130 commercial and residential properties were damaged in the revenue department’s sub-divisional areas of Karawal Nagar and Yamuna Vihar. The police said they are awaiting the survey report from other subdivisions such as Seelampur and Shahdara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-police-unprepared-failed-to-anticipate-scale-in-numbers-shows-data/story-3iB2svWSldEE5V62thiUVP.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC stays AAP govt decision to reserve 80% ICU beds in private hospitals for Covid-19||The Delhi high court on Tuesday stayed an order of the Delhi government reserving 80% of the ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, saying that prima facie, the order appeared to be “arbitrary”, “unreasonable” and in violation of the fundamental rights of an individual.Justice Navin Chawla, while seeking the response of the Delhi government, said that the September 12 order reserving 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients was in violation of the fundamental rights. The court said that the state cannot discriminate between Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients.“At the time of the emergency, a patient cannot be told to run around from one hospital to another. The disease itself cannot be the ground for discrimination,” the court said in its oral order.Also read: Covid-19: PM Modi to meet CMs of 7 worst-hit states on WednesdayDuring the hearing, the court also remarked angrily that it would not let a single person die because of this order. “You are missing what is for the good. I will not let even one patient die due to this. Has the government considered that we are talking about ICU beds…The question is about reservation and a patient being turned away because you are keeping this bed for Covid-19. Place the deliberation as to how and what factors were taken into account before passing the order,” the court said.The court’s decision comes on a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers, alleging that such reserving of beds is also exposing non-Covid-19 patients to the risk of Covid-19 and that the order has been issued without any prior discussion with private hospitals and without understanding the current demand-supply situation of critical care beds.In its plea, filed through advocates Sanyam Khetarpal and Nitesh Goyal, the petitioners had sought quashing of the order.On Tuesday, appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Maninder Singh told the court that the order discriminates between Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients, even though both require ICU treatment. He said the hospital cannot keep beds empty while denying them to non-Covid patients. He contended that none of the factors was taken into account before passing the order.Appearing for the Delhi government, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain told that the order was issued keeping in view the sudden surge of patients requiring intensive care. He said the situation is dynamic and requires urgent decisions.He said the 33 hospitals have not challenged the order and hence the plea should be dismissed. The petitioner’s counsel said all the 33 hospitals were members of the petitioner association and he would file an affidavit in this regard.After hearing the arguments, the judge said such an order would “prima facie” lead to a situation where a patient who is suffering from a disease other than Covid-19 is denied admission to an ICU bed. The court also said that it is not apparent as to what decision-making process and data was taken into consideration before passing such an order.It asked the Delhi government to disclose the factors on which the decision to reserve ICU beds for Covid-19 patients was taken, and stayed the order till October 13Meanwhile, reacting to the order, the Delhi government, in a statement, said, “It is extremely important to reserve ICU beds in private hospitals to deal with increasing corona cases. We will challenge this order tomorrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-stays-delhi-govt-decision-to-reserve-80-icu-beds-in-33-pvt-hospitals-for-covid-19-patients/story-fQ6ON3tTS7kVxv0AeNItII.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC judge for transparency, disallows anything submitted in sealed cover||The Bombay high court last week refused to allow a firm to submit some additional documents related to a commercial arbitration case in sealed covers to prevent the press from accessing them, saying the media have a purpose and it cannot curtail the rights of the free press.Justice G S Patel, who is heading the bench hearing the case, said every document shown to him could be seen by all parties and even the press. He added this was the only method to ensure “an open and transparent decision-making process.”The bench was hearing a bunch of commercial arbitration petitions filed against Anugarh Stock & Broking Pvt Ltd. The petitioners have accused the company of causing them financial and monetary loss and of illegal and unauthorised trades.Also Read: Bombay HC dismisses petition challenging age criteria for admission to primary schoolThe firm filed an affidavit through advocate Rohaan Cama in response to the petitions about its assets, their value, and details of other holdings and bank accounts. Cama informed the bench that his client had submitted additional material in a sealed covers rather than putting them in the affidavit as they feared the press could access it.Patel said there will never be a question “of anything being done in a sealed cover”. He added: “Anything that I can see, all parties before me are entitled to see. That is all there is to it. This is the only method that I know of to ensure an open and transparent decision-making process. Those details will, therefore, need to be set on affidavit. I am also making it clear that it is not possible for any party to unilaterally decide to put material into a sealed cover.”Also Read: Bombay HC dismisses BJP petition, INC’s Ravi Raja to continue as Opposition leader in BMCPatel said he could not care less in response to Cama’s apprehension about the material finding its way into the press. “That is not my concern. The fourth estate will do its job and I will do mine. I decide matters before me on the basis of the papers filed in court, not newspapers delivered to my doorstep. The press exists for a reason. It has a purpose, one that it serves. I cannot and will not curtail the rights of the free press at the instance of this or that party. I refuse to proceed on the basis that the press is always irresponsible. There will be no gag orders here.”Patel said that it was up to Anugarh to submit details of the material in the sealed cover in an affidavit and serve it on all petitioners or face the consequences and posted the petitions for hearing on October 5.Around 65 petitions have accused Anugrah of luring investors, taking large sums, effecting some trades but also carrying out unauthorised and illicit transactions and causing the petitioners losses. They have sought recovery of their funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-judge-for-transparency-disallows-anything-submitted-in-sealed-cover/story-BPZyZjGChpmUC9ihEw8lCO.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh govt modifies guidelines for schools after social distancing rule broken on Day 1 of reopening||The Himachal Pradesh government on Tuesday modifies guidelines for educational institutions after social distancing rules were broken in some schools on the day they reopened after six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The educational institutions reopened on Monday with students of Classes 9 to 12 coming to school with written consent of parents to seek guidance. While most schools opened without students, at some places a large number of students gathered at the institutions and even classes were held, forcing the authorities to revise the guidelines. According to the new guidelines, not more than five students of any class should be called for guidance. The heads of the institutions have been asked to ensure that mechanisms should be developed by the educational institution concerned, to maintain social distancing and to avoid any gathering. The campus will be sanitised after school hours daily and all precautions for cleanliness and hygiene are to be taken. At the entry gate of educational institutions, provision shall be made for washing or sanitising hands. Signages and posters shall be displayed at schools to raise awareness about prevention of Covid-19 and parents will be asked their wards come to school with masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-pradesh-govt-modifies-guidelines-for-schools-after-social-distancing-rule-broken-on-day-1-of-reopening/story-bGxD9G2VOsn3DhGOQEOLCO.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two women held for issuing fake vehicle insurance||Two women have been arrested for running an alleged racket of selling fake vehicle insurance policies to residents of Delhi-national capital region (NCR), the Delhi Police said.The crime was unearthed last week when a truck owner, Avdhesh Yadav, complained to the Delhi Police’s cyber branch of the north-west district after he was issued two fake vehicle insurance policies. “Yadav told us that he knows a man named Mukeem, who installs global positioning system (GPS)-enabled devices in vehicles near Jahangirpuri. Yadav had told Mukeem that he needed to renew his truck’s insurance policy following which the latter asked him to transfer Rs 34,000 to a bank account,” said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), (north-west), Delhi Police.Soon, Yadav received a copy of the insurance policy, which in face value appeared to be issued by a prominent insurance firm.“Yadav figured out that the policy details were fake after he checked on the firm’s website. Mukeem shared some phone numbers and asked Yadav to sort out the issue about the forged document,’ the DCP said.Yadav was issued another insurance policy, which was in the name of a separate prominent company. But that document also proved to be counterfeit. Police started their probe by checking the details of the bank account in which the money was deposited. “It belonged to a woman called Paramjeet Kaur (36). Kaur revealed that she was running this racket with her accomplice, Ritu (44). Both Kaur and Ritu have been arrested,” the DCP added.The official said that the two women used to work for an insurance firm in Moti Nagar. “One of their associates used to routinely share a list of people, whose vehicle insurance policies were up for renewal. The duo would call these people offering to renew their insurance policies. At times, their contacts would bring them prospective clients,” the official added. “The two arrested accused would design fake insurance policies and issue them to their unsuspecting clients,” he added.Police have also arrested Deepak Bansal (22), an undergraduate student of commerce, on charges of letting the arrested accused use his account of an e-commerce payment system for the alleged crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-two-women-held-for-issuing-fake-vehicle-insurance/story-DKoP12keQd1QZeu8mv21GM.html
22-09-2020||City||Delhi resident who posed as NIA officer arrested for rape, cheating by Mumbai Police||A man (35) from Delhi, who claimed to be an officer from the National Investigation Agency (NIA), was arrested by Mumbai Police on Monday on charges of raping a woman and duping her of Rs 3 lakh.The accused, identified as Mayank Kapoor, has been remanded to police custody until Friday (September 25). The victim filed a complaint at Mulund police station on September 19 after she found out that Kapoor was an imposter. The victim, who works for a private company, in her statement told the police that she had got in touch with the accused through a matrimonial website in February. Soon, they decided to get married. Kapoor claimed to the victim that he was an undercover officer with the NIA and he had also worked for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), said an officer from Mulund police station. “The accused told the victim that he wanted to meet her before their marriage. He arrived in Mumbai in July claiming that he was on an official trip on some secret operation. He told the victim that his agency (NIA) has booked a hotel for his stay in Mumbai but due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, it was not safe to stay there and instead stayed in her apartment,” he said.“Kapoor stayed for over two months with the victim. He had a physical relationship with her after promising that he would marry her,” he added. “He borrowed Rs 3 lakh from the victim in three instalments on the pretext of his ongoing secret operation. He promised to repay her the borrowed sum. However, the victim started doubting him after two months when he refused to show his identity (NIA) card and also did not return to Delhi,” said Pradeep Vani, an inspector of Mulund police station. “The accused’s cover was blown after the victim demanded the money from him. She filed a case against the accused at Mulund police station on September 19. Though the victim had alleged that the accused was carrying a revolver on him, a police team recovered a gun-shaped lighter from him following his arrest,” Vani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-resident-who-posed-as-nia-officer-arrested-for-rape-cheating-by-mumbai-police/story-RHZm1jZmcU5wrvh1xsMM4N.html
22-09-2020||Election:||Bihar assembly polls: CPI-ML resumes seat-sharing talks with Grand Alliance||The Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation will team up with the Grand Alliance (GA) as part of the new equation to get the poll arithmetic right to counter the NDA dispensation in Bihar. The CPI (ML) agreed to join the GA after their representatives, led by Dhirendra Jha, met state chief of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Jagadanand Singh and party senior Bhola Yadav on Monday evening. While other Left parties like the CPI and the CPI (Marxist) have already announced their decision to fight the upcoming assembly polls under the GA banner, the CPI (ML) demonstrated frayed tempers and threatened to contest alone after its talk with the RJD failed to reach any logical conclusion last week. RJD leader Bhola Yadav said that some minor issues, which remained unresolved so far, would be sorted out in the next round of meeting. Also read: Congress to boycott session, says Opposition’s views not accommodatedThe CPI (ML) has been asking for around two dozen seats to contest under the GA, much to the chagrin of other constituents including the RJD and the Congress. The party currently has three MLAs, having got 1.5 percent of the total votes polled in the 2015 assembly polls. Jha said that his party had reinitiated talks with the RJD for a broader Left unity to defeat the BJP-JD(U) alliance. “We have stipulated our conditions for joining the GA formation with a hope of getting an agreeable deal,” said the CPI(ML) leader after the talks. In the 2019 parliamentary polls, the ML had extended support to GA candidates, including the RJD nominees, at four places, where they polled more than 4 lakh votes. Meanwhile, RJD leader and opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has decided to meet Congress leaders in Delhi and join the final negotiation for seats among the GA allies in a day or two. The RJD wants to contest about 150 seats out of 243, while the Congress is adamant on contesting around 80 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-polls-cpi-ml-resumes-seat-sharing-talks-with-grand-alliance/story-BnlgIHM5i4wgSCDRk5wOXJ.html
22-09-2020||City||Covid-19: Maharashtra active cases drop by over 27,000 in four days||Maharashtra’s tally of active Covid-19 cases is reduced by 27,000 in last four days, reveals the data released by the state government. This has happened for the first time in the past seven months since the outbreak. Active cases is the difference between total cases and those who have recovered (or discharged from hospitals), as well as died. Also read: Cheaper, quicker kit can help in scaling up testing, says researcherOfficials cite two reasons for the decline in active cases: Static rise in fresh infections and a higher number of recoveries in the corresponding period.The first Covid-19 case in the state was detected on March 9. The state crossed the 300,000-mark of active cases, taking its tally to 301,752 on September 17. The numbers started dropping from the very next day and the tally on Monday was 274,623.Officials pointed out that the state recorded 24,619 cases on September 17 but for the next four days, the tally of fresh infections remained somewhere static. In fact, on September 21, it dropped by around 5,000 cases. In addition, the state also reported more recoveries in the same period.“Our fresh infections didn’t go up and have remained somewhere around 21,000 in a day in the last four days. At the same time, we have also crossed over 100,000 recoveries and for all the four days, our number of recoveries was higher than the number of fresh infections,” said an official from the state health department.On September 18, 19, 20 and 21, the state reported 21,656, 21,907, 20,598 and 15,738 cases respectively. In contrast, recoveries in the same period were 22,078, 23,501, 26,408 and 32,007 respectively, according to the data released by the government. On Monday, the state’s case count reached 1,224,380 and the toll went up to 33,015 after 344 casualties were reported.The high number of casualties continues to be a concern for the state authorities as it is still the highest in the country. Figures show that the state’s contribution in total Covid casualties is around 37.56% with 87,882 deaths reported across the country till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-maharashtra-active-cases-drop-by-over-27-000-in-four-days/story-tFr5CU1iqgPVJisqp0hAXI.html
22-09-2020||City||Re-verify status of wetlands in Maharashtra, orders Bombay high court panel||The Bombay high court (HC)-appointed committee, which is looking after the protection of mangroves and wetlands in Maharashtra, on Monday, directed all district collectors (DCs) along the Konkan coast and municipal commissioners to undertake a fresh survey to re-verify the status of all wetlands and submit their reports within 15 days to the panel.Also read: MTDC to hand over 500-acre mangrove area in Manori-Gorai to Maharashtra forest departmentThe committee, which met for the first time after six months, has directed state authorities not to differentiate between human-made and natural wetlands during its latest assessment and consider all wetland areas identified in the National Wetland Inventory Atlas (NWIA), Maharashtra, while undertaking the exercise.“There is a need for correct interpretation of what constitutes a wetland. This is not happening at the moment,” said Annasaheb Misal, commissioner, Konkan, and also chairman of the HC-appointed panel. “All DCs and other departments have been asked to re-examine the exercise to come up with a fresh list for notification and an overall protection of sites,” he added.In 2014, the HC had banned reclamation and construction on wetlands in Maharashtra after Vanashakti, a Mumbai based environmental non-governmental organisation (NGO), had filed a petition to protect them. The plea had led to the formation of the HC-appointed panel. In September 2017, the Union Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) notified new Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules 2017, replacing its 2010 version. The new rules left out wetlands protected under forest and wildlife laws and under the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) and also the human-made water bodies and all salt pans. The MoEFCC directed all states to prepare a fresh wetland inventory. Maharashtra environment department submitted a list of wetlands to each district in the Konkan region in early 2019 to verify and submit their status.Misal said based on the submissions by the districts in the Konkan region, it was observed that the number of wetlands proposed versus those verified for the final notification were too few and far between. For example, though initially, the number of wetlands identified as per the NWIA, Mahrashtra, for Mumbai was 475, later it was watered down to 59, and only a single declared area in Powai, measuring up to 181.9 hectares (ha), was submitted for the final notification. In Thane, the NWIA, Maharashtra, had identified 1,895 wetlands, which was whittled down to 132 potential sites. Later, eight wetlands were sent for the final notification. “A similar situation was observed in Palghar district, where out of 86 potential sites, six have been proposed for the final notification,” said Misal.“We need to ensure that not a single area is left out that may have the slightest features of what constitutes a wetland, or has already been identified under the NWIA, Maharashtra,” he added. Neenu Somraj, member secretary of the HC-appointed panel, said the committee has received 77 and 11 complaints regarding destruction of mangroves and wetlands, respectively.“The Konkan commissioner has directed collectors, civic chiefs, police personnel and other state agencies to follow up on all pending complaints and submit status reports within the next 15 days before the next meeting of the panel,” said Somraj.“DCs need to follow the recent decision by the MoEFCC to handover all mangrove areas to the state forest department within the next two months,” he added.Nidhi Chaudhari, DC, Raigad, has told the committee that first information reports (FIRs) were filed against the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ) for damaging Pagote and Bhendkhal wetlands in Uran.Misal said state bodies were directed to take strict action against any form of debris dumping or encroachments at wetlands and mangroves.Maharashtra Police authorities were told to file charge sheets in cases, where FIRs were filed.“A status report has been asked from them. Complaints need to be monitored closely at the level of DC and municipal commissioner. In many cases, complaints have not been attended to properly. This should not happen,” he said. Other members of the HC-appointed panel said all wetlands in the Atlas must be documented and protected. “The new commissioner has taken the issue of wetland conservation seriously. He has directed DCs to give a report on wetlands in their jurisdiction. He has upheld the mandate of the committee as instructed by the HC. It is high time the importance of all wetlands in the NWIA is recognised and a comprehensive inventory is prepared,” said Stalin D, a member of the HC-appointed panel.Shift dumping ground out of mangroves in Uran: HC panelThe HC-appointed panel on Monday also directed that a dumping ground in Uran be shifted out at the earliest. The committee directed the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (Cidco) to issue a no-objection certificate (NoC) to shift the dumping ground to the new location identified by the Raigad district administration and the local civic body. “Land has been identified, but the civic body needs the NoC from Cidco since it is a notified area under the planning agency. Cidco should not have any problem in issuing the NoC since dumping garbage on mangroves is a violation of the law and needs to be stopped at the earliest,” said Misal.The dumping ground, measuring two ha, is located between Bori Pakhadi and Hanuman Koliwada villages in Uran. it has been receiving three tonnes of mostly dry waste daily since 2007. A residential colony is located less than 100 metres (m) from the landfill site on the one end, while dense mangrove vegetation is situated on the other side. Environmentalists have cited a growing health hazard and submitted a list of grievances to the HC-appointed panel that sewage was entering the wetland while the stench and insect menace was leading to several infectious diseases among local residents. “Latest decisions indicate that our complaints have been noted and this ecologically-sensitive site can be protected,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation, one of the complainants.However, Cidco authorities said the new landfill site, which is located at Mulekhand, around 15 kilometres (km) south-east from the existing one, also had a residential area close to it. “Residents have objected to the proposed landfill site. Our planning department is trying to resolve the impasse. However, obtaining an NOC will take time,” said a Cidco official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/re-verify-status-of-wetlands-in-maharashtra-ordrers-bombay-high-court-panel/story-zuEWh3pMIegIWaTw0RSAeJ.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||BJP Delhi unit seeks Centre’s nod for Ramlila events in city||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi unit has requested the Centre for permission to organise Ramlila this year. Senior party leaders met Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy in this regard on Monday.BJP leaders said Ramlila would be even more special this year as the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya also began earlier in 2020. BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who met Reddy, said, “It is a matter of faith of lakhs of people. It is even more special this time as the construction work of Ram temple has started and PM Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the temple.”In August, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta had met lieutenant governor Anil Baijal in this regard. BJP leaders said that the Centre should issue guidelines for organising the events. “We have requested the Centre to issue guidelines for organising such events. The organisers will ensure all safety measures...The government should issue guidelines for such events,” said Bidhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bjp-delhi-unit-seeks-centre-s-nod-for-ramlila-events-in-city/story-3UEBVUzzcr7fxeJEli8WgJ.html
22-09-2020||City||Maharashtra chief wildlife warden permits capture of Yavatmal tigress||The Maharashtra principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF-wildlife) issued orders on Monday evening to capture a tigress involved in man-animal conflict in Yavatmal district.The decision comes two days after a woman (60) was mauled to death by the tigress at an agricultural field near Andharwadi and Pattanbori villages, which are located adjacent to Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary. State forest department officials said the tigress was being routinely spotted through camera trap images moving across villages such as Andharwadi, Koparmandvi, Vasari, and Kobai in Pandharkawada Forest Reserve. The animal’s movement has sparked panic and fear among villagers. On September 4, the tigress had attacked a farmer, but he luckily escaped with injuries.The Wildlife Protection Act (WLPA), 1972, stipulates that the chief wildlife warden or PCCF of a state can declare a wild animal protected under Schedule 1 of the WLPA a threat or danger to human life by invoking section 11 (1) (a) of the Act.Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF-wildlife, Maharashtra, said, “I have issued an order for the capture of the tigress. The tigress (T2C1) has been identified as one of the cubs of dominant female T2, a resident tigress of Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary.”The tigress has been spotted near these villages since July and also seen multiple times in areas with human habitation, mostly in agricultural fields, said Kakodkar. “The tigress has been involved in two conflict incidents with humans and at least six livestock (cattle and goats) have been killed in the past two months,” he said.“We have deployed teams from the Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF), who were sent from Melghat Tiger Reserve. Rapid rescue units and five range officers are also monitoring the situation. Villages have been advised not to venture close to forest areas or send their cattle for grazing until the tigress is captured.”The first attack by the tigress was reported on September 4. A group of local villagers met state forest minister Sanjay Rathore requesting him for the animal’s immediate capture. Later, the minister directed the officials to initiate necessary measures to curb further incidents of a man-animal conflict.SV Ramarao, chief conservator of forest (CCF) (Yavatmal), said, “We have been communicated verbally about the PCCF’s approval. We are awaiting the official letter before commencing the operation to capture the animal. The operation is limited to a radius of up to five kilometres (km) and the animal is regularly observed in our camera traps laid out across the area.” The latest incident has been reported in Ralegaon-Pandharkawada district, where tigress T1 or Avni was killed in 2018 under questionable circumstances by two private hunters hired by the state forest department after the animal was said to have killed 13 people.This is the sixth order to capture a tiger involved in human-animal conflict in Maharashtra this year, of which four have been captured to date.The first incident was reported in May when a tiger from Brahmapuri was captured in Gondia district. The animal was said to have killed four persons across two forest divisions. The next two cases were recorded in June where a sub-adult male tiger had killed five people since February. The tiger was captured from the buffer area of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve. While an adult tigress that had entered a house in Nagbhid range of Brahmapuri was captured on June 22. Both these captured tigers died at Gorewada rescue centre in Nagpur due to old age and septicaemia. On July 19, a three-year-old male tiger (NT-1) was tranquilised and captured by the state forest department authorities at Talodi range in Chandrapur district’s Bramhapuri forest division. The officials said the tiger was responsible for the death of three persons in June and was also sent to Gorewada rescue centre. In January, Kakodkar had issued an order to capture a tiger involved in a conflict at the Chandrapur Thermal Power Station (CTPS). Though the order lapsed, it was not extended because the tiger had moved away from the area, the PCCF said.“Operations are underway to capture another tiger (RT1) at Rajura in Central Chanda division since February. The tiger is said to have killed six villagers. The consent for capture has been renewed, but the tiger has managed to elude our trapping efforts so far,” said Kakodkar.Maharashtra has reported 47 human deaths due to wild animal attacks this year, including 29 because of conflict with tigers , the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-chief-wildlife-warden-permits-capture-of-yavatmal-tigress/story-PIqEuwZPihYnV0vCSOvlmK.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Cloudy sky and light rain likely over Delhi today, says IMD||There is a forecast for a partly cloudy sky and very light rainfall in parts of the national capital on Tuesday along with the movement of a low-pressure area, which had formed over the Bay of Bengal two days ago.“We are expecting the maximum temperature to fall marginally because of cloudy skies. There may be light rainfall in Delhi and adjoining areas of Haryana on Tuesday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, who heads the regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC) of India Meteorological Department (IMD). The maximum and minimum temperatures in Delhi are likely to be 35 degrees Celsius (C) and 27 degrees C, respectively, on Tuesday, according to RWFC.Also Read: Delhi could see its warmest September in 5 years: IMDDelhi has an 18% and 62% deficiency in rainfall for this monsoon and September, respectively. The maximum temperature had shot up to 38 degrees Celsius on September 18, which was three degrees above normal. Both maximum and minimum temperatures have risen up to three degrees higher than normal in the past week. Delhi’s weather has become sultry and uncomfortable because of the rise in temperatures.The low-pressure area is lying over north coastal Odisha and adjoining north-west Bay of Bengal. It is likely to move west-north-westwards during the next two-three days.Also Read: Rain burst likely before monsoon withdrawalThe western parts of the monsoon trough runs south of its normal position and eastern parts run along its normal position – from Ganganagar in western Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal -- and an east-west shear zone runs across peninsular India.The IMD is expecting rainfall in coastal and north interior Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal, Sikkim, Bihar, Jharkhand on Tuesday and over Uttar Pradesh (UP) and adjoining eastern Rajasthan between Tuesday and Thursday due to these favourable conditions.Extremely heavy rainfall is likely over coastal Karnataka, Odisha, Konkan, Goa, Madhya Maharashtra, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on Tuesday and over eastern UP on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-and-light-rain-likely-over-delhi-today-says-imd/story-HkuMPdPyXfz6LdVDa52a5K.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi building collapse: All you need to know||The death toll from the building collapse in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi rose to 20 on Tuesday morning even as rescuers scrambled to look for more survivors. Officials of the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) fear that 20 to 25 people are still trapped under the debris.Here is what we know so far:• A 36-year-old Jilani building in Bhiwandi collapsed in the early hours of Monday morning. • 20 people have died so far due to the building collapse. • 8 children between the ages of 2 years and 14 years have died in the collapse. • National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Thane Bhiwandi Disaster Cell and the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) have been conducting rescue operations for the past 29 hours. • These disaster management authorities fear that more than 20-25 people are trapped in the debris. • The collapse happened as the building’s third floor crashed onto the first floor of the building. • Disaster management authorities have asked survivors to come forward and help them with details regarding number of people trapped inside in order to quicken the rescue process. • The Prime Minister and the President tweeted their condolences and prayed that the injured recover fast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-building-collapse-death-toll-rises-to-20-rescue-operations-underway/story-DGHVSSacgJDrkx4AGUHinK.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to sell farm produce at 1 per cent in market: Dushyant Chautala||The Haryana government has decided to sell all the farm produce at a 1 per cent fee in the market, said deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday.“The government has decided that all the produce will be sold in the market at 1 per cent fee instead of the previous 4 per cent fee,” Chautala said after meeting with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.This comes after the Parliament passed three farm bills during the monsoon session earlier this week.“The discussions on how to run the markets smoothly in the wake of the three farm bills, passed by the Parliament, were done,” Chautala said.He added, “It was also discussed that how do the produce be purchased on Minimum support price (MSP).”The Rajya Sabha on Monday passed Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 amid opposition protest in the Rajya Sabha.The bills were earlier passed by Lok Sabha. The opposition parties have been alleging that MSP will be impacted due to the bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-sell-farm-produce-at-1-per-cent-in-market-dushyant-chautala/story-6jlGN1RBiqXxt82pBaGlBK.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Commission agents end strike, resume paddy procurement after Haryana govt accepts demands||Thousands of paddy growers in Haryana heaved a sigh of relief as commission agents ended their four-day strike, resuming procurement in mandis (grain markets) on Tuesday. Haryana Mandi Arhtiya Association Ashok Gupta said, “We have ended the strike as the government agreed to accept most of our demands. Procurement resumed on Tuesday morning.” A delegation of commission agents met chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala on Monday evening after which the government announced that the market fee and rural development fee on cotton and barik dhan, a paddy variety, will be reduced from 2% each to 0.5%. An official spokesperson said the dues for lustre loss and other outstanding payments will be made to the commission agents soon. Gupta said the decision to reduce the market fee and rural development fee has come as a relief to commission agents, traders and the farmers as this will ensure that most of the produce is procured inside mandis. He said this will help private traders procure basmati varieties from farmers in the mandis with the help of arhtiyas who will get the commission and will also be able to get payment from buyers according to the traditional system. AGENTS AWAIT WRITTEN WORDHowever, procurement did not resume in several grain markets as commission agents insisted on a written communication from the government to end the confusion. “Procurement could not be resumed at some places as the traders did not come to buy basmati till Tuesday evening, It will take a day or two to resume operations in all mandis of the state,” said Naresh Kumar, a commission agent in the Kurukshetra grain market. State agriculture marketing officials said they have released payments of deductions made from the commission of the arhtiyas for lustre loss in the wheat procurement season. “The meeting (with arhtiyas and rice mill owners) ended on a positive note and all issues were resolved. Both have agreed to end their protest but the written notification will be issued by Tuesday evening,” said a senior officer of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commission-agents-end-strike-resume-paddy-procurement-after-haryana-govt-accepts-demands/story-TsEUqAMbQEqMrdKezVgcrN.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD to hold 3-hour chakka jam on September 25, lead kisan march from three Takhts on October 1||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday announced a three-hour chakka jam (road blockade) across Punjab on September 25 to protest the farm bills and a simultaneous kisan (farmer) march from three Sikh religious Takhts to Mohali on October 1 to hand over a memorandum for President Ram Nath Kovind to the state governor. This was decided at a meeting of the SAD core committee presided over by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday night. It was also decided that Sukhbir would visit various parts of the state to interact with the party cadre from September 26 to 29, according to party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema. The core committee also decided to contact all like-minded regional parties across the country to evolve a joint strategy to forge a united fight to get the “anti-farmer bills” revoked. Cheema said that party leaders and workers have been asked to undertake the ‘chakka jam’ from 11am to 2pm in all constituencies in league with farmers, farm labourers and commission agents but asked not to come in the way of emergency services. He said the farmer march will be held from Akal Takht, Takht Damdama Sahib and Takht Keshgarh Sahib. Sukhbir would lead the march from Damdama Sahib, while former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal would lead the march from Akal Takht Sahib, and Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema would lead the marches from Keshgarh Sahib. Other senior party leaders would also participate in the march. He said the march would culminate at Dussehra Ground in Mohali, following which a delegation of senior party leaders would hand over a memorandum to Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore for the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-to-hold-3-hour-chakka-jam-on-september-25-lead-kisan-march-from-three-takhts-on-october-1/story-NVYDiikYJ2PzjkqNqfo7EK.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Gang-rape at Shangri-La: 2 more arrested by Delhi police||The room at Shangri-La Hotel on Ashoka Road-Janpath roundabout, where a woman in her twenties was allegedly gang-raped by five men in the presence of another woman, was booked in the names of two businessmen who are yet to be arrested, police said on Monday, after arresting two more suspects in the case.With this, a total of three suspects have been arrested so far, while the two businessmen and the woman remain at large. Those arrested on Monday were identified as Sanjay Chaudhary,46, a bailiff in Saket Court, and Jagdeep Singh,60, a businessman, said DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal.The alleged prime accused, Manoj Sharma, 48, a building contractor, was the first to be arrested on Sunday, a day after a case of gang rape was registered on the survivor’s complaint.There were unconfirmed reports that the room was booked and paid by the personal staff of a politician. “At this stage of the probe, all we can say is that the room was booked in the name of the two businessmen whose political links have not emerged so far in our probe,” an officer said.An email with queries about the booking was sent to Shangri-La Hotel which said, “The Delhi Police is looking into an incident. We are unable to provide any details as this is an ongoing investigation. The hotel is extending its full support to the authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gang-rape-at-shangri-la-2-more-arrested-by-delhi-police/story-Wb68yQfHr7QZH8CIL2Z1rM.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Missing the city’s atmospheric chai||Lallan has returned. The man had virtually vanished for many months.His tea stall in Old Delhi was among the city’s most atmospheric chai places, and looked like it had been here forever—though founded only four years ago. The stall consisted of an arched niche scooped into the outer wall of a dilapidated building in Galli Choori Wallan street. This sublime niche was the best part of the stall.In his late 20s, Lallan would walk to this spot every morning from his room in the vicinity, which he shared with half-a-dozen brick-layers. Within minutes, he would set up the stall consisting of a stove, a kettle, a steel tray, boxes of sugar and chai patti (tea leaves), stacks of plastic glasses, a pan of milk, strainers, and a few tea snacks such as the flaky fen, made in the neighbourhood bakeries. He carried the entire paraphernalia in a rusty metal trunk that the customers would use as bench.In the morning, the space around the picturesque niche teemed with tea drinkers. They would be busy in their chai, gossip and newspapers, totally oblivious to the beautiful setting.Suddenly, early last year, the stall vanished. The niche lost its life, although meantime it was whitewashed and made to look new by the building owner. Save for some ominous rumours, nobody around had a clue on what had become of Lallan.Now, Lallan has resurfaced. This morning he is casually sitting inside that same niche, but without the tea things. Carefree and maskless, he says, “I’d gone back to my des (he means his village).” He’s from a village in Bahraich, UP—home to his parents, wife and four kids. Lallan left the city “because I was bored,” he admits shyly, shrugging his shoulders. He didn’t experience the city during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. But why be back in such a challenging time?“Because I must restart working... I’ll do something new, maybe become a brick layer.”While his beautiful chai stall is not likely to be back, at least our city has regained its Lallan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/missing-the-city-s-atmospheric-chai/story-QoMRGsxBJR3xEfgysD6mqM.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Retired Navy man shot dead inside Dwarka apartment after altercation||A retired Indian Navy officer (55), who was into real estate business, was shot dead by a man following an altercation in the parking area on the ground floor of an apartment at Pochanpur in south-west Delhi’s Dwarka on Sunday night, the police said. The victim, Balraj Deshwal, was shot in his face from a “very close range” and died on the spot. The alleged accused, Pradeep Khokar, is absconding, said Santosh Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (Dwarka), Delhi Police. “Gehlan Apartment, where the murder took place, was constructed by Deshwal and his three business partners. Khokar had purchased one of the flats and was staying in Gehlan Apartment. We have learnt that Khokar was to pay an outstanding amount of Rs 5 lakh to Deshwal. It’s not yet clear whether the murder took place because of a dispute over the payment,” said DCP Meena. The crime occurred place at around 8:30 pm, when Deshwal and one of his business partners were sitting in the parking space on the ground floor of the building. Khokar entered building while having an argument with a person over the phone, one of Deshwal’s partners told the police in his statement. “One of Deshwal’s partners told us that Khokar looked angry and was abusing the person on the phone. Soon, Khokar disconnected the call and got into an altercation with Deshwal without any provocation. During the argument, he whipped out a pistol and fired at Deshwal’s face from a very close range. Deshwal died on the spot,” said the DCP. Khokar fled the crime scene and Deshwal was rushed to an adjacent hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival. A case of murder has been registered and teams have been formed to arrest Khokar. “We have learnt that Khokar got a job as a teacher in Haryana. The information is being verified,” added DCP Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/retired-navy-man-shot-dead-inside-dwarka-apartment-after-altercation/story-GLMd1O47zAkGezkl9XMUwN.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||3-storey building collapses in Delhi’s Chawri Bazar||One person was injured after a three-storey under-construction building collapsed in a residential neighbourhood in central Delhi’s Sitaram Bazar near Chawri Bazar on Monday. Two fire tenders and a rescue team from the Delhi Fire Services were rushed to the site for rescue operation. The injured person was rushed to a nearby hospital by the locals before the rescuers could reach the site, said fire services department chief Atul Garg. “The person has received minor injuries. We have stopped the rescue operation. The building contractor has given us in writing that nobody is trapped under the debris. Three labourers were working there and throwing building construction materials inside when the building collapsed,” said assistant divisional officer (fire services) Rajesh Shukla, who supervised the rescue operation. Shukla added local residents told them that there was an old building at a plot that was demolished some months ago and a new building was being constructed. The ground and first floors were constructed on the 45-square-yard plot. The process of constructing the roof the second floor was going on and construction materials for the same was being arranged when the entire building collapsed, said Shukla. Municipal officials have been informed about the incident and they have been asked to find out if the building was being constructed illegally or the contractor had been flouting rules after obtaining permission for it. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash Monday ordered an inquiry in the incident.“The building’s plan was approved by local authorities. However, we have ordered an inquiry to find out if there was any violation during the construction phase,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3-storey-building-collapses-in-delhi-s-chawri-bazar/story-yfJgJ53Gih1g3PqyqjrEUL.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Provide list of those with security cover but hold no public office: High court to Punjab govt||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Punjab government to provide the list of those having security cover but are not holding any public office. Also, the bench of Justice Jaishree Thakur directed the government to provide the number of people given security beyond the State Security Policy, 2013. The directions came on a petition filed by former Punjab deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh who has challenged the state government’s move to withdraw his security cover on June 23. As an interim measure, the court has asked state to provide him two security personnel. In the plea filed on August 25, Devinder had told the court that despite having been provided security since 2018, his cover was withdrawn completely in a unilateral manner even as former MLAs are provided a minimum of two security personnel.He informed the court that he was placed under high-risk category in 1983 and survived an attack in 1991 in Fatehgarh Sahib. In 2010, his complete security cover was withdrawn but it was restored after the high court’s intervention, he added. The Amarinder Singh-led Congress government withdrew four of his gunmen in March 2018 and with the fresh order he was left with no security cover and was told to get the same on payment basis, he had said. The move, he claimed, was aimed at settling political scores as he had been critical of the present dispensation as part of his public duty. The government had responded by stating that he is not entitled to security cover as an ex MLA as per the policy. To counter the claim, Devinder had submitted details of some former MLAs who have been provided security cover by the state. The matter has been posted for further hearing on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/provide-list-of-those-with-security-cover-but-hold-no-public-office-hc-to-punjab/story-Zbbd88FJrPIeL2DLcNWHSL.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 case fatality rate down to 4.5% as BMC ups monitoring||The city in the past 31 days recorded Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.2% (1,115 deaths and 51,617 cases), which has helped bring down Mumbai’s overall CFR from 5.5% to 4.5% between August 20 and September 20. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) attributed this dip in CFR to weekly monitoring at private and municipal hospitals as part of its ‘Mission Save Lives’ launched in June. CFR is deaths due to Covid-19 as a per cent of the total cases reported. “We have started monitoring weekly fatality rate, every Monday morning, at all public and private hospitals. This has resulted in drastic fall in the fatality rate. We are striving to bring the average fatality rate per day further down in the next 30 days,” said BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. On June 30, the civic body launched a nine-point strategy called ‘Mission Save Lives’ after the city’s fatality rate had touched 5.8% on June 29. The plan included audit of every death, video surveillance of every critical and serious case, and mandatory video conferencing or telephonic meeting twice a day to review every serious case at the hands of senior doctors, among other things. HT had reported on August 15 that May had reported the highest number of Covid-19 deaths at 2,269, followed by June at 1,922 deaths, and July at 1,773 deaths. In August, the city recorded 1,260 fatalities due to Covid-19, and until September 20, Mumbai has reported 776 deaths.Meanwhile, on Monday, the city reported 1,837 new cases and 36 deaths, taking the city’s tally and toll to 186,276 and 8,505, respectively. While the number of recovered patients in the city stands at 150,535, Mumbai currently has 26,858 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-case-fatality-rate-down-to-4-5-as-bmc-ups-monitoring/story-X0ykH1a3b1IyKy59KANXrI.html
22-09-2020||City||Hoshiarpur distiller brewed liquor with fake export permits, faces FIR||A Hoshiarpur-based distillery, Lloyd Bottling and Blending, faces a criminal case after it was found producing liquor on the basis of a fake export permit for Bhutan and was to sell the alcoholic beverage illegally in the local market. The state excise department has written to the Hoshiarpur police to register an FIR against firm owner Jagmeet Singh Bhatia, a resident of Chauni Kalan in the district. In a note to the state excise commissioner, the assistant excise commissioner (Hoshiarpur) said the department conducted a surprise checking on September 12 at Lloyd Bottling and Blending at Chauni Kalan. During the raid, the team found 700 boxes of Lion 13 whisky allegedly prepared for export to Bhutan. It recovered 197 boxes of liquor with bottles without any brand logo besides 59,400 cap seals without brand logo. The firm representatives showed the excise officials three import permits purportedly issued by the Bhutanese authorities on July 31. Smelling a rat, the district excise officials wrote to the Bhutanese embassy in New Delhi to check whether the permits were genuine. In reply, the Bhutanese authorities refused to have issued any import permits. The excise department has recommended a case against Bhatia under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (whoever fraudulently uses as genuine any document which he knows reason to believe to be a forged) of the Indian Penal Code.It also sought an in-depth probe into the matter to find if more people were involved in this.Acting Sadar station house officer (SHO) Baljit Singh said he was not aware of the matter and will look into it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hoshiarpur-distiller-brewed-liquor-with-fake-export-permits-faces-fir/story-78Lfvaak8Aw35hM8l1XrfO.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||2,000 to sit for compartment exams of Classes 10, 12 in Chandigarh||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has announced that compartment exams for students of classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from Tuesday onwards, and as per sources, around 2,000 students from Chandigarh area are expected to sit for them.As per the schedule released by CBSE, the social studies exam for Class 10 and a variety of exams including mathematics, biology, physics, accountancy, economics and psychology for Class 12 will be conducted on Tuesday. CBSE officials said that around 15-16 centres will be set up in the city. Officials of the UT education department have confirmed that guidance classes won’t be organised at these schools the day that a compartment exam is scheduled here.The exams will begin at 10:30am, but the centres will open at 8am. Entry will be allowed after 9am. No physical frisking will be done this year. Students will have to wear a mask and maintain a social distance of 6 feet from each other. They will be thermally screened before being allowed to enter the centre.Only 12 children will be allowed to sit in one classroom. They will have to carry their own sanitisers and transparent water bottles. The compartment exams for Class 10 will go on till September 28 and till September 30 for Class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-000-to-sit-for-compartment-exams-of-classes-10-12-in-chandigarh/story-pLARo6DWmlWNZ1wOOGG4OJ.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 1,146 new students apply in second round of counselling for admission in Class 11||As per data collected by the UT education department, 1,146 new candidates filled forms for admission to Class 11 in government schools in the second round of counselling. The last date to submit the forms ended on Monday evening.The second round of counselling was held between September 18 and September 21. A total of 5,784 forms were received, out of which 4,638 forms were filled by students who wanted to change their stream or school, and had then applied in the second round.Total 2,123 seats were vacant for this round—380 are for science stream, 179 for commerce, 981 for humanities and 583 for other vocational courses. A total of 14,726 students had applied for the 12,815 seats in the first round of counselling July 20 and August 3.The new students will have to create an account online and pay ₹130 as registration fees. The final list of the second round of counselling will be put online on September 25. After verification, students will have to deposit their fees and documents between 11am on September 29 and 5pm on September 30. Students of the general category will have to pay ₹1,500 while those of the reserved categories will have to pay ₹800, subject to final adjustment after the schools reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-1-146-new-students-apply-in-second-round-of-counselling-for-admission-in-class-11/story-B19OBxmPkcn4BqZ22KAd3M.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid losses: Major cuts expected in Panjab University’s revised budget for 2020-21||Expecting a loss in revenue this year due to the pandemic, Panjab University (PU) is planning to cut its expenses in the revised budget for 2020-21 for which preparations have already started.Already, the annual fee hike was put on hold this year and a concession of 5% in semester fee for all students meant losses to the tune of ₹2 crore. Not expecting to earn any revenue from the usual sources, including hostels, amid the pandemic, the university had even constituted a panel for austerity measures.The panel has now recommended budget cuts under various heads and the recommendations made by the panel are likely to be incorporated in PU’s revised budget for 2020-21.PU’s finance and development officer (FDO) Vikram Nayyar said, “As the university is in the process of preparing the revised budget for this year, the recommendations made by the panel will be first taken up by the budget estimates committee.”Meanwhile, an online meeting of the budget estimates committee was also held on Monday. A member who attended the meeting, seeking anonymity, said, “The recommended cuts have been accepted and they will be incorporated in the revised budget after a review.”As per last year’s estimates, the total revenue receipts were pegged at around ₹300 crore with an additional ₹247 crore grant from the University Grants Commission (UGC). The total revenue expenditure for 2020-21 was estimated at over ₹586 crore.Austerity committee’s recommendationsAs PU is grappling with dwindling finances, the panel has recommended various austerity measures, which include suspension of budget under leave travel concession (LTC) and budget for seminar and field work.A 20% cut in office and other general administration expenditure and 10% cut in repair, maintenance and minor improvements have also been recommended.Further, a 40% cut in the budget provision for hostels (other than salary) and 40% cut in budget provisions meant for sports activities have been recommended. Also, no new building or major renovation should take place this year, as per the committee.The varsity has already suspended the financial subsidy for employees and teachers for attending conferences within India and abroad for 2020-21. According to sources in the university, the PU administration wrote to the government last month seeking a special relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-losses-major-cuts-expected-in-panjab-university-s-revised-budget-for-2020-21/story-Pmk5I09SzuDFv2EMD3ekKJ.html
22-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapses: 16 killed and 20 injured||Sixteen people, including seven children, were killed, 20 were injured, while some were still feared trapped under the debris at the time of going to press after a major portion of a 36-year-old ground-plus-three storey residential building collapsed in Bhiwandi, around 35km from Mumbai, around 3.30am on Monday. The cause of the pre-dawn accident was not immediately known, however, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) chief Pankaj Ashiya said Jilani building in Dhamankar Naka was illegal and notices had been sent to residents to vacate.Rescue operations were on in the night as teams cleared debris and searched for survivors in the structure located amid a cluster of buildings and surrounded by narrow lanes. According to the BNCMC, 24 of the total 48 flats of the building collapsed in the incident, while the portion that did not collapse had a power loom on the ground floor. The injured were rushed to the Indira Gandhi Memorial (IGM) hospital. A seven-year- old boy, Ayaan Shaikh Ibrahim, who was trapped for nine hours along with his family of five, had a miraculous escape with no injuries. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) regional disaster management cell, the fire brigade and the disaster cell of BNCMC were part of the rescue operations, along with locals.“As soon as the incident took place, residents living near the area rushed to the spot and started pulling people from under the rubble. It was very painful to hear people’s cries for help. My relatives lived in this building,” said Khalid Abdullah Khan, 28, who lived in the building one year ago and has now shifted to another building nearby. Before the NDRF team reached the spot, 21 people were rescued by locals and the Bhiwandi and Thane rescue teams. The NDRF teams used a canine squad to search for people trapped under the debris. Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant of NDRF, said, “Since the incident took place during the time when most residents were asleep, we emphasised on searching bedrooms and living rooms. There was also a fear that the remaining portion of the building would collapse, too, as it was also tilting. We focused on canine search operations as we could not use equipment, fearing vibrations that could lead to collapse of the remaining portion.” As a precautionary measure, power supply to the area has been snapped. “As soon as the incident took place, I received a call and alerted the fire brigade team to reach the spot. Around 5.30am, the NDRF team took over rescue operations and managed to pull out residents from under the debris,” said Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner , BNCMC. Ashiya claimed that the building was built in 1984 during the Gram Panchayat rule and hence it is an illegal structure with no permission from the civic body. Also, he said that the civic body had sent notices to the residents to vacate the building. “The building is illegal and also very old and we have served notices to the residents and owner to vacate it. If any sort of negligence has led to the incident, legal action will be taken,” he added. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray postponed the e-opening of the Mankoli flyover in suburban Mumbai on Monday after the building collapse. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolence to the families of the victims and assured that all necessary help was being given to the affected. “Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” PM Modi tweeted. President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed grief over incident. In a statement issued by Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, he announced a compensation of Rs5 lakhs to the victim’s kin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapses-16-killed-and-20-injured/story-oQ6Ru87j2JoVIlyZDw5XWL.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB to summon Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh, Simone Khambatta||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is investigating the drug angle in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, will issue summons to actors Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh and designer Simone Khambatta this week.NCB’s deputy director KPS Malhotra said, “Sara, Rakul, and Simone will be summoned this week.”Khan, Singh and Khambatta had not responded to HT’s calls and messages till the time of going to press.The agency will summon them under Section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, after they were named by actor Rhea Chakraborty while she was being interrogated between September 6 and September 9 before being arrested, NCB officials said.Chakraborty has named the three in her statement, confirmed Malhotra. However, the context in which their names were taken is not clear yet. “Their roles can’t be given right now,” Malhotra said.Rhea, who is presently lodged in Byculla Jail, had, however, retracted her statements. A special NDPS court had on September 11 rejected bail pleas filed by Rhea and her brother Showik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-to-summon-sara-ali-khan-rakul-preet-singh-simone-khambatta/story-KdEFdQhE2wjElWVKTF6U6H.html
22-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 15,737 more Covid-19 cases, tally jumps to 1,224,380||A day after crossing the grim mark of 1.2 million Covid-19 infections, the state reported its lowest one-day spike in the past three weeks with an addition of 15,737 cases on Monday, pushing the tally to 1,224,380. Significantly, the decline on Monday was owing to fewer tests over the weekend, from the daily average of around 90,000 tests to just 40,017 tests in the past 24 hours. The positivity rate on Monday, however, jumped to 39.32%, which hovered around 24% over the past few days. The high positivity rate could be a concern for state authorities. With 344 more fatalities, the state’s death toll has touched 33,015, which included 8,505 in Mumbai after the addition of 36 fatalities.Monday saw double the patients being discharged than new admissions as 32,007 patients, highest ever in a day, were discharged. With the fourth straight day of more discharges than new cases, the total of the recovered patients reached 9,16,348, pushing the recovery rate to 74.84%, from 73.17% on Sunday. Maharashtra now has 2,74,623 active patients. The state saw the addition of 431,839 cases in September with a daily average of 20,563 cases. Delay in the test reports and updating the records of new infections and deaths has led to the decline in numbers, according to officials from the health department. Among the 344 fatalities reported on Monday,200 were reported in the past two days, 81 were over the past week, while 63 deaths were from the period before it. In some of the districts, the rise in cases is much more rapid than the state average over the past two weeks between September 6 and 20. Experts, however, expressed unhappiness over the shortage of medicines, oxygen and state machinery’s failure in tracing high-low risk contacts. “We have only 60% oxygen available than its requirement, while shortage of medicines in some parts of the state a matter of serious concern. Though the state government has launched the drive ‘My family My responsibility’ the tracing of the suspected contacts is poor. This has been leading to rise in the number of cases and high CFR,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Maharashtra president of the Indian Medical Association. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said that by the end of October, there could be decline in cases. “Offset of the monsoon could prove a great respite as we can expect the surge to subside. Even today, about many Covid-19 cases are also with coexistence of monsoon-related ailments like dengue, malaria, leptospirosis. We can expect declines in these cases, too, after monsoon. We are expecting Covid-19 cases to recede between the end of October and mid-November. We expect our mortality rate to decline in the near future too. Our weekly mortality rate in September ranges between 1.74 and 1.9%, though the cumulative rate is 2.7%. Even the recovery rate is much higher than mentioned in the report as many discharges are not being reported properly, especially related to the people in home isolation,” he said.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task for the clinical management of critical patients, said that they can expect decline in daily cases by a month. “With Chase The Virus drive being implemented effectively, and if the people followed the protocol of social distancing and personal hygiene, we can expect the decline in the cases. The current rise in the cases, which is part of the first wave, is owing to the increased number of cases and unlocking rolled out by the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-15-737-more-covid-19-cases-tally-jumps-to-1-224-380/story-0Y1cz90xXf4rZKz9SgoCUL.html
22-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Narrow lanes, clusters make rescue tougher||Congested narrow lanes and a thick cluster of buildings through which rescue vehicles couldn’t pass forced the National Disaster Response Force team to help out those stranded under the debris of the Jilani building in Bhiwandi, a part of which collapsed early on Monday, manually, with some help from the canine squad and local residents. The ground-plus-three structure, which is surrounded by buildings on all four sides, had 48 flats, housing 62 residents. The two fire tenders, which first reached the spot, had to be parked on main road, around 500m away from the collapse site. Nine NDRF vehicles, too, couldn’t enter the lanes. NDRF team then studied the remaining structure to understand the layout of the one room-kitchen flats. They also consulted the local engineers for an idea about the structure. As per NDRF, initially, the rescue operations took time as the remaining portion of the building was tilted. Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant, NDRF, said, “Owing to the narrow lanes, we could not bring our vehicles which had all the equipment and necessary material. Locals helped us carry the equipment. Their role was very crucial in the operation.” Elaborating on it, Kumar said, “We spoke to the engineer of the local municipal body to get an idea of the structure and also studied the remaining portion of the building to know the location of each flat and its layout. We also clicked pictures and videos for the detailing. We decided to give priority to the living room area as most of them were asleep at the time of the incident. We then drew a line and initiated a canine search, which is the best way to find those who are alive. Our team also managed to balance the structure by placing bamboos to hold the third floor that came crashing on the first floor. Most residents were trapped in the ground, first and second floor of the building, while those from the third floor managed to escape.” “Taking the victims to the hospital too was a task,” said Rajesh Pawar, chief fire officer, BNCMC. Sameer Khan, 29, a resident of a building in the vicinity, said, “One of my friends was rescued after the dogs managed to trace him. Locals helped move the debris for the search.”Bhiwandi’s narrow lanes house many such buildings with no access roads, which even come up in less than a year. A local engineer, Kamankar Dhurraaj, who also reached the spot, claimed, “Such structures are built with sub-standard material.” 7-year-old rescued unhurt after nine hoursStuck in the pile of debris for nine hours, Ayaan Shaikh Ibrahim, 7, and his family had a miraculous escape. While Ayaan was unhurt when he was pulled out at 1.30pm, his two sisters, elder brother and parents suffered minor injuries. The Ibrahims, who worked as an electrician in a powerloom, stayed on the first floor of the building. Muskaan Shaikh Ibrahim, 16, his sister, said, “All of us were sleeping in the living room when the incident took place. When I opened my eyes something heavy had fallen on my hand and I was in terrible pain. Ayaan was cushioned between us and was unhurt. After calling out for help for hours the rescuers heard us and pulled us out. Ayaan hasn’t spoken a word since being rescued and is in shock.” ‘Part of bldg outside my door was not there’ Khan Tariq Khalim, 34, woke up on Monday hearing a loud thud. “I tried to open the door to check the source of the noise, but it was jammed. It took me some time to manage to break it open. I was shocked to see nothing outside the door, as the portion of the building on the opposite side of my flat had collapsed. I woke my wife and two children and managed to reach the stairs from the small portion of ground still left outside our door.” Khalim, who works as a contractor, said they were unaware that the building was dangerous as they had repaired it five years ago. “The plaster of the building fell off several times, so we had repaired it by pooling in money.” Woman awaits news on daughter for 12 hrs Zulekha Mohammad Ali Shaikh, 52, was heading to use the washroom when a pile of debris came crashing down on her. She was awake and saved her head from injury, with only her feet being caught. However, her 28-year-old daughter remains stuck in the rubble. “My elder daughter and husband died few years ago, my younger daughter Shabnam, 28, was sleeping when the incident took place. They rescued me immediately after the incident, however, my daughter is still missing. It has been over 12 hours,” said Shaikh who lived on the third floor. 10 youngsters help rescue operation A group of 10 youngsters, including National Cadet Corps and those in the service of Indian Army, helped the NDRF team with the rescue operation. The group, known as ‘Young Warriors’ in Bhiwandi, often helps residents. Dipesh Patil, 24, a member said, “One of our other members saw an NDRF vehicle passing through the area and inquired about the incident. He called all of us and we immediately reached the spot. Some of us are NCC volunteers, while few also serve in the Army and are home on leave. We rescued four people, including a child from the debris.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-narrow-lanes-clusters-make-rescue-tougher/story-nEnGaxL5yTDgmW5bTT5rCM.html
22-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Structure was issued notices twice, says civic body||The Narpoli police on Monday booked the land owner and builder of Bhiwandi’s Jilani building, a part of which collapsed leading to at least 16 deaths, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, claiming “neither did he take efforts to repair the building’s broken pillar, nor did he convince people to vacate the building”. Maloji Shinde, senior police inspector, Narpolice police station, said, “Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) officials registered the case against the owner. BNCMC stated that since February 2020, they have sent three notices to the owner and residents, but they refused to accept them. The notice was stuck on the building gate by the civic officials. The owner was informed about the dilapidated condition of the building in February, but he ignored all warnings.” The owner, Sayyed Ahmed Jilani, has not been arrested as he is absconding, said police. He has been booked under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Two BNCMC officials – assistant municipal commissioner Sudam Jadhav and Dudhnath Yadav, junior engineer, town planning department – have also been suspended for their failure to vacate residents from the building, despite serving notices to them earlier this year. As per the suspension directions by BNCMC chief Pankaj Ashiya, although the officers served notices twice to the residents to vacate the building, they failed to get the structure evicted. “Two officials have been suspended for failing to take necessary measures as per the law. During the suspension, a proper inquiry will be carried out in this matter,” said Ashiya. BNCMC has also formed a committee under a deputy commissioner and assistant town planner to probe the incident further. Contrary to the civic body’s claims that notices were served to the owner in February and April, residents said they did not receive any notice.Ajay Sawant, deputy municipal commissioner, BNCMC, said, “The residents were reluctant to vacate the building. They were not ready to take the notice so we stuck it on the structure.” Local residents, however, claimed the 36-year-old building was repaired five years ago, after several incidents of plaster damage. “As the plaster started to peel off and the building developed cracks, we decided to repair it. We also informed the civic body. We never received any notice from the civic body,” said Khan Tariq Khalim, 34, who managed to escape from the building with his family. Recently, after the Mahad building collapse in August, BNCMC conducted a review of all dangerous buildings in its vicinity. The officials identified 25 extremely dangerous structures, of which eight were demolished. Meanwhile, chief minister Thackeray on Monday asked MMRDA officials to throw open the Bhiwandi flyover for traffic and not wait for an official inauguration, which was cancelled in the wake of the collapse. “Motorists should not be inconvenienced just because the flyover has not been officially inaugurated,” the CM is said to have said as per a statement released by his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-structure-was-issued-notices-twice-says-civic-body/story-RzI4MiGVy7QnENkBdo5TIJ.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots charge sheet details money trail, accused deny allegations||In its charge sheet related to the alleged conspiracy behind the north-east Delhi communal riots, the Delhi Police special cell has said that five accused in the case got Rs 1.61 crore in cash and through banking transactions for allegedly “managing” the sites for anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests and “execute the conspiracy” for riots.The police, in the charge sheet, a copy of which was given to the lawyers of the accused persons on Monday, also said that former councillor Ishrat Jahan, activist Khalid Saifi, suspended municipal councillor Tahir Hussain, Shifa-Ur-Rehman and Jamia Milla Islamia student Meeran Haider withdrew Rs 1.48 crore in cash on separate occasions to implement their plans. Rizwan, counsel for Tahir Hussain, denied all the allegations and said that no money was used to fund the anti- CAA/NRC protest by his client.Saifi’s lawyer Harsh Bohra said, “This charge sheet is completely rubbish. We deny it.”Advocate Amit Bhalla, counsel for Shifa ur Rehman, said that it was a voluminous charge sheet. “I am yet to read the document because it is not possible to read it in such a short time.”Advocate Saransh Gupta, for Meeran Haider, refused to comment.In the specific case against Ishrat, police claimed Rs. 4 lakh were transferred in her bank account from a Corporation Bank account in Maharashtra. The money was transferred by a man who worked as a driver for Samir Abdul Sai in Sindhudurg Maharashtra. Sai, who has recorded his statement before a judge, alleged that he was conned into sending the money by his business partner, who was allegedly funding the anti-CAA protests.Pradeep Teotia, lawyer for Ishrat Jahan, said, “This is a case of fundamental rights and there is not an iota of evidence against my client. The allegations about funding are all concoctated facts and there is nothing in the charge sheet to prove the same.” The name of Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav has also been mentioned in the charge sheet in the context of anti-CAA protests. However, he has not been named as an accused or charged with any offence. He was also not named in any case related to the riots. The police have attached a photo of Yadav showing him in a meeting with Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and others, which purportedly was held on December 8, 2019 in Jangpura Extension. Khalid and Imam have been charged as the main conspirators. In the charge sheet, police claim that the meeting was held to discuss road blockades in Jamia area.“I have not seen the photograph Delhi Police seems to have filed. But as I said in a news report two weeks ago, yes, there was a meeting and it did take place on December 8 at the office of NAPM in Jangpura, where movement groups normally hold their meetings. It was not any hidden, conspiratorial place. Several meetings took place at that venue before and after CAA was passed. The meeting on December 8 turned out to be a non starter as most of the people invited did not turn up due to short notice” Yadav said.“I have not seen the charge sheet, so I can’t say what Delhi Police is reading into it. But t is laughable to imagine that any conspiracy was hatched in the meeting on December 8 that did not even begin,” the Swaraj Abhiyan leader said.Delhi police have said that the riots in north-east Delhi, was planned by some anti-CAA protesters who blocked roads to inconvenience people, make inflammatory speeches and orchestrate the people. But many activists and anti-CAA protesters have denied the charges ad accused police of launching witch hunt against anti-government voices letting off the hook ruling party leaders such as Kapil Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-charge-sheet-details-money-trail-accused-deny-allegations/story-ww64TFM1UOPModQ7qmyXNN.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Subsidies for electric vehicles likely from next week, says transport minister Gahlot||As many as 1,280 new electric vehicles (EVs) have been registered in the national capital since the notification of the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy, 2020, on August 7, but these vehicle owners are yet to get the subsidy promised to them by the policy.This is because the Delhi government is yet to set up the state EV fund and transport minister Kailash Gahlot said subsidies and other benefits such as a waiver on road tax and registration fee are likely to be launched next week.The government had announced a subsidy of ₹1.5 lakh (₹10,000 per kWh of battery capacity) for the first 1,000 electric four-wheelers. A subsidy of up to ₹30,000 (₹5,000 per kWh of battery capacity) was to be given on the purchase of each electric two-wheeler, auto-rickshaw, rickshaw and freight vehicle. Also, those buying electric vehicles are to be exempted from paying road tax and registration fee. At present, road tax ranges from 4% to 10% of the cost of the vehicle, while the registration fee is about ₹3,000 per vehicle.However, the government is still undecided on whether these benefits would be extended to those who already bought EVs after August 7. A senior official, on condition of anonymity, said subsidies and tax waivers would require a separate notification from the transport department, which has not been issued yet.“It is yet to be decided whether those who bought EVs after August 7 would be eligible or not. If they are, then the transport department will simply have to notify the cut-off date as August 7 or so, for the purchase of the EV, so that new owners can also avail of the benefits,” the official quoted above said.When asked about the delay in notifying the waivers and subsidy, Gahlot said building the software for disbursal of subsidies took time. “Now that the software is ready, I have issued directions to make the software undergo rigorous testing. Once the testing is done, all subsidies shall be launched.We are expecting it to start sometime next week. We were planning for this week, but some work is still left with regard to the registration fee waiver,” Gahlot said.As per the scheme, the subsidy will be paid to eligible buyers within two days, a second transport official, on condition of anonymity, said.“The vehicle dealers will access the software and fill the details of the electric vehicle and buyer at the time of sale. Within 48 hours, a subsidy amount will be credited to the bank account of the buyer after verification by motor licensing officials,” the official said. The vehicle dealers will have to self-register with the transport department to be able to process the subsidy at the time of sale, the official said.According to the national dashboard of car registrations, Delhi registered 1,287 EVs between August 7 and September 21. This means at least 1,000 EVs were bought post the EV policy notification, but no government benefit was extended to these owners. A senior government official said the state EV fund will be established soon and it is likely to start with a seed money of ₹20 crore that will be diverted from the existing air ambience fund of the Delhi government. To persuade people to shift to EVs, the policy also has a “scrapping incentive” for those who make the shift from petrol and diesel vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/subsidies-for-electric-vehicles-likely-from-next-week-says-transport-minister-gahlot/story-Tc2FibGZQ3AVZZ9fRImXJP.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Traffic diversions in place at Ashram junction, Sarai Kale Khan flyover||With work on the underpass connecting the Nizamuddin Railway Bridge and the busy Ashram intersection in south Delhi picking up pace, the Delhi traffic police on Monday released an elaborate vehicular diversion plan to accommodate the construction and the traffic volume. This traffic plan accommodates the ongoing repair work on the one-way flyover in front of the Sarai Kale Khan ISBT, traffic police said. According to the traffic police advisory, the construction work would affect traffic movement between east Delhi, south Delhi, Faridabad and Noida for at least a year.  The 750-metre underpass, which was conceived in December 2015, aims to provide a signal-free ride between Nizamuddin and New Friends Colony on Mathura Road. This is much needed as the Ashram intersection is an important link connecting central and south Delhi and also the satellite towns of Noida and Faridabad. The intersection, one of the busiest in the national capital, connects Mathura Road, National Highway-2 and the Ring Road (linking the flyovers of Lajpat Nagar and Sarai Kale Khan with the DND Flyway). Data released by the traffic department shows that after the easing of lockdown restrictions, when construction work on the stretch was resumed with preliminary diversions, the intersection saw 2.8 lakh vehicles a day, or about 11,600 vehicles an hour. While releasing the traffic diversion plan for the Ashram intersection, traffic police advised commuters to avoid the intersection altogether, if possible, in view of the ongoing construction work. Under the new traffic management plan, all vehicles on Ring Road -- going towards Sarita Vihar, Badarpur, Faridabad and approaching the Ashram Chowk from Moolchand -- can take a right onto Captain Gaur Marg from under the Lajpat Nagar flyover or take the left loop across the Modi Mill flyover and descend on to Mathura Road near Sukhdev Vihar for their onward journey. Cars and two-wheelers approaching Ashram Chowk from Sarai Kale Khan and Noida -- going towards SaritaVihar, Badarpur and Faridabad -- can take a left on CV Raman Marg. They can then take a right either at Mata Mandir Marg or Johar Marg to reach Mathura Road. Additional CP (traffic) SD Mishra said this plan will first be implemented on a trial basis to acclimatise commuters to the new routes. He also said with the public works department (PWD) also carrying out emergency repair work on the Sarai Kale Khan flyover, traffic movement is expected to remain heavy in the area. “PWD is carrying out emergency repairs on the Sarai Kale Khan flyover. This is expected to continue for another two weeks. As the work is being carried out in parts, only one carriageway of the flyover is available for traffic going towards Raj Ghat. This has resulted in congestion near the flyover,” Mishra said. To manage the traffic load, all vehicles approaching the Sarai Kale Khan flyover from Ashram or from Barapullah flyover will be restricted to the left carriageway of the Sarai Kale Khan flyover. “All traffic bound for National Highway-24, east Delhi and Ghaziabad -- descending from Barapullah flyover and approaching Sarai Kale Khan -- can opt to go straight ahead and take Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway. They can also take a left towards Mayur Vihar Pusta Road and rejoin NH-24 or Vikas Marg,” the traffic plan read. Traffic department said ample signboards will be put up to direct commuters towards the new routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-diversions-in-place-at-ashram-junction-sarai-kale-khan-flyover/story-qZM6tdtSuqL3h9Ry1gDrzL.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||DMRC fines 2,214 passengers in 9 days for not wearing masks||Two weeks after resuming services — after a pause of five-and-a-half months — the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has fined more than 2,000 people for not wearing masks in the station premises and inside trains. According to DMRC data, from September 11 — when the rail corporation started imposing fines for mask violations — till September 20, at least 2,214 commuters had been fined for not wearing masks. Apart from this,DMRC teams had counselled, but not fined, more than 5,000 people, in an attempt to ensure that the new travel guidelines are followed. Four days after its graded resumption of services, the DMRC had formed a special flying squad for each of its nine operational corridors to ensure that commuters wear masks inside the Metro network at all times and abide by social distancing norms.  These teams move in and out of trains and stations in the lines assigned to them and if any passenger is found to be violating the rules, they counsel them. If a commuter still refuses to fall in line and wear a mask, then they fined under Section 59 of Delhi Metro’s Operations and Maintenance Act. Under this section, violators can be imposed a fine of R200 for creating public nuisance. Records show that the most number of fines were issued on the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-Huda City Centre), where as many as 724 commuters were penalised for not wearing or improperly wearing masks in stations and inside trains. This was followed by the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Raja Nahar Singh Ballabhgarh), where 580 fines were issued and the Blue Line (Dwarka Sec-21 to Noida Electronic City/Vaishali) where 545 people were challaned. In the Red Line, connecting Rithala and Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda, the DMRC has so far issued 134 challans for mask violations, while on the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden) and Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) 109 and 79 fines were issued, respectively. On the Green Line (Kirti Nagar/Inderlok -Brigadier Hoshiar Singh Bahadurgarh) 26 commuters were fined and on the Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh) 17 people were fined. Because of the low ridership on the Airport Express Line, no fines were issued on the corridor.“DMRC’s objective is primarily to advise and counsel erring passengers to follow laid down norms for everyone’s safety and this is being done with a positive attitude rather than to punish people. So far, DMRC has counselled around 5,000 passengers in the 10-day drive undertaken so far. The overall behaviour of passengers have been found praiseworthy in terms of following new norms of travel due to the pandemic,” DMRC said in an email response to Hindustan Times. The rail corporation said that fines were being issued only in limited cases, where passengers were not heeding to counselling and creating nuisance even after being called out for not wearing masks properly. The Metro has also gone cashless in its operations to control the spread of the infection. DMRC data shows that since tokens have been discontinued temporarily in the system, between September 7 and September 20, on an average around 9,277 smart cards are being issued daily. The Delhi Metro resumed services on September 7 in a graded manner after being forced shut on March 22 to control the spread of Covid-19. From September 12, all the corridors of the Metro have been fully functional, with the corporation continuing with crowd-control measures and social distancing inside its network. Sumitra Srivastava, a regular Metro user, who travels from Dwarka to Noida, said that it was important to create a deterrence among people so that they wear masks for their own safety and for the safety of fellow passengers. “There are so many people who pull down their masks once they get into trains thinking no one is watching them now. You might be fit and healthy, but travelling in a mass transit system you have to be considerate towards other passengers too. In a city like Delhi, fining people is the only way to get people to follow rules,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dmrc-fines-2-214-passengers-in-9-days-for-not-wearing-masks/story-VRWsWy8Su3aHG9khdB6mFL.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi deaths hit 5,000; India sees 100k daily recoveries||With 32 new deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported on Monday, the total number of people who have died from the viral infection in Delhi crossed the 5,000 mark as the resurgence of the infections in city continued.According to Monday’s government health bulletin, 2,548 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of infections in the Capital to 249,259. The infection has killed a total of 5,014 people till Sunday, while 213,304 people have recovered.At an average, 35 people have lost their lives to Covid-19 every day in the past week. This is the highest the seven-day average of deaths has been in two months (since July 21). The highest number of deaths reported in a day during the September resurgence in cases was 38 (on September 17 and 19). This was the highest number of deaths reported in 24-hours in over two months.Delhi’s case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of confirmed cases that have died due to the disease — is 2.0%, much higher than the national CFR of 1.6%.The Delhi government officials, however, said they have been able to control deaths better in the recent resurgence of cases than they did in the initial surge in June. “Very few deaths are being reported right now in comparison to the number of cases. Death is always seen as a percentage,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.“A person who gets diagnosed today will not die on day 1, they might die on day 4 or day 6 so we need to look at the trend of deaths over some time,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonology at Safdarjung hospital. “With Covid-19 beds filling up in bigger hospitals, many patients may go to smaller centres that may not be equipped to handle complicated Covid-19 cases,” he said.With the increase in the number of hospitalisations – over 7,000 reported on Saturday and Sunday – hospitals have been slowly filling up in the Capital. Delhi currently has 3,081 ICU (intensive care unit) beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients. Of these, 67.4% are already occupied, according to Delhi corona app. The occupancy, however, is much higher at the big multi-speciality private hospitals.“The occupancy is higher in big private hospitals of the city because many patients from outside Delhi know of these hospitals and come there specifically for treatment. Nearly 30% of all admitted Covid-19 patients in Delhi are from other states. But, there are still about 1,000 ICU beds vacant and hospitals are working on increasing beds,” Jain said, adding that over 1,500 beds were added for Covid-19 treatment over the last 10 days, of which 500 were ICU beds.The city again saw a dip in the number of tests and cases over the weekend. Only 33,733 samples were tested in the last 24 hours against an average of around 58,000 daily tests over the past week. With fewer tests, the positivity rate – fraction of people who test positive among those tested – also went up slightly to 7.6%. Experts say that a positivity rate of below 5% over two weeks ideally indicates that the outbreak is in control.“Although, the sero surveillance has shown about 30% presence of antibodies infections are still being reported from areas where fewer infections were reported during June. Now, Delhi needs to focus on keeping the mortality low by keeping close watch on the old and those with comorbidities,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-deaths-hit-5-000-india-sees-100k-daily-recoveries/story-velkm71WR0eYFBzjRYGcTP.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Patients flouting home isolation rules to be shifted to Covid centres||The Delhi government Monday asked district commissioners (DCs) to mandatorily shift any Covid-19 patient, being treated under home isolation, to institutional quarantine if the person is found violating Covid-19 protocols, said senior health officials.Delhi government reports show that in 20 days, the number of Covid-19 patients under home isolation has increased by 133% -- from 8,119 on September 1 to 18,910 on September 20 (Sunday). Active cases in the city during the same period have increased by 102% -- from 15,870 to 32,097.The directive was issued by special secretary (health and family welfare) Udit Prakash Rai after lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, who is also the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, on Friday asked the government to explore an alternative strategy for Covid-19 control in the city, including revising the containment zone policy.“All DCs may kindly ensure that in all such cases where the home isolation criteria are not being fulfilled by the positive patients, they must be shifted to CCC/Covid Health Centre/ Covid Hospitals as per their health condition without fail starting today (Monday). There should not be any laxity shown in adherence to the protocol of home isolation,” Rai said in his directive to all 11 districts in the city.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s office said field teams have been told to remain in frequent contact with neighbours of Covid-19 patients under home isolation to verify if these patients or families are violating protocols.“We are also deputing additional trained civil defence volunteers to conduct inspections. Those who do not want to isolate at home, to avoid putting their family members at risk, may opt for the Delhi government facilities for free. For a more premium experience, two private hospitals – Max Saket Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital – have paid quarantine facilities,” the government spokesperson said.A senior health official said nearly 2,000 homes are visited daily by field teams to check on people under home isolation. “Until last week, around 10 to 20 patients were being shifted to Covid Care Centres or hospitals every day. Now, with stricter enforcement and surveillance, this number is likely to increase,” the official said.The health department clarified that each district has been specifically asked to check and ensure that only the patient who fulfils the laid down criteria for home isolation is allowed to get treated at home.As per the protocol laid down by the Centre, which is being followed by Delhi, a Covid-19 patient under home isolation is considered discharged after 10 days of the onset of symptoms,if the person has no fever for three consecutive days. Thereafter, the patient is advised to isolate at home and self-monitor for seven more days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over, but every discharged person must receive a fitness certificate from the district officials, state the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry on July 2.In a special session of the Delhi Assembly on September 14, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had informed the House that around 96,000 people have recovered from Covid-19 under home isolation and that only 30 deaths were reported from among such patients. Calling Delhi’s home isolation strategy a “model” for other states, he said providing pulse oximeters to such patients was the key to its “success” in addition to its tele counselling initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/patients-flouting-home-isolation-rules-to-be-shifted-to-covid-centres/story-9Fc1vneL5TGFB5lnhKvkuO.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Here’s why it is still very warm in Delhi||A combination of rain deficiency and high day and night temperatures with up to 80% humidity has Delhiites sweating. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi has an overall rain deficiency of 18% and 62% for the month of September alone. The maximum temperature had shot up to 38 degrees Celsius on September 18, three degrees above normal. Both maximum and minimum temperatures have been 2 -3 degrees higher than normal at least for the past week, making it sultry and uncomfortable.On Monday, Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 36.8 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 26.6 degrees ---- both two degrees above normal.IMD scientists said even though an assessment is awaited, this month could be the warmest September in the past five years. “In 2015, the average temperature for the month was 36.1 degrees Celsius. This time, it may be around 36 degrees. The western end of the monsoon trough has been around the Himalayan foothills for the past few days. There has been no western disturbance or no low-pressure system that has moved up to Delhi so it has not rained. It’s not cloudy either. Its humid and hot. We are expecting very light rain tomorrow (Tuesday),” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi.A low-pressure area is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards during next 2-3 days and become more marked during next 24 hours. Under the influence of this low-pressure area, widespread and heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha on September 21; over Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh on September 21 and 22.Temperatures in the past one weekSeptember 14Max: 36.6 degree CMin: 26 degree CSeptember 15Max: 37.4 degree CMin: 26.8 degree CSeptember 16Max 37.9 degree CMin 27.1 degree CSeptember 17Max: 37 degree CMin: 27.8 degree CSeptember 18:Max: 38 degree CMin: 28 degree CSeptember 19Max: 37.3 degree CMin: 26.6 degree CSeptember 20Max: 36.8 degree CMin: 26.6 degree C||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/here-s-why-it-is-still-very-warm-in-delhi/story-0szAyKCor61FsezgJEehQK.html
22-09-2020||Noida||Luksar jail inmates get a garden for meditation||Sprawling over 50,000 square feet, a garden filled with neem, amla, and fruit trees adorns the Luksar jail premises. According to the jail authorities, the garden, labour of more than eight months, was developed to create a space for inmates where they could relax and calm their nerves.Vipin Mishra, superintendent, Luksar jail said the “meditation garden”, developed by the inmates, offers an environment to the prisoners where their feelings of fatigue, anxiety can be soothed. “Apart from its green field, the garden has a pond with a few ducks and a statue of Gautama Buddha. The serene environment of the garden, inspired by the philosophies of Mahatma Gandhi and Buddha, has created a space for the inmates where they can meditate in peace. This, in turn, can help in reducing their psychological distress and trauma. This meditation garden is also aiding the spiritual well-being of the prisoners,” he said.The superintendent said that the idea of the garden was conceived by jailor Satya Prakash and him in January. “We discussed the idea with the inmates. Surprisingly, some convicts came forward to support it, and later put their wholehearted efforts into developing the garden. We along with other jail staff guided them, and took care of the expenses from our own pockets, ” Mishra said.Work on the garden inside Luksar jail, which houses 2,738 inmates, started in the first week of January and the garden was completed earlier this month.An undertrial prisoner said that sitting and meditating in the garden, christened as an ‘ashram (monastery)’ has had a positive impact on his health. “Now, I don’t have problems like headache and stomach ache. I feel that by sitting there, I’ve become more honest, and speaking the truth gives me satisfaction,” he said.Similar experiences were shared by other inmates who often meditate in the garden. “I suffer less stress now. A sense of benevolence and compassion has come in me towards my co-inmates and jail officials too,” said another undertrial, who did not wish to be named.The garden has more than 50 trees and shrubs of pomegranate, neem, amla, plums, papayas, guava among others apart from different varieties of flowers.Jailor Satya Prakash said, “I regularly spend a few hours in the garden. It has increased my dedication to my duty. We have seen positive changes in the behaviour of many inmates, and we feel more compassion towards them now. After all, the concept of jail is to reinforce corrective behaviour in inmates,” he said.The Luksar jail, which has two wings named after Gandhi and Buddha, also houses a library for inmates apart from training institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/luksar-jail-inmates-get-a-garden-for-meditation/story-dfcTlVelPm467ohb4bk4PK.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi University and Delhi govt again spar over funding of state colleges||The Delhi University (DU) administration on Monday alleged that the Delhi government is yet to respond to requests for an appointment to discuss and resolve funding-related issues in the state-funded colleges. The Delhi government denied the allegations, saying the DU vice-chancellor never sought an appointment but said it was willing to discuss the matter with the university.The DU administration informed its executive council (EC) on Monday that it had written to the offices of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and education minister Manish Sisodia in the last few weeks, seeking an appointment to discuss the ‘fund crisis’ in 12 colleges in DU fully funded by the Delhi government. Rajesh Jha, a member of the EC -- the university’s highest decision-making body -- said, “We strongly opposed the Delhi government withholding funds of its 12 colleges for the last five months, which left thousands of teachers and employees without any salary. We asked the DU administration what they are doing to resolve the matter. The acting vice-chancellor (Pro-VC) informed us that the administration has been trying to seek an appointment from the Delhi government to discuss the matter but have not received any response despite several requests.”Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said he has also written to the offices of the chief minister and education minister, requesting them to meet and resolve the issue. “We had written to the union education ministry and they have responded and even called us to discuss the matter. But we have not received any response from the Delhi government despite several attempts in the last few weeks.Besides, DU Pro-VC’s office (officiating VC ), the office of dean of Colleges and dean of South campus have also sought an appointment from the Delhi government. The university is very keen to meet the CM and the education minister to resolve this issue at the earliest,” he said.In a statement issued on Monday, Delhi government said, “This (allegation) is completely false. DU V-C has not sought any meeting appointment from either the CM or Deputy CM. In fact, deputy CM had called a meeting with the DU V-C to discuss this matter before ordering an independent audit and wrote several letters to him too. He refused to attend the meeting and did not even bother responding to letters from the deputy CM and Education Minister. If he’s still willing, he’s welcome to meet and discuss this issue in the next 2-3 days.”In response, Pani said, “The vice-chancellor is on leave since July. The acting VC and Dean of Colleges have been trying to meet the Delhi government over the issue. Why can’t they give us an appointment and respond to our requests?”The Delhi government has been at the loggerheads with 12 DU colleges, which it fully funds, over the release of grants for the last six months. While the principals allege they have not been able to pay their staff since May as grants have not been issued, the Delhi government says with enough funds have been provided in the present academic year. The government has also ordered an independent audit in six of the 12 colleges over “misappropriation” of funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-university-and-delhi-govt-again-spar-over-funding-of-state-colleges/story-PYJVBRcC1jOzdfu2xsLjGI.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||Umar Khalid plea to meet family rejected||A Delhi court has dismissed a plea by former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, booked under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, seeking permission to meet his family during his police custody.Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said there was no merit in the plea by Khalid, who is in 10-day police custody till September 24.In his application filed through his counsel, Khalid said the police had verbally assured at the time of remand that he would be allowed to meet his family but they were not being permitted. He said since police custody remand was extraordinarily long, he should not be deprived of meeting his family or friends. The application had sought permission to let Khalid to meet his family on at least two days for 30 minutes every day.The investigating officer (IO) in his reply to the application said that as per the court’s directions, Khalid has been allowed to meet his counsel every day.He claimed Khalid was non-cooperative during the interrogation. He said letting him to meet his family members may influence the interrogation and could be a hindrance. The court said Khalid’s counsel sought permission to meet him during police custody, which was being allowed everyday for 30 minutes. “In the totality of facts and circumstances of the case, I see no merit in the application, and accordingly, the application is dismissed,” the judge said in his order on September 19.Khalid was arrested on September 13 for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khalid-plea-to-meet-family-rejected/story-nIv90l5NNXwzhZUzNEGPZJ.html
22-09-2020||Delhi||DPCC shits down 18 polluting vehicle scrapping units in Delhi||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has conducted an extensive crackdown on polluting vehicle scrapping units to prevent generation of toxic fumes and chemicals that pollute the environment.DPCC, in a statement released Monday, said 18 such units that dismantle and scrap end-of-life vehicles were closed down in areas around Nangli Sakrawati, Mundka, Nilothi, Mangolpuri, Mukundpur, Tikri Kalan, and Ghevra.“The processes of dismantling and scrapping of end-of-life vehicles (ELVs), often in an unscientific manner, generate toxic fumes and chemicals that effect the air quality in the area,” a statement by DPCC read. Also Read: Delhi’s AQI hits 148 as pollution begins to riseThe statement said that last year, a large number of such illegal units were shut down in Mayapuri, but reports were received that these units had reappeared. The board has issued hefty fines on the owners of these units.“All these units have been promptly been sealed and equipment such as gas cutters, grinders, welding machines have been confiscated. It has been decided to impose heavy penalties and launch prosecution so as to dissuade such type of illegal activities being carried out in Delhi,” the statement added.Senior DPCC officials said licensed units, with adequate area for operation, proper equipment and waste processing facilities, are operating in NCR regions such as Greater Noida and Sonepat. They said the mushrooming of such illegal units could be controlled with more such legal units being made operational in and around the city, to provide an environmental friendly facility to dismantle old vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-polluting-vehicle-scrapping-units-shut-down-in-delhi/story-dJObau1vM8aKp6XQFPFT5K.html
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Multani disappearance case: Transfer of FIR to CBI will result in protracted delay, says HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that the transfer of the FIR registered in the case of the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991 from Mohali to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any other agency outside the state will result in protracted delay in completing the probe. The high court judgment has come on the plea of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who had in August approached the court seeking quashing of the FIR or transfer of probe to the CBI or any other agency. The high court bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh on September 8 had dismissed this plea along with his anticipatory bail petition. This detailed judgment, however, was released on Monday. Subsequently, Saini was granted anticipatory bail by the Supreme Court on September 15. Saini had argued that the FIR is the result of mala fide act by the Congress government and further that the apex court in 2008 had quashed an FIR against him in this case. The court while dismissing the plea observed that the victim side, due to deficiency of resources, may be prejudiced in pursuing the matter, if it is transferred. Also, the investigating agency is collecting evidence which is only available in Punjab and it is easier even for the witnesses to get themselves examined before the SIT, the bench said, adding, “The transfer would also result in protracted delay which suits the petitioner at this game of wits who since 1991 has managed to keep the law at bay.” It observed that a serious and heinous crime has come about which has its repercussions on the society at large. “The first FIR was not quashed on merits but on grounds of misdemeanour”, it said, adding that the question of quashing the present FIR is too preposterous as the probe has just begun. “What has come across to this court from the records depict depravity of mind and for which the petitioner deserves no compassion,” it added. As of political victimisation and his heroic acts, the bench added that the same does not come to his aid to “wash off the blood” of the crime from his smudged hands. He has panicked over the law coming close on his heels and thus he is raking up this ‘subterfuge’ of political victimisation to get undue sympathies of the court, the bench said. SIT summons Saini on Sept 23 Mohali: Six days after the Supreme Court directed the former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini to join investigations in the 1991 murder case of Balwant Singh Multani, the special investigating team (SIT) on Monday summoned him to join probe on September 23. After it didn’t find Saini at his residence in Sector 20, Chandigarh, the SIT pasted the notice outside the house and also gave copies to his counsel, Himmat Singh Deol, HS Dhanoa and Misha Rohtagi. According to the notice, Saini has been asked to reach Mataur police station in Mohali at 11am on September 23.Saini was given relief by the SC on September 15 through interim stay on his arrest and directed him to co-operate and join investigations.Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini in which three policemen were killed. Saini was injured in the attack. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multani-disappearance-case-transfer-of-fir-to-cbi-will-result-in-protracted-delay-says-hc/story-N5NPjHrLmhj8GmiqmhM46M.html
22-09-2020||Pune||Third phase of Covishield vaccine trials begins at Pune’s Sassoon hospital||Pune: Government’s Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) has initiated the crucial third phase of trials for Covishield vaccine manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) at a time when the district reports 2,580 new cases of Covid-19 and 40 deaths due to the infection. Rural Pune has become a sore spot as it reported 20 deaths in 24 hours, the same as Pune city. The hospital had invited volunteers to participate in the trials which will determine the safety of the vaccine and the future course of action. The first such trial had taken place in Pune’s Bharati hospital, which was also the first such trial of the vaccine in the country. The phase-III human clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University is being manufactured by SII. Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean of the hospital said, “Only seven persons were called for personal visit and screened. Their samples for RT-PCR and antibodies are collected and lab results will be available tomorrow (Tuesday) morning. After which they will be vaccinated.” Both the results have to be negative for the volunteer to be eligible for the trial. On Monday, the district reported 2,580 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours and 42 people were declared dead due to the infection, as per the state health department. Currently, Pune district has a total of over 2.63 lakh Covid cases, out of which 1.95 lakh have recovered, 5,306 have been declared dead due to the infection and 62,758 are active cases.Pune city reported 1,170 new cases taking the total count to 142,851 and 20 deaths taking the death toll to 3,261, while PCMC reported 612 new cases taking the final count to 68,570, and two deaths with 966 as death toll. Pune rural reported 798 new cases taking the final count to 52,294 and 20 deaths taking the death toll to 1,079, according to the state health department. In the state, 32,007 patients were discharged on Monday taking the final count to 9,16,348 after full recovery until September 21. The recovery rate in the state is 74.84%. Also 15,738 new cases were reported in the state taking the final count to 1,224,380 on Monday. The death toll in the state is 33,409 with 344 deaths reported on Monday. Case fatality rate in the state is 2.7%. Out of the 5,912,258 laboratory samples, 1,224,380 have been tested positive (20.71%) for Covid-19 until September 21. Currently 1,858,924 people are in home quarantine and 35,517 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-580-fresh-covid-cases-42-deaths-reported-in-pune-district-on-monday/story-3yB8fS6DstpRawwDwmY6mL.html
22-09-2020||Pune||Covid situation: Maharashtra govt, doctors’ body engage in blame game||Pune: Series of decisions by the Maharashtra government in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic has upset the doctors, who are now blaming those is power responsible for deteriorating health situation in the state. The accusation by doctors came after Jayant Patil, state water resources minister, blamed doctors for not properly treating patients while stressing for need to audit work of medical staff. The latest blame game has worsened the relationship between doctors and the government when the state is worst affected across the country with a total of 1,208,642 Covid cases and 32,671 fatalities as of September 21. “Maharashtra government says private doctors are unnecessarily admitting patients. The same government was earlier issuing legal notices to doctors for not admitting patients. It’s not the doctors, but you (government) are responsible for failure to control Covid pandemic in the state,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter. According to Patil, fatalities are increasing as a result of lack of treatment from doctors. “Because of Covid fear, patients are not being able to get proper treatment from doctors. This has resulted in rising fatality rate. If the situation continues, we will have to audit doctors’ work along with bills,” Patil had said in Sangli. Bhondwe criticised Patil’s remarks saying the government “must first audit all the work that it has done” for the past 73 years for the health infrastructure in this country. During the interview to HT on September 1, state health minister Rajesh Tope had blamed doctors for not doing enough. Tope had said, “Doctors should not just treat patients for the sake of treatment. It should come from the heart. We are witnessing that at some places, doctors are not treating patients properly may be because they are scared. There is human touch required while treating patients.” In addition to the resistance by the doctors’ body to cap prices of treatment for Covid-19, taking over beds and strict action against doctors and hospitals, it has now come out in strong opposition against the government circular to regulate the use of oxygen for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The circular has faced opposition from the state task force too which called it impractical and suicidal for some patients who might need oxygen way above prescribed by the government. After much resistance the government is now underway to withdraw the circular and instead ask for “judicious” use of oxygen for the treatment of patients. “After much resistance from the doctors’ body and even doctors from the state’s task force, the government is likely to withdraw the circular. The circular asked regularised use of oxygen at 7 litres/ minute for the oxygen beds and 12 litres per minute for ICU. The circular also hints that doctors from private hospitals in Maharashtra overuse oxygen,” said Bhondwe. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra Covid-19 task force said, “The circular is now being withdrawn after we criticised the decision. Doctors have now been asked to judiciously use oxygen supply.” The continuous spat between the doctors’ body and the government is out in the open as the government seeks to conduct an audit of private hospitals. The IMA challenges that the government must first audit its own expenditure on the health sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-criticism-to-blame-game-relationship-between-doctors-and-government-worsens/story-X4uTszIaaUKVlIirU8rlUI.html
22-09-2020||Pune||Students claim luggage missing after their Pune hostel was turned into Covid centre||Many students, who were staying at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hostel and left for their hometowns after the Covid-19 restrictions, claim that they are unable to find their belongings and luggage at their rooms on their return. They blame the civic body for not taking care of their belongings after the hostel was converted into a Covid care centre (CCC) for isolation of positive patients. Some students, who have returned from their native places for admissions and examination purposes, are shocked to see their luggage lying in a damaged condition. Around 400 students used to stay at the hostel located at Ghole road prior to the lockdown. Students from various colleges in the city who had taken admission at the hostel had to rushed to their villages after the city saw a rise in Covid cases and many hostels were asked to be vacated. Many claim that they were unable to take their luggage, books and other belongings. Later, PMC converted the hostel into a quarantine centre. Kuldeep Ambekar, a hosteller, said, “The luggage of students was were dumped in one of the rooms of Ghole Road ward office and some of it were damaged. Many of us had our original certificates and marksheets, important study materials in our luggage. When I told one of my friends to collect my luggage, he told me it is damaged and many of my belongings are missing. We have registered a complaint with PMC demanding compensation for the damaged and missing luggage.” Anuj Sangave, another hosteller who returned from his Jalgaon home to collect luggage, said, “When I came to collect my luggage I was shocked to see the damaged condition of my bags and files. Some of my study material is missing. We are aware that due to Covid pandemic there is a crisis situation in Pune, but that doesn’t mean PMC should dump our luggage anywhere.” Sunil Indalkar, PMC deputy commissioner (social welfare) said, “As there was an urgent need of space to quarantine Covid positive patients, this hostel was taken up by PMC. The luggage of students was properly shifted to Ghole Road ward office. The entire process of transferring luggage, from packaging to keeping it in boxes, is videographed. Students facing any issue in locating their belongings can contact us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-claim-luggage-missing-after-their-pune-hostel-was-turned-into-covid-centre/story-dzGT5hjeGrpY2mjw4UDPHN.html
22-09-2020||Gurugram||Corona tales: Meet the nine-year-old kindness warrior||Responsibility and sensibility not necessarily come after one becomes an adult. Samaira Khanna, a nine-year-old is living proof. She has been conducting virtual storytelling sessions, and using that money to help frontline workers and the underprivileged during the pandemic. “The idea of virtual storytelling struck when the lockdown was announced. The outbreak of coronavirus was unprecedented and I was absorbing information about the same and its impact. I was aware about the plight of the migrants and other not-so-fortunate people in our country,” says Khanna who got deeply concerned for them. “As my summer vacations began, I discussed various possibilities of helping people during these times with my parents, using my skills and abilities,” adds the youngster.A student of The Shri Ram School in Aravali, Gurugram, Khanna is charging a nominal fee of ₹50 per session, and recently she donated PPE kits and other useful things to the corona warriors. “I conduct these sessions for 3 to 7 year old children and donate all my earnings to the people who need it the most at this time, during the pandemic. This experience has been extremely gratifying for me and I derive a deep sense of happiness. When I see these children feeling happy and enjoying my stories, I feel on top of the world! I’m happy that my small efforts are bringing a positive impact,” shares Khanna. Khanna’s parents feel proud that their daughter is doing her bit for the society at such a young age. “She is growing up well as an independent and responsible citizen of this country. We are proud that she is respectful towards the society and the environment. Even her story sessions have a message for other children, and we are happy that she is contributing in the best possible way,” says Richa Khanna, her mother.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/corona-tales-meet-the-nine-year-old-kindness-warrior/story-FBwZlk3QbywnrdxJCku1XO.html
