23-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Higher education dept to initiate academic guidance visits in colleges||Gurugram: The state higher education department has proposed that colleges may allow students to visit their premises in a staggered manner to seek guidance from teachers. In a communication sent to the principals of all colleges on Tuesday, the department shared a tentative protocol with colleges for conducting these sessions and sought feedback on it by Friday. According to the tentative protocol, students from different courses have been allotted different days of the week for the guidance sessions. Students will be permitted to visit their college twice a week for a duration of three hours in a particular day, says the tentative schedule shared by the department. Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, has told principals that universities and colleges could prepare their own timetable, taking a cue from the proposed timetable. Verma said online classes will continue to take place along with these interactive in-person sessions. Colleges have been asked to share suggestions and preparedness of the institutions to implement these classes by Friday so that trial runs can begin from Saturday. Pooja Khullar, principal of the Dronacharya Government College, said that the college had received directions regarding the initiation of classes and would convene a meeting with faculty members before sending its response to the department. “We need to discuss various aspects with teachers before we can prepare a schedule and inform students. Since some students are already appearing for offline exams, they might want to visit the college for these guidance sessions as well. Students who don’t have access to smartphones or those who need assistance or guidance can use these sessions to get their doubts cleared,” said Khullar. ‘She said the college had already put in place sanitisation measures prior to conducting term-end exams and necessary measures would be taken once the trial classes start. Srishti Yadav, a second-year BSc student of Government Girls College in Sector 14, who is set to enter the third year, said students came to know about plans to conduct guidance classes twice a week. Yadav said she would prefer to visit colleges since online classes had not been taking place regularly. “If we look at the increasing Covid cases in the city, the situation doesn’t look good. However, I’d still prefer to go for physical visits since online classes are not very effective in terms of the delivery of lessons. If colleges allow us to visit for even two days in a week, we will be able to clarify our doubts and understand concepts that we struggle to comprehend via remote lessons,” Yadav said. From Monday, government schools across the city have already started allowing students studying in classes 9 to 12 to visit for voluntary academic guidance sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-higher-education-dept-to-initiate-academic-guidance-visits-in-colleges/story-xzgM0dQAqQumztTyWeVfJN.html
23-09-2020||City||Gurugram: MCG to pay biomedical waste lifters ₹300 per day incentive amid rising Covid-19 cases||Gurugram: As the Covid-19 cases continue to rise across the city, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to give monetary incentive to sanitation workers involved in lifting of biomedical waste from affected homes.As per officials, since April 1, 16 workers of MCG’s concessionaire for waste collection have been lifting biomedical waste collected from Covid-19 patients under home isolation across the city. To ensure they do not get deterred by the rising cases, each worker will be paid ₹300 per day to lift biomedical waste, the MCG officials said, adding that each of them will get a lump sum of ₹54,000 for the past six months (April-September). “We recognise the efforts and risks taken by biomedical waste lifters during this crucial period. Hence, we have decided to soon give them monetary incentives and also felicitate their contributions with a certificate. MCG is taking multiple steps towards ensuring the spread of coronavirus is minimised and careful waste collection is one of them,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.The MCG officials said that the monetary incentive is likely to be paid on a monthly basis from October onwards, after paying the six-month lump sum to the workers. MCG had earlier outsourced the lifting of biomedical waste. However, the firm hired by the civic body refused to collect such waste from homes, saying that they didn’t have the necessary infrastructure for the same, the officials said. MCG has then asked Ecogreen, its door-to-door waste concessionaire, to step in. The MCG officials said that most workers refused to pick up biomedical waste, and it was only after asking hundreds of workers did they finally manage to find 16 workers who volunteered to carry out the task. “Our initial concessionaire was accustomed to only lifting hospital medical waste from a designated spot. It did not have the manpower and infrastructure to lift biomedical waste on a citywide scale and cancelled the contract. Hence, we asked Ecogreen take over the responsibility,” said an MCG official privy to the matter. Ecogreen has been lifting Gurugram’s waste since August 2017.The MCG official said that initially, they (Ecogreen) had attached one help with each driver of a garbage collection vehicle to lift biomedical waste from the doorstep of Covid-19 patients under home isolation. Then MCG decided to rope in RWAs in July to dump biomedical waste at a designated secluded spot or get them directly dumped inside garbage vehicles to ensure minimal human contact.The official further said that with coronavirus cases rising rapidly in the city over the last one month, the MCG feared that the 16 drivers may also opt against the task which could put the city at risk. “With the sudden rise in cases over the last month, we decided it was time to incentivise the workers to ensure they continue to lift biomedical waste and not get deterred by the growing spread of the virus,” said the MCG official. As per official data, on August 23, the total number of coronavirus cases in Gurugram was 10,971, which rose to 18,800 cases on September 23, an increase of 71%. Of the 18,800 cases, there are 2,629 patients under home isolation. On August 23, there were only 795 patients under home isolation, the data shows.A spokesperson of Ecogreen said, “When coronavirus had started surfacing in the city, MCG asked us for support. In correlation, we hired special vehicles and manpower for the lifting of waste from active Covid homes. All government norms and measures are being undertaken to not only protect our staff, but also the residents of Gurugram.”As per the MCG officials, all 16 vehicles are parked at a secluded spot near the community centre in Sukhrali where they are washed, disinfected, and sanitised every day after operations are completed.Sonia Duhan, waste consultant at MCG, said, “Workers were unwilling to volunteer as they feared contracting coronavirus. It was only after assurances that all safety measures would be adopted that we were able to form a separate team for biomedical waste collection.” Duhan said that the workers were informed that they will be provided PPE kits, regular health check-up, and training in lifting of biomedical waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-mcg-to-pay-biomedical-waste-lifters-300-per-day-incentive-amid-rising-covid-19-cases/story-UYnhPX89QdoNExYE2W8qjK.html
23-09-2020||City||Gurugram: HSVP installs cameras in office to watch late employees, touts||Gurugram: To keep a watch on visitors and employees of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) office in sector 14, the authority has installed 15 CCTV cameras, which will be monitored by senior officials. The move comes after a number of complaints regarding late arrival of employees and their absence from their seats. The cameras will also be used to keep a watch on the movement of middlemen as they misguide allottees and other visitors by promising to get their work done through their contacts, a senior HSVP official said. At least 12 cameras have been installed in office rooms and cabins of estate office one on the ground floor of the sector 14 office. “We have received repeated complaints that our employees are coming late and are not present on the seats. Allottees and other visitors complained that they are being called repeatedly for small formalities, which delayed things. To resolve the issue of late-coming and to keep a close watch on the activities of the employees, it was decided to install cameras,” said Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer one. The cameras have been installed at the single window room, offices of deputy superintendent, JEs, clerks, assistant branch and the corridors. The employees have been asked to follow office timings strictly and ensure that issues of allottees are not delayed due to frivolous reasons.Gogia said action would be taken against employees who remain absent from their seats for too long. “We want to ensure there is no role of middlemen and allottees are given services within the time stipulated by the government. If any visitor has any issue, he can directly approach me for resolution,” he said.Gogia said the cameras would be used to ensure that safeguards pertaining to Covid-19 are followed strictly inside the HSVP office. “If any employee or visitor is found without a mask, then a penalty as per rules would be imposed on them,” he said, adding overcrowding will not be allowed in the premises at any cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-hsvp-installs-cameras-in-office-to-watch-late-employees-touts/story-30HgiqkvLSCM8m90slWQ2N.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Illegal registration of properties: HC dismisses bail plea of former Gurugram revenue official||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday dismissed anticipatory bail plea of a former revenue department official in Gurugram, Desh Raj Kamboj, who was booked by the state police for cheating and violating rules of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act.A former naib tehsildar, Kamboj, had approached the high court seeking anticipatory bail on September 14. In August, the Haryana police had booked six revenue department officials, including him, for alleged irregularities in registration of property deeds in Gurugram district. He had argued in the court that there is no violation of the Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act, 1975, as the transferred land was not a agriculture land. However, the state’s additional advocate general, Deepak Sabharwal had told court that revenue records of majority of the lands for which the sale deeds were registered showed that the land was agricultural land. “He is required to unearth the nexus of the property dealers/ revenue officials including the patwaris, tehsildars and other revenue officials on behest of whom sale deeds were being illegally carried out,” Sabharwal had told the court while submitting that his custodial interrogation was required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/illegal-registration-of-properties-hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-former-gurugram-revenue-official/story-XqjzXSvMyPWbAKjGWwgRsL.html
23-09-2020||City||Bhondsi jail: Cleaner nabbed for drug supply to prisoners||Gurugram: A man working at the Bhondsi Jail was arrested on Tuesday over his alleged involvement in selling narcotics to inmates. Officers said upon inspection, the police recovered about 10 grams of opium which he had allegedly concealed in his undergarments.According to the police, the suspect, Balram Singh, was caught after a few jail officials noticed his activities on Tuesday afternoon in the jail pantry to be allegedly suspicious. In the police complaint, a jail official wrote, “It was observed that he was making rounds of the pantry repeatedly, following which senior jail officials were informed of his movements and he was frisked. The opium, concealed inside a tape, was recovered from him. He had hidden it in his underwear.”“The suspect worked as a cleaner and served water in the jail. After the incident was reported, we informed the police and he was handed over to the Bhondsi police team for further investigation,” said Sanjay Kumar, assistant jail superintendent, Bhondsi Jail.A police officer, privy to the investigation, said on condition of anonymity: “During preliminary questioning, he said he had handed over some narcotic substance on an earlier instance to a jail inmate. He is part of a larger nexus, who charge somewhere between Rs 2,000-Rs 4,000 for a small quantity of a drug and sneak it in by hiding it underneath shoes or clothes.” Police said they would question the suspect about his alleged supplier and the names of inmates who had procured the drug from him. “He has not given any names so far. We are checking his contact details,” said the officer quoted above.That the inmates allegedly have access to mobile phones and narcotics became known after the arrest of Dharambeer Chautala, who was posted as deputy jail superintendent at Bhondsi, on July 23 who, along with Ravi, an associate, was allegedly caught supplying these to the inmates. The police had recovered at least 11 4G SIM cards and 230 grams of hashish (a kind of narcotic) allegedly from their possession. Probe had found that one 4G SIM card was sold for over Rs 20,000 to inmates, who were using the phones to run their syndicates from inside the prison. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed to probe the matter, following which two more allegedly aides of the suspects were arrested. Police have so far ruled out the association of Balram Singh with the earlier arrests. He was booked under sections 17/61/85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhondsi-jail-cleaner-nabbed-for-drug-supply-to-prisoners/story-WHwwsieMXBfPXflJLrcKnL.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh veggie vendors charging up to 30% more than fixed rates||Even though the Chandigarh Market Committee has capped the vegetable prices, residents have been complaining that vendors are charging them up to 30% more than the fixed rates. With no apni mandis in place, people have been left with no option but to buy vegetables at exorbitant rates.To assess ground reality, this Hindustan Times reporter approached various vendors across the city and witnessed overpricing at almost every stall/cart. One kilogram of tomato, the cost of which has been set at ₹70/kg, is being sold for ₹90/kg. Cauliflower, which costs ₹60/kg, is available at ₹90/kg; cucumber at ₹50/kg; and bottle gourd at ₹40/kg. Guddu, who is selling tomatoes for ₹90 in Sector 18, said, “It is about the quality of vegetables. We make extra effort to procure tomatoes of ‘Himsona’ variety, which are expensive. That’s why I charge more for people.” Vikas from Sector 46 added that when they bought crates of tomatoes (one crate consists 20kg tomatoes), about two to three kg of the vegetable at the bottom perishes, cost of which has to be borne by them. A farmer from Punjab’s Fatehgarh Sahib district, Prahlad Singh Bhamia, said, “During the corresponding period in the past couple of years, prices of vegetables usually remained high, but apni mandis were an attractive option for people to buy vegetables directly from farmers at a fair price. Nowadays, people are at the mercy of vendors, who are charging as per their wish.”Federation of Sector Welfare Associations’ Chandigarh (FOSWAC) secretary Ranvinder Singh Gill said, “Officials aren’t doing enough to keep tabs on fleecing. They must involve the resident welfare associations (RWAs) to avoid such practice. Many unregistered vendors also visit our sectors. The authorities must provide us a list of registered vendors so that at least we can ensure that we aren’t fleeced.”As per the officials of Chandigarh Market Committee, rates are fixed on the basis of wholesale prices of vegetables. They said the municipal corporation has to ensure the compliance with the rate list and civic body inspectors can issue challans to vendors found overcharging customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/veggie-vendors-charging-up-to-30-more-than-fixed-rates/story-6ZGxB5tciQrAuDeSCEmiUJ.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||From Non-SCS to IAS: High court vacates stay on appointment of candidates||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday vacated stay on the selection of candidates for five posts of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) from amongst the non-state civil service (non-SCS) officers in Haryana. The bench of justice S Muralidhar while posting the matter for final hearing on December 15 made it clear that appointments, if made, will be subject to outcome of writ petition. On August 18, the high court had stayed the final selection of candidates on the plea of Surender Singh Dahiya, 52, additional director, agriculture department, who challenged the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order of August 7. The CAT had upheld the Haryana government’s June 9 order on Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) conducting a written test to shortlist the candidates.The stay was vacated as the state had argued that August 18 order has stalled the process of filling up of the posts. As per the Haryana government, HPSC was only to conduct a written examination and then forward the list of 25 meritorious candidates to the chief secretary, who would then forward it to the UPSC. It says that the state is competent to evolve a criterion for the selections of candidates as it has been given complete discretion on adjudging a person to evaluate outstanding merit and ability for the purpose of shortlisting. The petitioner says that the HPSC can conduct the exam only with respect to state civil services and not the all-India services. Also, the only criterion for adjudging the outstanding ability and merit of the candidate is by way of service record of a candidate as a non-SCS officer and not the examination, the petitioner had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-non-scs-to-ias-high-court-vacates-stay-on-appointment-of-candidates/story-rAV9f7gs5F6IdOUZc7EvyI.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||JJP caught in a cleft stick over farm legislations||Caught in a cleft stick over the enactment of three farm legislations by the Parliament, BJP ally Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) has come under sharp attack from various quarters including the farmer organisations. The JJP, which considers itself to be the flag bearer of farmers rights and draws its strength from the legacy of farmer leader and former deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal, has come under sharp attack for its failure to take an ostensible hard stance over the contentious farm laws. At the same time, the party has in bits and pieces tried to portray itself as an ardent sympathiser of the farming community from which it draws its political strength. Strategically deflecting demands of resignation by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, the party cadre led by his younger brother Digvijay has tried to undo the damage by apologising to the protesting farmers for the lathicharge at Pipli in Kurukshetra. Earlier, the deputy CM also said that he will step down if there was any attempt by the Centre to discontinue the minimum support price (MSP). His words, however, have not convinced his detractors as well as farmer leaders.His uncle and INLD MLA, Abhay Singh Chautala, who shares an acrimonious relationship with Dushyant says that the JJP leader has betrayed the trust of farmers. “Dushyant will not resign. But let me tell you that the people will take their resignations. People of Haryana will not let them tarnish the name of Chaudhary Devi Lal,” Abhay said. “Who is going to believe Dushyant now,” says former MLA, Jai Prakash reacting to Dushyant’s claims of stepping down.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has criticised Dushyant for yielding to the comforts of the chair. “Several JJP MLAs have extended their support to the farmers cause. Why is Dushyant hesitant? He should withdraw support from the government without any delay,” says Charuni. Commenting on the JJP’s strategy, professor Ashutosh Kumar of political science department, Panjab University, Chandigarh, said the JJP seems to be running with hare and hunting with the hounds. While the present phase of protests in the state seems to be subsiding gradually, thus, easing some pressure on the JJP, the party’s problems are far from over. During Sunday’s road blockade by farmer organisations, two JJP MLAs—Ram Karan Kala and Jogi Ram Sihag—also joined the protesters lending their support to the cause. While the JJP would not mind its MLAs supporting the stir, the episode does give some inkling to the growing friction in the party. Party MLAs Ram Kumar Gautam and Devender Babli have already been leading the dissenting brigade in the party with their repeated attacks on the JJP leaderships and coalition. “What kind of a coalition is this where MLAs of an ally come out in public attacking the government? And such MLAs are never held accountable by either of the allies,’’ said a political observer, who did not wish to be named. INLD leader Abhay Chautala said both JJP and Dushyant have been shown their place by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. “Dushyant met Khattar seeking a probe in the Pipli lathicharge. However, the CM has rejected the argument of lathicharge altogether. So what’s the stance of the JJP now,’’ he said. Professor Kumar of Panjab University said, “The decision of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal to resign from the Union cabinet has created problems for the JJP. “But being a regional party and with polls being four years away, the JJP will not sever ties with the BJP. The party needs funds and hence need to remain in power. Four year is a long time so they will bide their time to allow this issue to die down,” he said. The professor said though the JJP in one way or another would like to keep the pretense that they are championing the cause of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jjp-caught-in-a-cleft-stick-over-farm-legislations/story-BlteHbIp62UvjcvMqYmNWN.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||9 volunteers to get 1st dose of Oxford vaccine at PGIMER this week||The first dose of Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University will be administered to the volunteers this week at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). “Ten candidates were screened on Wednesday, nine of whom fulfilled the required conditions for the study. Vaccine will be administered to them in coming two to three days. The process of screening and recruitment will continue in the first phase for 100 volunteers on a daily basis,” PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said. To be eligible to volunteer, a person should be above 18 years of age, not have any underlying medical condition, and not have contracted the Covid-19 infection before. The family members of the candidates also have to test negative for the disease.Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had recently sent a show-cause notice to the Pune-based firm, Serum Institute of India, questioning why it has not stopped trials after a UK volunteer reportedly showed symptoms of neurological disorder, prompting four other countries to pause the study. At the PGIMER, recruitment of candidates was also put on hold while the safety approval for the first 100 participants from the Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) was awaited, which has now been provided.The premier institute is going to assess immunogenicity (formation of antibodies) along with the safety of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/9-volunteers-to-get-1st-dose-of-oxford-vaccine-at-pgimer-this-week/story-kMHQsLssKjsyKDAIPGwiqK.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Vigilance panel formed to ensure fair distribution of subsidised food grains in Chandigarh||To ensure effective implementation of all schemes under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), the Chandigarh administration constituted a vigilance committee, which will be headed by the UT adviser.The administration has also notified a grievance redressal mechanism under the act through which, any aggrieved person can make complaints to a district grievance redressal officer (DGRO). The NFSA aims to provide for food and nutritional security in human life cycle approach by ensuring access to adequate quantity of quality food at affordable prices to people. The act provides for coverage of up to 75% of the rural population and up to 50% of the urban population for receiving subsidised food grains under the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS), thus covering about two-thirds of the population. Chandigarh has 2.57 lakh below poverty line (BPL) families under direct bank transfer (DBT) scheme. UT does not have any network of PDS shops or godowns. But, during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown, the administration distributed food grains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to the eligible beneficiaries.Grievance redressal mechanismComplaints can be made against officers or agency which has been entrusted with the implementation of the schemes under NFSA. Complaints can be about identification of eligible households, issuing ration cards, distribution of food grains, issuance of licences to fair price shop dealers and their monitoring, or DBT scheme among others. As per the notification issued by the administration, a complaint can be filed with the DGRO in writing or through email or dropped in the grievance drop box in DGRO office. All complaints will have to be acknowledged by a receipt in writing or through electronic means within one day of receipt of complaint. A unique grievance number will be allotted to the complainant.If DGRO is satisfied about the veracity of the grievance, necessary order for the redressal will be issued within 30 days from the receipt of the complaint.The DGRO to resolve complaints can direct officials to produce relevant official documents and direct persons to furnish such information as may be required.While deciding a complaint, the DGRO can recommend action to be taken by the competent authority against the employee of the department concerned, if found responsible.Disposal of complaints will be monitored by the secretary, department of food and supplies at least once a month.Any complainant or the officer (or agency) against whom any order has been passed by the DGRO, who is not satisfied with the redressal of grievances, can file appeal against such order before the state food commission within 30 days.What will vigilance committee doAs per the UT notification, the committee will regularly supervise the implementation of all schemes under NFSA. It will inform DGRO of violations, malpractices and misappropriation of funds being committed during the implementation of NFSA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vigilance-panel-formed-to-ensure-fair-distribution-of-subsidised-food-grains-in-chandigarh/story-0OQsBYqCNWDIJJ6NDDCRXJ.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Finally, people with mental illness to get a group home in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration has decided to set up a group home for mentally ill people at the Cheshire Home in Sector 21, while a halfway home would come up in the Disability Assessment Rehabilitation and Triage (DART) building in Sector 32.In a city with an ageing population, many emerging voices are demanding community (group) homes with long-term assisted living for persons with mental health issues.Despite having provisions for sheltered accommodation in the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, the union territory (UT) has no such facility so far.As reported earlier, at least 70 city-based residents have written over a hundred emails and letters and some have met the UT administrator and adviser, but have received only ‘sympathy and assurances’ in return, they say.UT adviser Manoj Parida, secretary social welfare Yashpal Garg, director social welfare Navjot Kaur and UT chief engineer Mukesh Anand inspected the Cheshire Homes on Wednesday.It emerged that 17 people, mostly handicapped, had encroached upon the property, which belongs to the administration. The inmates are mostly those who were earlier working at prepaid booths of the traffic police, which are now closed, stated an official press statement.The double storey building is constructed on a two-kanal plot.“Efforts will be made to engage some dedicated NGOs under the supervision of social welfare department to run these homes. The adviser has directed the officials to find out alternative jobs for handicapped persons, so that they could be gainfully employed and arrange their own accommodation independently. Further action on the issue will be taken in consultation with all departments,” the statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/finally-people-with-mental-illness-to-get-a-group-home-in-chandigarh/story-cWATHa2fjpkdIBKTfh0ugL.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 15-year-old impregnated, brother, his friend booked for rape||The police on Wednesday booked a 19-year-old youth and his friend for raping his 15-year-old sister for 10 months and impregnating her.The rape survivor’s brother has been apprehended by the police and raids are on to nab his friend.The incident came to light when the Class 9 student complained of abdominal pain in the morning and was rushed to Sector 22 civil hospital. After medical examination, in which the minor was found to be eight months pregnant, the doctors informed the police.The survivor told the police that her brother and his friend, who is a Class 10 student, had been sexually exploiting her since December last year and both had raped her multiple times.The girl’s elder sister was married in January this year and her mother, who is visually impaired, was oblivious of her daughter’s plight.The survivor’s mother told the police that she was unaware of the sexual exploitation till her daughter was medically examined by the doctors.She said her son is a drug addict and used to regularly pick up fights at home. Her husband had deserted the family in 2012.Acting on the complaint, the police registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.On her family’s request, the girl has been sent to a shelter home, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-15-year-old-impregnated-brother-his-friend-booked-for-rape/story-yxOggSMa9h5LXUcbc1rznO.html
23-09-2020||City||Mohali fully prepared to tackle stubble burning: DC||The district administration is fully prepared to check stubble burning, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Wednesday. “With paddy harvesting likely to pick up momentum in the next fortnight, we have devised a three-pronged strategy. We are focusing on awareness generation coupled with in-situ and ex-situ stubble management besides stringent action against the errant farmers,” he added. “Awareness vans have been flagged off which are touring villages and making people aware of the adverse effects of stubble burning and the machinery available to manage it. Posters, pamphlets, wall paintings, demonstration plots and anti-stubble burning announcements from local gurdwaras comprise the other information, education and communication (IEC) activities,” Dayalan said. The area under paddy cultivation in the district is around 25,800 hectares, which is expected to produce 1.29 lakh quintal crop residue. There are 1,700 stubble management machines in Mohali, which are provided on rent to farmers through 67 cooperative societies and 29 custom hiring centres. Besides, there are 75 combines with super straw management system and 4,000 harrows for the stubble management. Through the in-situ crop residue management scheme, 107 new machines are also being provided to the societies/farmers. “We expect to successfully tackle stubble management with these machines,” Dayalan said.“We have formed rapid response teams and appointed village-level nodal officers who would monitor the area under their jurisdiction and report stubble burning, if any,” the DC said, adding that they have been trained to use ATR mobile app through which they will share on-the-spot action taken report. “Response time is fixed and it is mandatory for every officer to update the report within the stipulated period,” he added. “Immediate response to the fire incidents resulting in quick slapping of penalties on errant farmers will deter others to follow suit,” Dayalan said. The other punitive actions include registration of FIRs and red entry in the revenue record of the erring farmers.Any land with red entry is difficult to sell or mortgage. Mohali was third in the state last year among the districts which recorded least stubble burning incidents. In 2019, 82 people were penalised to the tune of ₹2.55 lakh and seven FIRs were registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-fully-prepared-to-tackle-stubble-burning-dc/story-uNfjpeMLf1Roi3kb4HLYVK.html
23-09-2020||City||Panchkula man booked for rape||A Panchkula man was on Wednesday booked for allegedly raping an employee of a Zirakpur-based private firm, police said.According to information, the woman had left her office at 6pm on September 20 and on her way back home, she was approached by the accused, Kamil, who was on his motorcycle. The police said as the victim knew the accused, she accepted his offer to drop her home. However, the victim alleged that he took her to a secluded place in Baltana, where she was thrashed and raped.An FIR under sections 376 (rape) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Zirakpur police station. The woman had got married four years ago and is currently living at her parents’ house in a Baltana village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-man-booked-for-rape/story-ICz1AxoVxiD6FkX7SczacK.html
23-09-2020||City||Over 80% Covid deaths in Panchkula linked to comorbidities||Over 80% of the deaths due to coronavirus disease in the district occurred among people with comorbidities, shows a data released by the Panchkula health department.It says that majority of the deaths reported in the district were of elderly persons, mostly men, suffering from other underlying illnesses.Total 58 out of 72 persons (80.56%) who died of Covid-19 had comorbidities. This means that apart from the virus, they were also suffering from other diseases like diabetes, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease.Of the comorbid victims, 33 persons (56%) had diabetes, making it the most common ailment found in the virus-related fatalities. This was followed by 22 Covid victims (38%) who were also suffering from hypertension. Tuberculosis and chronic kidney disease were the other two frequently reported underlying conditions in such cases.The deceased include persons from the age group of 14 to 91 years. However, a majority (48 patients) of them were over the age of 60.Apart from this, the health department data underlines that more men have died of coronavirus than women in the district. Total 42 men and 30 women have succumbed to the virus.As per the data, the rural and urban factors did not play much role in the Covid death rate as 34 persons were from the villages while the rest of the fatalities were reported in the urban part of the district.So far, Panchkula district has witnessed 5,328 Covid cases, out of which 1,153 are active and 4,103 have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-80-covid-deaths-in-panchkula-linked-to-comorbidities/story-6x8wWv0UwO7bxb6UxIBX1I.html
23-09-2020||City||Banur school told to refund ₹1 lakh fee to parent, pay ₹25,000 compensation||The district consumer disputes redressal commission here has directed The British School (now, Bhartiya International Vidyapeeth) in Banur to refund ₹1 lakh with 9% interest per annum and compensation of ₹25,000 to a parent for not fulfilling the promises made prior to her two wards’ admission.In a complaint lodged on October 27, 2017, Narinder Kaur of Housefed Complex in Banur had stated that when she got her two children admitted in Class 7 and Class 4 for the session 2016-17, the school authorities promised they would provide air-conditioned (AC) classrooms for students, daily homework at school and lockers for keeping books. The school had also assured sports activities, no uniform, and personality development of students.Believing the school’s claims, the complainant paid ₹1.77 lakh as fee, but the promised facilities were not given. Following this, the complaint held a meeting with the school’s board of directors, and instead of paying heed to the grievance the latter said the parents who were not satisfied with the school’s working should withdraw their wards, she alleged.Kaur then removed her children from the school and sought a refund of ₹1.02 lakh along with 24% interest, but nothing was paid to her, she said.She then lodged the complaint with the redressal commission.While passing the orders, commission president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma said. “It is seen that nowadays educational institutions are opened like shops. They charge exorbitant fees from parents. Poor and even middle class parents are not able to admit their children in such institutions. Since school authorities are ex parte and there is no explanation on how and in what manner the money was charged, so we have no alternative except to go by the averments of the complaint.”Ex parte refers to proceedings where one of the involved parties (the school in this case) is not present.The commission directed the school to refund ₹1.02 lakh along with interest of 9% per annum from the date of filing the complaint till realisation. The commission also asked the school to pay lump sum compensation to the tune of ₹25,000 to the complainant.When contacted, school director Nirpal Singh said, “I am not aware of any such case and will file a reply once we see the judgement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/banur-school-told-to-refund-1-lakh-fee-to-parent-pay-25-000-compensation/story-Ktsptn9rDlJg4xLfCFcKxN.html
23-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi buillding collapse: 3 days on, relatives still wait for news||Amid heavy rain, survivors and relatives of those staying in Jilani building, a part of which collapsed on Monday, continued to wait for news on their loved ones on Wednesday, more than 60 hours after the mishap. The tragedy turned out to be the worst faced by the loom town in the past few decades, with the toll crossing 40. The confusion over identification of a body added to the anxiety of the kin. Obaidulla Shaikh, 36, brother-in-law of Shabnam Mohammad Ali Shaikh, claimed she was missing as they could not get her body. However, the rescue team confirmed that 28-year-old Shabnam’s body was found at 5pm on Tuesday. Shabnam’s mother Zulekha survived the incident with a leg injury. Both mother and daughter lived on the third floor. Obaidulla Shaikh said, “The rescue team claimed she was sent to IGM Hospital. Some people told us that when a body was removed on Tuesday evening, people shouted Shabnam and that is why the record shows her name. Shabnam used to teach Arabic to students in the area and was well-known. If she was taken to a hospital, people would have known. Some people told us that she was rescued and was sent to some hospital. We don’t know whom to believe.” A fire officer from Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) said, “We will ask the rescue team to cross-check.” BNCMC commissioner Pankaj Ashiya said, “The police have claimed it is Shabnam’s body, but the relatives have refused it. Police might do a DNA test to confirm.” Senior police inspector of Narpoli station MB Shinde said, “The family had approached us to file a missing complaint, but we have not registered it as a body has been found. We will do a DNA test.”In a touching scene, Wasim Ansari, 27, and his friend, Faizan Ansari, 32, who were among the first from the nearby area to reach the site on Monday and continued to help with the rescue operation till Wednesday, broke down while removing the body of a six-year-old. The duo managed to rescue seven people alive from the third floor. “We quickly pulled out as many people we could,” said Wasim. “It is very painful now, as we are only looking for bodies,” said Faizan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-buillding-collapse-3-days-on-relatives-still-wait-for-news/story-I4oam0ZVbyOF87gyv7HgeO.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||For four days, fewer than 4k cases in Capital||Delhi has recorded fewer than 4,000 cases of the coronavirus disease for four days now, with the positivity rate lower than 7% over the last two days.On Tuesday, 3,714 people tested positive for the viral infection, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The Capital added 3,816 cases of the infection on Tuesday, 2,548 on Monday, and 3,812 on Sunday. To be sure, the bulletins on Sunday and Monday usually see a dip in testing and new cases, owing to the weekend.The daily average test positivity rate for the infection too has dropped to 6.89% in the seven days ending Wednesday, from 7.18% recorded over the seven days before that.“In Delhi, the cases that are being reported now are not from the same areas from where cases were being reported in June. It is likely that the numbers will go down after people in the areas where there were fewer infections earlier also get it. This is what happened in Bihar where the spread could not be controlled, but the numbers eventually dropped after several people were infected,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The city also recorded 36 more deaths due to the infection, according to Wednesday’s health bulletin, taking the death toll in the city to 5,087. Even as the number of cases have dipped below the 4,000-mark, the number of deaths has remained almost the same, with around 35 deaths recorded on average each day over the last one week. This has resulted in an increase in the seven-day case fatality ratio (CFR). The seven-day CFR stood at 0.9%, compared to 0.7% a week ago. The cumulative CFR in the city has been reducing, indicating that fewer deaths took place during the September surge than during the initial surge in the city in June. The cumulative CFR dipped below 2% for the first time on Wednesday; it stood at 1.98%. In comparison, India’s CFR stands at 1.6% “Fewer deaths due to Covid-19 are being reported now as the treatment protocol has been standardised. We have learnt that the patients respond better to high flow nasal oxygen than on ventilator. We now know that steroids work and are prescribing it early on. We have learnt the importance of early treatment. These have helped in bringing down the mortality,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonology at Safdarjung hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/for-four-days-fewer-than-4k-cases-in-capital/story-fQlfXwT7AgxMW6xCxJU58L.html
23-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Rescue teams find bodies of mother and child hugging||In a heart-wrenching scene at the site of Jilani building collapse in Bhiwandi, rescue teams found bodies of a woman and her daughter – Farida Banu Khan, 32, and three-year-old Riha – hugging tightly in their last moments, around 6.30am on Wednesday.The building came crashing down on Monday. The bodies of Banu’s two other children, Farah, 6, and Falak, 5, too, were found nearby. The body of Banu’s husband, Mohammad Murtuza Khan, 35, was also pulled out from the debris on Wednesday evening. Banu’s father-in-law Mohammad Mustaffa Khan, 54, who lives near Jilani building with his wife, said, “I saw my daughter-in-law and her youngest daughter Riha being pulled out of the debris, while she was holding on to my granddaughter tightly. My two grandsons were also found dead. It was painful to watch them in that condition.”Banu’s son Sadiq, 8, was lucky as he stayed at his grandparents’ house on Sunday night. Murtuza owns a soap shop in Bhiwandi and he lived on the first floor of the building. Khan said, “Sadiq often stayed over at our place. He is the only surviving member of the family. He is very young to understand this huge loss. We don’t know what to tell him when he will ask about his parents and siblings. I am at a loss for words.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-rescue-teams-find-bodies-of-mother-and-child-hugging/story-ht6l6oNPGCra25g8caHkHO.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Man opens fire at ex-girlfriend’s house in Sarita Vihar to threaten her, arrested||A 27-year-old man allegedly barged into his ex-girlfriend’s house in Sarita Vihar on Monday, opened fire and threatened to kill her and her family members if she married someone else, police said.The man, identified as Sumit Tomar, was arrested on Tuesday and a country made pistol used in the crime recovered from him, police said. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said that late on Monday night, the police received a call regarding firing outside a house at Aali Vihar in Sarita Vihar. The caller, a 24-year-old woman, told the police that she was inside her home with her family members when her ex-boyfriend opened fire at their main gate. Nobody was injured in the firing. Two empty bullet shells were recovered from near the main gate that was partially broken because of the impact of the bullets, said the DCP.“The woman alleged that the bullets were fired by her ex-boyfriend, Sumit Tomar, who had been stalking, sexually harassing and threatening her. A case of act endangering the life of others, stalking, sexual harassment and criminal intimidation was registered at the Sarita Vihar police station and teams were formed to nab Tomar,” said DCP Meena.During the probe, a police officer said, the woman told investigators in her statement that she had been in a relationship with Tomar for nearly a decade. They wanted to marry each other but because of certain reasons the wedding had to be called off. “Then after Tomar’s marriage with someone else around two years ago, the woman started ignoring him, which infuriated him. Tomar wanted her to continue their relationship but she did not want to ruin his married life and her future as well,” said the officer.About two months ago, the woman’s wedding was fixed with someone and Tomar learnt about it. He began stalking and pressuring her to change her decision, but she was not ready to do so. Her refusal irked Tomar and to intimidate her and her family members, he purchased a country made pistol from an arms dealer in Uttar Pradesh last month. On Monday, he fired outside the woman’s house, threatened her and her family members before fleeing the incident spot. “We raided Tomar’s home and hideouts but found him missing. On Tuesday, the teams caught him after receiving information that he was hiding in the forested area of Aali Vihar,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-opens-fire-at-ex-girlfriend-s-house-in-sarita-vihar-to-threaten-her-arrested/story-57ozOPpjqbl8Iy9i5uWYHL.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||9 trees died, 24 damaged during digging work in Delhi Cant: Forest dept to high court||The Delhi government’s forest department has submitted a fresh status report to the Delhi high court stating that a total of 33 trees have been damaged (of which nine later died) in the deemed forest and morphological ridge land in Delhi Cantonment, by the army and the public works department (PWD) while carrying out separate excavation and construction work along the Ring Road. The report, which was submitted on September 18 after an inspection by forest officials on September 3, said fresh violations were observed by the PWD while taking up digging and levelling work near Dhaula Kuan bus stop. “For carrying out any kind of non-forest activity in the morphological ridge (an area having Ridge-like features), prior permission is needed from the Ridge Management Board, which the PWD did not have,” the report prepared by deputy conservator of forests (west division) Muan Guite said. On August 27, HT had reported that around 33 trees were damaged during the construction of a boundary wall (from Sawai Man Singh Dwar to Army Environmental Park and Training Area) by the army. The court had issued contempt notices to army officers as well as PWD officials over the alleged damage caused to trees and had asked the agencies to stop the work. On Wednesday, the high court directed the forest department to guide the PWD and the army in carrying out restoration of damaged trees. “The DCF shall specify the areas where the trees need to be planted and also specify the variety of trees along with their girth, size, and age, required to be planted,” the court said. The patch in question is located along the Ring Road in Delhi Cantonment and is both a deemed forest and a morphological ridge. Any kind of trenching, excavation and construction work here without due permission amounts to a violation of both the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, as well as National Green Tribunal’s 2015 order prohibiting such activities within a one-metre radius of tree trunks. As per Supreme Court order, in Delhi’s context, a deemed forest is one that is spread across an area of at least one hectare and the number of trees per hectare is 250 or above.The forest department report said nine trees were now dead. “Of the total trees damaged, 24 can still be saved by treating them and covering the exposed roots with soil,” the report said.It further said, “The total morphological ridge and deemed forest area affected due to soil excavation and digging work by PWD is 2,630 square metres. A total of seven full-grown pipal trees have been damaged by the PWD.”A senior PWD official, who did not wish to be named, said that corrective action will be taken based on the court directions. The report also highlighted that upon inspection, it was found that fresh construction, of the boundary wall, was being carried out by the army. “The excavated soil and debris were indiscriminately thrown into the deemed forest area thereby exposing some of the root system of trees and damaging secondary the root system as well. In the process of trenching for the boundary wall foundation, some of the trees have fallen completely. The ground flora has also been damaged thereby disturbing the ecology of the area,” it said. The report said a total of 26 trees such as bargad, shehtoot, subabool and gular, among others, have been damaged by the army. Indian Army spokesperson Aman Anand, who had earlier denied any damage to trees, said, “A statement has been issued earlier in the matter and now the case is subjudice.” “A status report has been submitted in the court. The excavation and construction work was stopped in the area on September 4 itself,” said Guite. CR Babu, professor emeritus at Delhi University’s Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems, said damage and felling of so many trees along a busy road will reduce the efficacy of the tree line to act as a filter for pollutants. Most of these trees have high dust-trapping efficiency, which has been hampered. “The trees that are still alive can be restored by covering the roots with fresh and good quality soil, which must be mixed with an anti-termite agent, as damaged trees are highly susceptible to termite infestation. The trees must be watered adequately until they start regrowing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/9-trees-died-24-damaged-during-digging-work-in-delhi-cant-forest-dept-to-high-court/story-hR5j0Y6Lf1wT2qebR6y4xL.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Set up helpline, create web link to register complaints over damage to trees: Delhi HC to govt||The Delhi high court has directed the state forest department to set up a telephone helpline and create a link on its website where people can lodge complaints against concretisation or other kinds of damage to trees.Justice Najmi Waziri said that on receiving a complaint, the ‘tree officer’ will promptly initiate measures by coordinating with the land-owning agency concerned and the police to redress the problem.Hearing a plea on unauthorised construction and damage to trees filed by one Nitin Gupta through advocate RK Kapoor, the court said, “The tree officer and the land-owning agencies shall ensure all concrete around trees is removed, as per the directions of the National Green Tribunal, and that a damaged tree is restored to good health.” It said the system should be notified to the general public through newspapers, electronic publications, etc.The court’s order came after the tree officer said several trees in old Delhi had been choked with concrete. He said that to save them from premature death, the current deconcretisation exercise will have to be extended till all such trees are freed and hence such a system has to be put in place.A senior forest official, who did not wish to be named, said, “Though we recently launched a new helpline to cater to complaints of both trees and wild animals in distress, and queries are being addressed in the shortest time possible, in this case, since we haven’t received the court order yet, we will be in a position to comment once we examine it in detail.” On an earlier occasion, the court had said it cannot be denied that there are hardly many trees in the Walled City, especially in the densely populated and heavily built-up area of Chandni Chowk.Each tree in that neighbourhood is valuable and would need protection, the court had said, and asked the tree officer and the municipal corporation to jointly embark on a tree-census exercise in the Walled City.The corporation submitted a list of old trees in Dariba Kalan, Urdu Bazaar, Jama Masjid and Jagat Cinema on the orders of the court, which was hearing a plea for the restoration of a 300-year-old tree damaged by unauthorised construction.On September 16, the north Delhi municipal corporation showed photographs of deconcretisation around trees in Urdu Bazar on the forest department’s orders.The court, after looking at the photos, said while the corporation’s work needed to be acknowledged, it had to be pursued and extended further. The judge said some of concrete cleared was evidently not enough.The court then asked the corporation to free more space around the trees to facilitate percolation of water and absorption of nitrogen and other minerals by the tree roots.The matter would be now heard on October 7.Aditya N Prasad, an environment lawyer who had petitioned against concretisation of trees, said, “Even if a dedicated helpline is set up, the question is who will attend the complaints as limited staff is available with the department. Concretisation or any other tree offence is directly linked to boots on the ground and hence the department must fill up the vacancies first to address these complaints.”The forest department had recently launched a tree and wildlife helpline number to attend to complaints regarding trees and animals in distress. The helpline launched on September 10 has received a high number of calls regarding trees. Of the over 300 odd calls till Monday, around 160 were related to trees.Prasad said the tree and animal helpline should not be mixed as it won’t be able to cater to the large volume of tree-related queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/set-up-helpline-create-web-link-to-register-complaints-over-damage-to-trees-delhi-hc-to-govt/story-lf3JL3RIY2hYt7iZ5qgsVN.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Analyse IARI tech to manage crop residue: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday asked the state development department to conduct a cost-benefit analysis of a technology developed by Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI) scientists for decomposition of crop stubble and provide an alternative to the practice of residue burning.Kejriwal directed the department to explore the possibility of using the technology at farms in the peripheries of Delhi, a statement issued by the chief minister’s office said.“Crop stubble burning is a major source of winter pollution in Delhi. I congratulate the Indian Agriculture Research Institute scientists for developing a low-cost, effective technology to deal with crop stubble burning. Governments need to listen and work hand in hand with scientists to address the issue of stubble burning,” Kejriwal said.The technology, called Pusa Decomposer, involves making a liquid formulation using fermented farm inputs, and then spraying it over the fields to ensure speedy bio-decomposition of crop stubble. At an estimated cost of Rs 20 per acre, the technology can effectively deal with 4-5 tonnes of raw straw, the statement said.“Research over the last four years in the farm fields in Punjab and Haryana have shown very encouraging results on the benefit of using this approach for reducing the need for crop stubble burning and at the same time reducing fertiliser consumption and increasing farm productivity,” it said.On Wednesday, a group of scientists briefed the CM, who is scheduled to visit the institute for a live demonstration of the technology on Thursday, the chief minister’s office said. “He instructed officials from the development department to carry out a detailed cost-benefit analysis and explore implementation of this technology across all farms in outer Delhi that face the issue of crop stubble.”Smoke emanating from crop stubble burning by farmers in Punab, Haryana and elsewhere in north India causes the air to plunge to hazardous levels every winter in Delhi and nearby areas.Every year these farm fires usually begin in full swing by mid-October. Last year, early fires were detected by September 25. This year, farmers have already begun burning crop residue in parts of Punjab and Haryana, Nasa satellite images have shown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/analyse-iari-tech-to-manage-crop-residue-kejriwal/story-XG2ttwOOxdkUxCMELqGh2I.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Teacher assaulted by husband with glass after she questions multiple traffic challans by her in-laws||A 32-year-old teacher was attacked by her husband with broken glass in East Delhi’s Mansarovar Park on Sunday morning when she questioned him about the multiple traffic challans her in-laws had allegedly attracted while driving her car, police said on Wednesday.The woman alleged that her in-laws had accumulated nearly Rs30,000 in penalties after receiving nearly 20 challans for traffic violations over the last three-four months. “I was paying for their fault,” the woman said, adding she finally lost count of the number of the notices she got.The man, who works at a government office, was booked under section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code, arrested and released on bail. “The woman told us she decided to raise the issue with her husband as she was embarrassed over the repeated traffic violations,” Amit Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara), said. The woman is a government school teacher and lives with her husband at a rented house in Mansarovar Park. Her in-laws live elsewhere in East Delhi and drive the car she received from her parents during her wedding, she said. “I and my husband live separately but my in-laws were driving my car. Over the last three months, we kept receiving messages from traffic police about traffic violations,” the woman said. Since the car was registered in her father’s name, the challans would be sent her father’s mobile phone, leaving her “embarrassed”.“Each time my father would alert me about it, I would communicate it to my in-laws. They kept on promising to pay the penalties, but never did. It was me who was paying it all the time,” the woman alleged.According to the new Motor Vehicles Act, speeding draws a penalty of Rs2,000 and traffic line violation Rs500. On Sunday morning, there was yet another challan for red light violation, she said. “When I raised the issue with my husband, he turned aggressive and attacked me,” the woman alleged. In her complaint to the police, she accused her husband of banging her head on the wall and leaving her injured in her arm with a broken glass.Since the lockdown, cameras installed at multiple junctions and stretches kept on eye on vehicles and were used to send challans for speeding and red light violations as traffic police personnel avoided issuing manual notices to keep themselves safe from being infected by Covid-19.The high number of challans issued during the lockdown led to many essential service providers, particularly doctors, demanding that these be rolled back. One doctor, for example, was fined Rs50,000. But a senior traffic police officer said fines will continue to be issued even if a motorist gets penalised multiple times on a single stretch on the same day. There are a total of 236 speed-detection cameras in different parts of Delhi. During the first month of the lockdown, as many as 10 challans were issued every minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teacher-assaulted-by-husband-with-glass-after-she-questions-multiple-traffic-challans-by-her-in-laws/story-bYwiZ5Zy3khFhIweCLzwwM.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Govt issues tender for 30 new Mohalla Clinics||The Delhi government has issued a tender for construction of 30 new mohalla clinics in the city in localities that include Mundka, Nangloi Jat, Moti Nagar, Madipur, Rajouri Garden, Hari Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Janakpuri, Vikaspuri and Uttam Nagar, according to documents seen by HT.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the construction work will begin only when the Covid-19 situation is under control.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 3,714 new Covid-19 cases, taking the number of cumulative positive cases to 256,789 even as 220,866 people have recovered from the disease and 5,087 have died, according to the Delhi government’s daily bulletin. Mohalla clinics – a flagship project of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government – are primary health centres across the city providing free OPD service. Currently, there are around 480 of them – of which around 200 were briefly closed during the first few weeks of the lockdown.Unlike government hospitals and dispensaries, where the staff are either government employee or hired as ad-hoc, these clinics are run by private empanelled doctors and staff who are paid on a per-patient basis. Currently, mohalla clinics are also doubling up as free rapid antigen test centres from 2 pm to 5 pm.Most mohalla clinics are portable cabin-like setups which have an OPD room, a waiting area and a dispensary. As many as 212 of them also have facilities for pathology tests, X-ray and other services. On an average, any such clinic in the city caters to around 140-150 patients a day, said a senior official in the health department who did not wish to be identified.In January, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had inaugurated 152 mohalla clinics and the government had elaborated on a plan to have 1,000 such primary health centres ready by mid-2020. “The pandemic has delayed the plan,” said the health department official.The official further said that the first such clinic was opened in 2015 and over a period of five years, mohalla clinics in Delhi have collectively treated over 20 million patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-issues-tender-for-30-new-mohalla-clinics/story-bcCaPAxGU7aWRsvFVPjxuM.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||DDA reopens registration for land pooling||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has reopened the registration process under its land pooling policy till November 2 in order to allow more people to register for the scheme. The authority plans to develop sectors 17, 20 and 21 in Bawana and Pooth Khurd and Sultanpur Dabas villages as model areas, a DDA official said.The decision to reopen the registration process was to encourage more people to come forward to pool in land so that more such sectors can be planned. These three areas are spread over 180-210 hectares.“We have reopened the registration process so that people can come forward in 95 villages and more sectors can be made operational. We are hoping that by next year, more sectors can come up where the scheme can be implemented,” said a DDA official.So far, 6,575 hectares of land has been pooled in 95 villages earmarked for the policy, which is aimed at meeting Delhi’s growing housing requirement. According to a DDA official, in zones P-II, N, L, K-I and J around 1,283 hectares, 3,313 hectares, 1,742 hectares, 32 hectares and 3.6 hectares of land have been pooled in respectively.Under the policy, 40% of the pooled land will be earmarked for essential services and civic infrastructure. Service providing agencies will develop parks, roads, social infrastructure, etc., in a time-bound manner.The developer will get 60% of the total pooled land of which 53% will be residential; 5% commercial and 2% for public and semi-public facilities. DDA and other service providers will get 40% of the land for developing civic infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dda-reopens-registration-for-land-pooling/story-buRrsHly6Mk8PD1GVsd9TI.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Three minor boys detained for stabbing man to death; one man on the run||A 29-year-old man was stabbed to death by a man and three minor boys early Wednesday morning in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar. The injured man was found lying on the road by residents who then informed the police. Senior officers said the man often used to snatch money from the juveniles and they stabbed him in retaliation. The three juveniles were apprehended while search is on for the adult male suspect, police said.The police identified the dead man as Vijay, who lived in the slum colony of Raghubir Nagar. Police received a call early morning at the Khyala police station, reporting that a man with injuries was found lying on the road in Block B.“A police team reached the spot and rushed the man to Guru Gobind Singh Hospital where the doctors pronounced him dead. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Vijay was unemployed. He used to share a jhuggi (hut) with his brother-in-law, a roadside vendor, who had thrown him out a few days ago,” said a police officer, who wished not to be named. The local inquiry also revealed that Vijay was an alcoholic and used to spend the night on park benches and the footpath. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said, “When we checked the CCTV footage from the area, we saw four people involved in a scuffle with Vijay early morning. Based on the footage, we made local inquiries and found out that three of the suspects were juveniles, living in the same neighbourhood. A search was conducted and all three were apprehended,” Purohit said. The DCP said, during interrogation, the boys revealed that Vijay often used to snatch money from them and used to thrash them if they tried to resist. “On Wednesday morning, they found Vijay wandering about the area and stopped him. With the help of their fourth accomplice, they stabbed Vijay to death in revenge and fled the spot,” he said.Efforts to nab the fourth accused are under way, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-minor-boys-detained-for-stabbing-man-to-death-one-man-on-the-run/story-lRgHoUfqykbDhRrQYiwasK.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Shifting of dairy units: Ludhiana MC officials, GADVASU experts inspect dairy complexes in city||With an aim to prepare the design for modern dairy complexes proposed to be developed in nearby villages outside city limits, municipal corporation (MC) officials and experts from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) visited the two existing dairy complexes in the city, in Haibowal and Tajpur Road, on Wednesday. The visits were conducted on the directions of the high-powered committee formed for shifting the dairy units out of the city limits. Earlier, experts were asked to identify the drawbacks in the existing infrastructure so that they can be avoided when the new complexes are established. The officials also got feedback from dairy farmers regarding proposed change of land use (CLU) of the existing dairy complexes.MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said, “The experts have analysed the existing infrastructure and will now submit a report regarding the design of new proposed complexes in the meeting which is scheduled for Thursday. Also, change of land use (CLU) of the existing dairy complexes were discussed. We will submit the dairy farmers’ feedback with the committee, who will take the final decision.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The committee was formed in the last week of July and has been asked to come up with a plan to shift the units in three months after examining all aspects. The dairy units have to be shifted to reduce pollution in the Buddha Nullah. The officials have also identified few sites in nearby villages where new and modern dairy complexes can be set up. I have asked them to submit a feasibility report.” CLU should be allowed free of cost: dairy farmersPresident of the Haibowal dairy complex association, Paramjit Singh, said,”We have demanded that CLU should be provided free of cost as farmers will also have to purchase plots to establish their units after they have shifted from the existing complexes. If MC allows free of cost CLU, then many of the dairy farmers will move out by themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shifting-of-dairy-units-ludhiana-mc-officials-gadvasu-experts-inspect-dairy-complexes-in-city/story-0uQsn7RXSb0yQnnhIGlk0J.html
23-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC invites firms to give presentation of Smart City project||After three firms submitted bids for establishing the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) at the municipal corporation’s Zone D building, the civic body invited owners of all firms to give a presentation of their projects on Wednesday.The project worth ₹55 crores is being taken up under the Smart City Mission where the MC would take up maintenance work of over 1,400 cameras installed under safe city project and additional 300 cameras would be installed to keep a check on the working of the MC staff and dumping of waste in Buddha Nullah. The project has been hanging fire for over a year.Officials said that the presentations would help the civic body in knowing about the technical competency of the firms which have submitted bids with the MC for establishing ICCC. The report would be submitted with the higher authorities in the local bodies department.A meeting was held under the chairmanship of MC commissioner-cum-chief executive officer (CEO) of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) Pardeep Sabharwal and joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian.Sabharwal said, “After the ICCC would be established both police and MC would be able to monitor the activities in the city with the help of CCTVs. The report would be sent to the local bodies department for taking a final decision regarding technical competency of the bidders, following which financial bid would be opened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-invites-firms-to-give-presentation-of-smart-city-project/story-hBFtUkQV1VCoyZNHoZrlaJ.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Start rainwater harvesting in govt buildings: Industries’ body to Punjab officials||Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) on Wednesday organised an interactive online session with officials from Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority, including chairman Karan Avtar Singh, regarding issues related to the groundwater in Punjab. FICO raised issues including the cumbersome process for industrial bodies in Punjab to obtain NOC to extract groundwater.FICO officials said that the Ludhiana municipal corporation is unable to provide enough water to cater to the needs of the industry. Also, the lack of co-ordination between government departments, especially Punjab Pollution Control Board and MC was highlighted due to which industries could not get permission to harvest the rainwater on their premises. Karan Avtar Singh said the department is working on feasible solutions as National Green Tribunal is very strict regarding vulnerable ground water levels. “We need to develop a system to restore the ground water,” he said.“We are working on a model for use of stock as well as the groundwater. The draft will be finalised by October 15 and implemented within a month after that,” he added. FICO chairman KK Seth said the process to obtain the NOC is cumbersome and has clauses that are almost impossible to meet. He added that there are many units in the MSME sector who uses the water for domestic purpose only. So, Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority, should consider keeping such units in green category with minimum documentation required, Seth said. FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said rainwater harvesting channels along the highway crossing Ludhiana are non-operational and need to be made working. He added that government bodies like schools, colleges, government buildings and ITIs should be used for rain water harvesting throughout Punjab. FICO vice-chairman Vipan Mittal said they are planning common effluent treatment center for waste released by dyeing units. RK Gupta, ex-chief environmental engineer, PPCB, and executive member, FICO, said the industry uses only a margin of ground water compared to agricultural field. So, only industries should not be held responsible for indiscriminate drawing of ground water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/start-rainwater-harvesting-in-govt-buildings-industries-body-to-punjab-officials/story-azRkLiCr2N4rTCM6xLpBqN.html
23-09-2020||City||27-year-old Ludhiana man ends life, leaves suicide note on video||A 27-year-old man ended his life by consuming a poisonous substance at Gonsla village, Khanna, on Tuesday. Police said before taking the extreme step, the man recorded a video on his mobile phone, accusing his wife and in-laws of driving him to end his life.The Samrala police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against his wife and in-laws following the statement of the deceased’s brother. The complainant stated that his brother married a woman from Ratanhedi village a year ago. Soon after their wedding, his wife and in-laws had started harassing him.ASI Gurdeep Singh said they will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/27-year-old-ludhiana-man-ends-life-leaves-suicide-note-on-video/story-0c3ctEfEqIVqIt24W5OmEJ.html
23-09-2020||City||Illegal liquor worth ₹3 lakh seized, two nabbed||Greater Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar excise department on Wednesday seized illegal liquor worth ₹3 lakh which was being smuggled from Haryana for sale in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. Two people were arrested in this connection, officials said.The two suspects were identified as Banwari, a native of Haryana, and Dharmendra of Bulandshahr in UP.According to the excise officials, Dharmendra was leading the operation and had been involved in smuggling liquor for a while. “There were 88 cases of liquor worth nearly ₹3 lakh that were being smuggled from Haryana. The suspects had replaced the brand labels with the ones allowed for sale in UP,” said RB Singh, district excise officer.He said that the arrests were made from the Dadri’s Mu 2 area in a joint effort with the police department.“They were travelling in two vehicles, a Honda City car and a Tata mini truck. Both the vehicles were seized. One driver was held while the other managed to flee. The suspects would bring the liquor to Noida and then transport it separately to various parts of the district and the nearby districts as well. A search is on to arrest the other members of the gang,” said Singh.The suspects were handed over to the Dadri police, along with the seized goods. A case was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Excise Act.“We have filed a case, and the suspects’ role in other cases is also being investigated. A search is on for the other suspects in the case,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3.The two suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-liquor-worth-3-lakh-seized-two-nabbed/story-lZqKQ28xHoSdvVI283QH7O.html
23-09-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar DM warns banks having credit-debit ratio below 40%, asks them to improve it||Many banks in Gautam Budh district reported a credit-debit ratio (CDR) of less than 40%, an indication of poor lending. This has prompted the district magistrate (DM) to ask banks to improve credit.With the relaxation of lockdown norms, the engines of the economy are slowly getting back on track. Many businesses are, however, cash strapped with the 68-day lockdown and other restrictions.In the district level review committee (DLRC), meeting on Tuesday, DM Suhas LY asked banks to speed up their processes. He said that out of the 47 banks in the GB Nagar district, 14 had a CDR below 40%. The DM will to the banks’ regional offices to increase it up to 60%. “At present, the overall CDR of the district is 58.44%. It was also found during the DLRC meeting that out of stipulated loan disbursement target of ₹10,600 crore for the fiscal 2020-21, the banks in the district have disbursed ₹2,908 crore of loans till June 2020, which is 27.43% of the target. Out of this ₹2,908 crore, the banks disbursed ₹510.98 crore among 6,535 beneficiaries, under the centre-sponsored ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ scheme,” he said. The DM also said that at present, 650 housing loans in the district have been found non-profitable assets (NPAs). “The overall worth of these housing loans is ₹104 crore,” said Suhas. Meanwhile, the lead bank manager (LBM) in the district, Ved Ratna, said that GB Nagar has over 450 branches of 47 banks. “CDR below 40% means that out of every ₹100 that a bank raises as deposits, it lends less than ₹40 – besides compulsorily parking ₹24 in government’s statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) and ₹6 as cash reserve ratio (CRR) with the RBI. The highest permissible limit of CDR is 70%,” he said.The lead bank scheme involves a bank assuming a leadership role for coordinating the efforts of the credit institutions and the Government. Gautam Budh Nagar’s lead bank is Syndicate Bank that appointed Ratna as the LBM.The reason for a low CDR could be two fold, Ratna explained. One, it could be that the deposits have increased, or that advances have actually not increased.“Here deposit and advances both are in increasing order but deposit increases more than advances,” he said.The LBM further said that free training for unemployed persons aging between 18 and 40 years have been started in the district from September 21 at Canara Bank Rural Self Employment Training Institute (CBRSETI) in Surajpur. “The training sessions, which were running continuously before the Covid-19 outbreak, have been started again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-dm-warns-banks-having-credit-debit-ratio-below-40-asks-them-to-improve-it/story-Srdh0b1WaJ1rwms2HxWdQJ.html
23-09-2020||City||Senior citizens held hostage during early morning robbery at Avantika||Ghaziabad: A gang of four armed robbers allegedly barged into the house of a 65-year-old departmental store owner in Phase 1 of Avantika localiity in the early hours of Wednesday and fled away with ₹80,000 cash, gold jewellery and other valuable items after holding the elderly couple and their 34-year-old daughter hostage for more than an hour in the house. According to the police, the robbers entered the house after cutting the window grilles. “After entering the house around 2.45am, the robbers overpowered the elderly woman and locked her in a bathroom. Likewise, they overpowered other two members of the family and also held them hostage in other rooms. Then they ransacked the house before fleeing with cash (about ₹80,000), jewellery and items like mobile phones, laptop, among others. The valuation of the stolen items is yet to be done. A wrist watch, suspected to be of one of the robbers, was found left behind,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). At the time of the incident, the victim, Suresh Mittal, who operates a departmental store in Mahagunpuram, was in the house with his wife Usha, 62, and their daughter Rashi who works as HR manager in Mumbai and had come to her parents’ house in July, the police said. The couple’s son, Mohit, who is a chartered accountant, had returned about 10 days ago to Kolkata where he works. According to the police, the family had taken up construction at their house in June and the robbers during the incident were repeatedly asking them about money they had kept in the house. “We have registered an FIR under Indian Penal Code Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery). The robbers were in the age group of 25-30 years and stayed in the house till about 4am before fleeing through the railway tracks nearby,” Verma added. The elderly couple and their daughter, after the robbers left the house, somehow freed themselves up and went up to the roof of the house and alerted neighbours, the police said. Neighbours said that the senior citizen couple was also taken for medical examination as one of the robbers had put a screw driver into the mouth of Usha Mittal and issued threats. However, the police said that they only threatened the woman with the screw driver. “The senior citizen couple was taken to hospital for medical examination and returned at 7.15am. A police team had arrived at the spot. Their house is about 50 metres from our home. The faces of the couple were swollen and it seemed that they were beaten up,” said one of couple’s neighbours who wished not to be named. Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said that medical examination of the couple was done and women officers also took statements of the two women. “The family has given us a complaint in which they said that four robbers had come. We have deployed teams to crack the case, and robbers will be nabbed soon,” the SSP added. The teams are also searching for gangs who have recently committed robberies in Hapur and other western UP districts, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-citizens-held-hostage-during-early-morning-robbery-at-avantika/story-Kpir2IkLqRHmJCmLkowYwI.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid scare: PU examination branches shut as staffer tests positive||Panjab University (PU) on Wednesday decided to close all its examination branches for two days after a staffer tested positive for Covid-19.The directions for closure of the branches on Wednesday and Thursday were given by PU controller of examinations Prof Parvinder Singh.This comes at a time when the university is conducting the final semester examination of undergraduate and postgraduate students online. Many university staffers have tested positive for the virus in the past few days. Following this, PU also released the detailed SOPs for its employees.Single window enquiry closed The single window enquiry at the university was also closed for two days on Wednesday after a staffer there tested positive for Covid-19. The enquiry window is the sole platform for all visitors, including students, to air their queries as public dealing at the varsity’s administration block is not permitted. On an average, over 100 visitors come here with their grievances and queries every day.On Wednesday, many students faced problems as the enquiry window was closed. It will resume working on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-scare-pu-examination-branches-shut-as-staffer-tests-positive/story-u5n4b2VS9AY8v6BTyMhG7J.html
23-09-2020||City||Greater Noida: Drunk man barges inside home; three women injured||Police registered a case against a man who allegedly barged into his neighbour’s house and attacked three women in Kasna on Tuesday evening. The suspect was identified as Rishi Chaprana, a resident of Kasna area. The victims alleged that Chaprana was inebriated at the time of incident.The complainant Wasim Khan said that Chaprana arrived at his home at around 6.10 pm. “He lives in the neighbourhood. He started abusing me without any provocation. When I resisted, he barged into the house and started abusing my family members,” he said. Vivek Trivedi, SHO Site V police station, said that although both complaint and suspect knew each other, they had no grudge. “Primary investigation shows that the suspect was inebriated. First, the suspect scuffled with Khan. When Khan’s family members rushed to intervene, the suspect hit them with a bunch of keys on their faces,” he said. Khan’s wife Samina and two other women suffered injuries to their faces. They informed police but the suspect managed to escape. The police reached the spot and sent the three women to a private hospital for medical treatment. Later, they were discharged from the hospital. Trivedi said that case has been registered against the suspect under Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) and Section 504 (intentional insult) of IPC. “The suspect is a scrap dealer. We sent a police team to his home, but he is absconding. We have launched a search to arrest the suspect,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-drunk-man-barges-inside-home-three-women-injured/story-7g0seCZekJUgEIUTuAJBHI.html
23-09-2020||City||Senior officials to ensure cleanliness of green belts: Ludhiana MC chief||Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has decided to depute senior officials from next week to ensure cleanliness of green belts which have been turned into dumping grounds . ”Complaints have been pouring in from different parts of the city wherein residents are complaining about green belts being turned into garbage dumps. Now, I have decided to depute senior officials including superintending and executive engineers to keep them clean. Weekly cleanliness drives will be organised and I will inspect the work regularly. I will conduct a meeting with the staff on Thursday to identify the sites,” Sabharwal said. The officials will be responsible for cleanliness at particular green belts and departmental action will be taken against them if anomalies are found in the work. The practice is being initiated with the aim to clean green belts and improve the ranking of the city in Swachh Survekshan 2021. Only green belts situated on main roads of the city will be covered in the first phase. The MC is also working to rope in corporate houses and NGOs, which can adopt the green belts and central verges situated at different parts of the city. Residents and councillors from areas including Model Town extension, near Sherpur chowk, and Salem Tabri have been complaining about garbage being dumped in the green belts.Tarandeep Singh, a resident of Model Town extension, Block- C, said, “Green belts along the cremation ground road in Model town are in a filthy condition as garbage has been dumped at different points. The condition is even worse near Block-C, as foul smell emanates out of the accumulated garbage. This is the condition of one of the posh areas of the city. This also adds to the menace of stray dogs and cattle.”“We have submitted several complaints in the past and few cleanliness drives have also been organised. But, the situation is back to square one after a few days and even the MC garbage collectors dump garbage here,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-officials-to-ensure-green-belts-are-clean-ludhiana-mc-chief/story-Ac6Xvz4rLwhjKRISQFnjBO.html
23-09-2020||City||Security guard killed in Greater Noida factory||A 30-year-old security guard was allegedly beaten to death in a factory in Ecotech I industrial area on Tuesday late night. The motive for the attack, said police, is unknown. The victim was identified by police by his first name as Sonu, a resident of Dadopur village in Greater Noida. His colleague, 28-year-old Ankit (also identified by his first name), was also injured in the incident. The attack happened at around 2am, said police.Rajesh Kumar Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, said: “Police received information from local people about a clash in the factory premise on Tuesday 2 am. A team from Ecotech 1 police station reached the spot and found Sonu critically wounded. It appeared he was beaten up with rods and some other blunt objects. He was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.” Singh said that Ankit had minor injuries. “During questioning, Ankit said that four men had arrived there and attacked him and Sonu. But Ankit’s statements are not coherent. Our investigation found that Ankit was off duty that night. We are investigating why he was at the spot. We also found that Ankit had switched off his mobile phone about 200-meters away from the factory, at 1.10 am,” the DCP said.Rameshwar Kumar, SHO Ecotech I police station, said that based on a complaint filed by the victim’s family, a case has been registered a case against unknown person under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian penal code (IPC).“There are contradictions in Ankit’s statements. We are scanning footage of CCTV camera from the premise to join the dots. Ankit has been detained for investigation,” he said. Meanwhile, the victim’s body was handed over to his family after an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-guard-killed-in-greater-noida-factory/story-Ysoja53pR5wSGXYHCC40uI.html
23-09-2020||City||Greater Noida: IIT-Roorkee to prepare master plan to recycle waste water||The Greater Noida authority is set to ready a master plan to recycle the city’s waste water by December end.In January, it had hired IIT Roorkee as a consultant to detail how to recycle the waste water that is generated from group housings, industries, commercial areas, institutions and other entities. The exercise was to be completed by the end of this month, but was disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“We have a vision to start supplying recycled water to industries, irrigation use, nearby thermal power plant and other purposes once the master plan is prepared. Once everything falls into place, water from the Ganga will be used only for drinking purposes,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.Greater Noida’s estimated drinking water requirement is 210 million litres per day (MLD). Currently it pumps this much from groundwater, which is processed for drinking as well as non-drinking purposes. By next year, the authority will receive a supply of 210 MLD from the Upper Ganga Canal thereby releasing its dependence on groundwater. While at present Greater Noida generates 185 MLD sewage, it is estimated that it will generate 250 MLD in the next 10 years. The sewage treatment plant in Kasna treats 137 MLD for industrial, residential and other sewage. Two other MLDs of 2 MLD and 10 MLD capcity in Badalpur treat industrial waste. The authority had built 20 MLD STP in sector Ecotech-III and 15 MLD STP facility in sector Ecotech-II last year for industrial areas to treat industrial waste. “We are setting up a 80 MLD capacity STP in Greater Noida in next two years. In the future the capacity of STPs will be increased as per the demand. We are moving towards zero waste discharge city,” said Samakant Shrivastava general manager of the Greater Noida authority.“We will soon stop dumping sewer into drains that finally reach Hindon and Yamuna River that flows along Greater Noida. We are working on a model, where in we will stop extracting the ground water as the Ganga water supply is expected to be started for drinking purposes by end of this year. And we will recycle the water used for drinking,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-iit-roorkee-to-prepare-master-plan-to-recycle-waste-water/story-P4jMMkrrGYxIstZV1M9VRL.html
23-09-2020||City||Chased by public after stealing piglets, thieves drive car on railway track for 2km, bring train to a halt||It was high drama at the industrial area in Kavi Nagar on Wednesday afternoon involving the most unlikeliest of parties -- two piglets, two alleged thieves, a stolen car being driven on the railway tracks, an irate group of public giving chase and an express train bound for Delhi that was forced to halt. In the melee, one of the suspects escaped and so did the piglets. The other suspect was caught and handed over to the police.According to the police, the suspects, who had allegedly stolen two piglets, when chased by the public in Razapur locality, drove their car onto the railway tracks and kept going for about 2km in a bid to escape the crowd. An express train approaching on the same track, on spotting a car being driven on the tracks, came to a halt to avert a collision.The Ghaziabad police said the car was later removed from the tracks and one of the men, Vijay Valmiki, arrested for theft. The car he was driving was found to be stolen from Haryana, police said. The incident took place around 2.30pm, police said. Valmiki and his accomplice allegedly fled in their car after snatching two piglets from a locality near Razapur, but public spotted them and gave chase. “The Swift Dzire sped into an industrial area nearby on spotting the crowd giving chase. When they could not find any way to move out of the industrial area, they drove the car onto the railway tracks and kept going on the tracks (Ghaziabad-Hapur line) for about 2km,” said Bhairav Kumar Jha, a member of the police’s digital volunteer force who works in the industrial area. “A train was also coming from Hapur and when the train driver saw the car on the tracks, he slowed down and stopped the train. In the meanwhile, the public stopped the car, nabbed one of the suspects and handed him over to the police. The other car occupant fled the spot. In all the commotion, the piglets also escaped and could not be traced,” Jha said. “The train which was stopped was the Awadh Assam Express, which was bound for Delhi. It stopped for about seven to eight minutes at the spot and later arrived at Ghaziabad railway station,” said Ashok Sisodia, inspector from government railway police (Ghaziabad).Police said Valmiki is a resident of Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad. “The other suspect will be traced soon. They had stolen the piglets from a small hamlet in Razapur and drove the vehicle onto the railway tracks. During questioning, we found that the Swift Dzire was stolen from Haryana. We have booked him for theft. We have also informed railway police about the incident,” said Nagendra Chobe, SHO, Kavi Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chased-by-public-after-stealing-piglets-thief-drives-car-on-railway-tracks-for-2km-bring-train-to-a-halt/story-3ODoKxVYTjPoFIYD7Im56O.html
23-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 45-year-old man dies in custody, cops say suicide||A 45-year-old man allegedly hanged himself at the Vijay Nagar police station lock-up on Wednesday evening. Police said the man was brought to the police station on a written complaint by his wife, who had accused him of domestic violence.Officers said police constables posted at the station saw him hanging around 7.30pm,. “He was immediately taken to a hospital but was declared dead. Sometime before in the day, his wife had come to the police station and gave a police complaint. She alleged the man used to beat her up under the influence of alcohol. Upon receiving the complaint, our PCR van went to his house and brought him to the police station. Thereafter, the incident took place,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). The man was identified as a resident of Vijay Nagar, officers said.“We have come to know that he hanged himself inside the lock-up. However, we will get an inquiry done into the incident to get to know more details and how the incident took place,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad.According to norms, the police said a magisterial inquiry will be conducted and all required protocols will be followed as the death took place in police custody. Ghaziabad does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-45-year-old-man-dies-in-custody-cops-say-suicide/story-7q2RvuH96RUBAKJJDCtu2N.html
23-09-2020||City||Film policy may be tweaked by UP govt for Film City||The Uttar Pradesh government is likely to tweak the state government’s film policy 2018 to benefit filmmakers who are keen to set up studios at the proposed film city near the international airport at Jewar along 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra.The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority has also expedited the process to ready land for the development of the dedicated infotainment (Film City) zone in sector 21, which would be spread across 1,000 acres of land just next to the Noida International Greenfield airport project site.“The Uttar Pradesh government has told filmmakers that it will make necessary changes in the film policy 2018 provided they are ready to invest in the project proposed to give boost growth in this region. Once the filmmakers submit their proposals pertaining to their plan of setting up studios, the state government will work accordingly and do the needful,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority, which has expedited work on land acquisition in sector 21.The YEIDA officials said they expect filmmakers to seek lower land rates, waiver on stamp duty and other benefits.If the state government feels the waivers will invite investment from filmmakers and fuel the local economy, then it will change provisions in the film policy 2018, officials said.The YEIDA has 835 hectares of land that it had bought from farmers long time back.“We have started taking steps to buy the remaining 165 hectares from farmers who are willing to give land for the project. With consent, the farmers will directly sell land for the film city,” said Singh.The Uttar Pradesh government had established the Yamuna authority in 2002 to encourage industrial development and notified 2.5 lakh hectares of land along the 165 km Yamuna Expressway for the purpose. Ever since the Noida International Greenfield airport project was approved at Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway, global investors have started showing interest in buying the land along this region. The concessionaire Switzerland Company Zurich is likely to start work at airport project on ground soon after restrictions over air travel imposed amid the Covid-19 pandemic are over.“With the airport at Jewar, expressways, the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor and other world-class projects, the Film City will be a suitable project in this region,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/film-policy-may-be-tweaked-by-up-govt-for-film-city/story-Lc8jsRSXjJmQu9Sz5AJIXP.html
23-09-2020||City||Misplaced inquiry report: Court employee held in Ludhiana||The Division Number 5 police have arrested a court employee for allegedly misplacing an inquiry report concerning a 2014 murder case. The accused, Rajinder Singh, of Jhujhar Nagar, Mohali, was booked in the matter on December 28, 2018, following an inquiry order by the Punjab and Haryana high court. He was arrested from near his house in Mohali on Wednesday.ASI Kuldeep Singh, in-charge, New Court Complex police post, said the Sahnewal police had lodged a case of murder, attempt to murder, rioting under the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act after some men had shot dead one Gurjeet Singh, 45, of Sahabana village, Sahnewal. Later, some of the accused had approached the DIG office, claiming false implication, and an inquiry was marked.The inquiry report was submitted before the local court, but later went missing.After the complainant moved the high court, another inquiry was marked to find the person responsible for misplacing the report, and Rajinder, who was working as an additional ahlmad (record keeper) in the court of the then additional sessions judge, was indicted.However, he had been on the run since he was booked for the offence in December 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/misplaced-inquiry-report-court-employee-held-in-ludhiana/story-y31yKVNWkZwJBA3851gTCI.html
23-09-2020||City||RRTS project: For its Duhai depot, transport corp to buy land directly from farmers||Land for the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) depot at Duhai will be purchased directly purchased now from the respective owners, the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) said, instead of the earlier plan to procure the same from the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA), at its Madhuban Bapudham housing scheme project.This means that the transport corporation will now buy the 51 hectares of land that it needs, directly from farmers.Officials said the depot at Duhai will also have a station nearby. The 17km Sahibabad-Duhai stretch, in Ghaziabad, was declared as a priority corridor and this will be the first one to be completed, likely by 2023. The entire corridor, 82km in total, will be completed by 2025. Deliberations for procuring land for the Duhai depot had been going on since December last year and NCRTC had approached GDA for its land requirement at the Madhuban Bapudham housing scheme. However, the plan now stands dropped and the NCRTC will now purchase 51 hectares of land directly from farmers.Originally, the depot was scheduled over an area of 60 hectares but officials said they fine tuned and optimised the depot area to fit into 51 hectares.“Public notice for procuring land from farmers has been issued, as is procedure. Land will now be purchased directly from farmers. The Duhai depot will be constructed at its originally proposed location (at the side going towards Meerut, on the Delhi Meerut Road). There were complexities at GDA’s Madhuban Bapudham scheme and the matter could not be seen through,” said Sudhir Sharma, chief PRO of NCRTC.Officials of the authority said they could not offer land due to certain issues. “The main reason was that carving out one single chunk of land for the depot was not feasible, as land was available in fragments. The plan is now dropped,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, chief architect and town planner of GDA.The entire RRTS project, which is proposed to run high speed trains on elevated and underground sections, is set to cost about ₹30,274 crore. The project will connect Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut and will have 24 stations, including 21 in Uttar Pradesh.The NCRTC has also planned an RRTS station near the Duhai depot. “To ease commuting in the densely populated areas of NCR, we have planned that an alternate train will go up to Duhai depot (from Delhi) and return while another alternate train will go up to Meerut. Having a train return from Duhai itself (instead of going all the way to Meerut) will mean that people in densely populated areas will be able to get trains at a frequency of about five minutes, while the other trains to Meerut will be available at a frequency of about 10 minutes,” Sharma added.NCRTC officials said that once the priority section is done, they will open it up for passenger operations which will further help them assess any further requirements for the entire corridor. RRTS trains will run at a speed of 180kmph. In Meerut, NCRTC has also proposed to run metro trains along RRTS trains.Apart from the work going on at full speed for the priority stretch, civil construction works for the 33km Duhai-Shatabdipuram stretch in Meerut has also started.Earlier in August, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) also approved a loan of $1 billion to support the RRTS project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rrts-project-for-its-duhai-depot-transport-corp-to-buy-land-directly-from-farmers/story-uNPLBAPAp80StrAGUZHenM.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Repair of roads begins in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) started repair of roads in the city on Wednesday with re-carpeting work being carried out at Baba Than Singh Chowk and Gill road.As per MC officials, the main roads will be repaired first, followed by internal ones.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, ”The work to repair roads got delayed due to unfavourable weather conditions. Officials have been directed to keep a check on the quality of work and no humps should be created at the repaired sites. I will also be inspecting the ongoing work frequently.”The residents have been raising hue and cry over deep potholes and poor road conditions at different parts of the city including Dugri, Pakhowal Road, Haibowal, Model Town, Model Town Extension, Brown Road and Ferozepur Road among others.On September 12, some social activists planted saplings in deep potholes near Phullanwal, as a symbolic protest against the civic body for its failure to repair the roads. The residents slammed the MC stating that accidents are taking place due to this, but the civic body has turned a blind eye towards the situation. The councillors have also raised the issue in front of the mayor.A shopkeeper at Dugri main Road, Sanjay Tiwari said, “Accidents take place almost everyday at the main Dugri Road due to deep potholes. Several complaints have submitted to the MC officials in the past, but nothing has been done till now. The situation becomes worse when the city receives rainfall and the dirt turns into mud. It takes a toll on business and adds to the woes of shopkeepers amid the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/repair-of-roads-begins-in-ludhiana/story-sywQkycTEep95yTImeE5EJ.html
23-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Four minor boys who stole mobile phones, laptops nabbed||A gang of minor boys that stole mobile phones and laptops from a shop in Salem Tabri have landed in police net.Besides four juveniles, all aged 16 or 17, police have also arrested Raj Kumar, 40, a resident of Nanak Nagar.As many as 32 mobile phones and two laptops, besides a three-wheeler, have been recovered from them.Inspector Gopal Krishan, station house office, Salem Tabri police station, said the gang had broken into a shop through its roof on the intervening night of September 20 and 21 and stolen two laptops and 31 mobile phones.They were captured in the CCTV cameras installed near the shop, which helped the police nab them.The SHO said during questioning, the boys revealed they would roam around the city all day and steal things. Recently, they had met auto driver Raj Kumar and decided to target a mobile phone shop.The minors were sent to a juvenile home by court. The police are looking into the accused’s past criminal record.They are facing a case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-four-minor-boys-who-stole-mobile-phones-laptops-nabbed/story-iHBu62xvnwcr2pJnQgbeJM.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Heavy vehicles claim two lives in two hit-and-run accidents in Ludhiana||Two persons, including a woman, were mowed down by a truck and a tractor in separate hit-and-run accidents in Mullanpur Dakha and Sudhar on Tuesday.In the first case, a truck driver, checking his vehicle’s tyre pressure, was run over by another truck in Mullanpur Dakha.The deceased, Jagjit Singh, 50, was a resident of Gobindgarh. Jagjit’s Nirvail Singh, of Fazilka, told the police that they were travelling to Ludhiana, when they stopped in Mullanpur Dakha to check the truck’s tyre pressure.As Jagjit crouched on the road, a truck coming from Jagraon side hit him, killing him on the spot.The truck driver fled the scene with his vehicle. Sub-inspector Jarnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said the unidentified accused was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code on Nirvail’s complaint.TRACTOR CRUSHES WOMANIn another accident, a 40-year-old woman was killed after a tractor hit the scooter that she was riding near Aitiana village. The deceased has been identified as Jaswinder Kaur, 40, of Dhaliwal village.The complainant, Harmandeep Kaur of Burj Hakima village, said she, along with her aunt, Jaswinder, was going to Sudhar on her scooter. While she was riding the two-wheeler, her aunt was sitting on the pillion seat. When they reached near Aitiana Bridge, a tractor-trolley hit them from behind, causing her aunt to fall on the road. In no time, the tractor ran over her aunt, dragging her for at least 50 meters. Instead of stopping, the tractor driver sped away. The Sudhar police have lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heavy-vehicles-claim-two-lives-in-two-hit-and-run-accidents-in-ludhiana/story-0wbzaii7zrx5xYAA3f9bzH.html
23-09-2020||City||Covid claims 11 more lives, 184 test positive in Ludhiana||The district’s death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 688 on Wednesday with 11 patients succumbing to the deadly virus.The case tally also reached 16,783 with 184 fresh infections. Of the total cases, 14,583 patients (86.89%) have recovered so far, while 1,509 remain active.The positive cases reported on Wednesday include 61 patients with symptoms of influenza like illness; 43 patients, who were referred from outpatient departments of different hospitals; and 23 contacts of positive patients. These include 10 police personnel, seven healthcare workers and two pregnant women.Among the 11 deceased are an 81-year-old man from Rishi Nagar, two 80-year-old women from Salem Tabri and BRS Nagar, a 71-year-old woman from Punjab Mata Nagar, a 67-year-old woman from Guru Nanakpura, a 64-year-old woman from Dugri, a 64-year-old man from Durgapuri, a 50-year-old man from Guru Hargobind Nagar, a 43-year-old woman from Bahadurke village, a 40-year-old man from Dhandra Road and a 36-year-old man from central jail.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said in all, 212 fresh cases were detected on Wednesday, out of which 184 belonged to Ludhiana, while the rest were from other districts and states. Similarly, 14 deaths were reported, out of which 11 deceased were residents of Ludhiana, while the rest were from Hoshiarpur, Moga and Jammu and Kashmir. He added that so far, 42,053 people had completed home quarantine in the district, while the number of such persons was currently 4,149. On Wednesday, 204 persons were put under home quarantine. Besides, samples of 5,199 people were collected.DC appreciates more people getting testedDeputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, during his weekly Facebook live session on Wednesday, expressed gratitude to the district residents for accepting his and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s appeal to undergo Covid-19 tests by defying false rumours.He said nearly 5,000 Covid tests were being conducted daily, with the number adding up to around 2.5 lakh till date.He added that with the cooperation of the residents, the pandemic had been controlled to a large extent. “When the outbreak was at its peak, around 350 people were being found positive against every 1,000 tests per day. As the testing capacity was increased to 5,000, the number has now come down to about 180 (3.6%),” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-claims-11-more-lives-184-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-WrGK48XM21E1G65vX34kmM.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC inks deal with IOC to open petrol pump in city||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) for opening a retail petrol outlet, which will be operated by the civic body, in Sector 51 here.The letter of appointment was exchanged between IOC deputy general manager Kamal Kunj and Champa Bhatt of MC’s estate branch in the presence of municipal commissioner KK Yadav on Wednesday.The MC chief informed that the Chandigarh administration has allotted plot number 4 on Vikas Marg in Sector 51-A to the civic body for opening and running the petrol pump.The UT had invited expression of interest from government oil companies for the same, following which the IOC was selected to ink the deal with MC.Work at the site is going on and the petrol pump would be commissioned shortly, the MC chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-inks-deal-with-ioc-to-open-petrol-pump-in-city/story-Qk86WIjUf7unNv87mQbW3N.html
23-09-2020||City||Armed men rob contractor of ₹1.5 lakh in Ludhiana’s Shimlapuri||Hours after a factory worker was robbed of Rs 8 lakh near Partap Chowk on Tuesday evening, robbers targeted two more residents later in the night, even opening fire at one of them.Police said seven men riding two motorcycles robbed a civil contractor of Rs 1.5 lakh in cash near his house on Chimni Road, Shimlapuri.The victim, Abhimanyu Kumar Mehta, alias Manu, 25, said he was supervising the construction of a cycle factory’s building in Jaspal Bangar village on Tuesday. After wrapping up work, he headed home on his motorcycle when seven men intercepted him on Chimni Road around 11.30pm.While two men threatened him with pistols, the others brandished sharp-edged weapons, threatening to kill him. Within moments, they snatched his bag containing Rs 1.5 lakh and sped off.Victim alleges poor response by policeMehta claimed while he instantly sounded the police, cops took an hour to reach the spot, while the accused had already made good their escape. He alleged the cops also questioned him for commuting late at night.Further, his work day on Wednesday was ruined as the police kept him waiting at the Shimlapuri police station till 3pm while a meeting of police officials was underway. Hence, he had to skip jobs at 11 locations in Ludhiana and Jalandhar.However, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja refuted the allegations, stating that the police promptly reached the crime scene.MAN TRYING TO EVADE ROBBERS SHOT AT Not long after Abhimanyu was robbed at gunpoint, four men on two motorcycles opened fire at a 40-year-old man after he tried to escape being robbed.Mukesh Kumar Mehta, however, had a close shave as the bullet hit the backlight of his scooter and he managed to shake off the robbers.Mukesh, who works at the dry port at Dhandhari and lives in Gurpal Nagar, said normally he returned home from work around 6pm, but on Tuesday night visited a friend’s house on Daba Road to watch the Indian Premier League (IPL) match between Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings.After the match was over, he left for home around 11.30pm. On his way, he realised two motorcycles were following him on Daba Road, so he started speeding to lose them. But the four men soon caught up with him and threatened him to stop. When he did not submit, one of the men opened fire, hitting his scooter’s tail light.He managed to frantically drive back home while losing the robbers and soon after alerted the police.The Division Number 6 police reached the spot and recovered a bullet shell.ADCP (City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said separate FIRs had been registered in both cases at the Shimlapuri and Division Number 6 police stations. “As per preliminary investigation, both attacks seem to be the handiwork of the same gang,” he added.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said after several robberies around Miller Ganj and Gill Road, police had intensified patrolling in the area, and special teams had been formed to solve these cases.ROBBERS HAVING A FIELD DAYSeptember 23: Four masked men robbed a factory worker of Rs 8 lakh in cash after throwing chilli powder in his eyes near Partap ChowkSeptember 22: Four miscreants snatched Rs 4.43 lakh from a factory owner in Shimlapuri. The victim had a narrow escape after the accused shot at himSeptember 21: Unidentified men attacked a motorcyclist with an iron rod, smashing his helmet at Katani Kalan village. After the victim fell on the road, the assailants took away his Rs 25,000 in cash and mobile phone September 14: A factory owner was robbed of Rs 5.57 lakh in cash near Miller Ganj. Police solved the case with the arrest of the accused, including his employeeSeptember 1: A 75-year-old man was robbed of Rs 2.8 lakh in cash at gunpoint outside IndusInd Bank on Gill Road. The case was cracked with the arrest of his colleague and his accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/armed-men-rob-contractor-of-1-5-lakh-in-ludhiana-s-shimlapuri/story-O3AHQRIkNkmArR6USaHVWP.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||In record death toll surge, Covid snuffs out 10 lives in Chandigarh||As many as 10 more deaths due to Covid-19 were confirmed in Chandigarh on Wednesday, in the biggest single-day spike so far. It took the Union Territory’s death toll to 137 and fatality rate to 1.3%. It was on August 30 when the previous biggest one-day jump of seven deaths was recorded.However, the number of fresh cases dropped to 180, the lowest since August 31. As many as 10,726 people have tested positive so far, 2,537 (23.7%) of whom are still hospitalised or in quarantine. Also, with 255 patients being discharged, the number of those cured rose to 8,049, while recovery rate stands at 75%.Among those who succumbed, eight were men, one of whom tested positive after being brought dead to hospital.Seven were senior citizens, who have been identified as men, aged 72, 75, 76, 80 and 82, from Sectors 47, 38, 21, 36 and 15, respectively, besides two women, aged, 60 and 69, from Sectors 44 and 40, respectively. The other three were men, aged 46, 47 and 53, from Mauli Jagran, Khuda Jassu and Sector 46, respectively.No sign of fatality rate dropping below 1%Recently, a team of experts was constituted by the central government to guide the UT administration in effectively addressing challenges related to timely diagnosis and followup in order to lower fatality rate and bring it below 1%.The team had suggested good coordination between the treating hospitals and training and reorientation of employees of all specialties to manage at least moderate patients, besides recommending an increase in the number of critical care beds. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has also time and again directed the health department to lay special emphasis on the elderly and those with pre-existing diseases to keep the fatality rate low. UT adviser Manoj Parida said the administration is concerned about the deaths and best medical care is being provided to patients. “The fatality ratio is less than the national average (1.6%) and we are trying to bring it further down. People should also exercise maximum precaution, especially those with pre-existing diseases,” said Parida. 4 succumb in Mohali, 1 in PanchkulaFour more people succumbed to Covid-19 while 238 tested positive in Mohali district.Those who died include three men, aged 50, 70 and 76, from Manauli, Chaumajra and Nayagaon, respectively. A 66-year-old woman from Nayagaon also died. All were comorbid.Meanwhile, 156 people were discharged, taking the number of those recovered to 6,131. As many as 8,939 people have tested positive so far, and 2,637 cases remain active. The death toll stands at 171.In Panchkula, a 76-year-old woman from Sector 9 died, taking the district’s toll to 72. She was also suffering from hypertension and diabetes and coronary artery disease. The confirmed case count reached 5,328, with 146 people testing positive. While 4,103 patients have been cured so far, 1,153 are still hospitalised or in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-record-death-toll-surge-covid-snuffs-out-10-lives-in-chandigarh/story-nW4kfhVinqWdGEpOT65VeP.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal governor goes into self-isolation||Himachal governor Bandaru Dattatreya went into self- isolation on Wednesday after the aid-de-camp (military) to the governor tested positive for the virus. All his appointments have been cancelled. The governor’s secretary and his personal staff have also been home quarantined. Meanwhile, 280 fresh infections were reported in Himachal, taking the state’s tally to 13,049. Five more people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 135. Of the new cases, 56 were reported in Kangra, 34 in Kullu, 30 in Mandi, 28 each in Solan and Una, 27 in Shimla, 25 in Chamba, 17 each in Bilaspur and Sirmaur, six in Lahaul-Spiti and one in Kinnaur. Two deaths each has been reported in Kangra and Mandi and one in Solan. There are 3,952 active cases in the state while 8,937 people have recovered. To date, 2,73,805 tests have been conducted in the state. Solan is the worst-affected district with 2,726 cases, followed by Kangra (1,958), Sirmaur (1,643), Mandi (1,456), Una (1,163), Shimla (985), Hamirpur (839), Chamba (769), Bilaspur (688), Kullu (527), Kinnaur (167) and Lahaul-Spiti (128).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-governor-goes-into-self-isolation/story-JR02cxRAP0LyR6dlequwtN.html
23-09-2020||City||Over 40,000 mid-day meal staff to get maternity leave benefits in Punjab||Providing major relief to around 40,000 mid-day meal (MDM) workers and other staff, the Punjab government has given its nod to provide them maternity leave for 180 days in accordance with the Maternity Benefit Act. Earlier,a mid-day meal worker wanting to go on maternity leave had to avail casual leave or temporarily depute a substitute in the school to prepare meals.Welcoming the move, workers in the district said that this will motivate more women to work as cooks in government schools. There are over 3,622 MDM cooks preparing meals in 1,536 government schools of the district. The state education department has also issued a pro forma through which the MDM cooks can apply for maternity leave and it is compulsory to attach a medical certificate. In the pro forma, details such as for how many students the cook is catering to, how many other cooks are there in the school, for how many years the worker has been working needs to be mentioned. The pro forma has to be duly signed by the school head and district education officer.As per Maternity Benefit Act 1961, “No women shall be entitled to maternity benefit unless she has actually worked in an establishment of the employer from whom she claims maternity benefit for a period of not less than one hundred and sixty days in twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery.”MDM worker at a government school Parvinder Kaur said, “I am preparing meals for 500 students on a daily basis and working here for the last five years.Now, with the government allowing cooks to take maternity leave with all benefits, MDM workers can take care of their child at home with full pay.” The MDM cooks get a meagre salary of Rs 1,700 per month and now will also be paid during the 180 days maternity leave. General manager of the state MDM cell, Mohali, Prabcharan Singh, said, “This move will benefit the MDM workers and helpers who can now avail maternity leave by submitting the pro forma.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-40-000-mid-day-meal-staff-to-get-maternity-leave-benefits-in-punjab/story-pppWM2zr6KycT92Y1qEZYJ.html
23-09-2020||City||SAD workers hold tractor rally in Dakha to protest farm bills||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers along with a group of farmers held a tractor rally from Sidhwan Bet to Badowal on Wednesday. The protest was against the passing of new agriculture reform bills in the Parliament.The rally was led by Dakha legislator Manpreet Singh Ayali and traversed from Sidhwan Bet to Savadi and Mullanpur to reach Badowal. Farmers drove their tractors holding black flags and shouting slogans demanding the NDA government revoke the Bills immediately or be ready for an even more intense agitation.Addressing the farmers at Savadhi Anaj mandi, Manpreet Ayali said the SAD had been taking up the need for revocation of the agriculture ordinances immediately after they came into being following apprehensions expressed by farmers as well as party workers. He said it was unfortunate that the BJP did not take the farmers and SAD into confidence while framing the agriculture ordinances. He said the Centre also failed to allay the apprehensions of farmers and did not secure the MSP regime by making its continuation a part of the bills. “It is due to this that Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Parliament,” he said while adding that the move had been taken in the interest of the farming community.Ayali also took a dig at chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for betraying farmers. He said that the CM had earlier backstabbed farmers by making false vows in the name of the holy Gutka Sahib and Dasam Pitah. “Now, he is trying to deceive farmers yet again by becoming a part of the high-powered committee constituted to frame the farm bills. Farmers have seen through this sham and now only trust the SAD to secure justice for them,” he added.The Dakha legislator also announced on the occasion that he was first and foremost a farmer. “I have been protesting against the farm bills ever since they came into being. I will not hesitate to make any sacrifice for the cause of farmers if need be. I will always stand with farmers and their cause,” he said.The SAD leader appealed to party workers to participate wholeheartedly in the ‘chakka jam’ on Thursday to force the Centre to revoke the ‘anti-farmer’ agriculture bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-workers-hold-tractor-rally-in-dakha-to-protest-farm-bills/story-1tGx6YgctgbEi1OON6zfDM.html
23-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Traders want shops to open on Sundays in festive season, warn of protests||Already reeling under losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown imposed since March, traders under the umbrella of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal on Wednesday gave an ultimatum to the state government to lift the lockdown on Sundays for the upcoming festival season, or face protests. Traders said that they would raise an agitation if the government failed to take a final decision on the matter by October 3. They said that if the government can allow farmers to gather in thousands and protest on the streets, then why traders be allowed to open shops on Sundays.A meeting of the Beopar Mandal was held on Tuesday wherein they slammed the state government for not listening to their demands. State general secretary of Beopar Mandal Sunil Mehra said, “The retail trade business in the country has suffered a loss of ₹23 lakh crores due to the pandemic and the Sunday lockdown would further hit businesses. Traders are struggling to make ends meet due to low footfall in the markets. Many of them were forced to shut down business as they were unable to meet fixed expenses. Traders are pinning hopes on the festival season and many people from other districts and states visit the city markets on Sundays. If the government failed to lift the Sunday lockdown, then traders will take to the streets to protest against the government.”Traders have also slammed the state government for not providing relief in terms of electricity bills, bank loan installments, etc. Many people have lost their jobs as employers were not being able to cope up with the losses.State secretary Mohinder Aggarwal and district president Arvinder Makkar said, “We will wait for the government to take a decision by October 3 and it fails to provide any solution, a meeting of the Beopar Mandal will be held and agitation would be launched across the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-traders-want-shops-to-open-on-sundays-in-festive-season-warn-of-protests/story-FDprQcXeCsnBUHHteq5DIM.html
23-09-2020||City||Farm bills row: Cops use water cannons on protesters in Panipat, Ambala||The Haryana police on Wednesday used water cannons in Panipat and Ambala on agitators to stop them from proceeding to Delhi to protest against the Centre’s farm bills. In Panipat, the police used water cannons at a Haryana Youth Congress-led tractor rally while in Ambala, it used them on Punjab Lok Insaf Party-led motorcycle rally, trying to enter the state on their way to Delhi. While the Haryana Youth Congress activists dispersed after facing water cannons in Panipat, Punjab’s Lok Insaf Party workers sat on the road on the inter-state border near Shambhu village in Ambala. In Panipat, the protest was led by Youth Congress state president Sachin Kundu and Congress’ Samalkha MLA Dharm Singh Chhokar. The Congress workers had gathered at the Panipat grain market and decided to take out the protest march on tractors towards Delhi. However, police put up barricades to stop them on NH 44 near Samalkha. Police personnel used mild force and water cannons to stop the protesters from crossing over the barricades. The traffic was also disrupted on the Delhi-Chandigarh national highway and had to be diverted to the link roads. Panipat deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satish Vats said the protesters tried to break through the barricades and police had to use water cannons to disperse them. He said no FIRs have been registered so far and the detained protesters have been released.While addressing the gathering, Kundu accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP government at the Centre of imposing the anti-farmers laws. He said the new laws will affect the old mandi-system and end the MSP regime. He also slammed the Haryana government for using police force to suppress the voice of farmers and opposition parties. In Ambala, district magistrate Ashok Kumar Sharma had imposed Section 144 in order to maintain law and order in the morning. However, LIP workers, including founding member Simarjeet Singh Bains, tried to enter Haryana through the river basin of the Ghagger under the overbridge. “We want to raise our voice against the anti-farmer bills,” Simarjeet Singh Bains told reporters at the Shambhu border. Police had to use water cannons as the workers tried to cross the barricades put up at the inter-state border on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway. Despite facing water cannons, the LIP workers sat on the road after being denied permission for movement of a large group of protesters due to the restrictions in place amid the coronavirus pandemic. Ambala Range inspector general of police Y Puran Kumar said, “Police used water cannon to disperse the crowd as the workers tried to break the barricades. Later, when some of them tried to enter through the river basin, they were stopped and asked to go back. After some discussions, they retreated and the protests ended at around 6:10 pm.”He said, “Other than following Covid-19 protocols, we could not allow them to enter Haryana because they didn’t have any permission to take out a procession of nearly 400 two-wheelers and 100 four-wheelers. Such a huge procession would have created heavy traffic jams on the highway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-bills-row-cops-use-water-cannons-on-protesters-in-panipat-ambala/story-7e2usqHo8HFNFljPdHqosL.html
23-09-2020||City||Gang of bike lifters busted in Karnal, two arrested||Police on Wednesday busted a gang of bike thieves and arrested two people for their involvement in several such cases in Karnal district. Police have also recovered 27 stolen bikes from their possession. The accused are Sonu Singh and Ravi Kumar, both residents of Barsat village in the district. Another accused and member of their gang Arif of Khargan village in Uttar Pradesh is still at large. Police said the accused have admitted to the crime. Rohtash Singh, in-charge of anti-auto theft unit of Karnal police, said Sonu was arrested with a stolen bike near Assandh on September 18. “He confessed that he along with two accomplices— Ravi and Arif—stole bikes and sold them in the market. After this, Ravi was also arrested and efforts are on to catch Arif,” he said. He said during interrogation, the accused said they had stolen 10 bikes from Karnal and 17 from Panipat district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-bike-lifters-busted-in-karnal-two-arrested/story-lxbXjS2WCFwZ2zfZVwbcxN.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Water supply to be hit in parts of Chandigarh on Sept 25||Water supply to parts of the city will be disrupted on Friday. Sectors 14-18, 21A, 22-25, 35-43, and 38 West besides Attawa, Badheri and Buterla will be affected. There will normal supply in the morning, but residents will receive no water in the afternoon and evening. The disruption is due to laying of a new pipeline in Sector 38 West.Chances of rain aheadWhile water supply will remain disrupted, Chandigarh is likely to get more showers from Friday onwards.The sky will remain cloudy, and the mercury will hover between 24°C and 36°C in the coming three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-parts-of-chandigarh-on-sept-25/story-fiYeAQ4PWjf4zczPW4fRcM.html
23-09-2020||City||3,847 fresh Covid cases, 61 deaths reported in Pune district on Wednesday||Pune: On Wednesday, the district reported 3,847 fresh Covid-19 cases. In a 24-hour period, 61 people were declared dead due to the infection, as per the state health department. Currently Pune district has a total of 2.70 lakh Covid cases, of which 2.06 lakh have recovered. The city’s death toll as per the state’s data is at 5,430, with total active cases at 59,332. According to the state health department, Pune rural reported 1,264 new cases, taking its final count to 54,668. Twenty-two Covid-related deaths put the rural death toll at 1,119. Pune city reported 1,797 fresh cases, as per the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), taking the total case count to 1,46,062. The death toll stands at 3,329, after 26 Covid-related deaths were reported on Wednesday. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 786 fresh cases, taking its final count to 70,136. Thirteen deaths were reported on Wednesday, putting the death toll at 981. The state health department reported that 19,476 patients were discharged across the state taking the final discharged count to 9,56,030. The recovery rate in the state is at 75.65%. The state case fatality rate is 2.68%. Currently 18,75,424 people in the state are in home quarantine, with 34,457 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-847-fresh-covid-cases-61-deaths-reported-in-pune-district-on-wednesday/story-R9kSFYWrIHWmBfgdRPM3QO.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||14-year-old Ludhiana girl found hanging at her house||A 14-year-old girl was found hanging in her house in Madadev Nagar of Kanganwal on Wednesday morning. Police said according to her family, the girl, a student of Class 9, was gloomy for the past few days, but did not reveal the reason to her parents.On Tuesday night, the family had dinner and retired to their rooms. The next morning, the girl’s father did not find her in her room, and on searching the house, was shocked to see her body hanging from the ceiling fan in another room.He raised the alarm, following which neighbours helped him rush his daughter to a nearby private hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.ASI Opinderjit Singh, in-charge, Kanganwal police post, said they did not find any suicide note in the house.The body has been sent to the Ludhiana civil hospital for post-mortem. “Further action will be taken following the autopsy report and statements of the deceased’s family members,” the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-year-old-ludhiana-girl-found-hanging-at-her-house/story-6Ngzg6MEXGSgseXoosMXdJ.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Congress has always been anti-farmer: Himachal BJP spokesperson||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Randhir Sharma on Wednesday said the Congress had always been anti-farmer when they had been in power. “The Congress never did anything for farmers and now when the Prime Minister is trying to double the income of farmers, they are staging protests to confuse the general public and the Opposition,” he said. Addressing a press conference in Shimla he said the farm bills passed will benefit farmers. “Now, the farmers of India can send their producers to anywhere with the get better prices” he said.The second bill helps farmers will ensure farmers do not lose their land and own their produce. The government wants to ensure that farmers at least earn 50% of their investment. The increase in MSP is the first positive impact of the bill. The increased MSP of six rabi crops will lead to a 106% profit.The Swaminathan Commission’s report had come during the UPA government’s regime but its recommendations were not executed to protect middleman and brokers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-has-always-been-anti-farmer-himachal-bjp-spokesperson/story-BFYWwCy2z3nipJtm4SNroN.html
23-09-2020||Pune||Truck with 312kg of cannabis seized in Baramati||Four men were remanded to the custody of the Pune rural police, after they were found in a truck with 312kg of cannabis in Baramati on Monday. The seized drugs were estimated to be worth Rs 46 lakh, police said. “They have been remanded to five days in police custody,” said Narayan Shirgaonkar, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of the Baramati division. The four have been identified as Vijay Jalinder Kanse (26) and Vishal Manohar Rathod (19), both residents of Sangli; Nilesh Tanaji Chavan (32) a resident of Maan in Satara; and Yogesh Shivaji Bhagat (22), a resident of Baramati. While Kanse and Rathod are labourers, Chavan and Bhagat are farmers, according to police. The vehicle they were travelling in was found to be registered in Sangli. Baramati police officials had received information about a vehicle carrying sacks of ganja from Vishakhapatanam in Andhra Pradesh, heading towards Satara, and then Sangli. The information of the police was that the truck was going to pass through Baramati, according to a statement issued by Pune rural police. A case under Sections 20(b) and 22 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against them at Baramati police station. Further recovery and arrests are expected in the case, according to the police statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/truck-with-312kg-of-cannabis-seized-in-baramati/story-NJvUxUJGf93uQK0cpjgr8H.html
23-09-2020||Pune||MSEDCL faces solar tender copy charge||The Maharashtra Solar Manufacturers’ Association (Masma) has alleged that the Maharashtra state electricity distribution company Limited (MSEDCL) published a tender on August 28 that was a direct copy of a tender published by the Gujarat state electricity distribution company. MSEDCL chief PRO Anil Kamble said, “I will contact the necessary department for details and revert.” Masma alleges that the tender was published “17 months late” and, “was a clear copy-paste job from the Gujarat electricity company’s website”. Masma claims MSEDCL was made aware of the “error” by email on September 9. According to Masma, MSEDCL republished the tender, with corrections, on September 17. Pradeep Kulkarni, president of Masma, said that there were several technical conditions in the tender which were incorrect, as per directions issued by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). “MSEDCL must conduct a pre-bid meet again and it may seek the help of the Maharashtra Energy Development Agency (Meda), or MNRE officials, to help clarify doubts raised by us. Instead of keeping it on a first-come-first-serve basis, MSEDCL has complicated the bidding process. Moreover, bidders will be forced to work across Maharashtra and have service centres in all zones for five years,” Kulkarni claimed. The association, in its petition to the state government, stated: “Despite all the ministers’ instructions, the MSEDCL again delayed the process for more than three months and finally on August 28 came up with an Express of Interest (EOI) to initiate the empanelment process for subsidy disbursement. When the said tender was published half-heartedly after 17 months, it was such a clear-cut copy-paste job from the neighbouring state of Gujarat, that MSEDCL even forgot to replace the GST number with its own.” The petition added: “The copy-paste conditions mentioned in the original tender were for an MW- level tender and beyond MNRE guidelines. The MSEDCL hastily corrected a few of these mistakes and published changes on the very last date of the tender sale, that is, on September 17. They gave an extension of just eight days without clarifying all the ambiguities pertaining to the EOI (expression of interest) terms asked in the pre-bid meet, which is simply in violation of norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/msedcl-faces-solar-tender-copy-charge/story-xxWkAB0oS4QLDoJSx5xhdO.html
23-09-2020||Lucknow||Shikshamitra in Uttar Pradesh arrested for raping minor student||A Shikshamitra was arrested for allegedly raping a six-year-old student inside a primary school in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut district on Tuesday. Circle officer of Mawana area, Uday Pratap Singh, said that a case of rape has been registered against the accused and appropriate sections of POCSO act will also be invoked. “The girl is a minor, so sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act would also be slapped against him,” said Singh. The accused is a Shikshamitra in a village primary school in Meerut district. The incident came to light after the girl informed her family members, who along with the villagers, rushed to the school and thrashed the accused.A few people managed to lock the accused inside a classroom and informed police. Also Read: Ganga’s water did not improve during lockdown; less flow may have deteriorated qualityFollowing the information, sub divisional magistrate (SDM) of Mawana, Kamlesh Goel, and circle officer Uday Pratap rushed to the school with police force and convinced the villagers to hand over the accused to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/shikshamitra-in-uttar-pradesh-arrested-for-raping-minor-student/story-fQYnODWgwD9VXylvAKmfUK.html
23-09-2020||City||J&K government plans to establish two farm institutes in UT||Keeping in view the rich potential in the field of agriculture and horticulture in J&K, the local government is set to establish two farm institutes in the UT.The institutes will be set up at Khuri Batapora in Kulgam, Kashmir, and RS Pura in Jammu.Principal secretary, school education and skill development, Dr Asgar Hassan Samoon, recently reviewed the progress of establishment of farm Institutes at ITI Khuri Batpora, Kulgam and ITI RS Pura, Jammu.The review meeting was attended by director skill development, director agriculture Kashmir, director animal husbandry Kashmir, director floriculture Kashmir, and director finance skill development. Also, director animal husbandry Jammu, director floriculture and gardens Jammu, and senior officers of departments concerned participated through video conferencing.“The principal secretary stressed on introduction of courses on cultivation and marketing of Basmati rice of RS Pura, besides others agriculture section viz dairy, horticulture and floriculture based long- and short-term courses,” a spokesperson of the J&K government said.Officials said that after consideration of suggestions from multiple departments, government decided to introduce courses in dairy farming, technician smart agriculture, soil testing and crops technician, floriculture-protected cultivation, agriculture extension service, dairy entrepreneurship, basmati rice marketing, mechanic agriculture machineries, beekeeping, gardening, etc.“It was also decided that the departments concerned will formulate syllabus for the courses,” the spokesman added.Agriculture and horticulture sectors have vast scope and over 3.5 million people are directly or indirectly dependent on the sectors, which are the biggest source of revenue and employment. These courses will give boost to the sector and attract youth towards these fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-government-plans-to-establish-two-farm-institutes-in-ut/story-cUNejJnOXJD6UnbPMVgo5N.html
23-09-2020||City||Farm agitation fertile ground for creative slogans||Sangrur To express political and ideological differences with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government on farm bills that Parliament passed, despite protests from farmers and strong resistance from a number of MPs, opposition parties and farmer outfits in Punjab have coined slogans. ‘Corporate Bhajao, Kisan Bachao’, ‘Stop Killing Farmers’ and ‘Pind Pind Chon Aai Awaz, Kisan Ghol Zindabad (A voice is resonating every village, long live farmers’ agitation)’ are some of the slogans that farm unions are using to highlight their struggle. They are trying to show the power of the masses by romanticising resistance. “The previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government started anti-farmer policies and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) followed on its path. Multinational companies see India as a big market and are trying to capture it. We will not allow the government to hand over our land to the corporate sector,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Ekta-Dakaunda). The Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are terming Prime Minister Narendra Modi as anti-farmer. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which once backed the NDA government on the issue, but opposed the ordinances in both Houses of Parliament, is inviting people to join the ‘Chakka Jam’ on September 25. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has coined the slogan, ‘Ikko Naara Kisan Pyara’ assuring farmers that his party stands by them. “Farmers are SAD’s priority, along with other sections. Our slogan shows the party’s commitment to the farming community. Such slogans emerge from agitations and we will stand by farmers,” said SAD senior vice-president, Daljit Singh Cheema. AAP has been targeting the BJP, SAD, and Congress with its slogan ‘Badal-Captain-Modi, Tino Kisan Virodhi’. It is also calling upon the public to burn the effigy of Modi on September 24. “Modi introduced three ordinances and SAD extended its support. The Punjab government was aware about these anti-farmer bills, but did not oppose the ordinances at the high-powered committee on agriculture. If the SAD and the Congress had opposed the move three months ago, these ordinances could not have taken the shape of bills,” said Aman Arora, AAP Sunam MLA. The ruling Congress party in Punjab has been attacking the Centre, while targeting the PM with the slogan ‘Kisan Virodhi Narendra Modi’. “Rising above party lines, all Punjabis should oppose these bills. The Punjab CM has already decided to move court, but we will also hold demonstrations,” said Dalvir Singh Goldy, Congress Dhuri MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-agitation-fertile-ground-for-creative-slogans/story-woYzAh22OGD1YPe8QvrfgP.html
23-09-2020||City||Pak violates ceasefire in J&K’s Poonch district, India hits back||Pakistan army violated ceasefire by resorting to heavy firing and mortar shelling in forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in three sectors in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Wednesday. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “At about 9 am, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Kerni, Qasba and Shahpur sectors.” The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, he said. Pakistan has violated ceasefire 37 times this month. Also read: Soldier killed; Major injured in Pak shelling in Jammu’s RajouriAn army personnel was killed and two others, including an officer, were injured last week in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district. On September 2, a JCO was killed in ceasefire violation in Keri sector of Rajouri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-violates-ceasefire-in-j-k-s-poonch-district-india-hits-back/story-keiDtJqu01sdX4JZuQixsL.html
23-09-2020||Jaipur||Public services should be provided online by March 2021: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday directed officials to provide 221 public services by various government departments online by March 2021. He asked that the chief secretary of the state coordinate with the respective departments and ensure good governance. Gehlot Wednesday addressed a meeting with the IT and communications department through video conferencing. He said that nodal officers should be appointed in all departments and ensure online availability of all important services. “We will have to increase the use of information technology in making the benefits of all government services and public welfare schemes accessible to villages and hamlets at a rapid pace,” he said. Gehlot said that there is a large network of 80,000 e-Mitra centres and Rajiv Gandhi service centres available in the state to provide services to common people. Also Read: Ahead of Rajasthan govt’s report card, AICC manifesto panel to hold review meet on FridayAll processes related to Right to Information (RTI), from application to information, will be soon made online government officials said. The administrative reform department of the Rajasthan government on Tuesday in presence of the CM signed MoU with department of information and technology to conduct all the work of providing RTI applications and information. According to a government release, to get any information under the RTI, applications and appeals can be now made online on the RTI portal (www.rti.rajasthan.gov.in). Along with this, the application fee and copying fee can also be submitted online. All public authorities and appellate officers of all departments of the state and public information and first appellate officers of corporations, boards, commissions and autonomous institutions will also be registered on this portal. Gehlot, while reviewing the administrative reform department, also directed officials to properly monitor letters sent by MPs, MLAs and other public representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/public-services-should-be-provided-online-by-march-2021-ashok-gehlot/story-sOOoqfbcgXmPtygI4BwB0O.html
23-09-2020||Pune||Four volunteers awaiting vaccination at Sassoon in Pune test positive for Covid antibodies||Four of the seven people who had volunteered to be part of phase 3 of the Covishield vaccine tested positive for antibodies on Tuesday, thus, rendering them ineligible for the vaccination trials. Presence of antibodies indicate that the person may have been exposed to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection at some point of time. The antibody reports for the remaining three volunteers remained inconclusive. Phase three trials of Serum Institute’s Covisheild vaccine, which is a leading vaccine candidate against Covid-19 infection, will begin at Sassoon General Hospital next week. The hospital had invited volunteers to participate in the trials and seven had volunteered on Monday and submitted their samples for RT-PCR tests and antibody tests. The volunteers said that they were not aware that they had been infected which implies a high prevalence of the infection in the area.Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean of the hospital, said, “We had taken samples of seven volunteers on Monday for RT-PCR to check for current infection and antibodies test to check for any previous infection. Four volunteers tested positive in the antibodies test and the reports of others were inconclusive, so none of them could be vaccinated. We have collected samples from seven more volunteers again on Tuesday. Based on the results of both the tests, the vaccination trial will be decided.” Earlier when the first such trial took place at Bharati hospital and Research Centre on August 26, of the five volunteers who were ready to participate in the trials, three tested positive for antibodies. None of these volunteers knew that they were infected at some point in time. However, the first sero survey conducted across the city has hinted at a higher prevalence in the city (above 51%) with regards to antibodies found in random samples.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman of the state technical committee on communicable diseases, said, “It is beyond doubt that there is more than 50 per cent sero prevalence in the city. This is the reason why we are now reporting fewer cases from areas like Bhawani peth and Dhole Patil road which were the hotspots earlier which is indicative of herd immunity. Like there is no fodder for fire, the virus has infected the majority in these areas and so there are no more cases coming up. However, we do not know for sure that when we can call it a herd immunity for sure with respect to this virus- be it 60%, 70% or 80%- only time will tell.” The phase 3 human clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is undergoing at multiple places across the country. The hospital is currently registering volunteers for the trials. Those willing to volunteer for the vaccination can contact 8104201267. The volunteers will be tested for antibodies and Covid-19 infection wherein they have to test negative in both the tests. The volunteers should be aged above 18 years of age and if suffering from comorbidity, the condition must be under control.The volunteers will be insured as per the guidelines issued under ICMR. Earlier, the trials for the same vaccine were halted by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) after an ‘unexplained illness’ in one of the candidates in another country. The trials were restarted after clearance for the DCGI from September 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-vaccine-trials-four-volunteers-awaiting-vaccination-at-sassoon-in-pune-test-positive-for-antibodies/story-HYxcxON20qqkNk82tA0npN.html
23-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand assembly session: Congress, AAP protest over ‘anti-farmer policies’||The one-day session of the Uttarakhand assembly in Dehradun on Wednesday saw a stormy start with protest by the Opposition Congress lawmakers against the recently passed farm bills in Parliament. The Congress members of the Uttarakhand legislative assembly (MLAs), including the state party president Pritam Singh, Qazi Nizamuddin, Manoj Rawat and Aadesh Singh Chauhan along with the Dehradun city unit chief Lal Chand Sharma, headed towards the assembly in a tractor in a symbolic protest against the farm bills that were passed by Parliament earlier this week. However, the protesting lawmakers were prevented by the police personnel from entering the assembly premises. Initially, though the opposition MLAs argued with the police, later they sat on a dharna in front of a barricade. MLA Nizamuddin attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre. “The government is anti-farmer, which has been proved in the farm bills passed in Parliament. The government is not only against farmers but everything related to them such as tractors due to which we have been barred from entering the assembly premises,” he alleged. “All gates would have opened had we come to the assembly in an expensive car instead of a tractor,” he further alleged.The protesting Congress legislators ended their stir after the police allowed them to proceed towards the assembly in the tractor.The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Uttarakhand unit also tried to gather at the assembly against the “anti-farmer policies of the Central government and the growing unemployment issue in the hill state”. AAP members tried to reach the assembly on foot from various parts of Dehradun such as Fawwara Chowk, Shastri Nagar and Defence Colony.The police barred them from proceeding towards the assembly following which they sat on a sit-in protest.“The recently passed farm bills will gravely impact the livelihood of farmers in the state and the country. These laws will end the concept of minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce,” alleged SS Kaler, state president of the AAP. “Besides, Uttarakhand is facing a major unemployment crisis, as the state government has failed to provide jobs to the youth. Chief Minister CM Trivendra Singh Rawat’s priorities are all mixed up. Instead of providing jobs to the state’s youth, he is busy focusing on hemp cultivation to push them in the drug trade,” he further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-assembly-session-congress-aap-protest-over-anti-farmer-policies/story-0i8XcLq732RdMat197SmlL.html
23-09-2020||Jaipur||Ahead of Rajasthan govt’s report card, AICC manifesto panel to hold review meet on Friday||A review meeting will be held on Friday ahead of the Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government’s plan to place its report card in public domain on the occasion of the Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary celebrations on October 2. Tamradwaj Sahu, Congress leader and the chairperson of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) manifesto implementation panel, will preside over the review meeting on Friday. Also read: Rajasthan govt approves free travel to Haridwar for ashes immersionSahu and Congress member of Parliament (MP) Amar Singh will visit Jaipur to review the implementation of the party’s report card. CM Ashok Gehlot, Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (RPCC) chief Govind Singh and AICC general secretary Ajay Maken will also attend the review meeting. However, Maken is slated to attend the meeting via a video-conference link.CM Gehlot is keeping his cabinet colleagues and senior bureaucrats on their toes as only eight days are left for the October 2 deadline.Maken, who has recently been made the in-charge of the party’s affairs in Rajasthan, has held several meetings with members of the Gehlot cabinet as part of the feedback programme ahead of the release of the report card on October 2. He has expressed his satisfaction about the Gehlot government’s performance. He has said that 70% of the promises made by the Rajasthan government has been fulfilled since the Congress came to power in December 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ahead-of-rajasthan-govt-report-card-aicc-manifesto-panel-to-hold-review-meet-on-friday/story-sW49rdQv55aRgqZ6UNE8EN.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai to receive more rainfall in next 6 hours; NDRF teams on standby||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday predicted more rainfall for Mumbai, which is witnessing flood-like situation in several areas due to incessant downpour since Tuesday night.The MeT department has now warned of more rains in next six hours with light to moderate showers and occasional downpour over several parts of Mumbai.The weather department also predicted heavy showers at isolated places in the city during next 24 hours. Mumbai is already struggling with severe waterlogging and traffic following heavy rains overnight. Normal life was severely affected on Wednesday in the financial capital as public transport took a major hit with waist deep water in parts of Mumbai and neighbouring areas.The intense spills on Tuesday night disrupted Mumbai’s rail services. Several local train junctions reported waterlogging issue. On Wednesday morning, the Wester Railways cancelled local trains services between Churchgate and Andheri. Five teams of NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) are currently on standby after the intense spells caused flood-like situation in parts of Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts, Maharashtra Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Wednesday, as quoted by PTI.According to the MeT department, Mumbai will likely receive moderate rainfall till September 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-live-updates-mumbai-to-receive-more-rainfall-in-next-6-hours-ndrf-teams-on-standby/story-8c3T4eUoIepk40AfHp2GXI.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Since April, 150,000 Maharashtra residents got online liquor permits||Maharashtra residents have obtained 150,955 online liquor permits since April 1 – shortly after the nationwide lockdown restrictions were enforced on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak – according to the state excise department. About 3,000 people got their alcoholic beverages delivered at home on a daily basis during this period. On Monday, 3,709 consumers received home delivery of their alcohol beverages, said state excise officials. Also read: Most people infected with novel coronavirus develop symptomsLiquor permits are required for home delivery of alcoholic beverages, which have been allowed by the Maharashtra government to avoid overcrowding at liquor stores amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The excise department has simplified the process of obtaining a liquor permit online in a bid to increase its revenue that had plunged drastically owing to the lockdown restrictions.The Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 mandates that anyone, who is above 25 years of age, wants to consume alcohol needs to possess a liquor permit. These permits are issued on health grounds as preservation and maintenance of health. However, the prohibition was abolished in the state in 1972 and a permit system was introduced to allow an individual to consume a stipulated amount of alcohol, which should not exceed more than 12 units.Kantilal Umap, excise commissioner, Maharashtra, said the public has realised the advantages of obtaining a liquor permit. “A permit allows an individual not only to drink alcohol but also stock and transport liquor, ” said Umap. “We urged the public to obtain liquor licences following the easing of lockdown restrictions and also simplified the process for getting hold of a permit. We have been flooded with applications since the simplification of the process,” he added. The excise department received 156,085 applications, of which 150,955 were granted liquor permits between April 1 and September 21. The fee for a permit, which is valid for a year, is 100. A lifetime validity costs ₹1,000.Arvind Miskin, president, Association of Progressive Retail Liquor Vendors, a body of wine shop owners, echoed Umap. “A liquor permit allows an individual to stock up to 12 bottles of alcohol. People find it cheaper and convenient to obtain a permit,” said Miskin.The Maharashtra Prohibition Act, 1949 stipulates that possession, consumption, or transportation of alcohol in the state without a permit is liable to a penalty up to ₹50,000 and/or a prison sentence of up to five years.There has been a growing demand in the state to scrap the liquor permit rule to consume alcohol. Hoteliers and patrons have dubbed the rule as a means of harassment by excise officials.Liquor has been one of the major sources of revenue for the state government. Maharashtra garnered ₹15,434 crore during the last financial year as excise duty from the sale of liquor alone. The windfall gains prompted the state government to allow reopening of liquor stores from May 4 and also home delivery of alcoholic beverages, despite the contagion showing little signs of abating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-150-000-mumbai-residents-got-online-liquor-permits-in-six-months/story-qZUqD7QwUl0mxlSXreQlyM.html
23-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: SHO, 2 constables suspended for extorting Rs 25 lakh from accused in drugs case||Dr Bhupendra Singh, director-general of police (DGP), Rajasthan, has suspended station house officer (SHO) and two constables of Harnawadashahji police station in Baran district on charges of extorting Rs 25 lakh from an accused, who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and later releasing him.Earlier this year, Prabhulal Tanwar was booked under the NDPS Act, 1985, and he belongs to Mahuakhoh village in Kota district.Tanwar had complained to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and other state government officials against the alleged extortionist personnel of Harnawadashahji police station. Dr Ravi, superintendent of police (SP), Baran, said: “Prabhulal has alleged that he along with another fellow villager Bapulal was going to Kamkhera Balaji temple in Baran on May 7 when SHO of Harnawadashahji police station Ramswaroop Meena along with two constables stopped them.”SHO Meena allegedly made a call to Prabhulal’s son Govid and asked him to arrange Rs 25 lakh for his father’s release. “Govind arranged the sum with great difficulty and handed over the amount to SHO Meena, who later released Prabhulal. However, Bapulal was not released, as he is still languishing in Chhabra sub-jail,” the SP said.“A preliminary investigation has found all three policemen guilty following which DGP Rajasthan has suspended them until further orders,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-sho-2-constables-suspended-for-extorting-rs-25-lakh-from-accused-in-drugs-case/story-gQ2mQ77sWF2YFtr3u9xsdN.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu bats for farmers, says Punjab united against ‘black laws’||Emerging from a year-long political hiatus, Punjab Congress legislator Navjot Singh Sidhu hit the ground running as he led scores of farmers on a protest march against the three farm bills in Amritsar on Wednesday afternoon. Terming the three bills “black laws”, Sidhu said, “The Centre is talking about providing free market to farmers. But they should know the battered condition of farmers of states where there is no grain market. You have made farmers labourers.” Dressed for the occasion in his trademark pathani suit with a black turban, Sidhu addressed the estimated 200 farmers from atop a tractor and said, “The Centre wants to forget the toil of five lakh labourers in building the infrastructure of grain markets. It has united Punjab by bringing in the black laws. The dues of employees have been increased 1,000 times, but the minimum support price (MSP) of farmers has gone up only 15 times.” During the 20-minute march from Deen Dayal Upadhyay market at Bhandari bridge to Hall Gate Chowk, Sidhu’s popularity was on display as he sat on a red tractor attached to a trailer packed with 50 supporters, most of them farmers, who raised slogans against the BJP-led central government and waved black flags and placards. Though the march began at 12.10pm, his supporters from his Amritsar East constituency, started gathering since 11am. TAKES DIG AT CONGRESS GOVT IN PUNJAB “My politics is a politics of solution. I will always talk about the solution. Though you (people) can see sand mining, cable mafia, liquor vend contracts and now the farm bills, I focus on solutions and hope the people will empower me to solve problems,” he said. This remark is being seen as against his own Congress government led by Capt Amarinder Singh in the state. Sidhu has raised the issues of illegal sand mining besides the cable and liquor mafia against his own government earlier. IS ROTI NOT AN ESSENTIAL COMMODITY? Striking a chord with the farmers, he said the Centre had excluded foodgrain from the list of essential commodities. “Is roti (meal) not an essential commodity? Hoarders have been legalised and they will sell farmers’ produce at higher rates. The prices of food will increase. The people of Punjab should stand together in this fight. They should not let the draconian laws to be implemented,” he said. Speaking against the electricity amendment bill, he said it will bar farmers from getting subsidies. “I will continue supporting farmers till I’m alive,” he added. When asked, he declined comment on the resignation of Shiromani Akali Dal Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal from the Union ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navjot-singh-sidhu-bats-for-farmers-says-punjab-united-against-black-laws/story-5TjVDkj6IKtC37IjhMtcSO.html
23-09-2020||City||Maharashtra: Yavatmal tigress T2C1 captured, transferred to rescue centre||The Maharashtra forest department on Wednesday tranquillised and captured a two-year-old sub-adult tigress (T2C1) near the Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Yavatmal days after the big cat killed a 60-year-old woman at a farm on Saturday. The tigress earlier attacked a farmer on September 4 and has killed at least six cattle and goats, triggering panic in the area.Forest officials said the tigress was regularly being spotted through camera trap images moving across four villages and the Pandharkawada Forest Reserve.“Around 10.30 am Wednesday, the tigress was darted at an agricultural field less than two km away from TWS [Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary]. She was tranquillised... and the operation was carried out smoothly as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority protocol,” said chief conservator of forests (Yavatmal) S V Ramarao.Two veterinary doctors, eight Special Tiger Protection Force officers, two rapid rescue teams, and 40 forest personnel were part of the team that captured the tigress.Ramarao said they deputed the large team to ensure the tigress was captured with any untoward incident. “Citizens had been advised not to leave their homes nor allow their cattle to stray [during the operation].”Maharashtra’s principal chief conservator of forests, Nitin Kakodkar, on Monday issued orders for the capture under the Wildlife Protection Act, which provides for declaring a protected wild animal a threat or danger to human life.“We are yet to decide whether she would be transferred to Gorewada Rescue Centre or another transit treatment centre in Nagpur. ...we will be consulting the state-appointed committee [that decides on the rehabilitation of big cats captured from the wild due to conflict]... for the future course of action,” said Kakodkar.T2C1 was captured in the same district, where two private hunters hired by the forest department killed tigress Avni in 2018 under questionable circumstances after she was said to have killed 13 people.State Board for Wildlife member Kishor Rithe said conflict incidents are common in the Chandrapur-Brahmapuri landscape, but similar cases have started in the Yavatmal-Tipeshwar landscape since Avni’s case. “It is a problem of managing the area. Our committee will review all previous conflict incidents pertaining to this tigress. If the animal is fit to be released, she will be, and the set procedure will be followed.”T2C1 is the fifth big cat to be captured in Maharashtra this year after human-animal conflict.Wildlife Protection Society of India director (central India) Nitin Desai said since T2C1 had become a problem animal and lost all fear of human beings, she needed to be captured. “For the larger cause of tiger conservation, these animals need to be removed and it is part of the tiger conservation strategy.”Operations are separately underway to capture another tiger (RT1) at Rajura since February when it killed six villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yavatmal-tigress-t2c1-captured-and-transferred-to-rescue-centre/story-ASDEQ03FzuUxWSqS5cZnlL.html
23-09-2020||Election:||NDA and Grand Alliance engaged in poster wars on Patna streets||A decade ago, a picture in an advertisement made Bihar chief minister cancel a dinner with the BJP top brass in a clear manifestation of his disapproval. It was a picture showing Nitish Kumar with the then Gujarat CM and present Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Cut to present, the two leaders are a version of best friends forever. At all the virtual functions to announce schemes and projects for the poll-bound state, PM Modi has been effusive in his praise for the Bihar CM. The roads are lined with posters of the two leaders who appear comfortable in each other’s company and a ready smile is seen playing on their lips. PM Modi’s statement that “Nitish jaisa sahyogi ho toh kuch bhi sambhav hai (Anything is possible with a partner like Nitish)” has found a pride of place at the Income Tax roundabout in the city with the pictures of the two leaders, a tagline “Nyay ke saath tarakki, Nitish ki baat pakki (Development with justice, Nitish’s words are a guarantee) underlines the point.” In another poster, PM Modi is seen describing Nitish Kumar as the ‘maker of modern Bihar’, with pictures of the two leaders on either side of it. There are also posters attacking the RJD, describing RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav others for scams and lawlessness. From a bus named ‘loot express’ with pictures of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav and Misa Bharti, the caption says: ‘Ek parvar Bihar par bhar (One family that is burden on Bihar) to ‘Jungle raj’ and ‘Thagbandhan’, there is a lot visible on the streets. The counters to these happy posters have also emerged, showing PM Modi’s earlier quotes questioning the DNA of Nitish Kumar. Another one says: “Modiji, the mandate of the people was for your party to sit in Opposition. How could then it get into power? “Nitish jaisa sahyogi ho kuch bhi sambhav hai (Anythingis possible with a partner like Nitish),” it says. Who is getting the posters prepared is neither known nor openly accepted, but the messaging clearly manifests the National Democratic Alliance vs Grand Alliance divide. Some also attribute it to internal divide. Ahead of BJP’s ‘virtual rally’ addressed by home minister Amit Shah, Patna had witnessed a poster war. Picture of Lalu Prasad flanked by Md Shahabuddin and Raj Ballabh Yadav – all serving jail sentences – with a slogan ‘Kaidi bajaa raha taali, Janata bajao taali’. It was a reply to RJD’s call to oppose BJP’s virtual rally by beating utensils, though JD(U) feigned ignorance about it. Last year in December, when Kumar set out for his third leg of ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali’ yatra to Kaimur, Gaya and Aurangabad, Patna district administration was busy removing posters attacking him for his stand on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Who got those posters placed at important locations could not be ascertained, as the opposition parties like the RJD and the Congress denied any knowledge about it. Political analyst NK Choudhary said that the fight could only get more venomous through banners and posters in the days to come, as this election would not provide opportunities for rallies and public meetings due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Digital campaigning sounds good, but everyone knows about actual digital penetration and people’s choice to spend time on it when they are struggling with their daily needs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/poster-wars-on-patna-streets-between-nda-and-grand-alliance-in-bihar/story-DK8hjP0TjwfLJd2cIjD4DK.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Bar Council of Delhi asks Prashant Bhushan to appear before it over SC conviction in contempt case||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) has asked activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan to appear before it on October 23 following his conviction by the Supreme Court, which imposed a token fine of Re 1 on him, in a contempt case.  The BCD move has come in pursuance of the resolution of September 6 of the apex bar body, the Bar Council of India (BCI), asking its Delhi chapter to take a legally-mandated decision in this matter keeping in mind the conviction of Bhushan.  BCD has sought Bhushan’s response on as to why proceedings should not be initiated to revoke his enrolment as a lawyer in view of the conviction for his alleged contemptuous tweets against judiciary.  Bhushan, who has to appear either personally or through video conferencing on October 23, has to respond to the Council within 15-days of receiving the notice.A Bar Council of a state grants licence to a person to practice as a lawyer and has wide powers such as suspending or taking away the right of its members in certain situations to practice under the Advocates Act.“You are required to appear in person or through authorized advocate on your behalf on October 23 at 4.00 P.M. in the office of the Council... for personal hearing. You may appear physically or through virtual conferencing as suited to you,” the BCD said in the notice.It further said, “you are also required to send your response to the Council within 15 days of the receipt of this letter as to why proceedings under section 24A (Disqualification for enrolment) and section 35 of the Advocates Act be not initiated against you in view of your tweets in question and conviction under Suo motu Contempt Petition by the Supreme Court of India.” The BCD took the decision in a resolution passed on September 18.Bhushan acknowledged receiving the notice on Twitter this morning.It said that in case he does not choose to appear before the Council on the date fixed, the proceedings shall be taken “ex-parte”.  A bench headed by Justice Aruna Mishra (since retired) had convicted him for his two tweets against the judiciary and imposed a fine of Re 1 on him.As a punishment he was directed to deposit the fine with the Supreme Court registry by September 15, failing which he would have to undergo three-month jail term and debarment from law practice for three years.Bhushan on September 14 paid the fine imposed upon him, even though he said he would file a review petition before the apex court against the verdict.The apex bar body had said it deliberated upon the the apex court judgment in its general council meeting held on September 3 and held that the tweets and statements made by Bhushan and the SC judgment need thorough study and examination “in the light of the statutory duties, powers and functions conferred on it under the Advocates’ Act and the rules framed thereunder”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/bar-council-of-delhi-asks-prashant-bhushan-to-appear-before-it-over-sc-conviction-in-contempt-case/story-LcVid0LIXouEHeA8vp7gPL.html
23-09-2020||Patna||‘Undecided on joining politics,’ says Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey after voluntary retirement||Former Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey, whose voluntary retirement was approved a day earlier, on Wednesday said people were pressing him to join politics but he is yet to make up his mind over it.Pandey has been in the news over his intemperate statements and aggressive stand on actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case and they have been linked to his political ambitions.“...if I do so [join politics], I will make it known to all,” said Pandey amid speculation that he could join one of the Bihar’s ruling parties ahead of the state assembly polls due later this year.Pandey, who is likely to contest the Shahpur assembly or Valmiki Nagar parliamentary seat that fell vacant after ruling Janata Dal (United) lawmaker Baidynath Mahto’s death in February, denied having taken the aggressive stand for electoral politics after retirement. He maintained he pursued the case vigorously to ensure that justice for Rajput’s family. “I could see how Rajput’s father was disappointed and helpless. The state police filed an FIR [First Information Report] and it was validated by the Supreme Court. We have taken all steps in the case as per legal norms. The case is now with the CBI [Central Bureau of Investigation],” he saidThe Supreme Court in August ruled the CBI’s probe based on the FIR filed against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family for allegedly abetting Rajput’s suicide is lawful and allowed the federal agency to continue its investigation. It rejected Chakraborty’s plea to transfer the case to the Maharashtra police. The Bihar police in late June constituted a team to probe the case following a complaint by the actor’s family and triggered a jurisdictional turf war. The Bihar government has been accused of trying to hijack the emotive issue for political capital ahead of the assembly elections.Pandey rejected the links drawn between his aggressive statements, including against Chakraborty, and his post-retirement plans. “Please see the meaning of aukaat (stature),” he said referring to the statement he made questioning Chakraborty’s “aukaat”. The post of CM [chief minister] of any state is a constitutional post. Any person who is accused in a criminal case should not speak against the person holding a constitutional post. Rhea Chakraborty is an accused in the Rajput death case. Besides, I also made some statements related to the Rajput case when our officers were humiliated in Mumbai,” he said.Pandey on August 2 alleged that a police officer sent to Mumbai in connection with the case was “forcibly quarantined” and that his hand was stamped indicating the isolation period till August 15.Pandey insisted he is now an ordinary man meeting people from his and other districts, where he served over his 34-year-long career. “ I am meeting people from Buxar, Begusarai, Bettiah, and Jehanabad.” He dodged queries whether he would join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or its ally Janata Dal (United). “I have not joined any party. I have also not said I will contest polls.”Pandey praised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar saying the Janata Dal (United) leader has a clear vision of not allowing any political interference in policing matters. Pandey said he always tried to ensure justice for the poor and depressed classes while cracking hard on criminals. “ [I] was sent to Jehanabad and other districts in Magadh when there were clashes on caste lines during the 90s and the entire central Bihar was burning. During my stint as SP [superintendent of police] in Jehanabad, there were no big clashes. I also brought innovative methods in policing during my stint in Begusarari. It was done out of my commitment to serve people and society.”Pandey’s batchmate and director-general rank officer Sunil Kumar joined the Janata Dal (United) after retiring on July 31 and is likely to contest assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/undecided-on-joining-politics-says-bihar-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-after-voluntary-retirement/story-GzAf26CgJyYqho4xWnaOBL.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Rains: Rhea Chakraborty’s bail plea to be heard on Thursday as Bombay HC suspends hearings||Actor Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde, on Wednesday said that Bombay High Court has declared a holiday due to heavy rains and the bail pleas of actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, both arrested in a drugs case in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, will be heard on Thursday.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Rhea Chakraborty on September 9. An NDPS special court had extended her judicial custody for 14 days after her bail pleas were rejected. The special court extended her judicial custody till October 6 on Tuesday.Justice Sarang Kotwal would have heard the bail pleas filed by the actor and her brother on Wednesday but all hearings stand cancelled due to the rains.Showik, Rhea’s brother, was arrested by the NCB on September 5 along with Sushant Singh Rajput’s manager Samuel Miranda and was charged for financing and procuring drugs for the actor along with several others.Sushant Singh Rajput’s personal assistant Dipesh Sawant, and alleged drug dealer Abdul Bashit Parihar have also sought bail and had approached the high court. Their pleas are scheduled to be heard on September 29.Mumbai has received heavy rainfall since last 24 hours. Rains continue to derail normal life as trains are disrupted due to waterlogging and roads remain flooded.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-rhea-chakraborty-s-bail-plea-to-be-heard-on-thursday-as-bombay-hc-suspends-hearings/story-owSn7WhK6HheVrkS2LuYjO.html
23-09-2020||Dehradun||12 Uttarakhand MLAs test Covid-19 positive; 16 MLAs opt for virtual session||Amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, at least 16 Uttarakhand MLAs have applied for virtual participation in the one-day state assembly session that started on Wednesday in Dehradun. Speaker Premchand Agarwal had a few days ago urged all the MLAs, especially those above 65 years of age, to attend the session through virtual platforms with the help of national informatics centre (NIC). “We have got the list of at least 16 MLAs who have applied for virtual participation in the assembly session. It includes those above 65 and below it,” said Pramod Pandey, research officer in the state assembly secretariat. Four legislators, including two ministers, tested positive for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR tests conducted on the MLAs willing to attend the session physically.Deputy Speaker Raghunath Singh Chauhan will govern the House in place of Speaker Agarwal who tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago.“In the RT-PCR test conducted on the 32 MLAs before the session, two ministers Dhan Singh Rawat and Harak Singh Rawat tested positive along with BJP MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami and deputy leader of Opposition Karan Mahara on Tuesday evening,” said Chauhan. Also Read: Uttarakhand lifts travel restrictions, negative Covid-19 report not mandatoryHe added that in the light of the given situation, all precautions were being taken to guard against the infection.“With the four MLAs testing positive on Tuesday, the total number of Covid-19 infected MLAs has now reached 12, including Speaker Agarwal and leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh. We are taking all necessary precautions including conducting mandatory rapid antigen tests of all MLAs before they enter the House and wearing masks to ensure health safety,” said Chauhan. Also Read: Organic farming to be promoted in villages along Ganga to curb pollution under Namami GangeThe sitting arrangements inside the 71-member assembly have also been changed to ensure social distancing. While 30 MLAs will sit in the main assembly hall, 10 can sit in the gallery. The remaining 30 MLAs can attend the proceedings from hall number 107, where arrangements for virtual participation have been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/12-uttarakhand-mlas-test-covid-19-positive-16-mlas-opt-for-virtual-session/story-j04472cbCpCmJfrV93ufGP.html
23-09-2020||Pune||Thane: Pipeline bursts, impacts water supply to city||Water supply too all of Thane has been affected after a pipeline at Majiwada naka burst on Wednesday afternoon. The Thane Municipal Corporation has started the restoration and repair work of the pipeline on a war footing. However, officials said it will take the entire day to complete the repair work.“A water pipeline was damaged due to the ongoing Metro work at Majiwada naka; there were no injuries or casualties,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, Regional Disaster Management Cell, Thane. Due to the barricades set up for the ongoing Metro construction, the water flow has been contained.“We have started the repair work; however, this is one of the crucial pipelines connecting the entire city. So water supply will be majorly affected across Thane. We are trying our best to complete the work by today evening and restore the connection as soon as possible,” said Arjun Ahire, assistant municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/thane-pipeline-bursts-impacts-water-supply-to-city/story-cOCQaV6zRcKfkzuIxkQ6PO.html
23-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand lifts travel restrictions, negative Covid-19 report not mandatory||Tourists planning to visit Uttarakhand will no longer need mandatory negative Covid-19 reports or minimum two-day booking at hotels to do so, the state government said on Tuesday as it eased travel restrictions imposed in March to check the pandemic spread.In its fresh guidelines, the government said the new rules will come into effect from Wednesday. Tourists will have to register the modes of transportation they will use to travel.The guidelines directed the management of hotels to immediately inform district administrations if any of their guests is found Covid-19 positive.On September 19, the state government asked tourists to ensure they have a minimum two-day hotel booking before coming to the state. The tourists were earlier also supposed to produce negative reports done not earlier than 96 hours before their arrival. In case they came without one, they had an option of paid antigen testing upon entry into the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-lifts-travel-restrictions-negative-covid-19-report-not-mandatory/story-AQ2SwbdWugsFVIX2zcShuL.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi government’s plan of action to curb pollution in winter: All you need to know||Every year, Delhi’s pollution levels soar in winter due to a combination of factors, including changes in meteorology such as cold weather, calm winds, local emissions, coupled with stubble-burning in neighbouring states. This year too, the Delhi government is working to curb pollution from spiking in the next few months by putting together a plan of action. Here are some of the points on the government’s agendaAsk neighbouring states to intervene early and curb stubble-burning Some districts of Punjab and Haryana have already started burning crop residue. The central government as well as Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority EPCA have asked the two states to ensure that subsidies to purchase equipment reach farmers in time so that they don’t need to burn the paddy stubble, especially during the harvest season mid-October, leading to a spike in pollution levels. Also Read: As paddy harvesting starts, Punjab farmer unions adamant on burning straw if not paid for disposalClear pollution hot spots within Delhi There are 13 major hot spots in the city, besides several industrial areas, where pollution levels spike more than average during winter, mainly because of waste burning, road dust and traffic congestion. The burning needs to be stopped and roads paved to prevent pollution from increasing here. Prevent the dumping of waste Stacks of waste, including plastic and rubber, are piled up at a number of places across the city, which are eventually set on fire. Dumping of waste needs to be checked, and areas such as roadsides and areas under bridges need to be cleared to prevent burning. Also Read: EPCA asks agencies to jointly patrol industrial areas to check pollutionAugment public transport Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, public transport is not running at optimal capacity. The government needs to find a way to increase the frequency of public transport so that vehicular emissions are limited. Coordinate better with NCR towns During winter, it’s the pollution in India’s northwest which leads to a spike in Delhi’s pollution levels as well. In neighbouring towns, including Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad, the pollution levels remain high because of a number of unregulated industries, inadequate supply of electricity forcing people to use diesel generator (DG) sets, which cause major pollution. The government needs to coordinate with the authorities in said towns and ask them to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply and a ban on DG sets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-s-plan-of-action-to-curb-pollution-in-winter-all-you-need-to-know/story-61qcRzADAvveVDxEaPG4gJ.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer killed, 17 BKU activists injured after bus rams into truck near Bathinda||A farmer was killed and 17 others were injured when a private bus rammed into a truck parked on the roadside near Kot Fatta village in Bathinda district on Tuesday night. Police said all victims were Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) activists who were returning after the eight-day protest against the farm bills outside former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s house in Badal village of neighbouring Muktsar district ended. Mukhtiar Singh, 62, of Kishangarh village in Bathinda died during treatment in the local civil hospital. The injured are undergoing treatment at the civil hospital and a private health institute. The farmers were returning to their respective villages in a private bus that broke down. They were headed home in another bus that rammed into the truck on the roadside. BKU activists alleged delayed medical attention to the accident victims and blocked traffic at the busy ITI Chowk, the intersection connecting Bathinda with Haryana and Rajasthan besides Talwandi Sabo and Mansa districts of Punjab. BKU leader Jasgeer Singh complained that no district official visited the injured at hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-killed-17-bku-activists-injured-after-bus-rams-into-truck-near-bathinda/story-hzdPz4aCO05xZX5xnVo9RM.html
23-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan woman kills husband, keeps body under bed, calls cops after 28 hrs||A woman allegedly killed her husband and kept his body under a bed in her house for over 28 hours before calling the cops in Sankhadtal village of Hamirwas town in Churu district of Rajasthan. Station house officer of Hamirwas police station Subhash Chandra told HT that the lady made a call to the police on Monday night after a foul smell started emanating from the body.Nirmal Singh’s body was found by his elder brother Ashok Singh Jat, who had gone to the deceased’s house looking for him. The accused Neeraj allegedly strangled her husband to death after a dispute around Sunday midnight and hid the body under a bed in her house- according to the complaint filed by his elder brother.The police officer said that Neeraj told cops that her husband used to beat and abuse her almost every night and that the couple again had a fight on Sunday night when she strangled Nirmal using a rope, according to the investigation.The body was handed over to the family members after autopsy at a government hospital. The accused has been detained by the police. The couple has two minor children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-woman-kills-husband-keeps-body-under-bed-calls-cops-after-28-hrs/story-POstVIXNJ6wwzESp8Gk40H.html
23-09-2020||Bhopal||With Madhya Pradesh bypolls drawing nearer, personal attacks on rise in campaigns||Personal attacks by politicians against each other have intensified as the by-election for 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh (MP), which are likely to be held with the upcoming Bihar polls in end-November, draws closer. Though the Election Commission of India (ECI) had earlier announced that polls would be held in end-November, no dates have been announced yet.Several ministers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and belonging to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet are involved in personal attacks. But the ministers claim that themselves and the CM have been at the receiving end of the personal attacks by rival Congress leaders. Suresh Raje, who is slated to contest the upcoming assembly by-polls from Dabra constituency on a Congress ticket in MP’s Gwalior-Chambal region against state minister for Woman and Child Development (WCD) Imrati Devi, has been accused of making provocative personal comments against his opponent and her family members a few days ago. Devi and the ruling BJP also fired a salve at Raje amid the Congress distancing itself from his alleged comments. Raje denied that he insulted the minister. Devi slammed the Congress and alleged that the comments exposed the opposition party’s mindset. In another incident, state minister for tourism, culture and adhyatm Usha Thakur regretted her statement that she had made against a tribal youth organisation in MP’s Malwa region on Saturday. Thakur reportedly described Jay Adivasi Yuva Shakti (JAYS) as an anti-national outfit while speaking at a programme in her assembly constituency Mhow. She questioned the organisation for working among tribals and urged the public to take a pledge not to allow the outfit’s alleged anti-national activities in the region.The minister’s statement drew condemnation from JAYS and the Congress, who demanded her resignation from the Chouhan cabinet. The BJP was quick to dissociate itself from Thakur’s remarks. The minister also put out a statement on Monday, where she regretted for her momentary lapse of reason.“I respect all such organisations that are working for the uplift of the tribals. I apologise for my statement, if it has hurt anyone. My statement stemmed from my pain and anguish that I had undergone due to certain elements making attempts to mislead tribals and convert them to other faiths while creating hurdles in the way of my public welfare work.” However, JAYS’ members were not assuaged by the minister’s apology and staged a protest at Mhow on Tuesday. Heeralal Alawa, a founder member of the organisation and a Congress lawmaker, said, “The minister’s statement ahead of the by-polls is not a coincidence. It is a part of the BJP’s pre-planned strategy for the upcoming by-polls. The party wants to provoke the tribals against the organisation and better its prospects on those by-poll seats, where the indigenous people of the state hold the sway.” Similarly, state minister for cooperatives Arvind Bhadauria, who belongs to the Gwalior-Chambal region and had played a key role in the defection of the Congress lawmakers to the BJP in March, is in his parent party’s crosshairs.Former CMs Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh and ex-minister Jitu Patwari have all piled up on him for his act of betrayal by switching sides that led to the collapse of the Congress government in MP.However, Bhadauria has not fallen for his former party leaders’ provocative jibes.Kamal Nath and CM Chouhan have also locked horns over the Congress’s claims that it had waived loans of over two million farmers when the party was in power. The slanging match is restricted to the alleged use of the word “nalayak” by Kamal Nath against the CM.“Shivraj ji says Congress didn’t waive farmers’ loans in 10 days. Shivraj ji, are you so incapable (nalayak) that you can’t see the loan waiver in the records? It’s for the first time that not only current loans but also those of the defaulters were waived off (by the then Congress government).” Kamal Nath, who heads the MP Pradesh Congress Committee (MPPCC), had reportedly said at an election rally in Gwalior on September 19. Chouhan reacted to Kamal Nath’s use of the adjective. “I have no objection, if Kamal Nath ji likes to indulge in mudslinging. It’s the public which decides who is capable and who is not. He himself should think about the capability quotient. Who takes care of the state with an unbiased outlook, respects the poor, formulates schemes for farmers’ welfare and ensures uplift of girl child,” the CM had hit back at his predecessor. Political analyst Dinesh Gupta sees a pattern and discernible trend in these personal attacks.“It’s unfortunate that whenever elections draw closer, we see a similar surcharged atmosphere. Instead, political parties and leaders should discuss the development issues and welfare of the public. There is seldom any debate on lack of roads, electricity, irrigation, poverty, farmers, unemployment etc. Serious issues are always glossed over and trivial matters take a centre stage in the run up to an election.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-drawing-nearer-personal-attacks-on-rise-in-campaigns/story-8QlZmqqTA9BjSm9iiZ8CcJ.html
23-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt approves free travel to Haridwar for ashes immersion||Rajasthan roadways will now take passengers going to Haridwar, for immersion of ashes of their deceased family members in the Ganga river, free of cost after chief minister Ashok Gehlot approved the ‘Moksha Kalash Yojana-2020’ to be run by the Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC).RSRTC will be the nodal agency for implementing the scheme while the expenses will be borne by the Devasthan department, said a government release. Under the scheme, a maximum of two members of the family of the deceased will be able to travel free with the ashes. Passengers will be required to register for availing the facility by providing details including about the dead person. A copy of related documents will have to be kept with those carrying the ashes. Also Read: Hold recruitment exams in time-bound manner: Rajasthan CM to officialsA maximum of 46 passengers will be allowed in a bus due to the need to follow social distancing norms. RSRTC will provide an interface for online registration, make arrangements for transport to the destination, and other facilities during the journey, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-approves-free-travel-to-haridwar-for-ashes-immersion/story-tBoIGpfFFWLej4mkKQfQON.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Maharashtra Congress raises questions over probe by central agencies||Alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is highlighting cases relating to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s (SSR’s) death for the forthcoming Bihar elections, Maharashtra Congress on Wednesday also raised questions over the probe by central agencies.In a series of tweets, Maharashra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that the voluntary retirement taken by Bihar’s director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey has ‘shed light on the conspiracy’. Sharing a news report of Pandey’s resignation and reported plans to fight Bihar elections, Sawant said the police officer was being ‘rewarded’.“It is a big conspiracy to defame Maharashtra and reduce its national importance. Bihar DGP, who was used in this episode, is being blatantly rewarded. BJP has no sympathy for SSR, but saw political opportunity to use his death for Bihar elections and now for the new film city,” Sawant tweeted.Big dirty conspiracy of BJP to defame Maharashtra to reduce its national importance! Bihar DGP who was used in this being blatantly rewarded. His VRS says it allBJP had no sympathy for SSR but saw political opportunity to use his death for Bihar elections & now for new film city pic.twitter.com/F1gqILWx5KIn another tweet, he questioned why there were no arrests made in FIR 15/2020 -- registered in connection with the actor’s death. “NCB is being headed by Modiji’s blue eyed boy, who should answer why the agency did not probe the drug deal in Bollywood earlier despite having its office in Mumbai. All arrests are made in FIR 16/2020, which is about the drug dealing and not related to the SSR case. The NCB should clarify and educate us as to why it has abandoned SSR case and why did government tell the parliament that there was no actionable inputs found revealing nexus between film industry and drugs dealing,” Sawant said.He also alleged that it is an attempt to control and arm-twist the film industry. He said the investigation which started around the death case of SSR shifted to nepotism, murder conspiracy and then to drug dealing and Bollywood’s nexus with it.Also read: NIA may join actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death probeSawant said that the investigation by all central agencies, including NCB, CBI and the Enforcement Directorate, have raised many questions which will be asked by the party over next few days. Reacting to Sawant’s attack, BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “All the central agencies have been probing the cases on the basis of the facts and the proofs they have come across. We do not need to use these cases for elections in any state. We have already clarified that the Bihar elections will be fought on the development plank. There is no need to take Sawant and his allegations seriously as he is known for his baseless ranting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-maharashtra-congress-raises-questions-over-probe-by-central-agencies/story-KrFCfZxThEyHFykeFnxu2I.html
23-09-2020||Lucknow||Prayagraj’s Lakshagriha, said to be Mahabharat-era site, to get research center||Lakshagriha, a religious site located in Handia development block of Prayagraj district in Uttar Pradesh, believed to date back to the Mahabharata era, would soon have a dedicated center of study for researchers, said officials. Efforts have already begun to set up the Mahabharata research center at this site under the chief minister tourism promotion scheme and Ganga circuit development plan by the tourism department, they added. According to mythological belief, during the Mahabharata era, the Pandavas had foiled an attempt by the Kauravas to burn them alive at Lakshagriha. It is believed that Kauravas built an entire house made up of ‘lac’ (a resinous material) which catches fire easily, and burnt it down as part of their conspiracy to kill Pandavas, but they had escaped unhurt. Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati, a member of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra Trust, too supported this belief that the original Lakshgriha was in Prayagraj. Locals call this place by different names including Pandav Kutti, Meti kila (one which is made of mud), court (read fort) and Pandav Gufa (tunnel) etc. The site has also been excavated by teams of Archeological Survey of India (ASI), once in mid 1970’s and recently in 2004-05. The team in 2004 had excavated around half a dozen places in the entire stretch. There had been demands made by Lakshagrah Vikas Samiti, an organisation led by its convener Onkar Nath Tripathi, to develop the place and put it on the tourist circuit. “Following a proposal by Dharmakshetra Lakshagriha Tirtha Kshetra Tourist Places committee for the development of the place, we have proposed the setting up a Mahabharata research center here. The proposal has been made and sent to the state government for approval,” said Tripathi. He further said that it was believed that Pandavas came to Lakshagriha and now scholars would be able to research on subjects spanning from their entry, their residence and evacuation etc. Some new facts regarding the Mahabharata era’s Prayagraj can get revealed by studying this site of mythological importance, he claimed. Also Read: Mosque in Ayodhya may be square-shaped like Kaaba: Trust officialA proposal worth Rs 79.27 lakh has been prepared for the proposed Mahabharat research institute. The Lakshagriha is currently being developed and its beautification work has already started. It is proposed to construct a modern hall, lab etc. for the research center from the budget proposed separately here, said Tripathi. Also Read: Rajasthan govt to legalise mines supplying stone for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya“Work for the beautification of the site is already being carried out and a welcome gate has been constructed. Foundation of a Satsang hall too has been laid. Further development of the site will be carried out under the CM tourism promotion scheme,” said deputy director (tourism), Dinesh Kumar.“Improving the facilities and opening up of the research center at this archeologically important site will also unearth other important facts on the artwork and culture that existed here during those times,” said the former head of the department of medieval and modern history, Prof Yogeshwar Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/prayagraj-s-lakshagriha-said-to-be-mahabharat-era-site-to-get-research-center/story-BxTKva1NjnAbarLoOQq0WK.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Housewife’s role most challenging, least appreciated: Bombay HC||The role of a housewife in the family is most important and challenging, but least appreciated, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) observed last week reiterating that family members are entitled to compensation on account of death of a homemaker.Justice Anil Kilor said a housewife holds a family together, as a pillar of support for her husband, a guiding force for her children and a caretaker for senior citizens in a household.The judge added that a homemaker works round-the-clock, without a day off, but her work goes unacknowledged and is not considered as an occupation because it doesn’t fetch a monthly income.Also read: Bombay high court tells BMC to seal unauthorised Wadala temple, stops its demolitionThe court made the observation following an appeal filed by Rambhau Gavai, a resident of Amravati in Maharashtra, and his two sons. They moved HC to challenge a previous order of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal at Achalpur in Amravati district. The tribunal had issued an order on February 3, 2007, which had rejected the claim for compensation on account of the death of Gavai’s wife, Babybai, in a road accident.The accident had occurred in March 2005 when Babybai’s vehicle had rammed into a tree at a high speed. Babybai had succumbed to her severe injuries.The tribunal had dismissed the claim of her husband and the sons primarily on the ground that the deceased was a housewife and not an earning member of the family.However, the HC reversed the tribunal’s order, as it was contrary to settled legal principles. Justice Kilor said it is impossible to count the services rendered by a homemaker and her contributions to the family in monetary terms.The judge referred to a 2001 judgment of the Supreme Court (SC), which had clearly laid down, the loss to husband and children following the death of a housewife or mother has to be computed by estimating the loss of personal care and attention given by the deceased.The judge also cited the loss of gratuitous and the multifarious services rendered by a housewife for managing a family.HC fixed the income of Babybai at Rs 3,000 as a housewife and an additional Rs 3,000 for doubling up as a labourer, and held that her husband and sons were entitled to Rs 8.22 lakh towards compensation for her accidental death.HC held that since the driver of the vehicle was holding a valid driving licence at the time of the accident, the car’s insurer was not liable to pay any compensation. However, the court directed the insurance company to pay the compensation to the father and the two sons within three months and granted it liberty to recover the amount from the vehicle’s owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/housewife-s-role-most-challenging-least-appreciated-bombay-hc/story-WlZlcoyZh7JvOP6rrfy02I.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rainfall leads to waterlogging in Covid-19 hospital in Mumbai||A coronavirus (Covid-19)- dedicated hospital in Mumbai was waterlogged on Wednesday morning due to the incessant rainfall in the city since Tuesday evening.News agency ANI posted a video where containers, buckets and other items could be seen floating around the premises of Nair Hospital, which is run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The hospital was declared a dedicated Covid-19 facility in March and is one of the largest hospitals in Mumbai. #WATCH Maharashtra: Mumbai's Nair Hospital flooded following heavy rainfall in the city. It is a COVID-19 dedicated hospital.As per Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai city received 173 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. pic.twitter.com/DLPOWe2gPcDr Satish Dharap, acting dean of Nair Hospital, said, “Severe waterlogging was reported around Nair Hospital on Wednesday morning owing to heavy rainfall. Due to waterlogging inside hospital premises, our Covid-19 screening OPD was shifted to casualty ward.”Dharap added that all Covid-19 patients are safe as they are on the first floor. The work to drain out water was going on and it should get normal in the next hour.Click here to follow live updates on Mumbai rainsMumbai is witnessing the heaviest rainfall of this season and the second-highest 24-hour September rainfall in the last 26 years. The India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy rainfall for Wednesday and a yellow alert has been issued.Continuous rains on Tuesday night led to waterlogging in several areas across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-updates-downpour-leads-to-waterlogging-in-covid-19-hospital/story-gaJ75wR7bjDFK4DeS3JsYN.html
23-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP delegation to meet Governor over TMC’s ‘double standards’ on farm bills||A delegation of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal unit is likely to meet Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at around 11 am on Wednesday to apprise him about the alleged double standards being maintained by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) regarding the farm bills. The passage of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 during the ongoing 18-day uninterrupted monsoon session of Parliament has riled opposition parties, including the TMC-run government in Bengal.The BJP delegation, led by Jay Prakash Majumdar, state vice-president, will comprise other senior members of the opposition party, who will meet Governor Dhankar. Also Read: Trinamool Congress to launch series of protests against farms bills from todayThe TMC has since started staging protests in Kolkata from Tuesday against the contentious farm bills passed in the Rajya Sabha (RS) on Sunday and the Industrial Relations Code Bill, 2020 in the Lok Sabha (LS). In the latter, the government has proposed to introduce more conditions that will restrict the rights of workers to strike coupled with an increase in the threshold relating to layoffs and retrenchment in industrial establishments, which have 300 workers from the existing rule of 100 employees. These measures are likely to provide more flexibility to employers for hiring and firing of workers without government’s permission.On Wednesday, the TMC’s youth wing is scheduled to hold a rally against these new laws. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has condemned the legislations. Also Read: Sonia, Rahul return to India amid Opposition’s standoff with government over farm billsShe has said that the passage of farm bills would trigger a food pandemic in the country and wipe off small and marginal farmers. On September 9, Banerjee had written to the Centre suggesting that she was open to implementation of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers and the Ayushman Bharat Yojana healthcare scheme if the funds were transferred directly to her government for disbursement. However, Governor Dhankhar, a trenchant critic of the Banerjee-led dispensation, targeted the state government over the CM’s proposal. He cited that funds for Central welfare schemes go directly to the beneficiaries and never routed through the state government for disbursal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bjp-delegation-to-meet-governor-over-tmc-s-double-standards-on-farm-bills/story-8EJWyYThqLgWKGToI7oB8N.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai records 104% increase in cases during Sept||There has been a 104% increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai in the first 22 days of September compared to the same duration last month, according to the state health department data. Mumbai reported 20,031 cases between August 1 to 22. More than double, or 40,957 cases, were reported from September 1 to 22.The number of deaths decreased marginally. In the first 22 days of August, 990 deaths were reported. They dropped to 862 over the same time this month.Also read: Recoveries cross 4.5 million-mark in India, 83,347 fresh cases reported in last 24 hoursOfficials attributed the spike to increased testing and easing of restrictions and festivals in August. Between 7,000-9,000 tests were conducted daily in August and between 10,000-15,000 this month.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on September 6 told HT that they expect around 2,000 cases daily over the next month and aimed to increase daily testing to around 12,000-14,000.Chahal added they have a capacity to conduct around 15,000 tests daily and planned to optimise testing.Till now, over one million tests have been conducted in the city with an overall positivity rate of 18.22%.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a private health consultant, said it is a good sign that number of deaths has come down despite an increase in the number of cases. “This is because of early testing or detection of possible Covid-19 patients. Also, the availability of drugs to stabilise critical patients has also helped bring down the mortality rate.”As of Tuesday, Mumbai reported 187,000 Covid-19 cases. As many as 152,000 have recovered. The toll from the pandemic has gone up to 8,555 and the city has around 26,764 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-from-august-mumbai-records-104-increase-in-cases-this-month/story-MMfZqYb4ZIGZPE4jAdOvuK.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Water logging in Mumbai: BMC urges residents to stay home||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) urged Mumbaikars against leaving homes unless absolutely necessary following heavy water logging in parts of Mumbai on Wednesday after overnight rain. Water logging was reported from Hindmata, Gandhi Market, Sion Road 24, Malad Subway, Bandra Talkies, Old Khar, and Shastri Nagar, Goregaon. BMC diverted buses from these routes on Wednesday morning. Mumbai Rains LIVE updates: Dedicated Covid-19 facility faces water logging“Mumbaikars, train services on Central & Harbour lines have been suspended due to water logging following the heavy rainfall yesterday. However, Western Railway is functioning as usual,” BMC tweeted.All four lines of Central Railways were stopped from 4.20 am due to water logging between Dadar and Kurla stations, and Masjid Bundar, according to BMC’s disaster management department. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal visited parts of Mumbai to take stock of the situation.While the intensity of rainfall went down in several parts of the city, water was yet to recede. According to BMC, water logging was reported from Bhendi Bazar, Gol Temple, Nana Chowk in Grant Road, Mumbai Central Junction, J J flyover Junction, Hindmata, Kala Chowky and Worli Sea Face. The body tweeted about it, adding that all administrative wards were working actively to remove the water.Water logging at Bhendi Bazar, Gol Temple, Nana Chowk, Mumbai Central Junction, Bawla Compound, J J Junction, Hindmata, Kala Chowky, Sarthi Bar, Worli Sea Face.All wards are working actively to dewater the water logged areas.#MumbaiRains#MyBMCUpdatesAccording to BMC, the island city received an average of 267mm rainfall in the last 24 hours from Tuesday 8 am to Wednesday 8 am followed by western suburbs received average of 251mm of rainfall and eastern suburbs received 173 mm of rainfall. Several areas in central Mumbai surrounding Byculla and Dadar received the highest rainfall, according to BMC.BMC earlier evacuated residents living around the banks of Mithi river around 6 am as the water levels crossed the 3.3 metre mark. A civic officer from BMC’s disaster management department said, “Water receded by 8am, and a few people returned home. The situation is under control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-urges-mumbai-residents-to-avoid-leaving-homes-as-parts-of-city-get-water-logged/story-iDhN9M3oDOoWzOrLIYo66M.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: How you can get HSRPs and fuel stickers for your vehicle||The Delhi government’s transport department is asking owners of old vehicles registered in the national Capital to get high-security registration number plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers issued for their vehicles.The department has said it is going to start prosecuting drivers/owners of vehicles that do not have HSRPs and colour-coded fuel stickers from October. The fine for not affixing an HSRP on a vehicle can range from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000.Here is how you can get HSRPs and colour-coded fuel stickers for your vehicle* You will have to contact any of the 236 vehicle dealers authorised by the Delhi government. The list is available on the state transport department’s website. * To book an appointment with the chosen dealer, you have to visit bookmyhsrp.com/index.aspx * Once at the website, select the model of your vehicle, then choose Delhi and then the nearest dealer around you.* Fill in information about the vehicle and its owner.* You will get an OTP on your mobile phone number, enter it in the required box.* Select a date and time to visit the dealer.* Make the payment online. You will receive an acknowledgement via e-mail and SMS.Also Read: Delhi transport dept urges owners of older vehicles to fix HSRPs, fuel stickersHSRPs are chromium-based hologram plates made via hot-stamping and laser-branding of a permanent identification number, which cannot be copied.The colour-coded stickers are meant to identify vehicles based on their fuel type, with light blue indicating petrol and CNG, and orange indicating diesel-run vehicles. The stickers also include details such as the registration number, the registering authority, a laser-branded PIN, and the engine and chassis numbers of the vehicle, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-how-you-can-get-hsrps-and-fuel-stickers-for-your-vehicle/story-QQSsx9LwnaCCMZT5L2057L.html
23-09-2020||Lucknow||International flights from Kushinagar by Diwali: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Tuesday night that international flights from Kushinagar airport in the Gorakhpur administrative division would start by Diwali. He also announced that the centenary celebrations of the historic Chauri Chaura movement would be held with fanfare in the state next year. The CM made the announcement while speaking at a review meeting of the development programmes in the state’s Gorakhpur administrative division that comprises districts such as Gorakhpur, Deoria, Kushinagar and Maharajganj.He said international flights would increase foreign tourists’ inflow since the region is part of the Lord Buddha pilgrimage circuit. The CM directed the officials to make an integrated action plan to find a permanent solution to the flood menace in eastern UP. He asked them to engage in extensive dredging of rivers. He cited that the move would have dual benefits: relief from floods and an availability of sand that can fetch revenue for respective district administrations. He told the officials that his government has managed to control the annual menace of Japanese Encephalitis (JE) and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES) to a large extent. “Make a project for house-to-house water supply in every JE-affected village,’’ he told the officials. The CM ordered a bid to expedite work in the twin projects of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and a fertiliser factory in Gorakhpur. The fertiliser factory is likely to become operational by July next year.The CM said the region would get an economic face-lift after the under-construction Gorakhpur Link Expressway project would get linked to the Purvanchal Expressway. He urged the officials to come up with a comprehensive plan for next year’s centenary celebrations of the historic Chauri Chaura incident. The Gorakhpur region, which had played a significant role in the country’s freedom movement, is replete with sites related to pilgrimage and the struggle for independence. The CM wanted to highlight the region’s historical contribution for the country’s younger generation.He also reminded the officials about an effective surveillance system and contact tracing in a bid to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He added that mass awareness would be the key to prevent the spread of the viral infection until a vaccine is launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/international-flights-from-kushinagar-by-diwali-yogi/story-wuNCREYmeG0GHDbn85AUDJ.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||In pictures: Streets waterlogged, trains affected as heavy rains lash Mumbai||The streets of Mumbai were waterlogged and local train services cancelled as the city witnessed heavy rains between Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, in what was its second-highest September rainfall in 26 years.Between Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning, the Maximum City received 273.6 mm rain. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the city’s civic body, has asked residents of the city to not venture out unless absolutely necessary.Due to the rains, Central Railways and Western Railways have both suspended services , while the Harbour line has also been affected. Services between Andheri and Virar, however, are operational.Before this downpour, the heaviest rainfall for Mumbai suburbs was recorded between August 3 and 4 at 268.6 mm. For south Mumbai, however, the heaviest spell was between August 5 and 6, at 331.2 mm.For the rest of the day, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rains across isolated areas in the city. Mumbai witnesses some of its heaviest rains in the months of July, August and September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/streets-waterlogged-trains-affected-as-heavy-rains-lash-mumbai/story-3ko9CZ436cJltzitn2rcmL.html
23-09-2020||Lucknow||UP gets in-principle nod for biggest solar park||The Union new and renewable energy ministry has given its in-principle approval for Uttar Pradesh’s first ultra-mega 1,200MW solar park in Bundelkhand region’s Jalaun district.Officials said the state’s New and Renewable Development Agency (NEDA) received the approval letter on Monday. “...now necessary action will be taken to set up the park at the earliest,” said NEDA director Bhawani Singh Khagrawat.The Centre has asked the Bundelkhand Saur Urja Ltd, the park developer, to submit a detailed project report at the earliest.Khagrawat on August 24 wrote a letter to the Centre seeking the sanction for the park over 6,000 acres of land on the directions of state minister Shrikant Sharma.Jalaun district magistrate Mannan Akhtar on September 4 informed the NEDA that the 6,000 acres of land is largely barren and a committee had been set up to negotiate with farmers and take it on lease for 27 years.The government is likely to pay a rent of Rs 17,000 per acre annually to the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-gets-in-principle-nod-for-biggest-solar-park/story-WxzljmwcTkvN47AxqG6yVN.html
23-09-2020||City||Covid-19 meet with PM: Maharashtra may raise issue of lack of Centre’s support||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to raise the issue of the lack of the Centre’s support to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak during the virtual meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The PM will hold a virtual meeting with the CMs and health ministers of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab, the seven states that have the maximum case load, and discuss their preparedness and response. Also read: Should we cheer the fall in India’s Covid-19 cases?Maharashtra accounts for 22.34% of the country’s total Covid-19 cases and 37.56% of the fatalities. The state has recorded 1,242,770 cases and 33,407 fatalities since the outbreak was first reported in March.State officials said the Union government’s help is needed since Maharashtra is still the epicentre of the viral outbreak in the country. Officials said that the CM is expected to raise the issue of the Centre’s lack of support. “From September 1, the Centre has stopped providing PPE and test kits, N-95 masks, ventillators, etc. The CM will take up the issue and seek an extension of the Central government’s support,” an official said.State minister for health and family welfare Rajesh Tope is also banking on the Centre’s help.“We will need the Centre’s support in these matters. It will be discussed at the meeting.” Officials said the lack of Centre’s assistance has added to the state’s financial burden. “The Centre is yet to pay the compensation for the Goods and Services Tax (GST) to the state. On top of that, it has stopped providing assistance to battle the outbreak. How can the state function when there is no end to the Covid-19 pandemic?” asked an official, requesting anonymity.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 18,390 fresh cases, as the tally rose to 1,242,770. The state surpassed 6,000,000 tests after 105,026 swab samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Mumbai reported 1,628 new cases to push its tally to 187,904. It also reported 50 deaths, as the toll rose to 8,555.At present, Maharashtra has 272,410 active cases. On Tuesday, the state reported 392 fresh Covid-19-related deaths, and the toll climbed to 33,407. Tuesday was the fifth consecutive day when Maharashtra’s recoveries exceeded the number of fresh cases. On Tuesday, the state reported 20,206 recoveries, and the tally rose to 936,554. The state’s recovery rate has also improved to 75.36%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-meet-with-pm-maharashtra-may-raise-issue-of-lack-of-centre-s-support/story-yNIEj4ktfbdBbWBwaTPWuM.html
23-09-2020||Kolkata||Landslide warning in north Bengal including Darjeeling and Kalimpong||The India meteorological department (IMD) has warned of possible landslides in the hills of Darjeeling and Kalimpong due to forecast of heavy rains in the districts of north Bengal over the next two days. The regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata has said that the districts in north Bengal could experience ‘enhanced rainfall activity’ till Friday. A trough, which extends from south Maharashtra to sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, has formed said officials who added that moisture-laden winds from the Bay of Bengal are also gushing in likely to result in widespread rain in the above mentioned districts. Also Read: Quarantined IAF personnel enhance survival skills, learn rescue ops at Darjeeling’s HMI “There could be landslides in the hilly regions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. The water level in the rivers in north Bengal could also rise,” said a senior official of the regional weather forecasting centre of the IMD in Kolkata. Darjeeling and Kalimpong have been receiving heavy rains since Tuesday. Since Wednesday morning, several districts in south Bengal including Kolkata and its adjoining areas have been receiving intermittent rain and thunder showers. Also Read: Fake Indian currency notes worth Rs 1.17 crore, gold biscuits seized in north Bengal Chief minister Mamata Banerjee who was supposed to visit north Bengal and hold some administrative meetings there, the first such engagement after the pandemic, has postponed her trip. There was a flood-like situation in some districts of north Bengal and south Bengal in July this year after heavy rains triggered by low-pressure systems had hit large parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/landslide-warning-in-north-bengal-including-darjeeling-and-kalimpong/story-hPqeXjra6v1PEYIvwSGfQL.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Season’s heaviest rain, second-highest 24-hour Sept spell in 26 years||Mumbai’s suburbs witnessed an incessant downpour between Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning with 286.4mm rain, categorised as extremely heavy rainfall.This is the heaviest rain the suburbs received this season and the second-highest 24-hour September spell in 26 years (1994-2020). This is also the fourth-highest 24-hour September spell recorded during 1974-2020.A continuous intense downpour on Tuesday night led to water logging in several areas across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). After the intensity of rain reduced marginally around midnight, thundershowers were witnessed around 3.30am onwards, followed by intense downpour.Also Read: Local trains cancelled in Mumbai due to heavy rainfall and waterloggingBetween 8.30am Tuesday and 8.30am Wednesday, the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs, recorded 286.4mm (extremely heavy) rain while Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 147.8mm (very heavy) rain. Of this, 107mm rain was recorded over six hours on Tuesday (5.30pm to 11.30pm) and remaining 179.4mm from 11.30pm to 5.30am Wednesday, while south Mumbai recorded 89mm rain over six hours Tuesday (5.30pm to 11.30pm) and the remaining 58.5mm till 8.30am Wednesday. Light rain continued across parts of the city beyond 8.30am Wednesday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) classifies 15.6-64.4mm as moderate rain while 64.5-115.5mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4mm as very heavy, over 204.5mm as extremely heavy rain, and over 300mm as exceptionally heavy rain.“Both the suburbs and south Mumbai received very intense rain throughout the night. Most of MMR. The entire western side of Mumbai, from Colaba to Bhayandar, was under a thick cloud cover (maximum height 7-8km) causing very heavy rain since Tuesday evening. Short bursts of intense rain were recorded across isolated areas and the trend continued throughout the night with thundershowers and intense rain between 3.30am and 5.30am,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Prior to the 24-hour rain between Tuesday and Wednesday, the heaviest rain this season for Mumbai suburbs was recorded between August 3 and 4 at 268.6mm. The highest rain for south Mumbai however was recorded between August 5 and 6 at 331.2mm.Also Read: Water logging in Mumbai: BMC urges residents to stay homeOn September 20, 2016, Mumbai had recorded 303.7mm rain. Prior to that, 312.4mm rain was recorded on September 23, 1993 and 318.2mm rain on September 23, 1981.The weather bureau has sounded a yellow alert (possibility of heavy rain across isolated areas) for the rest of Wednesday and predicted a gradual reduction in rain intensity by Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-suburbs-experience-second-highest-24-hr-sept-rain-in-26-yrs/story-QmRciWGBKykNTpDwfSFVJN.html
23-09-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 77 more Covid-19 deaths, 5,722 fresh cases||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh reached 5,212 after 77 more people succumbed to the disease, while 5,722 fresh cases pushed the tally to 3,64,543, an official said on Tuesday.There are 63,148 active cases in the state, while 2,96,183 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the infection so far, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.The recovery rate in Uttar Pradesh stands at 81.25 per cent, he said.Of the 77 fresh Covid-19 deaths, 14 were reported from the state capital, Lucknow, while six each were reported from Kanpur and Allahabad. Four deaths each were reported from Gorakhpur, Meerut and Jhansi.Also Read: Film City to come up over 1,000 acres in Greater Noida, Adityanath shares blueprint with filmmakersAs far as the fresh Covid-19 cases are concerned, 969 were reported from Lucknow, followed by 277 in Allahabad. While Kanpur and Gautam Buddh Nagar each reported 244 fresh cases, Varanasi recorded 203 new cases.On Monday, 1.50 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19, taking the total number of samples tested in the state to over 88 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/10-covid-19-re-infection-cases-have-raised-questions-to-be-studied-in-up/story-lF8AcwBo40fWiKeH80BOsJ.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi building collapse: Death toll rises to 39, rescue ops on||The death toll due to a building collapse in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi city climbed to 39 on Wednesday. The 36-year-old Jilani building had 48 flats in total out of which 24 collapsed.The owner of the building Sayyed Ahmed Jilani has been booked for culpable homicide and negligence causing hurt and is still absconding.The incident took place in the early hours of Monday and teams from the National Disaster Response Force, fire brigade and police reached the spot quickly.After carrying out rescue operations for over 30 hours, the NDRF along with other teams used machinery from both sides of the site to clear large portions of debris on the first floor of the building. The teams managed to pull out nine alive from the debris since Monday. The rescue operations are still underway. A total of 25 people have been rescued till now. Earlier, Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant, NDRF said,”Relatives at the spot are claiming there are 8-10 people still trapped inside. We are searching accordingly. The ongoing rain is affecting the operations as we are trying to enter deep into the rubbles and pull out those trapped in the first floor and ground floor of the building.”Thane Disaster Management cell said the rescue operations are likely to end by evening. It earlier pointed out that 10 more people were trapped inside the debris.Meanwhile, 40 families living in three neighbouring buildings were evacuated by the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC). The civic body also disconnected the power and water supply to these buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-building-collapse-death-toll-rises-to-33/story-9hybYrWHJizB62ITe1sqGL.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Local trains cancelled in Mumbai due to heavy rainfall and waterlogging||Local passenger train services in Mumbai on Wednesday were affected due to heavy rains. Parts of Mumbai received heavy rainfall on Tuesday night leading to disruption in local train services and waterlogging in certain areas.Local train services are also affected due to the rains which began from Tuesday afternoon. Central Railways services between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) and Thane railway station have been suspended. The harbour railway line between CSMT and Vashi has also been affected by the rainfall. Western Railways also said that they are suspending the local train services due to waterlogging. Train services between Churchgate and Andheri railway stations are suspended. Train services between Andheri and Virar railway stations remain operational. Maharashtra: Heavy rainfall triggers heavy waterlogging in the Goregaon area of Mumbai. (22.09.20) pic.twitter.com/Y9MXINjSGiPassengers at the Sion railway station also faced difficulties due to the rain as there was severe waterlogging in the tracks. Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine: ‘At least 50 per cent efficacy’, DGCI issues new guidelines#WATCH Maharashtra: Passengers were stranded at Sion railway station in Mumbai yesterday due to waterlogging following heavy downpour in the area. pic.twitter.com/cR3h3yCEabPassengers at the Kurla railway station and Chuna Bhatti railway station faced difficulties due to waterlogging. Streets in Goregaon also witnessed waterlogging due to the rains. Also Read: Should we cheer the fall in India’s Covid-19 cases?#WATCH Maharashtra: Streets were waterlogged in the Goregaon area of Mumbai yesterday after heavy rainfall. pic.twitter.com/BpruXcVn1BCentral Railways also had to cancel one outstation train and rescheduled three outstation trains owing to the heavy rainfall.South Mumbai surpasses 3,000-mm mark, highest seasonal rain in a decadeThe Sion-Matunga road faced waterlogging due to the heavy rains which began from Tuesday afternoon.#WATCH: Several parts of Mumbai received heavy rainfall today leading to waterlogging in some areas. Visuals from Sion-Matunga road. India Meteorological Departmemt (IMD) predicts 'generally cloudy sky with heavy rain' for Mumbai tomorrow. pic.twitter.com/6B5je5m4g7India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that Mumbai will see ‘generally cloudy sky with heavy rain’ on Wednesday. They also said that suburban Mumbai received 23.4mm rain on Tuesday.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-trains-cancelled-in-mumbai-due-to-heavy-rainfall-and-waterlogging/story-KN0BLtSp6R2f6609Fx8EwL.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Give week’s notice before arrest: High court tells Punjab on plea of ex-DGP Saini||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday directed the Punjab government to issue a notice of seven days to former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini if the state contemplates to arrest him in a criminal case. The order was passed by the bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi on a fresh application moved by Saini in a 2018 petition. “The earlier order has been modified to the extent that if he is to be arrested in any case registered for the time period of his service, he should be given seven days’ notice,” said senior advocate Vinod Ghai, who appeared for Saini. In his fresh plea, Saini demanded that the interim order passed in October 2018 be extended to his entire service record as the state’s agencies are “hell bent on implicating” him. If he appears before the police in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case, there is apprehension that he will be arrested in some other case, Ghai told the court. In October 2018, the high court had denied him blanket bail but asked Punjab to give one week’s notice to Saini, in case he is to be arrested in a criminal case pertaining to when he served in the vigilance department and other important positions in the state. The order was extended twice but after the Covid-19 outbreak, the plea could not be taken up. Wednesday’s order covers any FIR registered by the police against Saini for any ‘crime’ committed by him during his entire service period. In the October 2018 petition, Saini demanded that directions be given to the state to get the probe done by the Central Bureau of Investigation in the event of any FIR against him since he fears false implication due to “mala fide and ulterior motives” on the part of the political party in power in Punjab. He also demanded that he should not be arrested in any criminal case. During his stint as head of the state vigilance, a number of criminal cases were registered against present chief minister Amarinder Singh, his family members and other political leaders for corruption. He had given example of FIRs in the Ludhiana City Centre scam, Amritsar Improvement Trust scam and one against Bharat Inder Singh Chahal, media adviser of the chief minister, and Amarinder’s son Raninder Singh. He told the court that now he is seen as the man who launched criminal prosecution against the present chief minister and his coterie and the state’s agencies have become “persecuting agencies” instead of “prosecuting agencies” for his false implication. He had also expressed fear of implication in the 2015 sacrilege cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/give-week-s-notice-before-arrest-high-court-tells-punjab-on-plea-of-ex-dgp-saini/story-3SPPBCAChzTq0lSpzzJSEI.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Rhea Chakraborty’s custody extended, files bail plea in HC||Actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, both arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), on Tuesday filed an application in the Bombay high court seeking bail. Their lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, said the plea will be heard on Wednesday before a bench of justice Sarang Kotwal.Rhea, 28, was arrested by the federal agency, which is probing the drugs angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, on September 9. Her bail plea was rejected at that time by a special court and she was remanded to 14-day judicial custody. The special court on Tuesday extended her judicial custody till October 6.According to NCB, Rhea and Showik financed and arranged drugs for Rajput at his instructions. NCB has so far arrested over 10 people in the case. Rhea says she is innocent, falsely implicated in the case, and was coerced into making “self-incriminatory” confessions by the NCB. The agency, meanwhile, summoned Bollywood talent management KWAN Agency’s CEO, Dhruv Chitgopekar, in connection with its probe, NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra said. Chitgopekar reached the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) guest house, where NCB officials are questioning people, around 2pm.Malhotra denied that any summons was sent to KWAN employee and Deepika Padukone’s manager, Karishma Prakash. “No summons has been issued to Prakash. But we will summon her later this week,” Malhotra said. NCB director general Rakesh Asthana said the agency did not send any summons to Padukone.On Tuesday, actor Dia Mirza also dismissed reports that she was involved in consumption and procurement of drugs, a claim she said was made with “mala fide intentions”. Rajput was found hanging in his residence in Bandra on June 14. The CBI is separately probing a case against Rhea and others for allegedly abetting the 34-year-old actor’s suicide||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rhea-s-custody-extended-files-bail-plea-in-hc/story-CnfdWTcW0pSqOuXp7AE0SO.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Jamia stir was a ‘beta test’: Charge sheet||The key conspirators behind the communal riots in north-east Delhi, in which 53 people were killed and over 400 suffered injuries, learnt lessons from the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests near Jamia Millia Islamia, and used these learnings to organise and fan violence in the area this February, according to Delhi Police.The charge sheet, filed by the police’s special cell last week, has named 15 people who allegedly conspired to orchestrate the riots in February across north-east Delhi localities. In the 17,500-page charge sheet, the police have named Abdul Khalid Saifi, Ishrat Jahan, Meeran Haider, Tahir Hussain, Gulfisha Khatoon, Safoora Zargar, Shifa-ur Rehman, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Shadab Ahmad, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Taslim Ahmed, Salim Malik, Mohd Salim and Athar Khan as accused. They have all denied wrongdoing.Former JNU student and activist Umar Khalid, who was arrested on Sunday night in connection with the case, has not been charged. Sharjeel Imam, who was earlier arrested for giving an alleged seditious speech, has also been not charged, though both Khalid and Imam have been named in the document. Police have said that they may file supplementary charge sheets into the case. Khalid and Imam have said that they have no role to play in the riots.Also Read: Delhi riots: Police unprepared, failed to anticipate scale in numbers, shows dataThe police have annexed statements of over 100 protected witnesses, call details and chat records of the different WhatsApp groups that the arrested persons were part of.A copy of the charge sheet was provided to the lawyers of the accused on Monday. Anti-CAA protests The charge sheet describes the anti-CAA protests near Jamia, which turned violent last December, as the “beta version of the carnage”. Violence followed an anti-CAA protest near Jamia in December, in which several vehicles and public property were damaged. Besides cracking down on those outside, the police had also barged into the Jamia campus and beat up students sitting in the library. This was followed by protests at the university gate, then at the nearby Shaheen Bagh and different parts of the city and the country. “The key conspirators had learnt their lessons drawn from December 2019 and while executing the continuing conspiracy in February 2020 chose north-east Delhi with its unique economic, social and demographic matrix as being the ideal ground for mass scale mobilisation and violence as it was found to be much more vulnerable and dispensable as compared to south east Delhi,” reads the charge sheet. “Almost every character who gained notoriety in February 2020 had been noticed as being present in the incidents of December 2019,” the charge sheet adds. Also Read: Facebook India moves supreme court against Delhi assembly panel summonsAccording to the document, the members of Pinjra Tod were brought on board to ensure that the protests were not branded as one being led by only one particular community. The police said that sites for sit-in protests were chosen in pockets dominated by the Muslims, and which were close to arterial roads that led to areas with mixed population. The Pinja Tod activists have denied any wrongdoing.Hate speech The charge sheet mentions that the conspirators “by their ingenuity and criminality of thoughts”, gave a new meaning to hate speech. It says that the speeches were sugar-coated with nationalism, aimed “at igniting and reinforcing a pan-Islamic identity.”According to the investigators, the accused kept the “audience” confused by raising several issues at once, including CAA, fascism and interests of Dalits and the marginalised. ”The conspirators had something for everyone who was looking up to their intellectual corpus in the belief that they represented a bonafide alternative in India’s democratic palette.”BJP leader Kapil Mishra, who had also given a speech a day before violence erupted in north-east Delhi, was questioned by the police but he denied giving any speech. He was summoned on July 28 and he told the investigators that he had gone to the protest site in his personal capacity. “I have not delivered any speech. I just told police to clear the road in three days. If they did not do it, I said that we would also sit on dharna,” Mishra told the police, as per the charge sheet. Critics of the police probe into the riots have often pointed out while the police targeted anti-CAA and anti-government voices, it did not take any action against people like Mishra, who belonged to the ruling party even though there was video footage of them giving inflammatory speeches and leading slogans.Financing The charge sheet claims that five accused in the case got Rs 1.61 crore in cash through bank transactions to allegedly “manage” the anti-CAA protest sites and “execute the conspiracy” for riots. Police have named former councillor Ishrat Jahan, activist Khalid Saifi, suspended municipal councillor Tahir Hussain, Shifa-Ur-Rehman and Jamia Milla Islamia student Meeran Haider for collectively receiving the money, of which around Rs 1.48 crore was withdrawn in cash on separate occasions to implement the plans. Police have cited the bank details of arrested accused Ishrat Jahan, and claimed that Rs 4 lakh was transferred in her bank account from a Corporation Bank account in Maharashtra. The money was transferred by a man who worked as a driver for Samir Abdul Sai in Sindhudurg Maharashtra, according to the police. Sai, who has recorded his statement before a judge, alleged that he was conned into sending the money by his business partner who was allegedly funding the anti-CAA protests. Key names The charge sheet mentions suspended councillor Tahir Hussain, Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and Khalid Saifi as some of the main conspirators who planned and executed the protests and then the riots. Both Khalid and Imam, however, are yet to be charged.According to the charge sheet, Hussain, also the prime accused in the murder of IB official Ankit Sharma, arranged funds for the riot and mobilised rioters. Police have attached the statement of an “insider”, who has claimed to have seen Hussain preparing for the violence by stocking petrol, acid and bottles. According to the police, it was Saifi who brought Hussain and Khalid together. Khalid, the charge sheet says, planned the conspiracy which had to be executed during the visit of the US President Donald Trump. Imam was involved in the conspiracy since the first clashes outside Jamia, the charge sheet says. Imam, who was arrested for making an alleged inflammatory speech, has been accused by police of using social media “for large scale indoctrination and mobilisation of youths for chakka jaam as a protest against CAA”. Pinjra Tod activists Police have attached WhatsApp chats of Pinjra Tod activists Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal with Khalid, Sharjeel and other alleged co-conspirators as the ones mobilising people on the roads before the violence. It also contains statements by protected witnesses, claiming women who were part of the protests were given chilli powder to be used during violence. The charge sheet mentions that there were at least 25 WhatsApp groups, which were created to for the purpose of mobilising support to block roads, for protests against the CAA and, ultimately the riots. One such WhatsApp group (the chat records features as evidence of conspiracy) was created by Pinjra Tod member Gulfisha Khatoon. Lapses in deployment According to the charge sheet, the riots in north-east Delhi coincided with Trump’s visit when the national capital was on a high alert. However, the police deployment data related to the violence-hit areas cited in the charge sheet shows police were unprepared or had not anticipated the scale of the clashes. On February 23, when the first incidents of violence were reported from Jafrabad, there were 1,393 police personnel deployed there. On February 24, there were 1,361 police personnel on the ground, and on February 25, 1,399 police personnel were posted. Most cases of rioting and murder were reported between February 23-25. What defence says Advocate Mahmood Pracha, who is representing Gulfisha Khatoon, called it a ghost charge sheet. “The informer of this FIR is ghost and more than 100 main witnesses are also ghosts. If police is shying away from disclosing their names, one can imagine the worth of this charge sheet,” he saidAdit S Pujari, appearing for Pinjra Tod activists Natasha and Devanga, said: “The only place we will respond is in the court.” Advocate Rizwan, counsel for Tahir Hussain, said his client was being made a scapegoat. “These are all concocted facts because people first came to know about Trump’s to India on January 13. Police have alleged that the conspirators met at Shaheen Bagh on January 8.” Pradeep Teotia, counsel for Ishrat Jahan, said his client had no role in the riots. “We have video footage, which shows my client was not leading any mob. She was forced to sign disclosure statements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamia-stir-was-a-beta-test-charge-sheet/story-g2dqlRu4lkH028V75hyU8J.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Rumi’s roomie||It’s almost midnight. He picks up his guitar, strums the strings and starts to croon Feeling Good. The Nina Simone classic instantly catches Rumi’s attention. He leaps up to the chair, jumps on the writing table, and listens intently to the rendition.Rumi is used to these guitar songs. Because Rumi’s roomie is a musician.Rumi is a cat. His mate, Ehmad Ridwan, is a human.This is their pad in south Delhi’s East of Kailash. They are the only guys in the flat. Both the other flatmates are women, who have their own rooms.“While I often play the guitar in the drawing room, our common room, I prefer to listen to music alone in my room, with eyes closed,” says Mr Ridwan. In his mid-20s, he is giving a tour of his small room. Since it is pandemic-time, the visit is unfolding through WhatsApp video.Mr Ridwan returned a week ago from a summer spell in his hometown, Srinagar. A graduate in Peace and Conflict Resolution in Delhi’s Jamia Millia Islamia University, he confesses that “things aren’t going well because of the pandemic.” His main source of income in the Capital was giving performances in public and private gigs, but both have temporarily stalled. He also had a series of jobs in Gurugram and Delhi, but gave up that regular career to be with his mother during the pandemic—his father passed away in January last year. He isn’t unduly worried for his prospects, though, “for everyone is suffering financially these days.”Mr Ridwan calls his music genre Urdu blues rock, “in which I set music to lyrics by well-known poets as well as some I write myself.” Poet Faiz is a passion, though there isn’t any of his books in the room. It is an elegantly sparse place, with a few potted plants scattered around. The most noticeable elements are two guitars, and the wall decked with a dozen postcards sent by friends during travels to various places.As the outside world remains mostly out of bounds, one wonders why Mr Ridwan came back to this windowless room instead of staying in his Srinagar family house, with six rooms, where the windows look to a great variety of views—a graveyard, a panorama of poplar trees, and the famous Shankaracharya temple on the top of a hill.“Because this room is me. And I need to be alone to create my music.”He now again picks up his guitar and starts an Urdu song. This time Rumi sits by a potted plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-rumi-s-roomie/story-OfszgVIGiPmKXXKeOq3t4I.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Paddy to be procured at 4,500 locations in Punjab, 2,650 temporary purchase centres set up||With no signs of Covid-19 subsiding anytime soon, the Punjab food and civil supplies department has decided to stagger paddy procurement on the lines of wheat purchase made from April to June amid pandemic-induced lockdown. But this time, 2,650 temporary purchasing centres have been set up besides the existing 1,850 such facilities, taking the total to 4,500. There will be at least 1,000 more centres than the one set up during the wheat procurement season. To maintain social distancing, a cluster of 3-4 villages will have one designated procurement centre. The department is contemplating to use the compounds of schools and colleges, rice shelling mills, defunct mandis and open plinths besides other public places with concrete floors for paddy procurement which will begin from October 1. “Since coronavirus cases are hitting the peak this time around, we want to take all precautions to ensure that minimum number of farmers gather at a place. We are looking for premises which have concrete floors,” said principal secretary (food and civil supplies) KAP Sinha. The department has sought reports from all 22 deputy commissioners to enlist the public places in the districts which have space for unloading and weighing produce and can be used for purchase by the government agencies. This is the second procurement since the lockdown was imposed in March to check the spread of Covid19. Wheat procurement that began in April 15 was carried out from over 3,600 centres. At that time, to stagger the procurement, the premises of 1,650 rice mills were used along with existing 1,850 mandis and procurement centres managed by the state mandi board. Officials said paddy procurement poses a bigger challenge since the volume of produce is at least one-third more than the wheat crop during the rabi season. Also, paddy arrives at a faster pace in mandis, they said. An average 120 lakh tonne wheat arrives in mandis while the paddy arrivals are expected to touch 170 lakh tone this time. CCL BY FIRST WEEK OF OCT A cash credit limit (CCL) of Rs 35,500 crore has been sought for procurement of paddy at a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,888 per quintal. Sources in the state food and civil supplies department said the amount is expected to be sanctioned by the first week of October as some issues related to the previous rabi crops are being sorted out. GRAPHIC:PROCUREMENT IN FIGURES 170 lakh tone: Total paddy expected this kharif season ₹1,888: Per quintal minimum support price 4,500: Total procurement centres 2,650: Temporary procurement centres1,850: Existing purchase centres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/paddy-to-be-procured-at-4-500-locations-2-650-temporary-purchase-centres-set-up/story-yRmu5AE466DfbGNV9c4DSO.html
23-09-2020||City||As paddy harvesting starts, Punjab farmer unions adamant on burning straw if not paid for disposal||With the onset of the paddy harvesting season, Punjab is set to face its major problem in burning of paddy straw which draws a massive criticism for the state and its farming community every year. But the farmer unions in Punjab have announced that they will not bow down under any pressure and will opt for the cheapest way to handle the crop residue until paid for its proper disposal. Despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s directions against any such move, red dots (farm fires) on Punjab map have started appearing from Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts, where harvesting of early sown paddy is going on to clear fields for sowing the potato crop. Already, 43 such cases have been detected by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre. “Why you expect everything from farmers and that too without paying anything extra? The farmers have no option as neither the Centre nor the state government provide any incentive to them to handle the residue. The government should give Rs 200 per quintal as handling charges as farmers cannot afford it,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda). “The farmers are already upset over the agriculture ordinances. How could the government stop us when we are being exploited and forced to protest on the roads with passing of these bills. Even the last year, the government didn’t pay any amount to farmers who shunned straw burning,” he said. Manjit Singh, district president of the BKU (Ugarahan), said the farmers will confront the police and officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the agriculture department if they visit villages to stop them from burning stubble. “We are aware of the environmental issues but the farmers have no alternative to burning of the straw. They do not have money to manage the stubble with the latest technology,” he said. “The government must set up power plants where we can sell the crop residue and earn money. But officials are busy in doling out subsidy for machines which are much cheaper in the open market,” Jagtar Singh, a farmer from Fatehgarh Sahib, said. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh last week had blamed centre for not announcing incentive to handle paddy straw. Also, chief secretary Vini Mahajan had directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure zero tolerance for paddy straw burning in view of the NGT guidelines. Doctors worried inview of Covid-19 Dr Vishal Chopra, a professor in pulmonary medicine at the Government Rajindra Medical College, Patiala, and incharge of Covid-19 said in view of the pandemic, people must be extra cautious and should avoid burning of straw. “It is for the welfare of all, especially those suffering from ailments of heart and lungs. The Exposure to smog will increase the trouble of such patients,” he said. BOX: FIGURES AT A GLANCE Farm fires in 2019: 52,942 Farm fires in 2018: 51,751 Estimated stubble residue: 200 lakh tonnes Number of farmers issued fine: 3,200 Environmental compensation collected:₹40 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-paddy-harvesting-starts-punjab-farmer-unions-adamant-on-burning-straw-if-not-paid-for-proper-disposal/story-wUsITb5f2ZxnvVvH8SLNjO.html
23-09-2020||City||3 arrested for setting woman on fire in UP||Three men have been arrested in connection with the murder of an 18-year-old woman who was burnt alive following a dispute between two families in Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur district late on Monday, police said on Tuesday. Following a dispute with the family members of the deceased, identified as Shraddha, the three accused allegedly set her ablaze after pouring kerosene over her. She was rushed to a hospital in Lucknow and died during treatment, said deputy superintendent of police Vijay Mall Yadav.According to Yadav, before succumbing to her injuries, the woman named the three alleged assailants. Police said the families of the deceased and accused had an ongoing dispute which started in June, following which a complaint was lodged by each side and two FIRs were registered. The deceased’s father, Pradeep Singh, was also arrested in connection with the matter then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-arrested-for-setting-woman-on-fire-in-up/story-eLyLBYdlW2DWxB8b1Qcl1L.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal reports 6 deaths, 340 cases||Himachal reported six deaths and 340 new infections on Tuesday, taking the infection count to 12, 773 and death toll to 130.Of the fresh cases, 79 were reported in Sirmaur, 66 in Mandi, 48 in Shimla, 38 in Solan, 28 in Kangra, 25 in Kullu, 17 in Chamba, 14 in Bilaspur, 11 in Una, 3 in Kinnaur and one in Lahaul-Spiti . There are 4,124 active cases in the state as 8,491 people have recovered.As many as 655 people recovered on Tuesday, the highest recoveries in a single day so far. Two people in Mandi and one person each in Kullu, Shimla and Sirmaur succumbed due to virus-related complications. The death rate in the state has climbed to 1.02%.So far, Kangra has reported the maximum 29 deaths,followed by Shimla (23) and Solan (22). Lahaul-Spiti is the only district with no fatalities.Solan is the worst affected district with 2,698 cases, followed by Kangra (1,911), Sirmaur (1,626), Mandi (1,426), Una (1,135), Shimla (958), Hamirpur (828), Chamba (744), Bilaspur (671), Kullu (493), Kinnaur (166) and Lahaul-Spiti (122).BJP LEGISLATOR TESTS POSITIVEBJP’s Nachan MLA Vinod Kumar also tested positive for the virus. He is well and has been home isolated. Meanwhile, Forest minister Rakesh Pathania has self quarantined himself after coming into contact with a Covid-19 positive person. Pathania came in contact with Khadi Board vice- chairman Purushotam Guleria who tested positive on Monday along with his wife.Guleria had attended Pathania’s programmes in Rohru and Chopal areas. “Rakesh Pathania is well and will remain in home quarantined for next few days,” the minister’s official twitter handle said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-reports-6-deaths-340-cases/story-gQEfVXOynXYe4WRQCKPJjL.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||18 deaths, 1,235 fresh cases recorded in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 18 more deaths and 1,235 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the UT to 66,261.As many as 736 people tested positive in Jammu, including 51 travellers, while 499 cases were reported from Kashmir, of which 38 were travellers. This month, Jammu has witnessed more infections on daily basis as compared to Kashmir.As many as 1,619 people have been cured and discharged on Tuesday, taking the overall recoveries to 43,734 which accounts for a recovery rate of 66%. This is a significant decrease in the recovery rate from 77.3% on September 2.Active cases have reached 21,485 and total 14.36 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far.A government spokesperson said 880 people were discharged in Jammu division and 739 in Kashmir. Of the total, 32,277 were cured in Kashmir and 11,457 in Jammu division.The spokesperson added that 18 more people succumbed to the disease — seven in Jammu and 11 in Kashmir. The death toll has risen to 1,042 — 789 in Kashmir and 253 in Jammu.In Jammu division, the highest jump of fresh cases was witnessed in Jammu with 253 cases while 98 people tested positive in Doda district. In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was recorded in Srinagar where 210 more people testing positive, followed by 62 at Pulwama.Srinagar is the worst affected district as the number of total cases here is 13,409, with 272 deaths. Jammu is at number two recording 10,675 cases and 143 deaths. Till date, 5.51 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 28,480 in home quarantine, 21,485 in isolation, and 61,953 under home surveillance. Besides this, 4.38 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-deaths-1-235-fresh-cases-recorded-in-j-k/story-enI7TmdR22NVLGTxDPe0SK.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, asymptomatic patients in J&K to be discharged after 10 days without testing||The J&K administration on Tuesday announced that asymptomatic covid patients will now be discharged after 10 days without testing.Chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam chaired a meeting to take stock of efforts toward mitigating Covid-19 pandemic and review the related standard operating procedures (SOPs) and policies.In view of the recent surge in cases in Jammu, GMC Jammu principal was asked to ensure adequate availability of oxygen and other supplies in the hospital, including PPE kits, besides recruitment of enough manpower to overcome the problems in the hospital during the pandemic.The chief secretary directed installation of 150 CCTVs at GMC for better patient management and monitoring, besides establishing a special covid counter in the emergency block to act as one-point contact of covid testing and subsequent segregation of symptomatic, asymptomatic, and negative cases.“This counter will also house a covid helpdesk to assist patients through procedures of the notified SOPs,” he added.The chief secretary directed Jammu MC commissioner to conduct three-day sanitization drive at GMC, Jammu. GMC principal was asked to clear all parking lots on GMC premises of idle vehicles for convenience and free movement of covid and other patients.He further directed to nominate nodal officers in all covid hospitals to monitor daily case management, patient admissions and discharge, referrals, and infection trajectory. The health and medical education department was asked to conduct serological surveys and antibody tests to ascertain spread of infection and associated immunity in people.While reviewing the discharge policy, the chief secretary said that the policy has been successful in lessening burden on tertiary healthcare system. The officers concerned were directed to discharge asymptomatic patients in the hospitals after 10 days without conducting any subsequent test.The officers were directed to strictly implement home isolation guidelines for asymptomatic patients and ensure that they are free of co-morbidity and provided with government-sponsored oxymeter before being sent to home quarantine, besides using the Arogya Setu app to monitor their status.He reiterated the importance of aggressive testing for early medical intervention and asked officials to focus on vulnerable patients including children, aged, pregnant women, patients with influenza-like illness, severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), co-morbid conditions, service providers, drivers, and healthcare professionals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-asymptomatic-patients-in-j-k-to-be-discharged-after-10-days-without-testing/story-C3pSS0IoLWuTmY745TwtGN.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Shanta Kumar slams Opposition for unruly conduct in Rajya Sabha||Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Union minister Shanta Kumar on Tuesday slammed the Opposition for the unruly conduct of their members in the Rajya Sabha during the passing of the farm bills.In a statement issued here, Kumar said the conduct of the opposition parties’ was shameful and the most reprehensible in the history of the Parliament and must be condemned in strongest words. “Parliament is for dialogue, not for this type of hooliganism,” said Kumar.He said Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had made an objectionable remark against the minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur that had hurt the sentiments of the people of Himachal.Shanta said the Opposition was criticising the new agrarian reform bill for narrow political goals. The former two-term chief minister said, A few years ago the Prime Minister had constituted a high-level committee under my chairmanship to recommend changes in farm sectors.Agricultural scientist Ashok Gulati was a member of the committee. The committee report pointed out that agriculture was no longer a remunerative business but the world could not do without it.”“To help farmers, almost all countries in the world give direct income support to the farmers. I am happy that the PM has also implemented our recommendation of direct income support as Kisan Samman Nidhi,” said the 86-year-old veteran leader.He said the second major recommendation given by the committee was that farmers should be freed from the clutches of middlemen in mandis. By bringing the most revolutionary laws, the government has tried to provide the farmers much needed relief, he said. “However, the naive farmers have not read the law. Those who used to exploit farmers are the behind the ongoing farmer protests,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shanta-kumar-slams-opposition-for-unruly-conduct-in-rajya-sabha/story-1BUh3LUjg72KBYV157ho0H.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Water supply to be hit in Chandigarh, Mohali||Water supply to Chandigarh and parts of Mohali will be affected from September 23 to 26. With Punjab State Power Corporation Limited carrying out urgent maintenance work at the Morinda grid, power supply to the Kajauli waterworks will be hit, leading to the disruption, stated a release. In Chandigarh, on September 23, there will be no water supply in the afternoon and it will be at low pressure in the evening. Normal supply will be restored on September 24 and 25. On September 26, while the morning supply will be normal, it will be disrupted in the afternoon and will be at low pressure in the evening.In Mohali, water supply to Phases 1 to 7 and 9 to 11, Sectors 70 and 71, Mataur and Shahi Majra, and the Industrial Area, Phases 1 to 5, will be affected. On September 24 and 26, the morning and evening supply will be according to availability. on September 25 and 27, the morning supply will be at very low pressure and the evening supply will be according to availability, said public health executive engineer Anil Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-chandigarh-mohali/story-js6fJMqcRCXKLTmi7Q51lJ.html
23-09-2020||City||GCR master drain unable to handle intense rainfall: DLF to GMDA flood committee||Gurugram: Private developer DLF has attributed the flooding of Raghavendra Marg, popularly known as Golf Course Road, on August 19 and 20 primarily to intense rainfall, saying that the intensity of rainfall was more than 16 times the area’s master drainage capacity. DLF is the custodian of Golf Course Road (GCR) and responsible for its maintenance.In a letter submitted to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA’s) flood protection committee earlier this month, DLF said, “(The) master drainage system has been designed by the HSVP/GMDA at 1/10 inch (2.5 mm) rainfall intensity per hour. As you are aware that on 19.08.20 approx 125mm rainfall occurred over a period of 3 (three) hours i.e. 41.66 mm/hour. The intensity of the rainfall was 16.66 times of the designed capacity of master stormwater drain.” On Tuesday, the developer shared a copy of its submission to GMDA. Following heavy showers on August 19 and 20, the stretch of Golf Course Road between Sectors 26 and 56 was severely waterlogged, with the underpass at DLF Phase 1 rendered unusable for over 30 hours. To probe the matter, GMDA on August 20 constituted a seven-member expert committee to submit a report within a week. The committee includes a representative of DLF. While the final report has been delayed, after multiple GMDA staffers involved in the exercise tested positive for Covid-19 in the last two weeks, officials in the authority’s infrastructure department confirmed that they have received the developer’s assessment.DLF’s letter, authored by Sunil Arora, a committee member and vice-president (infrastructure) at DLF, states that it would not have been possible to drain out such a large quantity of stormwater through the master drainage system. “The waterlogging occurred not only on Raghvendra Marg but also in sectors 27,28,42,43, 52 & 56,” states his submission. Moreover, Arora maintained that DLF’s own preparatory measures to facilitate drainage of stormwater from the DLF Phase 1 underpass, and along Sectors 26, 26A, 27, 28, 42 and 43, are adequate. “We have four pumps capable of pumping out 5,400 litres of water per minute along with a sump well with a capacity of 2,093 kilolitres. The sump well is sufficient to store rainwater for a rainfall of 125 mm, as we saw on August 19,” Arora said, reiterating from his letter to the GMDA, dated September 7. “Adequate saucer drains on both end of underpass have also been provided to accumulate and dispose of the same in the sump,” his letter goes on to state. According to the developer, during field visits conducted in the wake of last month’s flooding, a DLF team had noted major bottlenecks in the region which may have exacerbated the waterlogging. “There was a natural creek starting from the Nathupur bundh in Sector 24 carrying the discharge of catchment area of Biodiversity Park, part of Sector 24, 25A (Ambience areas). The same does not exist further in Delhi area and presently, rainwater is being pumped out near sector 20,” Arora mentions. Secondly, a portion of the master drain (known as Leg-1) passing through Palam Vihar, which was once an open drain, has since been covered up. “During heavy rains, some portion of the drain collapsed leading to interruption in flow of water. The same was got cleaned by the GMDA... there is possibility that the cleaning of the drain before the monsoon may not have been carried out due to Covid lockdown,” Arora wrote on September 7. Ranjana Chaudhuri of the department of regional water studies at TERI, who will be spearheading a privately funded hydrological study of the region following last month’s floods, said, “I cannot comment on the developer’s assessment of the situation, but yes, the intensity of rainfall was a huge challenge on the day. Moreover, with so much concretisation in the affected area, the run-off comes down from the Aravallis at a high velocity. Such extreme weather events are likely to occur again, so it’s not enough for one just stakeholder to be well prepared. A long-term, ecological solution needs to be considered.” A DLF spokesperson on Tuesday said, “DLF has submitted its assessment of the flood situation to GMDA, as stipulated. We have also discussed possible solutions to resolve the flooding issue with officials concerned, and will be taking the matter forward in the interest of Gurugram and its citizens. While VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA, did not respond to request for comment on Tuesday, Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer of the authority’s infra division and member of the flood protection committee, said, “I have received DLF’s assessment, but will only be able to comment once the committee has convened and had a discussion about the same. Their submission will be carefully evaluated and we are working with them to find a solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gcr-master-drain-unable-to-handle-intense-rainfall-dlf-to-gmda-flood-committee/story-FrgPltuVLeeK5dFbdutJGM.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Vir Chakra awardee Air Marshal MM Singh dies||Air Marshal MM Singh (retd), who was awarded Vir Chakra — the country’s third-highest war gallantry award — for leading successful Indian Air Force operations during the India-Pakistan conflict in 1971, died in Chandigarh on Tuesday. He was 89.Air Marshal Singh was commissioned in the IAF in January 1951. During the 1971 war, he was in command of an operational fighter squadron in the Eastern Sector. “His squadron flew a total of 110 sorties in Bangladesh in close support and anti-shipping roles and met all its operational commitments without damage to any of its aircraft. He personally led 19 sorties and successfully engaged enemy defence positions, gunboats and ships despite the heavy ground fire,” reads his Vir Chakra citation, which he received on the Republic Day in 1973.“When the heliborne operations across the Maghana River commenced, his squadron provided very effective air cover for the successful completion of the task. In addition, the squadron provided valuable close support to the Army in the Agartala Sector inspite of the fact that the aircraft had to operate from a short runway at Agartala,” it further reads.Air Marshal Singh was set to lead the air force in 1988, but was reportedly superseded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vir-chakra-awardee-air-marshal-mm-singh-dies/story-LAkAj2rRosOtSCiwx3nrfK.html
23-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: HSVP conducts draw of lots for allotment of plots for oustees||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) conducted a draw of lots at its Sector 14 office for the allotment of plots to 38 families under the oustees quota. The draw was held for those whose 75% land had been acquired by the authority for the development of residential sectors. Officials said 294 families had submitted applications for such plots but the claims of only 39 applicants were found to be valid. Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer 1, said that draw of plots was held for 38 families, who would be given possession within a month after getting approval from the headquarters in Chandigarh. “The draw was held amicably and the initial process is now complete. Possession will be given after approval from the headquarters,” he said.HSVP officials added that the applicants will have to pay the market price for the plots that was fixed by the authority in 2018, when the applications were invited. The plot size has also been increased as the floor area ratio (FAR) allowed on these plots was initially 1.75, which has now increased to 2.64. The draw was held under the chairmanship of Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP. He said the issue of allotment of plots for oustees was pending for a long time and has finally been resolved. “The eligible applicants will be given possession at the earliest,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-hsvp-conducts-draw-of-lots-for-allotment-of-plots-for-oustees/story-Imx1r8wzcrso0sUXJpVXXI.html
23-09-2020||Gurugram||Deadline for restoration work of John Hall pushed forward by seven months||The deadline for the completion of the first phase of the restoration work of the 94-year-old John Hall has been pushed forward by roughly seven months due to Covid-related restrictions, officials helming the project said. Work on the project was supposed to start by April this year as per the earlier plan but couldn’t take off due to the nationwide lockdown imposed in March, said officials. John Hall, a colonial structure, was built in 1925 in the memory of John Goble Brayne, the second son of FL Brayne, who was the deputy commissioner of Gurgaon in 1920. Over the years, it has occupied an important place in the administrative functioning of the city. Currently, the place is used by the administration for meetings and is opened only for official work. The hall was renamed Swatantra Senani Zila Parishad Hall a few years ago and is presently under the ownership of the Zila Parishad. In November 2019, the district administration signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a city-based firm as a funding partner for a three-year-long restoration project of the structure. The restoration work is being handled by the Haryana corporate social responsibility advisory board (HCSRAB) and is aimed at establishing John Hall’s importance as a historical structure in the city. The restoration project will be divided into four phases. It would cost around ₹3.59 crore in total. The first phase is estimated to cost ₹51 lakh, the second and third ₹1.5 crore each, while the last phase will cost nearly ₹27 lakh. Gaurav Singh, additional CEO and regional head of HCSRAB, Gurugram, said that a review meeting was held last week for the resumption of the first phase of the project. “Last week, we convened a meeting with all stakeholders and discussed the survey report that had been prepared earlier. We have formed a committee, including members of the Zila Parishad and our team, to carry forward the restoration work. Following the recommendations of the survey, our next step is to finalise an architect with a background in heritage conservation, the tender for which will be floated within the next 15 days,” said Singh. He said that the timeline for the first phase had been pushed forward by seven months since the administration had been busy with Covid-related measures. “Under normal circumstances, the first phase of the project should have been completed by now. We lost out on five-six months due to the lockdown and other restrictions. The project is on but it will take another seven to eight months for the first phase to be completed,” said Singh. Singh added that the project design prepared by the conservation architect will be assessed as per the survey report created by ASI members before tenders are floated. Anu Sheokand, who recently took charge as the CEO of the Zila Parishad, said that the Zila Parishad and CSR board would be working on the restoration project together to preserve and enhance the structure’s historical importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/deadline-for-restoration-work-of-john-hall-pushed-forward-by-seven-months/story-YMUtqsqNqjiEqs8MmXvVyO.html
23-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana govt transfers 34 IPS and HPS officers||The Haryana Government on Tuesday issued transfer and posting orders of 34 IPS (Indian Police Service) and HPS (Haryana Police Service) officers with immediate effect. Several senior police officers in Gurugram were among those who were transferred as part of this statewide reshuffle. Kulvinder Singh, who was posted as deputy inspector-general (DIG) in Madhuban, has been appointed as the joint commissioner of police, Gurugram. The post had been lying vacant since last year. D K Bhardwaj, who was posted as commandant, 2nd Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) in Bhondsi, will take over as deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic. The post had been vacant since Chander Mohan, who also had the charge of DCP (east) with traffic, was transferred to Mahendragarh last month. Astha Modi, who was superintendent of police (SP) Kurukshetra, has been appointed as DCP (headquarters). Nikita Gahlaut, who had the charge of DCP (headquarters), has been transferred as DCP (Manesar), while Deepak Saharan, who had been holding that post, has been transferred as DCP (west). Sumer Singh, who had the charge of DCP (west), has been posted as DCP (Ballabgarh), Faridabad. Maqsood Ahmed, who was DCP (Ballabgarh), has been appointed as DCP (east). He will also hold the additional charge of CEO (mobility) of GMDA. Earlier, 27 police officials, including station house officers (SHOs) of several police stations, officers from crime units, intelligence wing, security and court surveillance branches were transferred after K K Rao had taken charge as the police commissioner of Gurugram on July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-govt-transfers-34-ips-and-hps-officers/story-qVolZ0tKJ6AJkgNeoHTpSP.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi transport dept urges owners of older vehicles to fix HSRPs, fuel stickers||The Delhi government’s transport department has asked owners of old vehicles registered in the national capital to get high security registration number plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers issued for their vehicles.In a public notice issued Tuesday, the department advised vehicle owners to get the HSRPs and stickers from registered dealers without delay and added that it will soon launch a drive wherein violators will be prosecuted. The vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, will have to get HSRPs and colour stickers. The newer vehicles (registered after April 1, 2019) come equipped with HSRPs and stickers, an official said. Also Read: Delhi: How you can get HSRPs and fuel stickers for your vehicleThe colour-coded stickers are meant for identifying vehicles based on their fuel type, with light blue indicating petrol and CNG, and orange indicating diesel-run vehicles. It also bears details such as the registration number, the registering authority, a laser-branded PIN, and engine and chassis numbers of the vehicle, officials said.The HSRPs are chromium-based hologram plates made by hot stamping, besides a laser-branding of a permanent identification number. “Almost 30 lakh old vehicles will require HSRPs and the fuel-based colour stickers. Various auto makers have appointed a vendor for HSRPs and the plates can booked online. Around 236 dealers will be providing HSRPs and stickers. We will start our enforcement drive only after giving a reasonable period of time to the public to get both fixed on their vehicles,” a transport department official said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor has urged the lieutenant-governor to direct the transport department to withdraw its notice for fixing HSRPs and colour-coded stickers, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the exercise will involve around 70 lakh vehicles, and can be postponed till such time when the pandemic has subsided completely.People should fix HSRPs only through online booking from the vendor as the same are not available in the open market, officials cautioned.HSRPs and colour-coded stickers are mandatory for all vehicles registered in Delhi and action can be taken against owners who fail to do so under motor vehicle rules, said a senior transport department official.Last year, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) had directed the fixing of HSRPs and colour-coded stickers on all vehicles by October 2019. However, this could not be done due to various reasons, including the unavailability of HSRPs, officials said.Meanwhile, the transport department on Tuesday extended till September 30 the validity of CNG leakage test certificates that had expired between February 1 and June 30, 2020. This order was issued in view of difficulty faced by people in getting them renewed during th pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/transport-dept-urges-owners-of-older-vehicles-to-fix-hsrps-fuel-stickers/story-fOmKMqYmOVHlRvR2ZJpQzO.html
23-09-2020||Gurugram||Capped price for Covid-19 treatment for Haryana residents only, orders state govt||The standardised per-day charges for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals (Rs 8000-18,000) fixed by the state government in June will now be applicable only to Haryana residents, an order issued by the state health department on September 18 stated. The decision comes at a time when hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients from Haryana, as well as those from other parts of the country, has been witnessing a steady spike in Gurugram. Gurugram is perceived to have a robust private healthcare infrastructure in place, a primary reason for many outstation patients opting to undergo treatment for Covid-19 in the city rather than their own hometowns. Presently, 225 patients from Gurugram and 156 patients from other parts of Haryana are hospitalised in the district. Apart from this another 255 outstation patients— 55 from Delhi, 97 from Uttar Pradesh and 103 from other parts of the country — are also admitted in the private and government hospitals in Gurugram, which have over 2000 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients.The new order issued by the director general health services on September 18 says that an earlier order capping treatment charges will now be applicable only to Haryana residents. On June 25, the state government had fixed per day rates in hospitals accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare providers (NABH) at Rs 10,000 for isolation bed, including supportive care and oxygen; Rs 15,000 for Intensive Care Unit (ICU) bed without ventilator and Rs 18,000 for ICU bed with ventilator. Likewise, the rates in non-NABH accredited hospitals are Rs 8000, Rs 13,000 and Rs 15,000, respectively for the same services. About the treatment cost for patients from outside Haryana, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Private hospitals may have to decide their treatment charges on their own.” A city-based senior doctor, privy to the matter, said, “It is probably one of the ways by which the state government is trying to reserve Covid-19 beds for residents of Haryana as number of cases and hospitalisation has seen an upward trajectory.”When HT contacted senior management officials of two private hospitals, where maximum outstation patients are getting treated, they did not comment on the issue.In June, officials said, the purpose behind the standardization of rates was to eliminate disparity in charges across various private hospitals. The treatment cost in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) was going up to Rs 50,000 or more, while for general ward it was Rs 20,000 a day. Therefore, under the fixed charges the state included all laboratory investigation, radiology diagnostic, drugs, consumables, including Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and masks, doctors consultation among others. It did not include experimental drugs like Remdesivir. Also, pregnant women, who have normal or Cesarean delivery and for the care of the infant, the hospitals were allowed to charge extra. K Sujatha Rao, former secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare, said that there is no merit in introducing price differentiation for Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals. “Asking a patient coming from Bihar to pay more, while a resident of the state who is having the same illness pays less for the same treatment, is totally discriminatory. The decision might have been taken under the pressure of private hospitals, who want to earn profit from outstation patients, while obliging the state government by giving treatment to its residents at a lower cost,” Rao said. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, was unavailable for a comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/capped-price-for-covid-19-treatment-for-haryana-residents-only-orders-state-govt/story-GHSjq2pIQI4OtBFPzRsmgL.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Gang of thieves stealing MTNL cables busted; cops recover earth mover, forged papers from them||Police Tuesday claimed to have busted a gang of thieves that posed as contractors and labourers and stole underground telephone cables using forged documents of Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL), authorising them to carry out digging and repairing of cables. Eight members of the gang were arrested for allegedly stealing over 200 kilograms of MTNL cables from west Delhi’s Janakpuri on the night of August 31, police said. “The gang members used to wear safety gear, including helmets and florescent jackets, used all necessary machines such as earth movers, and even carried forged work order permit to avoid any suspicion. They used to take the copper wires from the cables and sell them,” said deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit. Those arrested were identified as Azharuddin, leader of the gang, Moshir Siddiqui, Parvez alias Baijal, Shakib, Laddu, Manzoor Alam, Shahid, and Mohammad Yusuf. All of them are originally from Bihar but have been living in Delhi for the past few years. Nine pieces of stolen telephone cables, of a total length of 60 feet and weighing 218 kilograms, forged MTNL order orders, an earth mover, ten yellow helmets and as many fluorescent jackets, six red bollards, two torchlights and two traffic bar lights, and other documents were seized from them, said the DCP. “Azharuddin is a scrap dealer by profession and is into crime for over a decade. The other seven belong to his village in Bihar. Together, they planned to steal underground telephone cables using the unique modus operandi. Azharuddin has been previously involved in three similar crimes,” DCP Purohit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gang-of-thieves-stealing-mtnl-cables-busted-cops-recover-earth-mover-forged-papers-from-them/story-P6OpSjCIjmRSZ4xwotHyBO.html
23-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: New Covid cases emerging from prime locations of city||Nearly 19% of the Covid-19 cases that emerged in September are located in some of the prime localities of the city — like Golf Course Road, sectors under Golf Course extension, Sushant Lok (I,II) and DLF phase (I-V) — data available with the district administration highlighted. Of the 19%, the five urban primary health centres — at Tigra, Chanderlok, Wazirabad, Patel Nagar and Laxman Vihar — have reported the maximum number of new cases this month, when compared to August. In August, the district reported 2,850 new cases, of which 344 were from these five urban primary health centres. Till September 20, the district had recorded 6,225 new cases, of which at least 1,150 were from the urban primary health centres. Overall, Gurugram has witnessed a 54% spike in cases this month so far, when compared to August. As per the data, Tigra urban primary health centre reported the highest jump from 93 new cases in August to 315 in September. It caters to areas such as Golf Course Road and sectors under Golf Course Road Extension, along with villages like Ghata. Dr Hardeep Kaur , medical officer, Tigra urban primary health centre, said that the sudden surge has been due to international and domestic movement of people. “Many upscale areas are covered under this urban primary health centre. The new cases are more in high-rise buildings, where mostly travellers including expats, students coming from abroad, employees going to offices located in Delhi or within Gurugram, stay. It also includes people who are holding parties. There are many cases where one infected person has transmitted the infection to almost 10 people after attending a party or a get together,” said Kaur, who herself is in home isolation after testing Covid positive earlier this week.. Since the urban primary health centre covers 1.5 lakh population under it, Kaur said numbers are likely to continue to grow. “There is no prohibition on any activity, people are easily moving about. Many people do not want to stay indoors anymore,” said Kaur over the phone. In the contact tracing of these 315 cases from Tiigra, at least 2,524 high risk contacts have been identified. Tigra also has the highest number of containment zones — 25 — when compared to all other urban primary health centres.Likewise, Chanderlok urban primary health centre has shown the second highest surge in new cases — from 59 in August to 281 in September. The Chanderlok urban primary health centre covers areas like South City I, sector 30, 40, 41 among others. The medical officer of Chanderlok urban primary health centre was confirmed positive for Covid on Tuesday and was not available for a comment.Wazirabad urban primary health centre, which also cater to a large percentage of population, has the third highest growth in the number of cases. The number of cases in the area has increased from 70 in August to 268 in September. Health staff at the centre said most of the new cases in the area are health care workers of private hospitals. “Nearly 40% of the cases reported in the area are health care workers. Big hospitals like Paras, Artemis and Medanta comes under our jurisdiction. The remaining 60% are mostly random cases. We cover some of the more congested areas like Silokhera, Chakkarpur, Sikanderpur, Islampur where cases are emerging,” said Dr Ashma Sheoran, medical officer of Wazirabad primary health centre. The health team has traced 1,759 high risk contacts of new cases and tested them. Currently, Covid-19 cases are counted under 35 areas, including 19 UPHCs. Out of the 35 areas only eight have reported more than 100 new cases in September so far. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district, said, “People will now have to be cautious since there are no more mandatory restrictions. Following government norms, within the containment zones we are creating micro containment zones, since the entire locality cannot be sealed. If there are more than three cases in condominium tower or a lane, they are being declared as containment zones. Also, mass survey is being conducted using rapid antigen test and active surveillance through RT-PCR and antigen test, depending upon the requirement, to timely detect cases and prevent mortality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-new-covid-cases-emerging-from-prime-locations-of-city/story-mPIgwHU4gMo5uxZRObif4O.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||12 more succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity||Twelve people succumbed to Covid-19 in the tricity, with Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula reporting four casualties each. The death toll stands at 365, with Mohali leading at 167, followed by 127 in Chandigarh and 71 in Panchkula.In Chandigarh, all those who died were men, including a 26-year-old from Sector 35 who had acute kidney injury.Others were aged 48, 50 and 61 and resided in Sector 52, Sector 37 and Dhanas, respectively.Four men were reported to have died in Mohali district as well. Aged 56, 57, 68 and 73, they belonged to Deshmajra, Manauli, Dera Bassi and Mubarakpur, respectively.Those who died in Panchkula have been identified as two men, aged 78, from Sector 19 and Barwala, besides an 87-year-old man from Sector 16 and a 65-year-old woman from Sector 12.526 test positiveMeanwhile, 526 fresh cases were reported across the tricity, a shift from the decline in numbers being witnessed in the past four days. On Monday, only 440 people had tested positive, after a gradual dip from 754 on Friday.Chandigarh recorded 266 new cases, taking its tally to 10,546, of which 2,622 are active. With 383 people being discharged, the number of those cured reached 7,794.Mohali district reported 188 fresh cases, taking its tally to 8,701. The number of those recovered rose to 5,975, with 267 patients being discharged, which also brought active cases down to 2,559. In Panchkula, 72 people tested positive for the virus. The district has reported 5,182 cases so far, of which 3,982 patients have recovered and 1,219 are still hospitalised or in home isolation.Active cases on decline in ChandigarhThe number of active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh have seen a gradual decline after reaching an all-time high a week ago.While in the past seven days (September 16-22), 1,588 new cases have come to the fore, the number of those discharged stands at 2,292. In contrast, in the week before that (September 9-15), the number of new cases (2,220) was more than the recoveries (1,542).While 25% cases remain active, recovery rate stands at 74%.“To some extent, we have been able to break the chain of transmission. As the cases have increased, so has our aggressive approach towards contact tracing, testing, and shifting of those found positive to Covid care centres. The active involvement of the administration with respect to demarcation of containment zones has also helped stabilise the situation. The recovery rate crossing 70% is a good sign, but we have to wait for some more time to be sure about the situation,” said Dr G Dewan, director of health services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-more-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-LW9zxwuKWaRtDLSO1cXSIL.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||North corp launches amnesty tax scheme for unauthorised regularised colonies||North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Tuesday rolled out an amnesty scheme for residents of unauthorised regularised colonies. As per terms of the scheme, residential property owners will have to pay the property tax only for financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21, while they will be exempted of all previous outstanding dues, a statement issued by the north corporation said. It further said that in case of non-residential property owners, if they pay the dues for last three financial years (2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20) along with the current financial year (2020-21), the property tax arrears of all other previous years will be waived. “The benefit of the amnesty scheme will be available only on filing of the property tax return and making the payment of the aforesaid tax dues without any interest and penalty till October 31, 2020,” said Prakash. He added that property tax department of all six zones will organise special camps in these colonies in association with the respective councillors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-corp-launches-amnesty-tax-scheme-for-unauthorised-regularised-colonies/story-vS0g1feYZRN2Jkdr5zQOUM.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Contactless e-ticketing on Delhi buses from November: Gahlot||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Tuesday said the city administration will launch contactless e-ticketing services in all its buses from November, a day after the transport department completed the second phase of the system’s trial.“The mobile application through which the ticketing in buses will happen has received a good response from passengers. We have rectified all glitches that were noticed in the previous trials. We are also in the process of incorporating daily and monthly passes, along with developing a system for users without smartphones to buy tickets. We are looking forward to covering all cluster and DTC [Delhi Transport Corporation] buses under this app by the first week of November,” he said.The second phase trial of the contactless e-ticketing App ‘Chartr’ was conducted from September 7 to 21 and covered more than 60 routes from four depots of the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) — Dilshad Garden, Kair Depot, Kushak Nallah Depot, Sunehri Pullah Depot, apart from one route from two DTC depots — Hasanpur and Gazipur depots. Of the 51,644 total tickets purchased through the app in the 14-day period, 79.4% were free Pink tickets for female passengers. An average of 6% ticketing was done through the app during the trial, whereas the AC buses observed a 7% tickets sold through the app. The app can be downloaded from the Google Play Store which is now available as a full version, as well as from a WhatsApp number.The app automatically recommends a Pink ticket (free) for female passengers, based on the gender entered by the user. The app supports both Hindi and English languages. A user can also see all stoppages of a bus and can view by typing the name of the stop, all the buses arriving in the next half an hour with details like ETA. The ETA also gets updated in real-time during the passenger’s journey in the bus. The ticket becomes invalid once the passenger reaches their destination as entered in the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contactless-e-ticketing-on-delhi-buses-from-november-gahlot/story-bIg8WSgBlN9FIWSlSSGJEN.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s iconic Wankhede stadium to soon be open for tourists||The Wankhede stadium could soon be open to tourists for a tour of the iconic cricket venue, which has been host to several key matches, including the 2011 Cricket World Cup final where the Indian team lifted the trophy. State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday announced that Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA), which manages the stadium, has given its “in-principle” nod to opening the stadium for tours.“We at the Tourism Dept had requested @MumbaiCricAssoc to work with us on opening up of Wankhede Stadium for a stadium experience tour to tourists and fans from around the world. They have agreed in principle to work together on the same,” Thackeray tweeted.The concept is already popular abroad, with leading cricket, football and tennis clubs providing such stadium tour experiences. It also provides revenues to these clubs. Real Madrid’s Santiago Bernabeu, Manchester United’s Old Trafford stadium, Barcelona’s Camp Nou, among others, are open to tourists and fans when matches are not held there. In India, HPCA Stadium in Dharamshala is open to tourists.The minister added that apart from the Wankhede stadium tour, there will be a museum dedicated to Indian Cricket “emanating from Mumbai”. The proposed museum will either come up inside the stadium premises or at some other location in the city.“Along with the stadium experience tour, I had discussed with Hon’ble Sharad Pawar sir earlier, and MCA President Vijay Patil ji, on having a museum of “Indian Cricket emanating from Mumbai”. The MCA has agreed for this as well, to be either in Wankhede or any suitable place,” he added.Thackeray added that once the stadium is opened in Mumbai, it would be a place for “devotees of cricket”. He said, “I’m thankful to the MCA apex committee for this key partnership. For most of us, cricket is a religion. Wankhede is where India won the World Cup. This truly shall be a place for not just tourists, but for devotees of cricket and their favourite players.”The decision fits perfectly in MCA president Vijay Patil’s vision to create a brand identity for Mumbai cricket. In his proposal during the MCA apex council meeting couple of months ago, other points he listed included expanding its digital footprint—using its stature and history—merchandising, making its website user friendly and upping its social media game. Patil said the “details are still worked out” but he is happy with the development. “On the advise of Sharad Pawar (we) are establishing a cricket museum and (now) we are delighted to partner with MTDC to promote the iconic Wankhede Stadium as a must visit place for sports fan visiting Mumbai from around the world . My deep appreciation to Aaditya Thackeray for taking this initiative on behalf of Government of Maharashtra to promote Mumbai cricket,” he said.Meanwhile, as an honour to MS Dhoni, a proposal had been mooted by apex council member Ajinkya Naik last month to devote “a permanent seat on his (Dhoni’s) name at the stand where his 2011 World Cup-winning six landed”. The MCA has identified the seat where the ball landed. The seat number is 210 in Block L of MCA Pavilion. It can also play a crucial role in attracting tourist to the Wankhede Stadium. The MCA got a huge help from Sunil Gavaskar in this regard. “I got a call from a dear friend of mine from Hong Kong that the ball is with a friend of his who was sitting in that seat,” said Gavaskar in a mail to Naik. Later, he shared the pic with of the ball and match ticket which helped MCA identify the exact location.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-iconic-wankhede-stadium-to-soon-be-open-for-tourists/story-CZi8t6zSgIJrn2rTdXzLLK.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Amid strict safety protocols, CBSE conducts compartment exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)Tuesday began conducting the compartment exams for its class 10 and 12 students amid strict safety measures to restrict the spread of Covid-19. These are the first set of in-person exams being conducted by the board since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in March leading to the suspension and, eventually, the cancellation of the remaining papers of the board examination.Shaad Ali, a resident of Yamuna Vihar in north-east Delhi, who appeared for his class 12 mathematics compartment exam, said he walked to his exam centre nearby to avoid using the public transport. The board has increased the number of examination centres from 500 (last year) to 1,268 this time to maintain social distancing among students. In Delhi, the exams were conducted at 247 centres.“My family had asked me to repeatedly sanitise my hands while at the exam centre. There is a health risk, but I could not miss my papers because that would affect my academic future. I wrote my papers wearing mask and gloves, and both were a bit uncomfortable. Although I could not take any tuitions due to the pandemic, my papers went well,” said Ali.This year, around 2,37,000 students from India and 16 other countries will be appearing for the compartment exams which will continue till September 30. Students of class 10 will be appearing for a maximum of two subjects while those of class 12 will appear for a maximum of one subject. The board had also allowed class 12 students to appear for improvement papers if they wish to better their existing score in the subject.Himani Singh, a class 12 student of a government school in New Kondli, was among those who gave her improvement papers on Tuesday. “Apart from a slight delay in distributing the papers due to the Covid-19 precautions, the exams were conducted smoothly. Students were made to sit at 6 feet apart and wrote their papers while wearing masks and gloves. We have gotten quite used to wearing masks for long hours, so it wasn’t much of an issue,” she said.Her father Sukhpal Singh had taken a leave from work to accompany his daughter to and from the exam centre. “There is not much fear because we have been taking all necessary precautions. Since the pandemic struck in March, people have had time to process things and take the necessary precautions. I took a leave from work today so that Himani wouldn’t have to use public transport,” he said.BP Dhyani, head of a government school in Trilokpuri, which is an exam centre, said the school was taking all necessary measures to ensure safety of staff and students. “Only 12 students are allowed per room and they are provided with sanitisers, masks and gloves if they don’t have their own. We will be locking the rooms that were used for the exams today and using another set of rooms for the examination tomorrow to ensure desks aren’t repeated. Since compartment exams have fewer students (than regular exams), we can take these safety measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/amid-strict-safety-protocols-cbse-conducts-compartment-exams/story-bqlOKqC47ibyXgbDIyIihL.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||High drama as Chandigarh MC staff, BJP workers face off||A high drama was witnessed at the Chandigarh municipal corporation office in Sector 17 after a Bharatiya Janata Party local leader allegedly slapped the private secretary to commissioner KK Yadav on Tuesday afternoon. In turn, the BJP accused MC employees of attacking party workers.While MC work and public dealing remained suspended after lunch as employees blocked the entrance to the office, demanding registration of a police complaint against BJP leaders involved in the incident, the party workers protested carrying placards that accused Yadav of corruption.BJP workers withdrew their dharna after party’s state president Arun Sood reached the spot and intervened around 3pm, but the MC workers’ protest continued till 5pm, during which they raised slogans against the ruling party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi .The allegationsThe alleged incident took place around 1pm when BJP workers, led by state general secretary Ramveer Bhatti, and employees posted at the MC commissioner’s officer entered into an argument over a meeting with Yadav.In his police complaint, commissioner’s private secretary Jatin Saini alleged, “Around 1pm, a delegation of 8-10 BJP workers came to meet the MC commissioner. I told them the commissioner was meeting somebody else, and they should wait as they didn’t take prior appointment. At this, they started shouting at me, used abusive language and manhandled me. I was on official duty and he (BJP spokesperson Gaurav Goel) obstructed me in my duty. He also threatened me of dire consequences and to remove me from service.”A daily diary register (DDR) entry has been made against Goel at the police station in Sector 17. Threatening an indefinite strike, MC employees have demanded strict action and immediate registration of an FIR. Rakesh Kumar, general secretary, coordination committee of government and MC employees and workers, said: “In case no action is taken against these criminal people, MC employees will go on an indefinite pen down strike from 10am on Wednesday.”BJP leaders refuted the allegations of manhandling and slapping any employee. BJP state secretary Amit Rana, who was present at the time of ruckus, said: “The party workers were waiting since 11:30am to meet the MC commissioner regarding problems being faced by villagers in the UT. The commissioner came around 1pm, and straight away called a Congress leader. We were told by his PS that he would not meet us. This was followed by heated arguments and some jostling. But there was no incident of a BJP worker slapping an MC employee.”BJP office-bearers, including Bhatti, Goel and Rana, submitted a counter complaint against Saini to the UT director general of police. They alleged it was Saini who became “aggressive” and started punching and kicking BJP workers, and that “on his instigation, the rest of office persons accompanying him also became even more aggressive and started punching”, leading to injuries to workers. What high-ups sayYadav, on his part, said: “We will follow up with police on the complaint made by MC employees, and ensure action is taken as per law.”On BJP workers accusing him of corruption, he said: “They never said on what basis they are making these allegations. They didn’t even share why they had come to meet me.”Terming it “simply a matter of miscommunication”, Sood, who is also a former mayor, said: “BJP workers had gone to meet the MC commissioner on an issue of public interest, particularly problems being faced by people in villages. It is not an issue of MC employees versus the party.”Meanwhile, the Congress condemned the BJP for the incident. In a press statement, Pardeep Chhabra, local unit chief, said: “Over the past five years, BJP leaders and councillors have faced serious complaints of corruption, fighting with officers, accusations of sexual harassment, cheque bounce and even hooliganism, but the party has not learnt any lesson and refuses to take any action against the criminal elements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-drama-as-chandigarh-mc-staff-bjp-workers-face-off/story-BTIK6ApEWJMefKbyooBSKL.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||Restaurateurs demand waiver on liquor licence fee for lockdown period||The restaurant owners in the Capital have requested the Delhi government to waive the liquor licence fee for the lockdown period stating that their alcohol sales have been negligible so far. Restaurants were allowed to serve liquor just a month back and bars were allowed to operate from September 9 in the city on a trial basis.The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) has given multiple representations to the excise department and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. The association has now written to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in this regard, as the last date to pay the second instalment of the liquor licence fee is September 29, 2020.The annual liquor licence fee, which is charged as per the seating capacity of a restaurant, varies between Rs 9.25 lakh to Rs 22.41 lakh. The fee has to be paid in advance before the start of the financial year. It can also be paid in two instalments: one before the start of the financial year and the second half before September 29. For instance, the licence fee for financial year 2020-21 was paid by restaurants, either full or partially, by February 28, 2020.While restaurants were allowed to open from June 8 with only 50% seating capacity, the permission to serve liquor on tables was granted much later in mid-August. Bars in the city were allowed to operate only from September 9.A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the demand by restaurant ownersManpreet Singh, owner of Zen restaurant in Connaught Place and treasurer of NRAI, said, “We want the government to waive the licence fee for the lockdown period and adjust it for the months when the permission to sell liquor was given to us. While the licence fee was paid for this financial year, sale of liquor started only recently. Restaurants are already bleeding money as we are operating on 50% seating capacity and turnout is also low right now. The government should support us.” According to NRAI, most restaurants pay the licence fee in installments. Prakul Kumar, secretary general of NRAI, said, “There is panic and confusion among restaurateurs as they have just a week before payment for the second instalment becomes due and there is no clarity on whether the fees will be adjusted or not. Moreover, there is uncertainty whether bars will be allowed to operate or not in the future, as the permission was given only on a trial basis. We have sent representation to the Delhi chief minister in this regard. We requested the government to address this issue at the earliest.”The association has also held several meetings with the excise department and met Sisodia recently to take up the issue.With expired beers and other alcohol stock still lying in their government-authorised storage spaces, NRAI has also requested the government to grant them permission for its disposal. “We need space to keep the new stock of liquor. A lot of liquor has expired and we have to dispose it,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/restaurateurs-demand-waiver-on-liquor-licence-fee-for-lockdown-period/story-fwj6J89Rj55t4SqYPSWsVI.html
23-09-2020||Gurugram||Notice issued to Malibu Towne developer for layout plan, other violations||The district town and country planning department (DTCP) has issued a notice to the developer of Malibu Towne colony on Sohna Road for layout plan violations and for poor maintenance, after receiving complaints regarding the same from a former resident. The department has now sought a clarification from the developer and asked them to take necessary steps for resolution of these issues else action would be initiated, said officials.Malibu Towne is a township spread over 300 acres. It has group housing, floors and plots, a large majority of which are occupied. As per the notice issued to the developer on September 14, the district planner said that an inspection was conducted in the colony on the same day as the complaint received and it was found that despite regular water supply by GMDA, illegal borewells were operational in the colony. The inspection was conducted by a team led by RS Bhath, district town planner. It observed that a large generator had been installed at a site meant for a public health facility and half of that land was being used as a dumping ground. The team also observed that a number of borewells were operating and pumping ground water despite GMDA supply. The notice also mentioned that a small part of land, which is meant as green area had been occupied by a private school and it also observed that a revenue road — which passes through the colony — was occupied by the developer. A sewage treatment plant has been set up adjacent to a site meant for a primary school, the notice said. “We conducted an inspection of the colony and found a number of violations. A notice has been issued to the developer and action will be taken as per rules of the department,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram. Another issue raised by the department is that the developer had sold independent floors in 2009 whereas this policy came into existence after 2013, said officials. The inspection follows a complaint lodged by former president of the Malibu Towne RWA, Raman Sharma, who said that multiple violations had been carried out and the department must take action in this regard. The developer of the colony, when asked about the matter, said that they had not carried out any violation and responded in detail to the notice issued by DTCP. “We have not committed any violation of rules and the response has been submitted to the notice. There are hundreds of residents who are living in Malibu Towne but there are only one or two residents who have issues and have lodged complaints with different agencies,” said Subash Raghav, vice president, Malibu Estate Pvt Ltd, which has developed the residential complex. Vijay Shivnath, member of the Volunteer Group, which is working in the colony in absence of the RWAs said that some of the issues taken up by DTCP are important and must be resolved. “We would like the DTCP to take the developer and all residents in confidence while addressing these issues,” he said, adding that a composting site against which also complaint has been lodged needs to be saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/notice-issued-to-malibu-towne-developer-for-layout-plan-other-violations/story-IIyT8jmWJ7NFDQKNVMwgjM.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||New Parliament to cost Rs 971 crore, Centre informs Parliament||The estimated cost for construction of the new Parliament building will run up to Rs 971 crore, Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri informed the Parliament on Tuesday. This means that the present estimated cost has shot up by at least Rs 82 crore than the Centre’s initial estimate in the tender for the new Parliament.The tender for construction of the new Parliament Building is under scrutiny while architectural plans for other buildings are in the planning stage, Puri said in response to a question raised by All India Trinamool Congress(AITC) MP Mala Roy in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.“The estimated cost for construction of new Parliament building is Rs 971 crore. Estimated cost of other buildings and development/ redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue shall be worked out after finalization of plans,” Puri said.Last week, Tata Projects Limited had emerged as the lower of the two bidders for the tender for constructing the new Parliament complex by quoting Rs 861.90 crore, when the financial bids for the project opened last Wednesday. According to the Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) tender, the estimated cost of construction for the new building is Rs 889 crore.In response to a question from Roy seeking ‘the rationale behind the project in light of the fact that economy is in doldrums’; Puri said that the ‘facilities and amenities of the 93-year-old existing Parliament building “are highly inadequate to meet the current demand of the Parliament.’The Central Vista redevelopment project has come under criticism from different quarters. While the Opposition has called for suspending around Rs 20,000 crore project due to the pandemic, some conservationists have argued that it would change the historic nature of Lutyens’ Delhi.“This building is already 93 years old and has since been declared heritage grade-I building. Its facilities and amenities are highly inadequate to meet the current demand of the Parliament. There is acute shortage of office space and there are no individual chambers for Members of Parliament. This building was not meant to be for bicameral Parliament and has been over-stressed through large scale retrofitting done over the years,” Puri said.Puri said that In the current economic scenario, the project will generate large number of direct and indirect employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-parliament-to-cost-rs-971-crore-centre-informs-parliament/story-Z72sNtvnBLBcgyimKw9WuJ.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Compartment exams for classes 10, 12 begin in Chandigarh||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) conducted the first set of compartment exams for classes 10 and 12 on Tuesday. As per CBSE officials, in a bid to avoid contact, no physical frisking was carried out and students wore masks while following all safety protocols. Maximum 12 students were accommodated in one classroom.Sumit Kumar, a student of Class 10 who took his social science exam, said the paper was easy with a few questions from previous years as well. Anmol from Sector 56 said he was able to finish the exam well within the time limit. Meanwhile, Class-12 students took physical education, political science and history exams on Tuesday.Manju from Dhanas said the physical education exam was easy. Students said the extra precautions taken in view of Covid-19 pandemic didn’t affect them. CBSE officials said that most of the students who applied for the compartment exams showed up on Tuesday. At Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 23, 37 of the total 38 students were present for the exam. Similarly, at DAV Model School in Sector 15, all 42 students of Class 12, except one, turned up.The compartment exams for Class 10 will continue till September 28, while exams for Class 12 will end on September 30. Class-10 students will take their science exam on Wednesday, while geography exam will be held for Class-12 students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/compartment-exams-for-classes-10-12-begin-in-chandigarh/story-ynFMbu1B5uf3TFgptQMaWO.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||EPCA asks agencies to jointly patrol industrial areas to check pollution||The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Tuesday directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to ask all agencies concerned to begin joint night patrolling of pollution hot spots across Delhi from October 15. EPCA also asked the government and civic agencies to make plans for removal of garbage, construction and demolition waste from these spots and ensure that vacant plot of lands were not used for dumping waste or garbage and also that it is not burnt. “We have directed the DPCC to write to all agencies concerned to begin night patrolling of hots pots from October 15 to prevent burning of waste and streamlining of vehicular traffic, which contributes to pollution in these areas. Also, we have asked them to prepare long-term plans for removal of waste dumped in these areas. The situation will be reviewed in two weeks,” said Sunita Narain, member EPCA.After a month in which Delhi saw its cleanest air in five years, air pollution has gone up in Delhi over the past few weeks. With little possibility of more rainfall this month, the air quality may deteriorate further by the end of this month, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have said. Air pollution in Delhi usually peak in winters.In Delhi, 13 areas —Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, RK Puram and Jahangirpuri—were identified as hot spots by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and DPCC last year since pollution levels, specially particulate matter (PM) concentrations, in these areas were higher than the city’s average.In an action taken report prepared by the EPCA based on inspection of 15 locations, including the hot spots and surrounding areas, the anti-pollution watchdog found that dumping of garbage/construction and demolition waste/industrial waste, road dust as well as traffic congestion are major contributors to high pollution levels in these areas.EPCA inspected several locations, mostly having confirmed and non-confirmed industrial pockets, during August-September. They include Dwarka, Okhla Phase II, Wazirpur, Mayapuri, Rohini, Gandhi Nagar, Jahangirpuri, Anand Vihar, Jhilmil industrial area, Mandoli, Vivek Vihar, Mundka-Tikri, Punjabi Bagh, Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Urban Extension Road-Narela and Narela industrial area. “In most industrial areas, plastic, rubber and cloth waste was found dumped and burning in some places. More material was found stacked for burning. We have asked concerned agencies to file an action taken report in the matter before the next review meeting. Also, to prevent dumping of waste on vacant plots, we have asked the agencies to convert them into green patches like parks and put up boards to display ownership. The DPCC has also been told to use Google maps to identify locations of such vacant plots,” said Bhure Lal, chairperson, EPCA.Lal said burning of plastic and rubber waste produce fumes containing carcinogenic elements. “This leads to pollution and health hazards to those living around. The [municipal] corporations and the DPCC have been asked to improve waste management and not allow dumping at any cost. Also, use of unapproved fuels such as coal was observed in many areas and 16 such units have been sealed,” said Lal.Also, the report highlighted that at Punjabi Bagh crematorium, pollution was observed during the peak Covid period in April, after which two more CNG furnaces were set up there. “The municipal corporation has informed that they are installing air pollutants control devices for wooden pyres,” the report stated.A senior DPCC official, who did not wish to be named, said that a plan is being prepared to curb emissions at all hot spots. “We are in process of meeting all agencies to clear the hot spots. The plan will be implemented soon,” the official said.A senior North corporation official, not wishing to be named, said waste is being lifted from all these areas. “At many places the dumps have been cleared and industrial associations have been asked to not let waste be dumped on roadsides or in vacant plots,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/epca-asks-agencies-to-jointly-patrol-industrial-areas-to-check-pollution/story-V1ebGD3wBQsrVHF5nM2fPL.html
23-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Protests over farm bills driven by vested interests, says JJP||Gurugram: The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Tuesday said that the two agriculture bills passed by the Parliament will not harm the farmers’ interests and that the protests are driven by “vested interests”. However, the party said that it would take strong steps if the MSP (minimum support price) system is tinkered with by the central government. Addressing a press conference in Gurugram on Tuesday, Anant Ram Tanwar, national vice-president of JJP, said their party is closely connected with farmers and based on the ideology of Chaudhary Devi Lal. “The interests of farmers will not be compromised and the MSP system for buying of grains is not being changed. The government itself has announced the rates for buying of crops. A large number of farmers have now come forward in support of these new rules, and the protests are being organised by some people with vested interests,” said Tanwar. The newly appointed JJP district president for Gurugram, Rishi Raj Rana, said that the party would reach out to farmers in south Haryana to make them aware of the matter. He further said that the work is on to strengthen the party rank and file and soon the district and rural executive bodies will be announced. The party also announced that blood donation camps across all districts of Haryana would be organised to mark the birth anniversary of farmer leader Chaudhary Devi Lal on September 25. Rana said that their party leader and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has already made it clear that any tinkering with MSP system will lead to strong steps from the party. “The party will reach out to farmers in south Haryana and Gurugram, and make them aware about the positives of these new laws. Also, we will strengthen the party organization in the district and announce district level organisation soon,” said Rana. Earlier in the day, Chautala said in Chandigarh that he has always been advocating for the interests of farmers and will continue to do so. By increasing the MSP of Rabi crops, the central government has proved that this system will continue even further, so farmers should not worry at all, he said. Chautala had said on Monday that he would quit his post in the BJP-led government in Haryana if any step was taken to eliminate the MSP system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-protests-over-farm-bills-driven-by-vested-interests-says-jjp/story-wa3MJcEgoAImkttdLcWC3N.html
23-09-2020||City||Ludhiana logs 174 new cases, 9 deaths||The district logged 174 fresh infections and nine deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. With this the cumulative tally of Covid patients in the district has touched 16, 599, while the toll stands at 677.All nine patients who succumbed to the disease on Tuesday were males. They include a 52-year-old from Shimlapuri, a 65-year-old from Amarpura, a 72-year-old from Sector 32 on Chandigarh road, a 33-year-old from Bhamiyan Kalan, a 64-year-old from Gurdev Nagar, a 70-year-old from Urban Estate, a 70-year-old from BRS Nagar and a 53-year-old, who was a resident of GT road.The positive cases reported on Tuesday include 19 contacts of positive patients, 44 patients from out patients wards of different hospitals, 60 patients with influenza-like symptoms, five police personnel, three health-care workers, three pregnant women among others.As per the district health bulletin, 14, 380 patients (86.63 percent) patients have recovered from the disease so far.Ludhiana civil surgeon Rajesh Bagga said, “In total 215 fresh cases were reported in Ludhiana on Tuesday but 174 residents belong to Ludhiana while the other 41 residents belong to other districts and states. Similarly, 15 deaths were reported, but out of these, only nine patients belonged to Ludhiana. On Tuesday, we collected 4, 652 samples for testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-logs-174-new-cases-9-deaths/story-76q7FQbCKJMaRVqmx76alJ.html
23-09-2020||Delhi||EPCA writes to Punjab and Haryana to act against stubble burning||The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority on Tuesday wrote to the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana, asking the states to control cases of crop stubble burning, after early instances began appearing in satellite imagery. In his letter to the two primary stubble-burning states in the country, Epca chief Bhure Lal said crop residue burning had been spotted on satellite data recorded by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) and the United Nations’ National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa). He said it was imperative that early action be taken to control these fires ahead of the winters to control the annual pollution spike in Delhi.Delhi government data shows that in 2019, stubble burning accounted for 44% of air pollution in the national capital. Citing the Safar and Nasa data , Lal said 42 fires Monday, shown as ‘red dots’ on the map, were seen around various districts of Punjab, while 20 cases were observed on Sunday. “EPCA has been monitoring progress with you on the implementation of the different measures in this past two months and has also worked out the clear benchmarks and targets that need to be achieved before the coming season. We would now request that these steps are taken with urgency,” Lal said in his letter. The letter added, “We recognise that we have lost time because of Covid-19, but given that the winter season is now fast approaching, we need to tackle this with urgency and ensure compliance.” The SC-appointed body also said that even though the impact of these early instances of burning is expected to be negligible on the air quality of Delhi at least in the next three days, because wind speeds are not currently supportive for transport and accumulation of smoke, the situation in Delhi will deteriorate in the coming weeks once the wind pattern changes. Lal also asked state governments to set up control rooms ahead of the harvest season that will start functioning in full-swing from mid-October, to ensure that harvest machines are available easily to farmers and enforcement is prompt against violations. Hindustan Times had reported on Tuesday that NASA had started observing early instances of crop residue burning is some districts of Punjab and Haryana. Recordings show that such instances had progressively been increasing from September 13, but had seen a spike over the last five days. The worst affected district was Amritsar in Punjab, followed by Tarn Taran, Firozpur, and parts of Kapurthala, Mansa and Jalandhar. Krunesh Garg, member secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board, said the satellite imagery catches all kinds of fires, and said the images were not necessarily stubble burning. “It is too early panic. Our teams are tracking any signs of early burning, but what we have largely observed is that compared to previous years farmers are more aware and are spreading the message of among their own neighbourhoods of not burning stubble,” he said. Garg said monitoring teams will begin thorough monitoring from Wednesday to check for any violations. In Haryana, where the only two or three instances were observed in parts of Fatehabad and Ambala, officials said the government has zero-tolerance for stubble burning this year. “We have marked 38 villages that will be intensely monitored. Till now, we have not observed any instances of stubble burning on the ground. We are hoping that the cases will be less this year. We have see over the past few years that cases have progressively been reducing every year,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana Pollution Control Board. In Punjab last year, 9.8 million tonnes out of 20 million tonnes of paddy crop residue was burnt. As many as 50, 738 cases of stubble burning was recorded by the state pollution control board in 2019. In Haryana, on the other hand 1.24 million tonnes out of 7 million tonnes of paddy crop residue was burnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/epca-writes-to-punjab-and-haryana-to-act-against-stubble-burning/story-HMrcPnohVYc49vjBCteCUO.html
23-09-2020||City||Car snatched at gunpoint from Palam Vihar||Gurugram: A car was stolen from Palam Vihar on Sunday night after two men held its driver at gunpoint and forced him out, said police. Police said the incident happened at around 8.40pm. The victim, Rishab Pawar, a resident of Palam Vihar, had taken his father’s car to go to Ram Mandir Chowk.“I had stepped out of the car near the crossing to buy ice cream and returned within a few minutes. I was about to unlock the car when a man pointed a gun at me and told me to handover the car keys. When I refused and started yelling, another man arrived and snatched the keys and they drove off,” said Pawar in the police complaint. He added that several documents of the car, insurance, pollution certificate, credit/debit cards, driving license and a pair of spare keys were also in the car. Police said after the incident was reported, a team from Palam Vihar police station reached the spot. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The suspects are yet to be identified. Their last location was spotted near Chauma village road. Several crime teams and local police station officers are working to trace the accused men. A case has been registered. We are checking the CCTVs in the area.” A case was registered against the accused under sections 379 A (snatching) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of The Arms Act at Palam Vihar police station on Monday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/car-snatched-at-gunpoint-from-palam-vihar/story-04DJKFKYYp3m6WbstXdcpK.html
23-09-2020||Gurugram||30-year-old man found dead on railway tracks near Dhanwapur; cops suspect suicide||A 30-year-old man from Jhajjar was found dead on the railway tracks near Dhanwapur on Monday evening. The police said that a probe revealed that he had died by suicide. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure(CrPC). The police said the deceased was found dead around 7pm by a team of government railway police (GRP). A blood-stained kitchen knife was found next to his body and he had injuries on his head and body. This led the police to initially suspect that he was killed and that his body was dumped at the tracks. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “A preliminary probe, however, suggests that he died by suicide after coming in front of a train that was passing through. He was suffering from a mental illness and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram. According to his family members, on an earlier occasion too, he had gone missing from his house and had taken a knife along.” The police said no suicide note was recovered, adding that his body was handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination on Tuesday. “The family has not filed any complaint. Prima facie, foul play has been ruled out. We have filed an inquest report in the case,” said the police official, quoted above. Gurugram does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/30-year-old-man-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-near-dhanwapur-cops-suspect-suicide/story-MGiMcvE3nTok9UdzIrYRfJ.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Administrator’s advisory council to take call on new nursing homes on residential plots||The administrator’s advisory council will now take a call on the issue of constructing nursing homes on residential plots. The UT administration has sought views of the council on the issue. The members of the council have been asked to submit their suggestions and opinion at the earliest on the recommendations made by the standing committee on urban infrastructure and planning for the city, a subcommittee of the advisory council.Significantly, the standing committee in its meeting in August had rejected the proposal to allow conversion of residential plots into nursing home sites.The administration had directed the committee to consider the proposal. The administration has not allowed construction of new nursing homes in residential areas since 2005.The panel suggested that like other commercial establishments, nursing home sites could be allotted in commercial areas. It also recommended permission to build nursing homes in the city’s industrial area.The committee members also suggested that better health facilities at affordable rates can be provided by augmenting the infrastructure and facilities at the city’s dispensaries. “We already have adequate infrastructure in sectors such as dispensaries, which should be strengthened and improved,” said one of the members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/administrator-s-advisory-council-to-take-call-on-new-nursing-homes-on-residential-plots/story-MYFX5usWJTRdNWxw14deQJ.html
23-09-2020||City||18 govt schools in Panchkula to have smart classrooms: Gian Chand||Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta on Tuesday said that 18 government senior secondary schools in the constituency will soon have smart classrooms. He said the facility will be on the lines of private schools. Gupta announced that he will release over ₹50 lakh from the discretionary grant to develop smart classrooms in all senior secondary schools in the constituency.Apart from this, each school will also be provided with clean drinking water facility and toilets. He instructed the education department officials to formulate plans for the same and ensure their implementation within two months.Work to upgrade 41 schools kicked offGupta also inaugurated the works to convert 38 primary and three senior secondary schools in the district into Sanskriti Model Schools. The ceremony took place at Sector-19 government school.“With this, total 53 primary schools and six senior secondary schools have now come under the category of Sanskriti Model Schools in the district. Of these, four senior secondary schools and 38 primary schools fall under the Panchkula constituency,” Gupta said, adding these schools will now become English medium. “The chain of Sanskriti Model Schools being developed in Panchkula will create an exclusive identity of the region. Panchkula is moving forward on the path of progress,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-govt-schools-in-panchkula-to-have-smart-classrooms-gian-chand/story-UqQVfSikLQWi6IsbZXy0RM.html
23-09-2020||City||Miscreants throw chilli powder into man’s eyes, flee with bag containing Rs 8 lakh in Ludhiana||Four masked men robbed a factory worker of Rs 8 lakh after throwing chilli powder into his eyes, when he was returning after collecting payments from the market on Tuesday evening.The victim, identified as Upinder Gupta, 37, said that he works for Adinath Industries of Kanganwal area. At around 5.30 pm, he was heading back to his factory after collecting the payments, when the miscreants intercepted him near Partap Chowk and fled with the money.He said that the men came on two bikes and asked him to hand over the money. At first he resisted, and firmly held on to the cash bag, but the accused pushed him onto the ground and attacked him sharp-edged weapons. They then threw chilli powder into his eyes and as he writhed in pain, the men snatched his cash bag and fled. Onlookers at the spot said that they initially thought it was case of road rage, but they realised it was a robbery only later.They then helped the victim wash his eyes and contacted the police.The onlookers added that two of the miscreants had stood guard as the other two attacked Upinder. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Industrial Area-B) Sandeep Wadhera said that they suspect the involvement of someone from the factory, who knew that Upinder was out for cash collection.Cops are scanning closed-circuit television cameras at the spot to trace the accused. The case has currently been lodged against unidentified persons at Division Number 6 police station.SECOND ROBBERY IN 2 DAYSThis is the second robbery at a factory in two days. On Monday afternoon, four miscreants robbed Rs 4.43 lakh from a factory owner in Shimlapuri. The miscreants had opened fire at the factory owner, however, the victim had escaped unhurt.On September 14, miscreants robbed a factory owner of Rs 5.57 lakh cash near Millar Ganj when he was returning after collecting payments from the market. Police had later arrested one of his employees and his aides for the crime.On September 1, three motorcycle-borne miscreants had robbed an elderly man of Rs 2.80 lakh at gunpoint at Gill road and fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-throw-chilli-powder-into-man-s-eyes-flee-with-bag-containing-rs-8-lakh-in-ludhiana/story-VryeXBQjArL8cBYDm0kQXK.html
23-09-2020||City||Panchkula woman duped of Rs 33,000, FIR registered||A cheating case has been registered on the complaint of a make-up artiste, who alleged of being duped of ₹33,000, Panchkula police said on Tuesday. Harleen Kaur, 22, a resident of Sector 25, had lodged a complaint in October, 2019, but the FIR was registered under sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Chandimandir police station on Tuesday.She told the police that on October 19, 2019, she had received a call from a man who introduced himself as Dinesh Aulakh. “He told me that they wanted to hire me as a make-up artiste for a shoot in Goa. He asked me to send my identity proofs and account details of my team, so that he can transfer the money in our accounts,” she mentioned in her complaint. “Then he asked me to deposit ₹33,000 to a shared account, so that tickets can be booked. However, after getting the money, he stopped taking my calls,” Harleen added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-woman-duped-of-rs-33-000-fir-registered/story-CTfy8Ypp56ttGzSERQtwCP.html
23-09-2020||City||Mohali health department gets two new ambulances||Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh on Tuesday flagged off two new ambulances provided by the Punjab government to the district health department from his office here.Thanking health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, the civil surgeon said the district health department had been able to get these ultra-modern ambulances through concerted effort. Both the ambulances will be deployed at Nayagaon and Singhpura near Zirakpur to transport road accident victims to the hospitals, he added.Dr Manjit said these ambulances have more space and are equipped with state-of-the-art machinery to facilitate transportation of seriously injured patients to nearby hospitals in a timely and safe manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-health-department-gets-two-new-ambulances/story-wmJ801LAaTAdNJnrhEslhM.html
23-09-2020||City||4-year-old girl dies after stack of bricks falls on her||A four-year-old girl was killed after a pile of bricks fell on her while she was playing near her house at Maharajpur locality on Tuesday evening. The police said that the family of the girl refused to file a complaint and did not even opt for a post-mortem examination. The incident took place around 6pm at Maharajpur village in Sahibabad, where the girl , identified by her first name Aaliya, was playing along with other children from the locality. “As the children were busy playing, a heap of bricks stacked nearby somehow fell over the girl and she suffered critical injuries. She was taken to a hospital, where she was declared dead. Her family hails from Bihar and her parents are daily wagers. The police went to the spot but the family refused to file a police complaint,” said a police officer from Link Road police station. The cops said that the girl suffered severe injuries to her head and other body parts and died on spot. “The family did not file a police complaint and has given in writing that they do not wish to get the post-mortem examination of the girl conducted. A police team went to the spot but did not find any foul play behind the incident. The girl was playing along with other children when the stack of bricks fell over her,” said Keshav Kumar, assistant superintendent of police (ACP), Sahibabad. The family later took away the body for performing the last rites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-year-old-girl-dies-after-stack-of-bricks-falls-on-her/story-8SSDSFlnsUE5mlGj02soRM.html
23-09-2020||City||As Covid-19 plays demon, Ravana to take a back seat this year||Dussehra celebrations are set to remain a subdued affair this year as the city takes on a battle of a different kind—the one against the Covid-19 pandemic. Amid fears of the infection spread, the famous Daresi Ground fair has been cancelled in view of the restrictions on large gatherings. Members of the Shri Ram Lila Committee, who organise this fair, said that although all rituals will be performed in keeping with the traditions, there would be no gatherings. There would only be small effigy of Ravana, instead of the 90-ft high effigies burnt every year. This year, the organisers have also decided to do away with the bursting of crackers. Apart from that, the ‘Singhasan Yatra’ of Lord Ram, which used to pass through different parts of the old city for 11 days before Dussehra, and the staging of Ramlila, has been suspended this year. Instead, they will be holding a Ramayana Path at Sita Mata Mandir in Daresi, but the entry restricted. Committee member Dinesh Marwaha said, “The Daresi fair is famous all over the country for being one of the biggest in North India. We used to hear stories about this from our fathers and grandfathers. This is for the first time in many years that it won’t be held. It was held even during the emergency era. But right now, the situation is different. We cannot put thousands of lives at stake by organising this fair.” Reminiscing on the effort that went into organising the fair, Marwaha said, “We used to build 90 to 95-ft tall Ravana effigy every year and effigy makers used to come from Agra and Meerut.” He went on to proudly recount how people from far and wide used to come just to see Ravana going up in flames. Kamal Bassi and Sukhram Mahajan, other members of the committee, said, “The preparations for this fair used to commence three months ahead of Dussehra and thousands of people used to come to see the fair every day. But this time, we would miss the pomp and show.” Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said,”Restrictions have been imposed on gathering due to the ongoing pandemic. Till now, we have not received any directions from the state government regarding granting permissions for Dussehra events. The state government will review the situation on September 30 and final decision has to be taken by the state government only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-19-plays-demon-ravana-takes-a-back-seat-this-year/story-riYkMmk16cwL9M4OucFAnI.html
23-09-2020||City||Five Luksar jail inmates donate plasma for Covid treatment||Five inmates from Luksar jail, who had recovered from Covid-19, donated their plasma on Tuesday to help other patients recover from the infection.A plasma donation drive was organised at the Luksar jail on Tuesday. “Five of our inmates, who had recovered from Covid-19 last month, donated their plasma today, and we expect others to follow suit in the future drives,” said jail superintendent, Vipin Mishra. The plasma donation drive, a first at Luksar jail, was organised by the jail authorities with the help from the police and the district health department.As many as 73 inmates at the Luksar jail have been infected with Covid-19 so far, and 28 of then have already recovered, while some are undergoing treatment at various Covid-care facilities in the district apart from those under isolation in the jail premises. Jail officials said 19 more recovered inmates are expected to donate their plasma in the coming days.They added that all inmates in the prison have been encouraged to follow social distancing protocols, while senior police personnel have urged those who have already recovered from the disease to help other patients in their fight against coronavirus by donating their plasma.In wake of the pandemic, any new undertrials are kept separately in the jail and are moved to the main block only after a few days.A constable with the Noida commissionerate also donated his plasma on Tuesday. A Covid-19 man from Bijnore who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Greater Noida was in urgent need of plasma. “His condition was serious and doctors were looking for a plasma match. The station house officer for Ecotech 3 police station was looking for a suitable donor, and a constable, Shrikant Singh, who had also recovered from Covid-q9 a few weeks ago, volunteered to donate his plasma,” said a police spokesperson.Other recovered police personnel have also donated plasma on earlier occasions. More than 190 police personnel have been infected with Covid-19 in the district so far. As many as 89 are active cases, while one policeman succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-luksar-jail-inmates-donate-plasma-for-covid-treatment/story-zML8qpdclZmtknhJqOm1fN.html
23-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi collapse: Toll rises to 26; 12 still feared trapped||The death toll in Monday’s pre-dawn building collapse in Bhiwandi rose to 26, including 12 children, as the rescue team recovered four more bodies from the debris till the time of going to press on Tuesday, officials said, adding that 12 more people were feared trapped. The number of injured has risen to 25.The owner of the 36-year-old Jilani building, Sayyed Ahmed Jilani, who was booked for culpable homicide and negligence causing hurt, is still absconding. After carrying out rescue operations manually for more than 30 hours, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and other teams used machinery around 12.30pm on Tuesday, from both sides of the site, to clear huge portions of debris on the first floor of the ground-plus-three storey structure. The building had 48 flats, of which 24 collapsed. “According to families and relatives of the victims, around 12 people are still trapped in the rubble, while 26 have died so far. Rescue operations will continue till all bodies are recovered,” said Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner, Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC). NDRF, along with Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) personnel, managed to rescue nine people who were trapped under the debris since Monday 3.30am. The rescue team had to raze a nearby chawl structure, which was vacated by the municipal corporation, for search operations. A team of 100 plus people has been conducting rescue operations at the spot. “We had to hold up [collapsed] slabs with the help of bamboos on Monday, so that we could rescue those trapped on the second floor. Clearing the slab with machinery was necessary to reach the first and ground floors, which have more people trapped. After clearing labs, manual searching was again initiated in the evening,” said Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant, NDRF. State help and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar inspected the spot on Tuesday morning. He assured a compensation of ₹4 lakh to the victim’s families and ₹50,000 for those injured in the incident. “We will take action against those found negligent and caused the incident. A case has been registered against the builder and there will be an arrest soon,” said Wadettiwar. He also said that there will be an inquiry into the power loom on the ground floor of the building, whether it caused a weakening of the structure. Further, he also assured to take decisions on rehabilitation, increased FSI in Bhiwandi city at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-collapse-toll-rises-to-26-12-still-feared-trapped/story-o42XxnQKOt6B26lzwsbECJ.html
23-09-2020||City||Nandgram residents protest razing houses for government institute||Residents from Nandgram, where the Ghaziabad municipal corporation had launched a demolition drive last week, staged a protest outside the corporation’s headquarters on Tuesday.The corporation officials said that the land from where the encroachments were removed last week was government land and was earmarked for Uttar Pradesh ’s first political training institute. They added that they will continue with demolition drives which will start from next week.The protesters on Tuesday first staged a sit-in outside the corporation headquarters at Navyug Market and later tried to enter the premises, but were prevented from doing so. In the evening, municipal commissioner MS Tanwarmet met a delegation of 15 protestors and asked them to vacate the land.“The land belongs to the government and it has to be freed up from encroachment for developing the project. So, we will resume the drive again within a week. The occupants were duped by middlemen who sold them the land. In the next phase, we will crackdown on such persons and also issue recovery certificates and seize their properties,” he said. “In the meantime, we have offered help to the occupants. We have told them that we can offer them temporary accommodation at our facilities, and they also have an option to apply for government schemes to get houses. We have also offered them help with transportation, in case, they wish to relocate elsewhere. However, due to large-scale encroachment, the cost of the project has increased by about Rs 17 crore. So, we need to start construction and encroachments will be removed,” he added.Officials said they had been able to remove 20 out of 100 “illegally” built structures.The proposed institute is meant to train politicians and activists in public policy and other advanced political subjects, and is planned to come up on land owned by the Ghaziabad municipal corporation. Located near the Hindon Elevated Road, it measures a little over 3 hectares, but about 1.37 hectares was encroached with people constructing houses and boundary walls. The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet had cleared the proposal in 2018 and the project is estimated to cost about ₹168 crore.“We are trying to get the corporation to not proceed with further demolition, but the officials are not ready to listen. Many people purchased land and also got it registered. But the corporation officials said that we got duped by middlemen. It is only poor people like us who are at the losing end. The officials must nab people who sold the land to the occupants and make alternate arrangements for us,” said Somvir Singh, one of the protesters, said.Maya Devi, local councilor from ward number six also objected to Saturday’s demolition drive and said that action must be taken up against the people who sold the land to poor people. “ Poor people have been duped as they invested hard-earned money to buy land. The middlemen who sold them government land have run away. So, there has to be action against them,” she added. “Occupants should have been given time for making alternate arrangements before the demolition,” she added.Corporation officials maintained that before starting the demolition drive they had been pursuing occupants for past one-and-a-half years to vacate the land, but they were not ready to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nandgram-residents-protest-razing-houses-for-government-institute/story-TejFlWwAprMvPKF7zfPM8O.html
23-09-2020||City||Milkman arrested for carrying six kilograms of marijuana in milk can||Dankaur Police on Tuesday arrested a milkman in Aurangpur village for the alleged possession of over six kilograms of marijuana, which he stored in a milk can. The suspect was identified as one Amit Kumar — a native of Atta Gujran village in Dankaur, Greater Noida. He allegedly procured the narcotic from Faridabad and was supposed to sell it in Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, said the police. The police received a tip-off from an informer and intercepted the suspect at a check post near Aurangpur Chowk. “The suspect was carrying two milk cans and was riding a motorcycle.He had two milk cans, one of which had marijuana, while the other had milk. During checking, the police team found the stash of narcotic in his possession,” said Vishal Pandey, additional commissioner of police (ACP), Greater Noida. Pandey said that Kumar’s name had come up during investigation of a case earlier this month. He said that on September 1, the police had arrested a person named Mohammad Raza and recovered 38 kilograms of marijuana from his possession in Greater Noida. “Raza, during interrogation, revealed that Kumar and a few others were also involved in the same racket. They used to buy marijuana at cheap rates from Faridabad and sell them to people at inflated rates in Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. We traced the suspect on Tuesday and arrested him,” Pandey said. A case has been registered against Kumar under Section 8 and 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/milkman-arrested-for-carrying-six-kilograms-of-marijuana-in-milk-can/story-NhptkrYQ0Cny2BrL4JuyHI.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA elections 2020: 7th CPC pay, central university status for PU, rival groups lay down campaign agendas||Just two days are left until the election of the office-bearers of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA). Over 600 teachers of the varsity are eligible to cast votes on September 25 and 26.As such, both the Mritunjay-Naura group, which is backed by the syndicate’s Goyal group, and the Sidhu-Khalid group have made certain promises. Finding a common ground, both the groups have ensured the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, and taking into account the past service of the teachers for promotions.PF beyond 60 years of age, governance reformsThe key agendas of the Mritunjay-Naura group include the grant of central university status to PU and governance reforms. The group has promised to work for all-round administrative reforms so that decision-making is less bureaucratic.The group claims it will sort out the issue of interest on provident fund of faculty members beyond the age of 60 years, and the release of retirement dues on time in the future. Regarding the issue of accounting for past service during promotions, the group has said that pending cases will be cleared up.Mritunjay Kumar, who is contesting for the post of president, and who has also served as the vice-president of PUTA in 2019-20, said, “For the last three years, we have been working on these issues and have resolved many already. Our aim is to work more vigorously in the future towards the service of our teaching community.”Implementation of NEP in teacher-friendly mannerThe Sidhu-Khalid group is also vouching to meet the demands of the teachers regarding the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, as well as the implementation of the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 in a teacher-friendly manner, without affecting the varsity’s autonomy.As PU is slated to go for NAAC accreditation in 2022, the group has said that they will strive for getting a good rank for the university.Their agenda also includes recruitment of more faculty members and working towards a solution for counting of past service of teachers who are due for promotions. The group is also claiming to pursue central university status for PU.Mohammed Khalid, the presidential candidate of the group, said, “These are the issues which we cannot ignore and we will strive for their implementation for the betterment of the university. We will mobilise teachers for the upcoming NAAC visit for getting a better rank.”Meanwhile, the returning officer for PUTA elections, professor Vijay Nagpal, said, “We will appeal to the teachers who have flu-like symptoms or who are under home quarantine to not cast their votes. Covid-19 positive persons will be requested not to vote this time.”SOPs for PUTA polls issuedFor conducting PUTA elections amid the pandemic, returning officer Vijay Nagpal on Tuesday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for teachers who are due to cast their votes.Already, the elections are being held in a staggered manner on September 25 and 26 to avoid the spread of Covid-19. According to the SOPs, wearing a mask has been made mandatory and every individual will undergo thermal screening at every entry point.Two different venues and different time slots will be issued to the teachers. The voters have been advised to bring their own pens, and gloves will be provided to all.Voters have been instructed to comply with social distancing norms. Services of professional consultants have been procured for complete sanitisation and other precautions at the venues.Voters who tested positive for Covid-19 or those awaiting their reports or who have been quarantined have been requested to refrain from voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/puta-elections-2020-7th-cpc-pay-central-university-status-for-pu-rival-groups-lay-down-campaign-agendas/story-M4xd5AOxyHdsYLO51bGAtI.html
23-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad to take legal action those who violate home isolation norms||To ensure Covid-19 patients recuperating in home isolation strictly follow all protocols, the district administration officials on Tuesday said they will take legal action against those patients who violate home isolation norms apart from shifting such patients to Covid care facilities.“Since the numbers of those opting for home isolation is increasing, we have decided that anyone who violates the norms may be shifted to Covid facility. Apart from this, the erring person may also face legal action under the Epidemic Diseases Act. So, all those under home isolation should strictly follow social distancing protocols and the isolation norms laid down by the state government,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Officials of the Ghaziabad health department said it has already issued warnings to 31 erring patients so far.According to state Covid portal figures records on Tuesday, till 4pm, of the 3,339 Covid-19 patients who had opted for home isolation so far,773 are active patients. The Uttar Pradesh had allowed home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients on July 20, following some conditions.The health status of those under home isolation is monitored daily by teams stationed at integrated command and control centre. Members of mohalla nigrani samiti apart from the patients’ neighbours have also been asked to keep an eye on those under home isolation.About the warnings issued to patients who had allegedly flouted the home isolation norms, chief medical officer, Dr NK Gupta, said, “ In some cases, the erring patients often tried to move out in their locality which could have led to the infection’s spread. In some cases, they did not provide the reports, that need to be submitted twice daily, of their oxygen levels and temperatures to the teams stationed at the control room. From now on, such patients may be shifted to Covid facility and may also face legal consequences.” As per norms, the home isolation is allowed for patients who are asymptomatic and those having very mild symptoms. The conditions to be fulfilled for home isolation include an undertaking from the patient, a consulting doctor to declare the patient asymptomatic, round-the-clock availability of a caregiver for the patient, a minimum of two toilets at home, and a separate isolation room. Patients also have to purchase medical kits equipped with a pulse oximeter, a thermometer, masks and gloves, among others. Before allowing home isolation, rapid response teams arrive for physical inspection at the house of the patient and he/she is also required to sign an undertaking in which they give consent to follow health protocols and adhere to all norms.Recently, the administration had also increased the number of teams stationed at the control room for better monitoring of those under home isolation.“We have also asked our teams to carefully monitor patients aged over 55 years and those with co-morbidities, and shift them to Covid care facilities if they develop any complication. Of the overall cases in home isolation, we had to refer about 190 patients to L1 (for mild cases), L2(for moderate cases) and L3( for severe cases) category Covid hospitals, when their condition deteriorated,” Dr Gupta added.As per norms, the patients in home isolation are required to stay at home for 10 days after which they are marked as “recovered”, and are then required to be under home quarantine for seven days.Of the 3,339 persons who had opted for home isolation, those between the age group of 21-40 years formed the highest share at 51.36%. The second highest share is constituted by the 41-60 age group at 31.96%, while those between 11-20 years comprise 8.39% of total patients in home isolation. Those above 60 years of age form a share of 4.79%, while children till 10 years of age make up for 3.5% home isolation cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-to-take-legal-action-those-who-violate-home-isolation-norms/story-QMqpj65lCDFzWp0Bvj9dOP.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh dentist booked for cheating Kenyan woman||A Chandigarh-based dentist has been booked for allegedly cheating a Kenyan woman by providing her ‘substandard’ dental implants. Enid Nayabundi, 52, of Nairobi has accused Dr Mohit Dhawan of Avance Dental Care at Sector 21 of cheating her when she came to India for dental implants between December 12 and 15, 2017, and again from May 14 to 27, 2018. She alleged that Dr Dhawan told her that she would get soft dentures, but will have to wait for the second part of the procedure. By the time of her departure, she was told that her implants were not ready yet and they would be delivered to her in a few days. Enid finally received a set of dentures via courier on March 14, 2018, but found them to be of ‘poor quality’ which would not even fit on her gums. She said during her second visit, she had to wait for long before her crowns were installed at the last minute and as she was due to leave for the airport, the job was done in a hurried manner. On July 7, 2018, she said she visited her dentist in Nairobi for assessment, who detected some faults in the work done. Acting on her complaint, police registered a case under sections 419 and 420 of IPC against Dr Dhawan. The dentist, meanwhile, has denied the allegations and claimed that he was being falsely implicated. “Sinister attempts to tarnish the persona and reputation are being made with not an iota of evidence,” he claimed, adding that “senior IPS officers, police and administrative authorities were pursuing a vendetta against him”. He said the patient was not in India on the days she claimed that she had visited the country to get implants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-dentist-booked-for-cheating-kenyan-woman/story-GhbjZPQuqbwxp7GJn6orUO.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally rises to 1,242,770, toll stands at 33,407||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 18,390 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the total to 1,242,770. The state surpassed 60 lakh Covid tests with its highest number of samples tested in a 24-hour period with 105,026 tests. Active number of cases in the state stood at 272,410.Maharashtra also reported 392 fatalities, pushing the toll to 33,407. Of the 392 deaths reported on Tuesday, 243 were from the past 48 hours and 81 were from last week. Rest 68 deaths were from the period before last week.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,628 new cases to push its tally to 187,904. It also reported 50 deaths, taking its toll to 8,555.For the fifth straight day, Maharashtra’s recoveries exceeded the number of fresh cases added. On Tuesday, the state reported 20,206 recoveries, pushing the tally of recoveries to 936,554. The recovery rate in the state has improved to 75.36%.A senior health department official said that recoveries were not being reported regularly on the portal, therefore, there was a lag for a few days. “Last week, the department has directed districts to pull up their socks and report recoveries regularly. The surge in cases from August led to some delay, but it is being streamlined. Our target is to cross and maintain 80% recovery rate,” the official said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will participate in the high-level virtual meeting convened by prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the seven worst-affected states in the country.Maharashtra accounts for 22.34% of the country’s total confirmed cases and 37.56% of the overall fatalities recorded in the country. Senior bureaucrats said that the chief minister is expected to raise the issue of discontinued support of the Centre. “From September 1, as it had intimated, the Centre has stopped providing PPE kits, N95 masks, ventilators, testing kits. The CM will take up the issue and seek an extension of the support,” a senior bureaucrat said.State health minister Rajesh Tope added, “Yes, definitely we will need the support in these matters from the Centre. It will be discussed at the meeting.”State health secretary Pradeep Vyas said that the daily testing is going to be increased in the coming weeks. Senior health department officials said that the target is to take daily tests to around 1.5 lakh in the next two-three weeks. With the increased testing, the number of cases reported daily is expected to further rise, officials said. Over 36% of the total cases in Maharashtra have been reported in September so far, and over 26% of the fatalities in the state have come in the ongoing month. Maharashtra has reported 36.22% of total confirmed Covid-19 cases and 26.41% of fatalities. The state has so far reported a whopping 450,229 cases and 8,824 deaths in September alone. The state health department has attributed the higher numbers to increased movement of people and more testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-tally-rises-to-1-242-770-toll-stands-at-33-407/story-qReFt5pBDYoXJ3nd3nURJL.html
23-09-2020||Lucknow||Film City to come up over 1,000 acres in Greater Noida, Adityanath shares blueprint with filmmakers||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath Tuesday shared the blueprint for the proposed film city -- to come up on 1,00 acres along the Yamuna Expressway -- with filmmakers and said the city, once ready, would have ”great connectivity” and boast of a dedicated “infotainment zone”. After a presentation by Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) CEO Arunvir Singh, the chief minister told filmmakers that the film city would have ”great rail, road and air connectivity”. “The site is close to Agra, the city of Taj Mahal;Mathura, the birthplace of Krishna; the proposed logistic hub in Noida; and the proposed dry port and freight corridor, thus providing all facilities of transport and movement,” Adityanath said.Filmmakers Vijayendra Prasad, Ashoke Pandit, Vinod Bachchan, actor Manoj Joshi, art director Nitin Desai, and singers Udit Narayan, Anup Jalota and Kailash Kher sat through the presentation.Producer Saundarya Rajnikant, actor Anupam Kher, filmmaker Atul Agnihotri, chairman of National School of Drama Paresh Rawal, lyricist Manoj Muntasir and actor Satish Kaushik interacted with the CM virtually.According to the presentation, the film city would come up in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway and, of the total 1,000 acres, 220 acres would be reserved for commercial activity. Adityanath said the Jewar international airport, which is coming up about 6km from the film city site, would be functional by 2023 and the region would also boast of an international electronics city and a global financial hub in the coming years. Adityanath said his government was aware of the present trend of OTT (over the top) and media streaming platforms. “That is why we intend to provide a high capacity, world class data centre along with all pre-production and post-production infrastructure, processing labs, VFX and digital studios of international level in this zone,” he said. “We have locations, we have cultural diversity, we have the manpower and now we will also have a film city with state-of-the-art facilities,” the chief minister said. Officials later disclosed that ace art director Nitin Desai has offered his expertise in setting up the film city. Sandeep Singh of Vistas Media, a Singapore-based Company, has offered to set up a film academy with an initial investment of $10 million, officials said. Pandit said, “One should look beyond Hindi films and even multilingual films can be made here. After all, the Bhojpuri films are already made here (in UP).”“About 80% technicians and workforce in Mumbai film industry is from Uttar Pradesh and, hence, the availability of manpower will never be a problem for the film city,” Desai said. Although there is no official deadline as yet, UP Film Development Council chairman Raju Srivastava hoped that the project could be ready by 2023. “Desai will submit a development proposal in the next 15 days. We will let them know other details of the allotment, paving way for setting up of film studios, artificial villages and other facilities required in the film city. This city will have a film institute, music academies and world-class facilities,” Yeida CEO Singh said.The state government zeroed in on the Yamuna Expressway location as Noida and Greater Noida did not have the required land for such a big project, officials said. “We evaluated proposals of Noida and Greater Noida authorities on this. But the two cities do not have adequate land and the Yamuna Expressway has the required land,” said Alok Tandon UP infrastructure and industrial development commissioner. “The sector 21 is surrounded by sector 20, 34 and 28 located just next to the airport site. This area will become the most happening spot in the time to come in terms of art and film activities,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/film-city-to-come-up-over-1-000-acres-in-greater-noida-adityanath-shares-blueprint-with-filmmakers/story-5dBZJ05j99awVeFTnpql3O.html
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: War hero’s statue shifted to Nehru Rose Garden||The district administration and municipal corporation on Tuesday shifted the statue of war hero Major Bhupinder Singh and the Patton Tank installed near it to the Nehru Rose garden from Bharat Nagar Chowk.A platform was already constructed to keep the statues the tank. The monument will be open to the public in the next two or three days. It was shifted due to ongoing construction work of flyovers on Ludhiana-Ferozepur road.A member of committee, formed for shifting the statue, said that the municipal corporation and meritorious school have contributed the space to accommodate the statue in Nehru Rose Garden.The shifting of the statue was done overnight and authorities closed the road from Bharat Nagar Chowk to Jagraon Bridge for vehicular traffic to uproot the statue and tank. Earlier, the statue and the tank were installed on the rotary in the centre of Bharat Nagar Chowk. The statue was shifted near the main gate of Government College for Girls after the rotary was razed.Major Bhupinder Singh was the Squadron Commander of Hudson Horse in the 1965 Indo-Pak war. On September 19, 1965 he destroyed many enemy tanks in the Sodereke fight and was badly burnt, which proved fatal. He sacrificed his life for the country and was awarded Mahavir Chakra posthumously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/war-hero-s-statue-shifted-to-nehru-rose-garden/story-zMUEqvT9Uc52Z3HH3Drt0K.html
23-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Relatives wait for hours, hope for miracles||Hours after the collapse of Jilani building in Bhiwandi on Monday morning, anxious relatives and even survivors continued to wait at the site, hoping for miraculous escapes for their kin. Mohammad Mustaq, 26, was one such relative waiting for news on his brother Mohammad Mustaffa, 38. “I lived with my parents in a nearby chawl and my brother shifted to a house on the first floor of this building with his wife and children. He used to have dinner with us every day. He had come to our place on Sunday night too. We are worried because the first floor is the worst-hit,” said Mustaq, who runs a shop in the locality. Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant, NDRF, who was leading the rescue team, said, “The chances of survival become bleak as time passes, but sometimes there are miracles too.” Zulekha Shaikh, 52, who suffered a leg injury, started to lose patience, with no information on her daughter, Shabnam Mohammad Ali Shaikh, 28. She was taken to a relative’s house on Tuesday morning, as she was inconsolable. By evening, the rescue team found Shabnam’s body from the debris. Shaikh lost her younger daughter and husband earlier this year. “Despite the pain, she stayed put at the site for hours, only to be shattered,” said one of the family members. Khalid Khan, 42, who was rescued around Monday noon, lost his younger brother, Shahid Abdulla Khan, 32, and his three-year-old son Asad in the incident. Their bodies were recovered around 5am on Tuesday. However, wanting to help others, he returned to the site on Tuesday evening. “When I was stuck inside for almost nine hours, I was losing hope. But when I heard noise from outside of the rescue team, I screamed. For the first time in my life, I thought God came to my help,” said Khalid. “I want to help the team as I know exactly where people might be stuck.” For Jamil Khan, 47, a Sakinaka resident, there was no end to wait till Tuesday evening. He had come to check on his niece, Farida Khatun Khan, 35, her husband and three children, who lived on the first floor of the building. “Every time, the rescue team finds someone alive, I hope it is from my family.” Shaikh family was to move out on MondayThe Shaikh family, which lived on the first floor of the building, was to shift to another building on the day of the collapse. Arif Shaikh, 35, who worked as a driver, stayed with his wife, three children and younger brother Sohail, 22, who had come home on a vacation a week ago. Jahida Shaikh, Arif’s aunt, who resides in Borivli, reached the collapse site on Monday afternoon and was still waiting for news on the six family members. Nidha Shaikh, 10, Arif’s daughter, was found dead at 5pm on Tuesday evening. Shaikh said, “They were planning to shift for the past two to three months, but were stuck because of issues with the deposit amount.” 34-year-old, his family survives, brother diesWhile Khan Tariq Khalim, 34, had a narrow escape with his wife and kids, his brother and nephew died in the collapse. Khan’s brother Shahid Abdulla Khan, 32, worked in a mobile repair shop and stayed with his son, Asad, 3, on the second floor. Khan’s parents also stayed with his brother, however, they were rescued. Khan said, “I shifted my wife, parents and children to a relative’s place for the night and was back at the crash site. At 5am, the rescuers found Asad’s body and an hour later Khalid’s body was found.” ‘Warned 1st floor locals, they didn’t pay heed’Dr Yasmin Ansari, 28, who works at a Covid care centre in Bhiwandi, felt the ground shake at 3.15am on Monday. She immediately woke her husband Sharif, 32, and the couple knocked on all doors on the second floor asking people to move out. Yasmin said, “Almost everyone from the second floor stepped out. We then asked people on the first floor to vacate, but they wanted to wait till morning or collect their belongings. We went downstairs and in minutes, the structure came crashing down.” ‘Had one litre of water with me when I was stuck under the debris’Khalid Khan, 42, who joined the rescue operations on Tuesday, a day after she was rescued from under the debris said, “I had one litre of water with me when I was stuck under the debris. I sipped water, and was hopeful to survive. When I heard the sound of the rescue team, I was sure of getting out alive. They asked me to stay calm and not worry, and within minutes I was pulled out,” he added. The rescue team cheered him up with slogans “Ganpati Bappa Morya” as soon as he was pulled out safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-relatives-wait-for-hours-hope-for-miracles/story-OlD1ADSfMJn99bLhrUBMfO.html
23-09-2020||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar receives income tax notice, Supriya Sule likely next||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has received a notice from the income tax (I-T) department over declaration of his assets in the election affidavits filed in more than a decade. His daughter and Baramati Member of Parliament (MP) Supriya Sule is also likely to receive a similar notice soon. Pawar took a jibe at the Centre, saying it reflected a “feeling of love” for him, and also pointed out that the chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and his son and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray have received similar notices.“I received a notice from the income tax department yesterday. It was sent on the directives of the Election Commission of India (ECI). They have sought information and clarification related to the details on assets shared by me in election affidavits filed in 2020, 2014 and 2009-10. I heard that Supriya [Sule] is also likely to get a similar notice soon. I will have to immediately respond to the notice as it also warned of things like raids,” Pawar told reporters.“They have chosen us from so many other members [Members of Parliament]. I’m happy they have a feeling of love for us. I have read somewhere that similar notices have been served to the chief minister [Uddhav Thackeray] and his son [Aaditya Thackeray],” the 79-year old leader said in response to a question on being targeted as an ally of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.Other NCP leaders believe that MVA leadership is being targeted for obvious reasons. “On one hand, notices have been served to Pawar saheb and his daughter, and on the other, CM Thackeray and his son have been served notices. The intention is very clear that the Central government is trying to scare us. So far, they have been randomly choosing members for serving notices. In this case, we are specifically targeted. Surprisingly, no leader from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was sent a notice,” said a senior NCP leader, on condition of anonymity.Last year, Pawar was booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case in connection with an alleged scam of Rs 25,000 crore in Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank – the apex body for all district central cooperative (DCC) banks in the state.Pawar had declared a visit to the ED office which was cancelled on the request of the Mumbai Police as party workers from across the state started coming to the city to support their leader.ED had registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR), equivalent to a first information report (FIR) filed by police, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-receives-income-tax-notice-supriya-sule-likely-next/story-JdQd2Rmq71wWIjs9pGu4wN.html
23-09-2020||Pune||Of 17K suspected cases found across Pune dist, over 2K are Covid positive||Out of the 17,196 people found suspected during the ongoing “My family, My responsibility” campaign in the district, 2006 were detected Covid-19 positive. The survey is part of the campaign launched by the state government to detect cases. The campaign will be testing each individual for Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) and Influenza-like Illness (ILI) symptoms and also screen comorbid people. It will keep a check on them so that early treatment can be initiated if need be, according to district officials. The survey conducted by Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations (PCMC) and zilla parishad (ZP) for Pune district aims to screen every individual for various symptoms through oral questioning and diagnosis for temperature and oxygen levels. The district’s population is over 1 crore and till date close to 20.22 lakh people have been screened. Out of over 20 lakh people, about 17,196 were found to be suspected and tested for Covid infection, and close to 2006 were found Covid positive. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We started the survey in rural areas and all gram panchayats have been screened once. We have a thorough data on comorbid conditions of each individual. Till date, over 6.26 lakh have been screened in Pune city, 1.26 in Pimpri-Chinchwad and over 12.70 lakh in Pune rural.” The sero survey which was to be launched by the district administration for Pune city and PCMC areas is yet to begin, said divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. He said, “I have just got a detailed proposal from Sassoon hospital which will be initiating the survey which will also be conducted by the Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana. In a few days we will process the proposal.” The sero survey will determine the exact spread of the virus and how many were infected at any given point of time and have recovered on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/out-of-17k-suspected-cases-found-across-pune-dist-over-2k-are-covid-positives/story-Z3VjmToZkxJvrBoTBtR1pI.html
23-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: BCM Senior Secondary School reopens for Classes 10, 12 amid precautions||BCM Senior Secondary School, Focal Point, reopened on Tuesday for Classes 10 and 12 with all safety precautions in place, six months after the nationwide lockdown that was announced due to Covid-19. The school is affiliated to Punjab School Education Board (PSEB). Around 33 Class 12 students who have opted for commerce and humanities stream visited the school for doubt clearance in the morning for two hours and from 11 am to 1 pm, around 42 Class 10 students visited the school. Entry was allowed from two gates to avoid crowding. Circles were marked to implement social distancing and staff was deployed for carrying out thermal screening of each student.They also checked the oxygen levels of students with an oximeter and if any student’s temperature was found higher than they were asked to sit for five minutes so that they can again check their temperature with thermal guns.Eleven students were accommodated in one classroom to maintain a distance of 2 metres. Teachers were seen clearing the doubts of students and continued taking online classes at the same time. The authorities have maintained a register to keep a record of students visiting the school.A parent, Sunil Kumar, said, “My daughter is studying in Class 10 and I have allowed her to visit school for doubt clearance. Teachers are doing their best by taking online classes but there is no substitute for classroom teaching. My 15-year-old daughter was very happy to visit the school today.”Neeru Kaura, school principal, said, “We have been planning to reopen the school for students of Classes 9 to 12 but initially we have asked students of Classes 10 and 12 to visit the school for two hours. Over 75 students visited the school today and many others are interested in coming to school for doubt clearance. I have asked their parents to send written consent, only then we will allow their children to visit the school.”More schools to reopen next weekOther PSEB affiliated schools are planning to reopen next week after sanitising their premises. However, the industrial training institutes are set to reopen in the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-bcm-senior-secondary-school-reopens-for-classes-10-12-amid-precautions/story-YomPEdQV3ejaSES95x0P4I.html
23-09-2020||Pune||SPPU final-year exams: Optical mark recognition method to be used to grade online papers in trial run||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) announced on Tuesday that its trial run for the online final-year exams will done using an “optical mark recognition (OMR)” method. “We have appointed a committee to prepare the multiple choice questions paper sets. Subject-wise, each paper will have 60 questions for the exam. We will conduct mock tests before the real exams happen. Soon, the detailed exam time-table will be declared,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. Optical mark recognition (OMR) scans paper forms to detect darkened marks at pre-determined positions.Of a total of two lakh students appearing for the final-year exams across three districts, 85 per cent chose the online option to appear for papers. They will give the exams in an “offline mode” for which the SPPU has identified 50 centres where the examination will be held. As per instructions issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the SPPU must finish the final-year exams before October 31. On Wednesday, a group of students raised the issue of the duration of the papers – currently, an hour for the 60 multiple choice question papers. Kamlakar Shete, a final-year student said, “An hour is very little and it should be increased to an-hour-and-a-half. As most students are giving the exams online, there might be various issues, like technical problems, or students not understanding the system. So, time may be consumed. Hence, the exam duration should be increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-final-year-exams-optical-mark-recognition-method-to-be-used-to-grade-online-papers-in-trial-run/story-5Dxaq1546vDMQqoMiT2seN.html
23-09-2020||Pune||Admissions to Maharashtra engineering diploma courses extended for the fourth time; now on till September 30||Pune: The admission process for engineering diploma courses in Maharashtra has now been extended for the fourth time. After last dates of September 10, 12, and 22, saw courses fail to fill up seats, the Maharashtra State Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) has extended the deadline till September 30. The final merit list for admission as per applications received will be declared on October 8. “There are many students who want to take admission for the engineering diploma courses, but due to various reasons they couldn’t make it. So, we have extended the deadline till September 30. According to the new updated admission schedule, the provisional merit list will be declared on October 3, students can give their objections and corrections till October 6 and the final merit list will be declared on October 8,” said DTE director Abhay Wagh. As of now, 78,000 applications have come in for a total of 113,000 seats across the state. Of these, 72,884 students have confirmed their admission. DTE began its admission process for diploma courses on August 10. These include various courses like pharmacy, surface coating technology, hotel management and catering technology, among others. Engineering diploma admission: updated schedule Till September 30 – Admission open; document verification October 3 - Provisional merit list will be declared October 4-6 - Students can raise objections October 8 - Final merit list declared||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/admissions-to-maharashtra-engineering-diploma-courses-extended-for-the-fourth-time-now-on-till-september-30/story-1h5ghK9UzuHu7yzR0S9OeN.html
23-09-2020||Pune||Marathi actress Ashalata Wabgaonkar passes away at 79 after contracting Covid on sets of TV serial||Prominent Marathi film and theatre actor Ashalata Wabgaonkar, 79, passed away at Satara hospital on Tuesday. Her crew members claim that she died of Covid after contracting the virus during the shooting of Marathi television show “Aai Mazi Kalubai”. Her death has raised questions within film and theatre fraternity over whether to allow senior citizens to shoot for films, web series and television. According to Alka Kubal Athalye, an actress and producer of “Aai Mazi Kalubai”, around 22 crew members, including Wabgaonkar, had tested positive for Covid. Initially, the Satara village where the shoot was taking place, did not allow the production crew though after promise of to all the precautions, they were allowed. “Around 22 crew members, including Ashalata, had tested positive for Covid in Satara on September 16. Ashalata was admitted to Pratibha hospital in Satara and was put on ventilator support as her oxygen levels were low. The other crew members are stable and later underwent tests at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune,” Athalye said.As per a press statement, her last rites will be performed at Satara. She is survived by her son. A PTI report quoted a senior doctor from the hospital as saying, “Her condition worsened on Monday evening and she was put on ventilator support. She breathed her last today morning.”Dr Sanjay Sathe, intensive care unit head of Prathibha hospital, said, “ She was admitted for five days and was on ventilator. She was in the Covid special section, ICU on ventilator, but she did not respond as she was severely affected by coronavirus. She passed away around 4.30 am on Tuesday.”“For the past one month, Ashalata was shooting for a serial in which she was playing the lead role. She had undergone Covid test in Mumbai prior to joining us here (Satara) for the shoot.” Meghraj Rajebhosale, president, Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Chitrapat Mahamandal, said, “It is very sad and tragic that we lost a senior actor while on an outdoor shoot. I feel that senior actors should avoid being part of shoots during this pandemic.” According to Rajebhosale, members of Indian Motion Pictures Producers Association (IMPPA) had approached the court, which allowed senior citizens to participate in shooting. Sushma Shiromanee, general secretary, Film Makers Combined, and ex-president IMPPA said, “Even as shooting during this pandemic poses virus risk, senior actors also need financial stability when others are allowed to work. As long as everyone is following the rules laid by the court and the government, there should not be any problem in working.” Athalye said that a doctor always accompanied the crew at the shooting set in Satara. “Apart from a doctor and Covid inspector at the set, we santitised the set three times a day. Ashatai’s health took turn for the worst four days ago and I have always been by her side. Her oxygen levels dropped because of her advanced age. She was like a mother to me and we have been working together for 35 years. This disease is very unpredictable,” said Athalye. Ashalata was popular in theatre for Konkani and Marathi plays and has acted in more than 100 plays. She began her career with Sangeet Natak (musical) Matsyagandha, while her debut in Hindi film was with Basu Chatterjee’s Apne Paraye (1980), for which she was nominated for a Filmfare Best Supporting Actress. “Umbartha, Sutradhar, Navari Mile Navryala, Vahinichi Maya” were some of her hit Marathi films. She has also written a book on music called “Gard Sabhovati”. She had trained in singing under Pandit Jitendra Abhisheki.With Agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/marathi-actress-ashalata-wabgaonkar-passes-away-at-79-after-contracting-covid-on-sets-of-tv-serial/story-zIlG4TUdLHCEmJmOFSwsgL.html
23-09-2020||Pune||Pune police lose fifth officer to Covid; 1,171 are positive||A 55-year-old assistant sub-inspector of Pune police, who was Covid-19 positive, died on Tuesday. Bhagwan Ramchandra Nikam had been undergoing treatment since September 12 when he tested positive. He was working at the special branch of Pune police and stayed with his family at Vishrantwadi police lines, according to the police. Nikam is the fifth personnel of Pune police to have died of coronavirus infection. “He was also diabetic,” said Mitesh Ghatte, deputy commissioner of police, special branch and headquarters, Pune police. The other Pune police staff who had died of Covid-19 are Vinod Potdar (51), Suresh Dalvi (56), Dilip Londhe (57) and Deepak Sawant (42). “The government grants Rs 50 lakh and Rs 10 lakh from the Police Director General’s (DG) office along with the gratuity to the personnel who died of Covid infection. The first two cases have already received the money,” Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune. According to the police, as of September 22, 1,171 officials have tested positive, including 151 active, 1,015 recovered and five death cases. The strength of city police is around 9,000, including officers and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-lose-fifth-personnel-to-covid-1-171-are-positive/story-7QhDUVydhjg2xTtXiGxIYO.html
