24-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government fixes ₹5,500 for each plasma therapy dose for Covid-19 patients||In a relief to citizens, the Maharashtra government has decided to fix charges for convalescent plasma therapy at ₹5,500 per dose. The decision was taken considering the exorbitant rates being charged by blood banks and hospitals. State health minister Rajesh Tope made the announcement on Thursday.Those found charging in excess of the fixed charges will have to return the extra amount or they will face action. The authority can even cancel licences of the blood banks, Tope said.Following approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), convalescent plasma therapy is being used as a treatment for Covid-19 in the state. Each dose of convalescent plasma therapy is 200ml, for which blood banks and hospitals are charging exorbitantly.The state has formed an expert committee to determine rates for per dose of convalescent plasma therapy. In case, Nucleic Acid Testing (NAT) or chemiluminescence test is conducted prior to the therapy then hospitals can charge ₹1,200 and ₹500 per test respectively, the health minister said.Earlier, the state government had fixed rates for Covid-19 tests. Samples collected at home for RT-PCR tests will be charged ₹2,000 and ₹1,200 for samples taken directly at the laboratory for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-fixes-5-500-for-each-plasma-therapy-dose-for-covid-19-patients/story-dsnwEfsrkg16rWjdGBMpyN.html
24-09-2020||City||After Jilani building collapse, every Bhiwandi building to be checked||In the wake of the Jilani building collapse which killed 38 people, the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) has ordered 200 civic employees to inspect every building in Bhiwandi. With a population of 10 lakh, the city of powerlooms has a majority of migratory population. Most of the workers and labourers look for homes for cheap. Over the past few decades, unsafe and illegal buildings have mushroomed in Bhiwandi. Experts claim small builders keep building such structures, within months, without permission or compliance with safety standards, while residents allege the civic body never takes any action. “Three-fourths of the total structures in Bhiwandi city are illegal and dangerous. As per the civic body’s record, of the 517 structures, which are more than 30 years old, only 47 have carried out structural audit,” said Pankaj Ashiya, chief of BNCMC. Ashiya said the civic body will conduct a massive drive to ensure the structures are audited, inspected and made safe for the residents to live in or razed, if required. “In the coming weeks, we will check the structures. Our committee has already begun formulating a strategy,” said Ashiya. Kamankar Dhurraj, an engineer from Bhiwandi city, said, “Most dangerous and illegal structures have come up in Bhiwandi in the past 10-15 years. Older areas housing the poor have maximum such structures. The builders simply get a plan from an architect of their choice unofficially and construct the building without any quality check. At least 200 such structures are under construction in the city at present.” The structures go from three to even seven storeys at times, Dhurraj claimed. “A nexus of builders, civic officials and local politicians rules in each ward. The only aim is to make money. Most of the buildings do not even have construction or occupation certificates,” he alleged. The rooms built in such structures are given on rents ranging between ₹1,500-₹2,000 or ₹3,000-₹4,000 a month. “We cannot pay much for rooms as we have to send money back home. We take shelter wherever possible. As we keep shifting from one place to another, we can’t pay much attention to whether the building is legal or safe,” said Shakeel Ansari, 38, a labour from Dhamankar Naka, Bhiwandi. In 2017, RTI activist Arvind Jaiswar had filed a petition against BNCMC seeking action against illegal constructions. The Bombay high court had passed an order in April 2017, asking BNCMC to create a grievance redress mechanism and a core committee to enable citizens to file complaints about illegal constructions. Jaiswar said, “No such committee has been formed so far. Soon I will meet the present commissioner and ask him to take implement the order.” Ashiya said BNCMC plans to appoint a committee of technical experts with civic employees and architects in the coming days. He added, “We had floated the tenders to appoint a panel twice, but there was no response. We will follow this up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-jilani-building-collapse-every-bhiwandi-building-to-be-checked/story-MG5KwCJqYWzjgs4yWmGJEL.html
24-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Neighbouring chawl razed to make way; 3 families left homeless||Shamina Banu, 34, who returned to the Jilani building collapse site early on Tuesday morning, was shocked to see that her house in a chawl surrounding the building, was razed. Banu had left the house on Monday evening with her 8-year-old daughter when rescuers informed her that she will have to vacate it to help the operation. Banu hadn’t realised that it will be razed, and she is now clueless about where to stay with her daughter. She and three other families residing in the chawl are now homeless. Banu said, “On Monday night after watching rescue operations in Jilani building, I went to my relative’s place to sleep that night with my daughter. The team had asked us to vacate the chawl, but never informed they would raze it. The next day when I returned, the chawl had vanished. I was shocked and when I inquired they said they razed it to make way to the collapse site,” said Banu, whose husband passed away nine months ago. Their chawl was razed on Tuesday morning so that rescue teams could reach the collapse site and clear the debris using machinery. “Two other families also lost their shelters. Now we have no idea where to go as all my belongings are also destroyed. I have no money as well,” said Banu, who sells artificial ornaments on the road side in Bhiwandi. However, a member of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescue team requesting anonymity said, “On Monday night when we realised that next day there would be a need to use machinery to move the debris and find bodies, we had asked the residents in the chawl to move out with their belongings. We also informed them that if required we will raze it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-neighbouring-chawl-razed-to-make-way-3-families-left-homeless/story-HZB7iPB4qB7efoSI2CTNcI.html
24-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Family loses six relatives, visits site every day||The Ahmeds, who lived near Jilani building, lost six relatives in the collapse. The family remained at the site since the collapse as they refused to believe that their relatives, who lived on the first floor of Jilani building, are gone. Zaheer Ahmed, a 22-year-old student, was present at the site on the fourth day of rescue operations although the bodies of his two uncles, one aunt and three cousins were found on Wednesday. Zaheer’s two uncles — Shakir Ali Ansari, 40, and Zabir Ali Ansari, 20 — Zabir’s wife Shabnam Ali Ansari, 28, and their three children died in the incident. “I live nearby and reached the spot as soon as I came to know. When I looked around, I realised all of them were stuck inside. It was a painful experience for me. My uncles used to work as labourers in Bhiwandi and look after the family. They were all happy and I used to visit them often,” said Zaheer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-family-loses-six-relatives-visits-site-every-day/story-ZEaRDNRA2DGvKAcoNPLHjJ.html
24-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Rescued resident’s video from inside debris goes viral||A heart wrenching video from inside the debris by one of the rescued resident of Bhiwandi’s Jilani building, Khalid Khan, 42, went viral on Thursday on social media. The video shows him sobbing while shooting from inside the rubble. Khalid was stuck inside for 10 long hours after the building collapsed on Monday. He lost his brother and his son in the incident. Khalid thanked the rescue team for pulling him out from the debris. In the video, Khalid explained how he was caught inside the debris on the first floor when the building collapsed. He was heard saying, “So many would have died in this incident. I jumped off my bed when the incident took place and got stuck before I could run out. My leg was trapped under a concrete slab which I managed to remove. If I survive it would be because of God’s grace.” In the background the sound machines used by the rescue team could be heard. Khalid also showed the debris around him and the space where he was stuck. At the end of the video he said, “My children, please don’t trouble your mother.”Khalid’s wife and children were at native place, while he lived with his brother in the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-rescued-resident-s-video-from-inside-debris-goes-viral/story-hc07Cc9ed22COy9D2x4ppI.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||Immunisation coverage of DTP vaccine takes a hit in Gurugram||With schools having been shut since March 25, due to a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the district’s immunisation coverage of the diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP) vaccine has taken a significant hit, revealed the data shared by the district health department. Officials and experts fear this may lead to a spike in the cases of diphtheria among children over the next six to eight weeks. Gurugram and the neighbouring Nuh have already seen four suspected diphtheria deaths since July this year. The health department runs 11 immunisation programmes, covering a range of vaccines for preventable diseases (VPDs), such as measles, diptheria, polio, mumps, rubella and others. This year, due to Covid-19, the coverage targets of all 11 campaigns have been reduced. Immunisation efforts in Gurugram are lagging behind even in these lowered targets with staff stretched to capacity on account of Covid-19 outbreak, officials revealed. For example, a booster dose of the DTP vaccine, administered to children at age five, achieved 113% coverage last year (with 38,872 children inoculated as against a target of 34,375). This year, only 55% of the target has been met, with 7,408 children inoculated (out of 13,250 that were targeted for coverage till end August). Even sharper drops were seen in coverage of the tetanus-diptheria (TD) vaccine, which is administered to children at ages 10 and 16. Only 23% of the 10-year vaccine’s coverage target for August has been achieved (as opposed to 66% coverage last year). Similarly, the 16-year vaccine achieved only 11% coverage this year (as opposed to 51% last year). “It is unlikely that we will be able to meet or exceed our targets this year, whether for diptheria-tetanus-pertussis or any of the other campaigns. We are aiming for at least 90% coverage of all 11 vaccine programs, which should provide adequate herd immunity among vulnerable communities,” said Dr Naresh Garg, district immunisation officer, Gurugram. While most vaccine campaigns are conducted door-to-door, booster doses of the DTP and TD vaccines, Garg explained, are administered in schools. “But schools have been shut since March, so naturally, these vaccines have achieved very low coverage this year. This would create ‘immunity gaps’ in the population, but we are going to set up weekend vaccine camps specifically for DTP and DT vaccines at all anganwadis in the district, every Saturday. Outreach programmes will also be done by ASHA workers to let people know,” Garg added.However, the public health ramifications of reduced immunisation cover are already manifesting, according to experts. Dr Bindu Yadav, the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) surveillance medical officer in Gurugram, said, “Since July, Gurugram district has seen one confirmed case of diphtheria and seven suspected cases, whereas last year we saw only six cases. And the annual peak of the disease is still about eight weeks away. We are very likely to see a higher number of diptheria cases among children this year, which is indicative of low vaccine coverage during the lockdown.” Suspected cases of diphtheria have already been reported in Nuh, in which four children between the ages of five and 15 have died since July this year. Twelve other children are suspected to have contracted the bacterial illness, according to data provided by Dr Vimlesh Tiwari, district epidemiologist, Nuh. “Our district has historically struggled with immunisation cover. Last year we had about 150 cases of diptheria. This year, we are on the alert for more. Diptheria cases typically peak around late October and early November,” Tiwari said. Dr Sanjeev Tanwar, the WHO’s surveillance medical officer in Nuh, also added that suspected outbreaks of diptheria have been reported in districts of Alwar and Bharatpur in Rajasthan, which share their borders with Nuh. “I say suspected cases only because of technicality. Clinical symptoms of diphtheria are unique to the illness, so most cases are treated based on clinical discretion, and not necessarily based on lab confirmed results,” Tanwar explained. Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi pointed out that diphtheria cases and/or outbreaks in the under-15 years age group have recently been reported both from Indian states, as well as countries in the region. “Take Bageshwar district in Uttarakhand, for example, or even parts of eastern Myanmar or central Vietnam. Like all routine health services, immunisation programmes have been affected to varied extents by the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. This may render pools of unimmunised children and adolescents susceptible to outbreaks of vaccine preventable diseases. All states are therefore making serious efforts towards catch-up immunisation,” said Dasgupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/immunisation-coverage-of-dtp-vaccine-takes-a-hit-in-gurugram/story-T3zs57hjyFXsrcP258xQYI.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||Health team deploys 24 Ayurvedic doctors to visit home-isolated patients||Following Haryana government’s directive to increase surveillance of home-isolated Covid-19 patients, the Gurugram health department has added 30 doctors -- six MBBS, 24 ayurvedic doctors -- who will operate separately from the existing rapid response teams (RRTs).The surveillance teams will keep an eye on the patients’ health and ensure they get proper treatment if they deteriorate.Currently, 2732 patients of the 2990 total active cases are under home isolation, according to the district health bulletin on Thursday. At least 15 patients are in Covid Care Centre and 243 seriously ill patients are in hospitals. A district monitoring committee has been constituted especially for home-isolated patients, according to the notification issued by the state health department earlier this week. Health officials said that a 10-member committee has been formed to monitor the RRTs at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) level. There are 138 RRTs in rural areas and 143 in urban areas.Dr. Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer, said, “Twenty-four Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) doctors have been deployed under different UPHCs to visit patients at home and enquire about their health. They are being assisted by a lab technician. But before their visit, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) who are basically part of the RRTs visit these patients and record their vital parameters like body temperature, oxygen saturation level and blood pressure. The process helps in timely detection serious patients and preventing mortality.” RRTs comprise ASHAs, ANMs and lab technician. They were formed in May when the Covid-19 cases began to increase in the cityThese teams visit the patients on the first, third, fifth, seventh and ninth day after testing positive and provide basic medicines like immunity boosters, AYUSH medicines, paracetamol and vitamin supplements. Besides, a doctor and an ANM at UPHC calls home-isolated patients between 9am to 5pm. Six doctors have been working in shifts, with three every alternate day. The team focuses upon patients with co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension or those in immunocompromised state due to any long-term illness. “After the first round of surveillance when the patient is tested positive, the teams at the UPHC level identify people elderly with comorbid conditions. For the remaining patients, a separate list of patients is prepared who are reached out by the teams at the ground level. Every day the team reach out to over 100 home isolated patients.” said Dr Ashima Sheoran, senior medical officer, Wazirabad UPHC.“To understand this, the team on Thursday made calls to patients who were tested positive on September 21. These set of patients will again be reached out on September 27 and finally on the ninth day of their isolation period,” said Sheoran.According to her when the calls are being made to patients they generally enquire about the symptoms, food to be taken during the treatment, time duration for consuming immunity boosters and how family members can reach out to the team if the situation is serious. “In many cases patients talks to the team rudely and switch off their phones,” said Sheoran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-team-deploys-24-ayurvedic-doctors-to-visit-home-isolated-patients/story-pc6R1B31aGkxp93BNywFaJ.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Few students attending schools for guidance||In government schools across the district, only 2-3% of the total enrolled students in classes 9 to 12 have attended the academic guidance sessions since these voluntary visits started on Monday. As per the data shared by district education officer Indu Boken, around 200- 400 students attended the classes daily. School heads said that while number students turning up was increasing gradually, sessions will not be scaled up until the end of the month. Voluntary visits to schools for clearing questions for a limited time period were permitted by the Central government as part of its Unlock 4 guidelines. Students outside containment zones were permitted to visit schools outside containment zones with the written consent of parents. In line with the statement of protocols, teachers were required to get a negative Covid test report and have Arogya Setu installed on their phones. Only 50% of teachers are permitted to visit schools for these academic sessions.Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that guidance sessions would continue in the same manner until the end of the month. “We are holding discussion sessions for students in different slots. There is no exchange of class work or homework right now. Until the government issues new directions, sessions will continue in a similar manner,” said Sharma. Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that the number of students visiting the school had increased and. “Around 60 students visited the school today. Sessions were informal and unlike a full-fledged class. Students are allowed to leave after getting their questions cleared,” said Raghav. Most private schools said that they would continue with online classes since most parents were not in favour of school visits. Aditi Misra, principal, Delhi Public School, Sector 45, said that only a few students from classes 9 to 12 had visited the school for academic guidance visits. “We had sought feedback and consent from parent prior to the visits. However, where we expected four students, only one came and where we expected eight students, only three came,” said Misra. She said that the school had called only some teachers to schools based on the requests placed by students. “We had thoroughly sanitised labs and classrooms for specific classes. Desks where students were not supposed to sit due to distancing protocols were crossed out and separated. All measures were in place but not many children turned up,” said Misra. She said that the school would continue these sessions on a need basis since an overwhelming number of students were in favour of only online classes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-few-students-attending-schools-for-guidance/story-VABTY6UudqoP2S0cLWvy4H.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||Around 1,800 workers in automobile factories have suffered serious injuries in past 3 years: Report||Around 1,800 workers employed in various automobile parts manufacturing units in Gurugram-Manesar industrial complex have suffered serious work-related injuries over the past three years that included, among others, losing their fingers and hands, stated a report released by Safe in India Foundation on Thursday. The report further stated that 88% of the injured workers were migrants from other states and they were also the ones who suffered the most during Covid-19 pandemic. As per the data shared by the foundation, 1,369 workers were seriously injured in the period between November 2016 and March 2019. Further, in the last one year, till September 1, 2020, an additional 504 auto workers faced serious injuries. The report also stated also stated that 52%of these workers were young and aged less than 30 years. They were mostly employed by vendors of large auto companies based in this region. “Every year, thousands of workers in Gurgaon, India’s leading automobile hub, meet with serious accidents. They lose their fingers, break their wrists, suffer nerve damage in their hands, and sometimes even lose the use of their hands. This happens despite the presence of safety laws and monitoring agencies in the country,” the report stated. Sandeep Sachdeva, CEO, Safe In India Foundation, said, without taking adequate care of workers engaged in production, India can’t progress. “A large number of workers have lost their hands and fingers in the last two decades. They need to be saved.”The supply chains of three automakers based in Gurugram and Faridabad accounted for more than 95% of the accidents. The foundation has also identified 31 factories in which one third of these accidents occurred. However, only few of the auto companies were serious about reducing these accidents and had responded to its recommendations in this regard, said Sachdeva. Chitra Khanna, head, safety Initiative of the foundation, said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of injured workers were replaced as auto companies preferred to hire workers who were physically fit when they resumed production. “The pandemic hit all the workers but those injured suffered the maximum,” she said. Experts also said that there was also a serious underreporting of such accidents by the factories and this was also the reason that systemic response could not be formulated to address the issue. On the government side, the report said that inspection of factories and industrial units has dropped while penalty for violations is very low. Rajesh Menon, director general, Society for Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), said that safety of workers and their productivity greatly impact economic growth and social development. “Steps must be taken to prevent such accidents at all levels,” he said. The auto workers’ unions, meanwhile, said that there was need to improve safety measures on the shop floors to prevent such accidents as the mechanism for help and supporting the victims was very weak. “The system does not help these workers much and they are left in the lurch. The best thing would be to ensure minimum accidents,” said Anil Kumar, district general secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, which has multiple auto workers’ trade unions as its members. Reasons for accidents:Safety sensors/mechanism don’t workLack of formal operating and/or safety trainingLack of/poor quality safety gearProduction pressure from supervisorsMachines malfunction due to other reasons||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/around-1-800-workers-in-automobile-factories-have-suffered-serious-injuries-in-past-3-years-report/story-XhBL6Tr2C9P6JwBPRkw3YK.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||Man murders security guard after tiff, dumps body in sewer; arrested||Police on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly murdering a 48-year-old security guard after a tiff during consuming liquor and then dumping his body in a sewer in DLF Phase 3 area. According to the police, the victim, identified as Suresh Kumar, worked as a security guard at a society in DLF Phase 3, and had gone missing on September 14. His brother, Munesh Kumar, had filed a missing persons’ complaint at Nathupur police post on September 19. In the complaint, Munesh had stated that his brother had not returned home after completing his shift on September 14. Munesh had said that his brother usually worked till 8pm. After he did not return, they searched for him in nearby areas for 2-3 days and then approached the police. Police said on September 21, Munesh and his nephew Krishan, were looking for the victim when they noticed Suresh’s dead body lying in a partially covered sewer near a Metro station in DLF Phase 3 area, behind the petrol pump. They immediately informed the police. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “After the victim’s decomposed body was recovered from the sewer, a charge of murder was added to the earlier FIR and a case was registered against unidentified person. A post-mortem was conducted subsequently. Further probe revealed that he had been hit with a heavy object and then his body was dumped in the sewer.” Police said on Wednesday, the accused man, identified as Jagat Singh, a native of Almora, Uttarakhand, was arrested from Nathupur, DLF phase 3. “The accused, who is a driver, said that he and Suresh were drinking alcohol on September 14 evening near the petrol pump. While drinking, the two had a fight regarding payment of the liquor purchased. Singh hit him with a brick on his head multiple times, following which Suresh fell to the ground, unconscious. Singh then dumped his body in a sewer nearby. Since the sewer had water, it is suspected that Suresh drowned,” said Boken. Police said they had confiscated all relevant evidences from the crime spot. The suspect, Singh, was produced in a city court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-murders-security-guard-after-tiff-dumps-body-in-sewer-arrested/story-RscRgp9MDZvmWOwc4T2fRK.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||More than 1,600 property owners can lose water and sewage connections if they fail to clear dues||More than 1,600 property owners across the city can lose their water and sewage connections next month if they fail to clear their property tax dues by then, said officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday.MCG officials said, over the last one week, notices have been served to around 1,650 property owners, asking them to clear their property tax dues within the next 15 days. Otherwise, the civic body would terminate their water and sewage connections. MCG officials said that each property owner owes the civic body in excess of ₹10 lakh in dues, much of which have been accumulating for more than the past five years.“The 1,650 property owners have been given multiple notices to clear their dues. We have now decided to serve them a final notice of 15 days to clear their dues. Otherwise, we will terminate their water and sewage connections with immediate effect,” said Dinesh Kumar, zonal taxation officer (ZTO), MCG.A senior MCG official privy to the matter said that for the civic body sealing properties of tax defaulters — the usual practice — was proving to be a hindrance, especially in residential areas and often they only ended up sealing commercial properties. Hence, the civic body has decided to opt for disconnecting water and sewage lines of defaulters.The official further said that the MCG is also planning to write to the power discom, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), requesting it to cut the electricity connection of property tax defaulters.It is for the first time that the MCG is planning to terminate sewage connections of property tax defaulters. The practice of terminating water connections, however, is not something new for the civic body. In April 2017, the civic body had terminated water connections of five residents in Sector 27 for failing to clear their dues.Property tax is MCG’s main source of revenue. More than 80% of MCG’s annual revenue comes from it.There are 3.97 lakh properties registered under MCG records and as per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act. The civic body can charge tax from any property falling under its jurisdiction.The MCG had collected around ₹166 crore through property tax collection in the 2019-2020 fiscal, much lower than its highest collection of ₹342 crore in 2017-18 fiscal. To ensure a higher collection of property tax in 2020-21 fiscal, the MCG introduced a rebate scheme of 10% on property tax dues in May. Initially, the deadline for this was set as August 31. However, after the civic body collected ₹105 crore of property tax dues in August — the highest it had ever collected in a single month — the civic body decided to extend the rebate scheme till October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/more-than-1-600-property-owners-can-lose-water-and-sewage-connections-if-they-fail-to-clear-dues/story-b3x8NDed6lLCm34NlI2CZN.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||Two arms smugglers fire at police; arrested||The police arrested two alleged arms smugglers from Sehrawan village in Manesar on Wednesday night and allegedly recovered 11 countrymade pistols, seven cartridges and a car from their possession. The police said the accused men fired two gunshots at the crime branch personnel after their car was intercepted near National Highway 48. No persons were injured during the raid. According to the police, the crime branch of Manesar received a tip-off that two arms smugglers were on their way to the city from Bhiwadi, Rajasthan, following which a raiding team was formed to nab them. The police said the accused persons’ car was intercepted near a non-motorable road in Sehrawan village. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “In a bid to escape, the accused men fired twice at the police. No policemen were injured. The accused men were arrested after the police team cornered and surrounded them. A preliminary probe has found that the accused were involved in smuggling of arms and ammunition. They purchased one gun for around ₹22,000 from Uttar Pradesh and sold it for a premium.” The police said the accused men have been identified as Kuldeep alias Kullu, 32, from Bhiwani, and Sachin alias Kalu, 22, from Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. The two are distant cousins, said the police, adding that they were carrying weapons from Bhiwadi on Wednesday night. Kuldeep is accused in at least six criminal cases, including dacoity, snatching, violent assault and illegal possession of weapons, in Bhiwani, Narnaul and Gurugram In 2017, he was booked for a snatching case in Rajendra Park and the following year, he was booked again in an assault case at the same police station in the city. He was also accused in two incidents of dacoity in Bhiwani in 2013. The police said they were checking with police stations in the neighbouring districts to trace the criminal history of the second accused person. A crime branch official, requesting anonymity, said, “We will question them about their sources and since when they had been smuggling guns across states.” The accused men were produced in a district court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody. A case was registered against them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and The Arms Act at Manesar police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-arms-smugglers-fire-at-police-arrested/story-hkYT6kMq81W3gaxDgMCTVN.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Man and 12-year-old boy run over by speeding DTC cluster bus in Nand Nagri||A 22-year-old man and a 12-year-old boy were crushed by a speeding cluster bus in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri late on Thursday night. After the bus driver escaped, agitated local residents vandalised the bus.Police said, the incident took place around 10pm when the bus driver lost control over the vehicle on the ITI flyover in Nand Nagri, and hit a truck. Witnesses told the police that after hitting the truck, the bus rammed a vegetable cart and hit a few more vehicles before coming to a halt.Around 5-6 people were injured in the accident, of which one man and a boy, died on the spot. Police were verifying their identities, police said.The injured, including a woman, were shifted to Swami Dayanand hospital, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said a case of causing death due to negligence and of rash and negligent driving has been registered against the driver. “Efforts to track the driver are on. Some of the injured are critical and are under medical supervision,” the DCP said.Surya said agitated locals had gathered around the bus. “The windshield of the bus was cracked. We are probing if the bus was vandalised or was damaged in the accident,” he said, adding that the situation in the area is normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-and-12-year-old-boy-run-over-by-speeding-dtc-cluster-bus-in-nand-nagri/story-elQ5aaFDsOArk1yENTOHKL.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Anganwadi workers oppose pre-primary students enroling in govt schools in Ludhiana||Over 100 anganwadi workers protested against the state government near the child development project office in Shimlapuri on Thursday over pre-primary classes coming up in government schools and enrolling students between the age of three to six years, which has reduced the number of students at anganwadi centres.The workers said the state government has hired teachers for pre-primary students in government schools, which will adversely affect enrolments at the centres. The workers protested for one hour and burnt an effigy of the state government. Then, they submitted a memorandum to the district programme officer.Subhash Rani, general secretary of Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union, said, “We want that the state government ask the education department to not enrol students of pre-primary classes and send them to anganwadi centres. The centres are involving students in various activities and providing cooked food to them. During the pandemic also, the workers and helpers worked as Covid warriors and delivered food to the childrens’ home.”“If the government hires teachers for pre-primary students, then who will enrol their children in anganwadi centers. The state government has given its nod to this decision in a recent cabinet meeting which is not in favour of anganwadi workers and helpers. To protest this decision, anganwadi workers will gherao the residence of Punjab social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary on October 2.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anganwadi-workers-oppose-pre-primary-students-enroling-in-govt-schools-in-ludhiana/story-AoxbhYIelSzAg9wdC18g3L.html
24-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Two men enter elderly woman’s house, snatch gold earrings||Two miscreants snatched an 80-year-old woman’s earrings on Wednesday after entering her house in Kailash Nagar, Basti Jodhewal, on the pretext of getting her enroled for a pension scheme for senior citizens.The victim has been identified as Kailash Rani, a resident of New Shimla Colony, Kailash Nagar Rani stated in her complaint that the two youngsters claimed to be from MLA Sanjay Talwar’s office and said they wanted to check her Aadhaar card. She added that when she entered the room to collect the Aadhaar card, the accused followed her, snatched the earrings she was wearing, and fled. Rani said the accused pushed her while escaping, but she fell on the bed and did not sustain major injuries. Following this, she sounded the police. Assistant sub-inspector Radheshyam said a case has been registered against the accused under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 455 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indiana Penal Code. He added that CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity are being checked to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-two-men-enter-elderly-woman-s-house-snatch-gold-earrings/story-EQQt7C0dvJ2sMOg0IzGvDJ.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Turf war between SAD, Cong in Dakha for farmers’ support||Amid farmers’ protests against the agri bills passed in Parliament, Dakha constituency, which comprises over 90% of the rural population of the district, has turned into a political battleground for Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Congress ahead of the 2022 legislative elections.Leaders of both parties are leaving no stone unturned to woo the farmers. On Wednesday, SAD MLA Manpreet Ayali and Captain Sandeep Sandhu, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s political secretary, who is also the Congress in-charge of Dakha, organised separate tractor protest rallies at the constituency. Both leaders have also been taking digs at each other on social media platforms.  The by-elections for Dakha constituency, which has a population of around 2.5 lakh and comprises over 110 villages, was contested last year between Ayali and Captain Sandhu, in which the latter lost out by 14,672 votes.”I am also a farmer and I have always stood by their side. It is Congress which is trying to get political benefit out of the crisis. We had announced Wednesday’s protest on Monday. It was then that Congress also organised a protest on the same day. Farmers are my priority and party is secondary. Congress leaders think they will win the 2022 elections with these unethical practices during this time of crisis, but the public will show them their true value by voting for SAD,” Ayali said. Sandhu, however, refuted the allegations levelled by the SAD leader and slammed the party over its double standards in terms of farm bills. ”SAD should make it clear who are they protesting against. If the protests are against BJP, then they are going against their allies at the Union level. If they are supporting BJP, they cannot stand by the farmers. Congress is clearly against the farm bills. We have been staging protests in support of the farmers for the last few days. There is no political motive behind this and SAD can’t handle that farmers are standing with Congress,” Sandhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/turf-war-between-sad-cong-in-dakha-for-farmers-support/story-O9y4Xn1UvT4sIJnh4j24rM.html
24-09-2020||City||Five highway robbers arrested after encounter in Greater Noida||The police on Wednesday night arrested five alleged robbers in Greater Noida after an “encounter”. The police said that the suspects would target commuters on highways and expressways and were arrested near a police post in Tirthali village in Rabupura.The suspects were identified as Ashish (23), Rahul (22), Mahesh (19) and Imran, residents of Bulandshahr, and Sumit (25), a native of Shamli district. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the police received information about the movement of the suspects in a Swift Dzire car in Rabupura. “A police team was deployed and barricades were set up to intercept the suspects,” he said. The suspects rammed the barriers and tried to flee after opening fire at the police team when asked to stop, he said. “The police team chased the suspects and were able to arrest them. During interrogation, they revealed that they operate as a gang that targets commuters on highways and expressways after overtaking them in a car,” he added.“We have seized two countrymade guns, two live cartridges, a stolen car, and five mobile phones from their possession. They were wanted in about ten criminal cases including loot and attempt to murder. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Pandey.Pandey added that police would initiate action against the suspects under the Gangsters Act.The police said they found that the suspects have stolen the Swift Dzire car from one Sukhveer Singh on January 13, 2020. In the complaint, Singh, a resident of Badarpur in Delhi, said that he had come to meet someone in Greater Noida when four of the suspects stole his car at gunpoint in Sector Beta 1. The victim had informed the police and by the time a team reached the spot, the suspects had managed to escape. A case of robbery was registered under Section 392 of IPC.Police investigation further revealed that the gang had overtaken the car of one businessman Naresh Kumar’s on the Yamuna expressway on August 29 and had robbed him of his two mobile phones and other valuable items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-highway-robbers-arrested-after-encounter-in-greater-noida/story-qLOMwShuQpSFrT4ZOSt9DP.html
24-09-2020||Noida||Noida Police attaches gangster’s properties worth ₹4 crore||Noida Police on Thursday attached properties worth around ₹4 crore of a member of a Sundar Bhati gang as part of their crackdown on known criminals, officers said.As many as ten properties that belong to jailed gangster Satveer Bansal, who has cases of extortion, money laundering, and Gangters Act lodged among others against him, were attached on Thursday, said officers from the Noida police commissionerate. “All of these properties were in Ghaziabad’s Loni area, and were registered under Bansal’s name who is a known member of the Bhati gang. He owns other properties and assets as well, and we are working on attaching them as well. All of these properties and assets have been procured through illegal means,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 3.According to section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act, immovable and movable assets of known criminals procured using illegal means can be attached.The DCP said that market value of these properties is somewhere around ₹4 crore. The Noida Police had already attached assets worth ₹ 5.41 crore, owned by Bansal, earlier.“We also have orders to attach 12 vehicles of another gangster Pramod, who is a prominent member of the Randeep Bhati gang, and we will take the necessary action soon. We will continue to attach assets of known gangsters. This will cut off the money supply to organised criminals and restrict their movement. There are other criminals as well who have been identified and we will continue to attach their assets as when we get the instructions to do so,” the DCP said.The power to attach assets was with the district administration earlier, however, with the formation of the police commissionerate in January, the power now rests with the Noida Police.The district police have already attached properties and assets, including luxury vehicles, of organised criminals worth more than ₹40 crore this year. This includes assets and properties ₹17 crore of known associates of jailed gangster Sunder Bhati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-attaches-gangster-s-properties-worth-4-crore/story-WTTg9dOYY8fUUw1AqOeD9N.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi at peak of 2nd wave, cases will drop now: Kejriwal||Delhi has likely put behind it the peak of a “second wave” of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, and the situation is expected to improve from hereon, chief minster Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday, expressing optimism that the capital has tided over the brunt of the health crisis.It’s the first time Kejriwal has spoken of a second wave of the pandemic, tracing it to the month between August 17 and September 17.“From July 1 to August 17, the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi was under control. From August 17, cases started increasing. We acted like a responsible government and scaled up tests from around 20,000 per day to 60,000 per day,” Kejriwal said on the sidelines of a visit to the Indian Agriculture Research Institute for the live demonstration of a crop stubble decomposition technology.“Aggressive testing and isolation of patients is the best way to defeat Covid-19. With increased tests, the number of cases also increased,” said Kejriwal. “If we had done fewer tests, the numbers would have been less – maybe close to 1,500 cases per day like earlier. But we went ahead. After September 16, when the number of new cases in a day was the highest, cases started dropping again despite heightened testing. Experts are of the opinion that the second of Covid-19 in Delhi is likely to have hit the peak, and now cases are expected to go down.”Between July 1 and August 17, Delhi recorded a daily average of 1,375 cases of Covid-19. However, from August 18 till Thursday, the Capital added more than double that number, logging 2,822 new cases of the disease on average each day. According to medicinenet.com, a second wave refers to a phenomenon of infections that can develop during a pandemic in which a disease infects one group of people first and infections appear to decrease; then, infections increase in a different part of the population, resulting in a second wave of infections. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said earlier this month that a second wave is a situation in which new Covid-19 cases start surfacing after hitting zero or extremely low counts.Dr Puneet Misra, professor in the community medicines department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “The current spike in cases in Delhi can be attributed to multiple factors which include increased testing, further easing of lockdown restrictions and a large sense of complacency among people. However, it would be inaccurate to call it a second wave because Delhi did not witness a significantly steep drop in average cases for long enough in the past. Also, the current trends suggest that Delhi should take some more time in reaching its peak.” Before the resurgence of cases, the seven-day average of daily cases in the Capital peaked at 3,446 on June 26 before falling to 983 on August 4. In the last seven days, Delhi has seen an average of above 3,700 new cases every day.On September 16, Delhi recorded 4,473 new cases in a day – the highest so far.On Thursday, Delhi recorded 3,834 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of patients so far to 260,623, even as 224,375 people have recovered from the disease and 5,123 have died. Over 59,000 tests were recorded on Thursday, against 19,841 on August 25, government records showed. “At this juncture, the Delhi government should keep up with the scaled-up tests and increase the proportion of RT-PCR {reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction} tests for better ascertainment of the prevalence of the disease. Currently, the positivity rate is around 7%. For one to say that the situation is under control, it should be less than 5%,” said Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR):RT-PCR is considered to be the gold standard of Covid-19 testing and the most accurate method of diagnosing the disease. Of the total tests recorded on Thursday, 9,814 were RT-PCR tests and 49,369 were rapid antigen tests, the government health bulletin showed.Rapid antigen tests are considered less accurate because they throw up false negative results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-at-peak-of-2nd-wave-cases-will-drop-now-kejriwal/story-H5vyoQ5EWHWLuVIiahWpPK.html
24-09-2020||Noida||Morning walker robbed at gunpoint in Noida||Unidentified motorcyclists robbed a morning walker of his gold chain on Thursday in sector 93A. The snatchers had stopped to ask their victim for directions before they committed the crime, said police. Police identified the victim by his first name as Anand, a resident of Parsvnath society in sector 93A. An online complaint was registered with the phase-2 police station.“We are constantly working on nabbing snatchers and robbers. We will look into this case,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.The incident has once again raised security concerns among Noida residents who have been asking for better patrolling and police presence for the past few months.“There needs to be rigorous checking in the district and an increase in patrolling to keep an eye on such activities and to ensure safety of residents,” said Rajesh Sahay, secretary general, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/morning-walker-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-noida/story-jb7Zdj2qSXDJXsktAjFfQK.html
24-09-2020||Noida||₹101 crore multi-sports complex almost ready at Noida Stadium, may open in November||The 4,000 capacity multi-sports complex, with facilities for 12 indoor sports, is nearing completion in Sector 21 and will soon be opened to public, the Noida authority said Thursday.“We have a target to finish and open the project by November-end. We are carrying out the finishing work at the complex that will offer facilities for 12 indoor games under one roof,” said Rajiv Tyagi, general manager, Noida authority.The multi-purpose indoor stadium has been built at a cost of ₹101 crore and has the capacity to accommodate 4,000 people. It will have separate courts and facilities for badminton, table tennis, basketball, handball, volleyball, gymnastics, judo, wrestling, fencing, boxing, weight lifting and taekwondo.Apart from all these, a shooting range with a seating capacity of nearly 800 is also coming up neat the indoor facility. These two projects are located inside the Noida Stadium, which is being developed as an integrated sports facility in the heart of the city.As the work on this project and also on a shooting range is nearing completion, the authority has also started the process to hire a private agency to take care of the maintenance and operations of multi-purpose indoor stadium. Any interested private agency can submit a proposal by October 5 this year, said officials.“The authority has spent Rs13.97 crore on the range that will provide facility for 10M Pistol, and 25M & 50M Rifle practice and events,” said Tyagi.“The work on the indoor stadium was started on February 12, 2015, with a completion target of June 30, 2018. The shooting range work started on October 12, 2015 with a deadline of March 31, 2018. However, both projects got delayed due to the slow pace of work, said officials.Once these facilities are opened to the public, it will benefit sports enthusiasts and students, said officials.“We have been eagerly awaiting the opening of the indoor stadium for a long time. The authority must deliver it now without any further delay,” said Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Ssector 12, a regular to the Noida Stadium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/101-crore-multi-sports-complex-almost-ready-at-noida-stadium-may-open-in-november/story-sgM2SfCtr5yKx0WLypTehJ.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Divisional commissioner checks Covid care arrangements in Kharar||The commissioner, Roopnagar division, Rahul Tewari, made a surprise visit to the Civil Hospital in Kharar sub-division of Mohali.After going around the wards, Tewari interacted with patients for feedback on care and medical facilities offered to them. He also checked the register of patients in home isolation and called some of them, enquiring about the frequency of calls by doctors and seeking their suggestions on improving medical care at home.He also took stock of the supplies of medicines and oxygen available in the hospital.Nervous at finding a senior bureaucrat in their midst the staff relaxed after Tewari interacted with them and later took selfies. “To boost the morale of the doctors and paramedics working for long hours since the past six months amid the most challenging times. This is the least we can do for them,” he said.Later, Tewari visited the local Tehsil Office and took stock of the stamp duty collection, recoveries and pendency of court cases. He pulled up the staff for not maintaining an organised filing system and for not updating collection records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/divisional-commissioner-checks-covid-care-arrangements-in-kharar/story-zbHZVbTEEPlKS4FQMBbjPK.html
24-09-2020||Noida||Wife booked for abetment of suicide after husband dies in police custody||Following the death of a 45-year-old man in police custody at Vijay Nagar police station on Wednesday evening, the Ghaziabad police on Thursday booked the man’s wife for abetment.Four policemen from the station have also been suspended, police said.On Wednesday, the woman had approached the Vijay Nagar police with a complaint. She accused her husband of domestic violence, after which he was picked up. According to the police, he was later found hanging in the lockup, and was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead. The police said that on the basis of woman’s complaint, they had booked her husband under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation).The police said the brother of the deceased on Thursday submitted a complaint against the woman. “On Thursday, the deceased’s brother gave a police complaint alleging that the woman would harass her husband often. The complainant told us that that the deceased was upset over it. On the basis of the complaint, we have booked the woman (deceased’s wife) under IPC section 306 (abetting suicide),” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city).On Thursday, based on a circle officer’s enquiry, four police personnel, including a constable, two head constables and the station house officer, were also suspended for alleged lax supervision and dereliction of duty. A panel of doctors conducted the autopsy at the Hindon post mortem house on Thursday evening, as per procedure laid down for deaths in police custody.When asked whether the deceased had told the police about alleged harassment from his wife in a declaration, Verma, said, “We do not have any dying declaration of the deceased with us. Since the incident took place at the police station, we suspended the four personnel. The brother should be asked about alleged harassment since he gave us the complaint.”Meanwhile, a magisterial inquiry has also been initiated into the custodial death.“As per the law, I have ordered for a magisterial inquiry in the case and it is assigned to the city magistrate. The inquiry is to be completed within seven days,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wife-booked-for-abetment-of-suicide-after-husband-dies-in-police-custody/story-Cj6Dcb0IDToXh6ARnTOkuL.html
24-09-2020||City||Singapore firm wants to buy land 20 acres to set up film academy in new film city||A Singapore-based firm, Vistas Media, Thursday submitted a proposal to set up a film academy over 20 acres, with an initial investment of USD 10 million, in the upcoming film city project. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) said it will soon demarcate the area for the film city in Sector 21, along the Yamuna Expressway, and will allot 20 acres to Vistas Media.“The authority will ensure complete ease of doing business in the land allotment to the Singapore-based company that plans to set up a world-class film academy in film city project. Aspiring filmmakers, actors, technicians and others will get a chance to learn from the best in their fields at this film academy. We have received the proposal and will soon allot land as per the policy,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.The authority has asked the town planning department to start the process of demarcating the 1,000 acres for the film city in Sector 21, quite near the Noida international greenfield airport.“This Singapore based company alone will invest at least ₹150-200 crore in the film city, apart from other investments to set up the academy at the proposed site,” Singh said.Piiyush Singh, chief executive officer of Vistas Media, said, “Our plan is to establish a world-class film academy in UP’s Yamuna Expressway area, where filmmakers, actors, technicians, art directors, cinematographers and others from Hollywood will train and teach students. With this project, we aim to provide market ready professionals to filmmakers. We have realised that most technicians in Mumbai are from the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. And they have to struggle for 10 to 15 years or more to get a job. We plan to train them and provide them with suitable jobs right after the course.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/singapore-firm-wants-to-buy-land-20-acres-to-set-up-film-academy-in-new-film-city/story-0GpG9c5yCh2cXj8e5TcFxJ.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Tension grips Delhi’s Kanjhawala after 23-yr-old man lynched, 1 injured||A 23-year-old photographer was lynched and another youngster was left injured by a mob in outer Delhi’s Kanjhawala on Tuesday night, triggering tension in the neighbourhood. The families of the victim alleged it was a communal attack but the police said it was personal fight. Police and Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel have been deployed in the neighbourhood even as senior police officers said the situation was under control and that efforts were being made to involve influential voices in the local communities to rein in mischief-mongers. There were multiple conflicting versions about what led to the violence and the death of Mohammad Shaukat. “Shaukat was only trying to intervene in the fight and save a man who was being thrashed by the mob. He was an innocent man,” said PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini). Shaukat’s family, however, said he was a bystander and was lynched because he was a Muslim. The violence reported from the Jhuggi Jhopdi Colony of Sawda, an economically backward village in Kanjhawala, on Tuesday first saw a mob carrying baseball bats, rods, swords, stones and sticks beating up a man. Then, there was stone pelting, allegedly by both Hindus and Muslims. On Thursday, the DCP said five of the about 20 members of the mob had been arrested and efforts were on to nab other suspects. Tension had been brewing Local residents said communal tension had been brewing in the neighbourhood for the last four-five months. “Hindus would verbally taunt and abuse us whenever they saw us,” said Mohammad Rihan, an 18-year-old Class 10 student who suffered a fractured leg in the attack. Dinesh, the father of one of the arrested men, Harish, agreed that tension had been festering for months. “It all began with some silly quarrel between young boys,” Dinesh said. Different versions to the trigger In his statement in the first information report (FIR), Rihan said his friend Saider was in love with a local girl who later turned out to be the girlfriend of a 19-year-old man named Ankit from the same neighbourhood. “Saider raised the issue with his girlfriend and the matter was sorted a year ago. But when Ankit got to know of the girl’s relationship with Saider, he and his friends began looking for Saider,” Rihan said in the FIR. Rihan allegedly told police in his statement that on Tuesday night, a heavily armed mob came looking for Saider and when they couldn’t find Saider, they attacked him (Rihan). The fight over personal issue was also the version offered by the DCP. On Thursday, however, Rihan told HT that his statement to the police was coerced and that he did not sign it. The DCP said while people are known to change statements with a change in circumstances and environment, there was no coercion of any kind. “We are probing the violence and the reasons behind it,” DCP Mishra said. Ravi, the maternal uncle of another arrested man Vikas said the violence began when a local youngster on a bike ran over Vikas’s foot and then slapped him on Tuesday night. “Vikas called his friends for help, but the matter was sorted. I don’t know what happened after that,” said Ravi. Ankit and Vikas are friends and immediate neighbours. Also, it remains unclear who allegedly ran over Vikas’ foot. The attack The alleged mob violence took place around 8.30pm on Tuesday when Rihan was fiddling with his mobile phone outside his home. “They attacked me with baseball bats and rods before some people rescued me. They were saying that they were going to kill me,” Rihan alleged. While Rihan was rescued by some local residents, the mob attacked Shaukat, who was returning from his photography shop and had allegedly stopped to watch what was happening. “Eyewitness have told me that the mob simply asked Shaukat his name and attacked him because of his faith. My son was an innocent person who worked hard to provide for our family of seven,” said Shaukat’s father, Azad, who works as a tailor in Kashmir. The DCP, however, said Shaukat was targeted after he intervened to save Rihan.According to Rihan, during the attack, the mob allegedly covered some CCTV cameras with bedsheets and picked up stones from a construction site nearby to pelt at the houses of Muslims. “When stones and bricks landed at our terraces, we pelted them back at the mob to chase them away,” said Khamruddin, a resident of the same lane. By the time the police arrived, the mob was gone. In the FIR, the police have mentioned that they received 19 PCR calls from the colony between 9.53 pm and 11.52 pm and reached the spot to find the lane and the main road filled with stones and a pool of blood at one spot. The injured men were taken to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Mangolpuri where Shaukat succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning and Rihan’s injuries were treated, the DCP said. When Shaukat’s body was brought back from the hospital on Wednesday, scores of people protested with his body on the road for an hour before senior police officers convinced them of action. “We have registered a case of murder, attempt to murder and rioting and ensuring that none of the people involved in the violence are spared,” said DCP Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tension-grips-delhi-s-kanjhawala-after-23-yr-old-man-lynched-1-injured/story-GPdGijMWARMJAllEuNbG5K.html
24-09-2020||Noida||Single window system planned to get approvals under UP MSME Act||Easing the conditions for setting up new micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) units in Uttar Pradesh, the state government notified the much-awaited new UP MSME (Establishment and Operations) Act, 2020. Earlier, entrepreneurs required 80 no objection certificates (NOCs) from 29 departments, and had to apply to each separately. Now, a single window system will be set up for the purpose, and power connection of up to 20 KW will be made available within three days of filing an application. Notified on Sunday, it was made public on Thursday.“A person will have to make an application through a ‘Declaration of Intent’ to the District Level Nodal Agency (DLNA), which will have to issue an acknowledgment within 72 hours of receiving the application. On the basis of this acknowledgement, one will be able to establish the unit,’’ the notification stated.If the authority finds that the entrepreneur falsified documents or is ineligible for the NOC, then the licence can be cancelled and penalties imposed. However, government physical inspection can happen only after 1,000 days from acknowledgment, the notification adds. Navneet Sehgal, state’s additional chief secretary (MSME), said the DLNA will be headed by the district magistrate. “The application can be filed online through the ‘Nivesh Mitra’ portal, which is the official portal for the sector. The committee will immediately start verification of the submitted documents and licenses needed to start the industry will be issued within three days,” he said. “Earlier, we were working on the basis of the central MSME Act, which had very tough terms and conditions regarding land use and ceiling. Since officials from all departments concerned have been made the members of the DLNA, the idea of the Act is to allow projects to proceed. Not only that, once a business obtains all the permissions, there won’t be any inspection for 1,000 days,” Sehgal said. GB Nagar district deputy commissioner (industries) Anil Kumar said at least 10,000 new MSME entrepreneurs will now be able to kick off their ventures in the district. “Besides, it will also create new employment opportunities in the district. The Act will be applicable for new units or those seeking to expand or diversify, provided they increase their gross block only by 25%. This Act doesn’t cover units of tobacco products, gutka, pan masala, alcohol, carbonated drinks, fire crackers, plastic bags of 40 microns or less or as banned by the government from time to time,” he said. Welcoming the new Act, Lalit Thukral, the president of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NEAC), said that it will boost the morale of aspiring entrepreneurs and weed out corruption. “Earlier, they have to make rounds of different offices. Now, they don’t either need to waste their time in getting NOCs or to grease the palms of babus in different departments. This single window system will attract many new entrepreneurs in apparel sector in GB Nagar, which is a landmark product in the district. The more apparel units will be established in GB Nagar, the more job and export opportunities will be created here,” he said. However, Surendra Singh Nahta, district president of MSME industrial association, said that the advantages of the new Act can only be assessed once the first entrepreneur gets license under the new provision. “The existing MSME units don’t have proper production due to paucity of workers. And, the government is not ready to provide them relief from any front. If the government can’t protect old units, how can it boost the morale of new entrepreneurs?,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/single-window-system-planned-to-get-approvals-under-up-msme-act/story-4AHSXdOAjCrXubDvaIHFcN.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Balbharti’s e-content gets good response from students in Maharashtra amid Covid-19 pandemic||As schools in Maharashtra continue to conduct classes virtually for the past 6 months, the online content created by Balbharti – the state’s publishing bureau – has been a hit among students and parents. According to data shared by Balbharti, more than 1 lakh students have downloaded the E-Balbharti application on mobile phones after it was launched in January. Most of the downloads were recorded after the schools closed in the state owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are happy to see that a large number of students are benefitting from the online study material that is made available through the app. While the app was initially intended to be paid, we made it free for a few months due to the Covid-19 situation and the resultant closure of physical schools,” said Vivek Gosavi, director, Balbharti. The publishing bureau recently launched another mobile app – Geo Survey – for students of Class 12, who have geography as their subject, to learn how to conduct geo surveys online. “This app was released in August, and in a month’s time, it has got over 5,000 downloads,” said Gosavi. Over the past few years, Balbharti has been uploading PDF textbooks of all subjects on its official website – http://ebalbharati.in. Textbooks of the revised Class 12 syllabus were uploaded on the website in April, even before physical textbooks were made available in markets. The website has so far seen more than 2.5 crore downloads. Manisha Kadam, a teacher from a suburban school, said students who do not have access to internet for classes are able to use the PDF textbooks online. “Many students cannot afford to recharge their internet every month. So we send them PDF books on social messaging apps of their parents or relatives. We ask them to solve exercises and send us for correction,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/balbharti-s-e-content-gets-good-response-from-students-in-maharashtra-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-gYdJrpwUbXNmf2jKtWmc5N.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||E-bike service in Mumbai’s Bandra-Kurla Complex gets good response amid limited public transport options||With a limited number of public transport options during the pandemic, many Mumbaiites are adapting to new mobility initiatives. Close to 2,400 people have already made use of the recently-launched Yulu bikes in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC).The mobile application-based e-bike operator started services in the commercial hub on August 31. According to Amit Gupta, chief executive officer and co-founder of Yulu bikes, around 300 people have been booking rides daily, and the most preferred slot is between 5pm and 8pm when they are returning home from work.The company is expecting the numbers to increase post-monsoon. “Post monsoon, we are hopeful of seeing the numbers rising further. As Unlock 4.0 gets implemented, citizens will prefer safe and shareable services, easing parking woes in business hubs like BKC. Via this launch we aim to provide a smart, safe and easy ride for all our commuters,” Gupta said.He added, “We are happy with the response that we have got and we want commuters to take advantage of this facility and make cycling within BKC a pleasant experience.”Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray had inaugurated the bikes in January, but the launch was postponed owing to the lockdown. On August 31, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) launched the public electric bike-sharing facility in BKC. Around 100 e-bikes have been made available for commuters at nine different locations, including the Bandra and Kurla stations.Commuters can download the Yulu app on their mobile phones and register for the service. Once they find a Yulu zone, they can unlock the bike for ₹5 and will be charged ₹1.5 for every minute. Commuters will have to pay ₹199 as a deposit and can also avail super saver packs on offer. The bikes will be sanitised after every ride, a spokesperson from Yulu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/e-bike-service-in-mumbai-s-bandra-kurla-complex-get-good-response-amid-limited-public-transport-options/story-VuU3N95T4EfDAi9don6NCO.html
24-09-2020||City||Rera asks Uttar Pradesh govt to reduce stamp fee on flat registry by 2%||The Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority (UP-RERA) has recommended a reduction of 2% in the stamp fee, a move aimed at helping the realty sector recover from the financial crisis it is facing in the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease pandemic.The authority wrote a letter to chief minister suggesting a reduction in the stamp fee after state governments of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra reduced the same, said officials.“We wrote a letter to the UP government few days back suggesting that the stamp fee should be reduced up to 2% as it will help the real estate sector recover from the financial crisis which has come up due to the pandemic. We have recommended the reduction in all cities across the state as the pandemic has affected the sector everywhere,” said Balvinder Kumar, member, UP-RERA. The authority has suggested the reduction till August 31, 2021.In Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas, among other parts of the Gautam Budh Nagar district, the stamp and registration department levies 5% of the total property cost, be it an apartment, plot, house or other property, as stamp fee at the time of execution of a lease-deed or registry, which is required to transfer the property’s title, unlike other cities like Ghaziabad or Lucknow, where the stamp fee is 7% of total property cost.Officials at the state stamp and registration department, meanwhile, said that if UP-RERA’s recommendation is accepted, it might encourage buyers to execute sub-lease or registry of their respective properties.“There are at least 20,000 homebuyers who have got the possession of their apartments but aren’t executing the sub-lease, thereby causing a revenue loss. The reduction in fee may encourage them to execute registry or sub-lease,” said SK Tripathi, assistant inspector general, stamp and registration department, Gautam Budh Nagar.The department said it has failed to meet its regular revenue target as buyers are not keen on getting their sub-leases or registries executed due to financial constraints caused by the pandemic.“We have a target of revenue ₹3,148 crore in the financial year 2020-21. So far, we could only earn ₹450 crore since April 1 till date, against a target of ₹1,500 crore, as the pandemic has thrown challenges before everyone, including buyers,” said Tripathi.Developers also welcomed RERA’s proposal.“The UP-RERA’s recommendation should be implemented immediately to tide over the financial crisis that the homebuyers and the entire sector is facing,” said RK Arora, president of the Uttar Pradesh national real estate development council (NAREDCO).Developers have also requested the state government to take steps to cope with the crisis.“The state government should take measures without any delay because the real estate sector is facing a huge financial crisis. And if stamp fee is reduced, it will also benefit the government as it will recover revenue immediately,” said Prashant Tiwari, western UP president of confederation of real estate developers association of India (CREDAI).Homebuyers said they have already demanded a reduction in stamp fee.“The chief minister should reduce the stamp fee because homebuyers are in a financial mess with job losses and the financial crisis brought about by the pandemic,” said SK Nagrath, president of Jaypee Aman homebuyers’ welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rera-asks-uttar-pradesh-govt-to-reduce-stamp-fee-on-flat-registry-by-2/story-0wm0w3b2oK2gczvWByGmhM.html
24-09-2020||Noida||‘Good Morning Noida’ campaign to connect with locals||The next time you hit a red light at a traffic signal in Noida during rush hours, do not be surprised if a traffic policeman greets you with a Good Morning. The Noida traffic police department has launched a ‘Good Morning Noida’ campaign — an initiative that aims to reach out and make friendly contact with local residents. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar and district nodal officer of Dial 112, said that the main aim of the programme was to reach out to locals and take them into confidence in improving the traffic system. “The aim is to instil a sense that the police is working for the safety of people. The Noida traffic police and Dial 112 teams have been sensitised to participate in the Good Morning initiative. The traffic police’s morning shift starts from 7am. These police personnel are deployed at different crossings and red lights who ensure smooth vehicular movement. They will now also welcome people,” he said. Dial 112’s nodal officer, Saha, said that there are 65 four-wheelers and 70 two-wheelers in their fleet in Gautam Budh Nagar. Dial 112 is an emergency helpline number to access police, fire brigade, and ambulance services under the Emergency Response Support System in Uttar Pradesh. The service was launched in UP in October 2019.“These cops also visit different parks and societies and greet people in the morning. The police personnel also take selfies with locals and morning walkers and use the photos to update their attendance using an internal mobile app,” he said. Saha said that the traffic police have improved its presence and visibility in the city, and forged a good relationship with the residents. “We also seek resident feedbacks and suggestions on improving traffic system,” he said. KK Jain, general secretary, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA), and resident of Sector 34, said that a police team had recently visited his sector. “The police team welcomed us and asked if people were satisfied with the patrolling and police presence in the area. They asked if the local check post in-charge and SHO were available when needed. The residents informed that the police and people communication has improved. We are happy that the police is now reaching out to us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/good-morning-noida-campaign-to-connect-with-locals/story-Qkxtl7oq9CrllcDRnoyy0L.html
24-09-2020||Noida||Noida: Police to launch initiative to help minor rape survivors through counselling||The police have decided to launch an initiative to help minor rape survivors through counselling and rehabilitation. Under the initiative, titled “Sakhi”, trained women police personnel (counsellors) will soon identify minor rape survivors in the city and visit them at their homes in Noida and Greater Noida to counsel them and help them overcome the trauma.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, Women Safety, Gautam Budh Nagar, said rape is a serious crime which needs to be checked. “We have formed a special team of 20 women police personnel – 15 sub-inspectors and five head constables. These sub-inspectors are also the investigating officials (IO) in most of the rape cases. For Saturday, we have scheduled a day-long training programme for these personnel. We have invited doctors and psychiatrists from government and private sectors to provide training and sensitise them. The personnel will be trained on how to talk to the survivors and counsel them properly,” Shukla said.Shukla said rape affects survivors mentally. “We are taking this initiative to ensure such crimes do not leave a deep impact on the victims. The police will also help victims who would need medical treatment, psychiatrists or proper medication,” she said. Initially the police will focus on minor survivors; the initiative would cover older survivors in later stages. The police team will analyse cases registered in August and September to select victims for counselling accordingly. Police said they are figuring out the total number of rape cases registered this year. Shukla said there are also some instances where fake charges of rape were levelled by complainants. “Investigation in some cases revealed that the allegations were not correct. We will screen the complaints and address only serious cases under this initiative,” she said. The counsellors will start visiting the survivors’ houses from Monday. Mala Bhandari, founder of Noida-based women’s rights non-government organisation SADRAG, said survivors need to be counselled with sympathy and empathy. “The police should also engage some expert counsellors for this initiative,” she said.Satya Prakash, programme manager of FXB India Suraksha – Childline, an NGO that works for child rights, said that counselling is a must in such cases. “Most police personnel are not specially trained to deal with rape survivors. We have found that the survivors experience mental suffering in such cases. There were some instances where the survivors tried to hurt themselves. The Sakhi initiative should not be limited to counselling only. The police should also ensure counselling of victims’ families, ensure compensation, and medical health services, etc., to the victim in an integrated programme,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-to-launch-initiative-to-help-minor-rape-survivors-through-counselling/story-S7wbZ68Bj24wOzK3Gnm3XJ.html
24-09-2020||City||Maharashtra cabinet minister Eknath Shinde tests positive for Covid-19||State cabinet minister of urban development and guardian minister for Thane Eknath Shinde tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He is the fourth cabinet minister to test positive within a week in Maharashtra and the 15th minister in the state to test positive in the last seven months. “I did a Covid-19 test yesterday; the result is positive and my health is stable. However, I request those who have come in contact with me in the last few days to get themselves tested and take care of their health,” Shinde posted on Twitter. His son, Shrikant Shinde, MP, Kalyan, tweeted: “He is doing fine, thank you for your wishes.” Cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray and other political leaders took to social media to highlight that Shinde had been at the forefront and working continuously during the pandemic. The minister had also visited the Bhiwandi building collapse site on Monday and met former mayor of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) Rajendra Deolekar who had died of Covid-19 on Tuesday. Shinde is the 15th minister from the state who has been infected in the last seven months since the first case of Covid-19 was detected in Maharashtra on March 9. Earlier, nine cabinet and five junior ministers were infected with it. They were school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, rural development minister Hasan Mushrif, energy minister Nitin Raut, PWD minister Ashok Chavan, fisheries minister Aslam Shaikh, housing minister Jitendra Awhad, social justice minister Dhananjay Munde, cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil, dairy development minister Sunil Kedar, minister of state for school education Bachchu Kadu, minister of state for revenue Abdul Sattar, minister of state for environment Sanjay Bansode, minister of state for social justice Vishwajeet Kadam, and minister of state for higher and technical education Prajakt Tanpure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cabinet-minister-eknath-shinde-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-zF0P04Hmx3uvxjtVqoWSSK.html
24-09-2020||Noida||Now, GIMS to collect plasma from homes of donors in GB Nagar||Recovered Covid-19 patients in Gautam Budh Nagar district need not make rounds of hospitals to donate their plasma as the district administration, on Thursday, asked the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) officials to collect plasma from the donor’s home. District magistrate Suhas LY, who shared coffee with plasma donors on Thursday at the collectorate auditorium, said the programme was organised to boost the morale of plasma donors. “They are our real heroes. They have not only defeated the deadly virus with their strong will power and immunity, but have also agreed to lead from the front to save other infected persons,” he said. He said GIMS doctors have been asked to make necessary arrangements, to collect plasma from the homes of donors. “If two and above donors are available in one society or high-rise, the team of doctors has been asked to go to one place and collect plasma from there. The plasma donors will have to make a call on 7303488239, which is the blood bank’s number in GIMS, and then the officials concerned will contact them to fix the appointment. It will not only remove fear from the minds of the people living in that society/high-rise, but will also save donors the exertion of having to visit the hospital again,” Suhas said. GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta, who was also present at the ‘Coffee with Collector’ programme, said GIMS has been running plasmapheresis therapy since May 9, 2020. “Till date, we have completed 128 plasma donations and 196 patients have received plasma therapy. As many as 10 persons, who have recovered from Covid-19, have donated plasma more than once. Four of these corona warriors are our staff members,” he said. Dr Gupta said of the 196 patients who have received plasma therapy, 169 were male and 27 female. “As many as 174 patients survived the infection, but we lost 22 of them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/now-gims-to-collect-plasma-from-homes-of-donors-in-gb-nagar/story-KJbIFpWsDZsn3tKZ6RTFLK.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Spike in number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai cannot be called second wave at all: BMC chief IS Chahal||As the number of Covid-19 cases has gone up drastically in the city over the last two weeks, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday said that the spike in cases cannot be called a ‘second wave’. Chahal was speaking at Hospital Tech 2020 – a virtual event organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).Replying to a question on whether the spike can be called a second wave, Chahal said, “I would like to reassure citizens that the spike in cases cannot be termed as a second wave at all. We have to understand that we have increased the number of testing in September. From 7,000 to 9,000 tests daily, now we are conducting around 15,000 or even more tests. If we bring down the number of tests, we might again have lesser cases.”Chahal added, “We can call it a stimulated spike, and this was done because we were in a position to handle more patients daily, with a sufficient number of beds and required infrastructure.”On Thursday, HT had reported how the number of cases has gone up drastically in September compared to August. In the same period, the number of deaths has decreased. The number of Covid-19 cases in the city rose 104% to 40,957 (September 1-22) from 20,031 (August 1-22), according to state health department data. The number of deaths dropped to 862 in September, from 990 in August during the same period.Stressing on several issues ranging from testing, tracing and treating to augmentation of health infrastructure, Chahal also emphasised the importance of wearing masks, social distancing and practising hygiene norms.On the question of when life in Mumbai can return to normal, Chahal said that it depended on how citizens deal with the situation now. “When normal days can be back is something I will keep for the citizens to decide. The more responsible we are, the sooner we will have normal days back. For this, we need to follow all norms like wearing mask, social distancing, etc. I still find people not wearing masks,” the civic chief said.Chahal said that the civic body will continue to be cautious about lifting restrictions. “Next on our platter are gyms and restaurants, and we are talking about how they can be opened with 1/3rd capacity. We want to unlock responsibly and we are doing it, rather than opening everything and shutting them again,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spike-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-cannot-be-called-second-wave-at-all-bmc-chief-is-chahal/story-CnovL7tzqDyvYHITCuWV0K.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC orders police commissioner to crackdown on ‘honey trapping’, extortion||The Delhi High Court has asked the city’s police chief to call for reports from all police stations in cases of ‘honey trap’ or extortion and issue standing orders for taking action. While passing the direction, the court said that though acceptance of allurement is not justified, allurement advanced for extortion of money is also not acceptable. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said if such incidents of extortion by alluring a person have happened in the national capital in 2020, the police chief should issue standing orders to all the concerned police stations that action may be taken as per law, without harassing such person or the alleged accused. The high court’s direction came while granting anticipatory bail to a businessman, accused in a rape case, who claimed that he was trapped and tricked by gang of extortionists. “I have gone through the photographs and chats which are annexed with the present petition which seems to be the allurement on the part of the complainant (woman) and petitioner (man) got trapped therein, however, without commenting on the merits of the prosecution case, I am of the view that petitioner deserves protection from this court,” the judge said. The high court directed the concerned police officers that in the event of arrest, the man shall be released on bond on his furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000. It directed the man, represented through senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, to cooperate with the investigation and make himself available for interrogation and that he shall not contact or influence the woman and prosecution witnesses. “I hereby direct the commissioner of police, Delhi, to personally look into the matter and see whether the complainant herein and the above mentioned … (neighbour/ associate) are indulged in any other such type of cases, if so, appropriate action may be taken against the culprits…..In addition to above, the commissioner shall call reports from all the police stations of such cases as present one and file a report to this effect within four weeks,” the judge said. The high court listed the matter for November 17 for further directions and said that a copy of this order be sent to the Commissioner of Delhi Police for information and necessary compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-court-orders-police-commissioner-to-crackdown-on-honey-trapping-extortion/story-LPJobKTcqvPDYogXoun2bI.html
24-09-2020||City||UP directs ‘micro plan’ to fight Covid in 16 districts; Ghaziabad, GB Nagar among them||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday said that they are chalking out “micro plans” to fight Covid-19 in 16 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. The decision follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent direction to states, including Uttar Pradesh, to focus on containment zones rather than lockdowns, while at the same time strengthening testing, tracing and spreading awareness on masks and social distancing. Accordingly, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed specific plans for the 16 districts and sending special secretary-level officers to monitor them.“The 16 identified districts are those which have an average of 100 daily cases in a week. The districts include Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Noida, Meerut and Ghaziabad among others. A workplan will be prepared and state officials are working on it. Once we keep focus on these districts, we will be able to control Covid-19 situation,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP additional chief secretary (home) on Thursday. “The CM has directed for control of fatality rate with the help of micro surveillance and contact tracing.”In Ghaziabad, the health department officials said that they are also monitoring rise in number of cases in specific pockets in order to control spread of infection. They said that they have identified eight police station areas where maximum cases were recorded this month. “We have identified localities in eight police station areas which have witnessed high number of cases in 22 days of the current month. Here, we will enhance surveillance teams and focus on contact tracing as well. As per our records, the eight areas need special focus in the district and check needs to be maintained on new cases,” said Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad’s chief medical officer. “Apart from surveillance, we will also focus on contact tracing and testing in these areas which are having major share of cases in the current month.”According to the records of the district health department, they identified localities in police station areas of Indirapuram (812 cases), Kavi Nagar (782 cases), Sihani Gate (592 cases), Sahibabad (523 cases), Vijay Nagar (378 cases), Kaushambi (259 cases), Muradnagar (187 cases) and Modinagar (141 cases). Overall, the district has added 4392 new cases in the first 22 days of the month of September. According to the state control room figures of September 24, the Gautam Budh Nagar district has a tally of 11910 cases while the Ghaziabad district has a tally of 13050 cases.Uttar Pradesh, according to the state control room records of September 24, has tally of 374277 Covid-19 cases which includes 307611 patients discharged, 5366 deaths and 61300 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-directs-micro-plan-to-fight-covid-in-16-districts-ghaziabad-gb-nagar-among-them/story-tw9wuDY0cGYMfJFypKXCBM.html
24-09-2020||City||PAU experts dwell on aspects of farming||Several agricultural experts delved upon aspects of farming during a live session conducted by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Thursday.Dr TS Riar, additional director communication, thanked farmers and farm women for their large scale participation in the virtual kisan mela on September 18-19.He said that the mela received an overwhelming response from farmers of adjoining states and PAU alumni residing across the globe.Dr Riar added that the university has come up with an online system to provide PAU farm literature at the doorstep of farmers. Farmers can contact at 82880-57707 or email at businessmanager@pau.edu for details, he added.Dr TS Dhillon, associate director (seeds), while speaking on seed availability, said that PAU has developed new vegetable kits, oilseeds kits and kitchen gardening kits for farmers and rural women. Those interested in purchasing improved and quality seed and kits can get information on Farm Inputs App or contact their nearby Krishi Vigyan Kendras, he said.Dr Amarjit Singh, senior extension specialist (plant pathology), provided control measures for blast disease in paddy. He also responded to the queries of farmers during the fair.Dr KS Suri, a senior entomologist, highlighted the importance of spray technologies. He also explained the management of fall armyworm in maize and aphids in paddy crop.Dr Mahesh Narang, senior research engineer (farm machinery), provided tips for machinery selection and how to make efficient use of tractors. He also dwelt on the calibration of combine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-experts-dwell-on-aspects-of-farming/story-Zi53m7pup3ckzRTYVCvCBK.html
24-09-2020||City||Gzb to ramp up daily testing to 6,000, strictly monitor containment zones, says nodal officer||The state government-appointed nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, on Thursday directed Ghaziabad officials to ramp up daily testing for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease to 6,000 and also suggested more measures to bring more of the suspected cases under the ambit of testing. Pandian, an IAS officer, held a review meeting at the district headquarters and asked officials not to be complacent with respect to surveillance and monitoring.The district on September 24 has crossed the 13,000-mark with respect to total Covid-19 cases so far. This figure includes the 11,223 patients who have been discharged, besides 74 deaths and 1,753 active cases.“During the review, I asked the health department to conduct a minimum of 6,000 tests per day and rope in more sampling booths for the purpose. Further, I have directed the industry department officials to bring workers in industrial sector under ambit of testing. A nodal officer is to be appointed and a list of all suspected cases in industrial units shall be prepared on a daily basis and sent to the integrated command and control centre, after which they will be tested,” Pandian said.According to district officials, Ghaziabad has about 27,000 industrial units where a large workforce is employed. Given this number, identification of workers with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) becomes vital. “I have also directed that private hospitals display the rates of paid Covid treatment at their premises. I will be taking further reviews. I have asked officials to continue with surveillance activities and strictly monitor containment zones. This is very important in order to curb the spread of Covid-19 as many activities have now opened up under the unlock mode,” he added.The district on September 23 had a total of 387 containment zones.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that after the review meeting, he asked officials to prepare work plans and comply with the directions given by the nodal officer.According to health department officials who were present during the review, the district currently has been collecting 3,500-4,000 sampling per day. “We have been asked to come up with more sampling booths so that more areas in the district can be covered. At present, we have 20 sampling points in the form of static booths, mobile vans and mobile teams, among others. Since the requirement of 20 more lab technicians has been approved, we will rope them in to increasing our daily testing capacity after they are hired,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.Officials said they have also been given directions that all pregnant women should be tested at the time of registration at the respective hospital as well as a couple of days before their due date. “We have also been asked to daily compile a list of people purchasing medicines related to fever, cough, etc., from chemists. The chemists have already been asked to keep a register of such purchasers. Such lists will be sent regularly to the control room for follow up. The nodal officer has also directed that all the symptomatic cases, if they turn out negative in rapid antigen test, should be tested subsequently with the RT-PCR test,” he added.The nodal officer said that he will be in the district for a couple of days and will inspect healthcare facilities and take up further review of surveillance activities and other Covid-related processes.According to official records, the Ghaziabad district undertook 2,82,512 samples till September 23 and 1,62,971 of these include tests conducted with the help of rapid antigen kits. The district at present has a test positivity rate of 4.58%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-to-ramp-up-daily-testing-to-6-000-strictly-monitor-containment-zones-says-nodal-officer/story-aF3Ao0eezjlsHBOCQuxh4K.html
24-09-2020||City||To curb air pollution, UPPCB directs construction sites to self-audit, install cameras||The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB), in accordance with the directions of the state-level air quality monitoring committee, has directed construction sites in some cities in the state self-audit dust control measures and install cameras at the site; the control of the CCTVs is to be given to the board. The UPPCB’s directions are for 16 non-attainment cities in the state, including Ghaziabad, which see high levels of air pollution. Firms who are running construction sites are required to complete the self-audit after assessment and provide control of the cameras to UPPCB by October 10.“The self-audit and providing control of cameras to the board will be mandatory for sites which are 20,000 square metres (sqm) in size or more. Further, projects which are less than 20,000 sqm but require consent to operate from UPPCB will also be brought under these measures. Once the audit documents are submitted, UPPCB will conduct an inspection of the site. In case there is a violation of any condition filled up in the self-assessment, a penalty will be imposed,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. The projects under this ambit will include builders’ projects, road construction projects such as the ones taken up by the National Highways Authority of India as well as infrastructure projects, among others.Officials said they have not defined how many cameras should be installed at the site but any number, with the help of which the entire site can be monitored, are to be installed.“We are planning a state-level monitoring centre to keep a tab on the sites via these cameras but a plan for a district-level control room is also being chalked out,” Sharma added.Under the self-audit, firms taking up construction have to fill up details related of the following: environmental clearance; status of usage of treated water for dust emission; status of consent to operate for ready mix and hot mix plants; status of dust suppression measures; status of PUC certificates for vehicles used for transportation of material; maintaining adequate stack height for DG sets and ensuring collection, segregation and disposal of construction and debris waste.Builders’ associations said they were happy with the move. Gaurav Gupta, president – Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI - Ghaziabad) said: “It is a welcome step in controlling air pollution but we need more time to ensure compliances. As per directions last year, our members have already installed anti-smog guns which have helped a lot in suppressing dust emission. We will also request authorities to scale down the number of directions which have been issued time-to-time. Otherwise, it becomes time consuming.” Ghaziabad city in 2019 has topped the list of the most polluted cities in the country on several occasions last year.According to UPPCB records, the city in 2019 saw the air quality levels (AQI) spike to ‘severe’ category for 31 days. For another 67 days in 2019, AQI was recorded under the ‘poor’ category. On September 19, Bhure Lal – the chairperson of the Environment Pollution (prevention and control) Authority (EPCA) – had come to Ghaziabad for an inspection and directed officials here to control fugitive dust, roadside parking and burning of solid and plastic waste, besides a parking plan to prevent roadside parking of vehicles.Environmentalists, on the other hand, felt there have been several directions issued in the past but they are useful only if strict monitoring and action are ensured.“A regular submission of an action-taken report with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) should also be ensured. Otherwise, there will be no effect on the ground,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.Officials meanwhile said they have also planned to levy environmental compensation costs in accordance with the July 20, 2016 order of the National Green Tribunal in case sites are found violating dust emission norms.The NGT had order clarified that the environment compensation would be ₹10,000 for sites up to 100 sqm; ₹20,000 for sites between 100 and 200 sqm; ₹30,000 for sites between 200 and 500 sqm; ₹50,000 for sites more than 500 sqm, and ₹5 lakh for sites of more than 20,000 sqm of area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-curb-air-pollution-uppcb-directs-construction-sites-to-self-audit-install-cameras/story-kouvmJ3QanmflYzTTH198H.html
24-09-2020||City||Food truck owner accuses Ludhiana MC team of stealing ₹1.35 lakh during anti-encroachment drive||High drama was witnessed at Tajpur road after a food truck owner accused the municipal corporation (MC) tehbazaari branch of stealing ₹1.35 lakhs after a team of officials confiscated his truck during the anti-encroachment drive.As per information, the truck owner has also submitted a complaint with the police following which they reached the spot. However, the MC staff confiscated the truck and imposed a penalty of ₹20,000 on its owner.The police are yet to reveal his identity. Inspector, tehbazaari wing, Naresh Bobby said, “The MC team had reached the spot to take action against temporary encroachments. When the truck owner failed to remove his truck from the roadside, the MC team confiscated it. The owner made false claims that the staff had taken out ₹1.35 lakhs from the truck. But we continued the drive.”“Mayor Balkar Sandhu and zonal commissioner Swati Tiwana have been apprised of the issue and a penalty of ₹20,000 would be imposed on the owner. He has been told to produce documents related to the truck, but he failed to show up on Thursday,” said Bobby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/food-truck-owner-accuses-ludhiana-mc-team-of-stealing-1-35-lakh-during-anti-encroachment-drive/story-ajQTbKK1ny9GbQ3wKuBSFM.html
24-09-2020||City||Declare Punjab a principal market yard: AAP leader||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers staged a protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi across nine constituencies of Ludhiana district on Thursday to oppose three farm ordinances passed by the Centre.The workers gathered at different areas including Aarti Chowk, Basti Jodhewal, Jalandhar bypass, Barewal chowk etc, and raised slogans demanding the central government to revoke the bills.They also slammed chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for giving consent to the farm ordinances during the meeting of the high- powered committee.AAP leader Ahbaab Grewal asked chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, to immediately declare the state as a ‘principal market yard’ for agricultural produce so that the recently passed farm bills do not apply in the state.Grewal said, “The AAP has already extended its support to farmers’ protests to be held on Friday. The Centre is trying to destroy farmers with these bills and Congress had given consent for the same during the meeting of the high-powered committee. Neither the SAD-BJP nor Congress is working for the benefit of farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/declare-punjab-a-principal-market-yard-aap-leader/story-EmRuewbQbdFSU6Sa7HQvYN.html
24-09-2020||City||Mega job fair in Ludhiana from September 25-29||To provide job opportunities to the youth, the district administration is all set to organise the 6th mega job fair under the Punjab government’s flagship ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ mission. Under this campaign, District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) in collaboration with various companies will be organising virtual as well as non-virtual fairs from September 25 to 29. Candidates have been asked to register online or can directly walk-in to register themselves. All precautionary measures such as maintaining social distancing and wearing masks will be strictly followed at the fair. Divulging the details, additional deputy commissioner (development)-cum-CEO DBEE Sandeep Kumar said that two job fairs will be organised including one at DBEE office near Partap Chowk, Sangeet Cinema Road on Friday, while another will be organised at Government Industrial Training Institution (ITI) at Gill Road Ludhiana on September 29.ADC informed that representatives of world-renowned companies from Ludhiana district will be participating in this mega employment fair. He appealed to the educated but unemployed youth of the district to take maximum benefit of this scheme by participating in these job fairs.Meanwhile, deputy director DBEE Meenakshi Sharma said that renowned companies including Vardhman, Avon Cycle, Hero Cycle, Rockman, Ralson India, Seth Industries, LIC, SBI Life Insurance, Google Pay, Exide Life, HDFC Life and Pukhraj Health Care will participate in these job fairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mega-job-fair-in-ludhiana-from-september-25-29/story-lsTfS4cJSpwb6HxZY36PDP.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal to discuss new tech to decompose stubble with Javadekar||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said he would soon meet Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar to discuss the implementation of a new technology to decompose crop stubble across states.Kejriwal, on Thursday, met a group of scientists at the Indian Agriculture Research Institute in central Delhi’s Pusa, where he attended a live demonstration of the decomposer technology which, he said, would help in preventing stubble burning – a major source of winter pollution in Delhi.“I will meet the Union environment minister in a day or two to discuss the efficient and effective implementation of this technique in other states. This is a very simple, doable, and practical technique, for preventing stubble burning and the resultant pollution,” said Kejriwal.“This is the result of many years of hard work and efforts of our scientists, and they have got the validation after pilot testing and projection. They have also given their technique a licence for commercial exploitation,” the chief minister said.The technology, called Pusa Decomposer, involves making a liquid formulation using fermented farm inputs, and then spraying it over fields to ensure speedy bio-decomposition of crop stubble. The formulation also acts as a fertiliser, the government said in a press statement.On Wednesday, the chief minister had asked the development department in the city government to conduct a cost-benefit analysis of the technology. He had also directed the department to explore the possibility of using the technology at farms on Delhi’s peripheries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-to-discuss-new-tech-to-decompose-stubble-with-javadekar/story-ijq1JqRHaRa7dAcA95aOSL.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||DJB to appoint pvt operators to manage water, sewer in different city zones||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Thursday announced that for efficient management of water supply and sewerage network, it has approved a ‘One Zone-One Operator’ policy, under which the city will be divided into 7-8 zones and a private operator will be appointed to look into the works in each zone. The decision was taken in a board meeting presided over by Delhi water minister and DJB chairman Satyendar Jain. “After extensive discussions and deliberations at various levels to improve the services and bring efficient management in the water supply and sewerage system, it was decided to award the contracts to private operators for operation, maintenance and management of water supply and sewerage networks in various zones of Delhi on the lines of ‘One Zone-One Operator’,” said a statement issued by the DJB. “The operators will be appointed for a period of 10 years under the scheme on a contract basis,” it said. Ankit Srivastava, DJB technical advisor, explained that the services are not being privatised and no layoffs will be done within the water utility. Senior officials said the powers of monitoring and supervision will rest with the DJB. “Even at present the work was being done by a number of smaller private contractors for which multiple tenders had to be floated. The division is being done to increase efficiency and fix accountability of the operators, who will be solely responsible for each zone. For instance, plugging leakages, inspecting of pipelines, maintenance and management works. This is being done to achieve the two targets ---- ensure 24X7 water supply and improve sewerage network to clean up the Yamuna,” said Srivastava. The board also decided that all houses would be provided sewer connections in any area where sewerage network would be laid by DJB. “This has been decided to ensure that all houses have sewer connections. So far a large number of households in many areas including unauthorised colonies are without sewer connections, which is one of the reasons behind pollution of the Yamuna,” said Srivastava. Also, from now only online applications would be accepted for new water/sewer connection. For those, who cannot do so may seek help of the ‘Mobile Sahayak’ under the doorstep delivery of public services, by calling 1076.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/djb-to-appoint-pvt-operators-to-manage-water-sewer-in-different-city-zones/story-QEJIm5wDhXB0cFBb7nfkPJ.html
24-09-2020||City||Woman booked for deserting husband in Australia||Police on Thursday booked a woman, her parents and brother for duping her husband of ₹38 lakhs on the pretext of marriage. The accused have been identified as Harvinder Kaur, her father Ranjit Singh, mother Bhupinder Kaur and brother Mandeep Singh, all hailing from Navi Abadi near Sudhar. They were booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code by Sadar police.The case has been registered on the complaint of Naranjan Singh of Dehlon. The victim said that his son Navdeep Singh was married to Harvinder Kaur in July last year. She went to Australia to study and later called Navdeep to live with her. Soon, she asked her parents and brother to come to Australia.The complainant said that he had given money to Harvinder to study in Australia, however, her family started harassing Navdeep and asked him to leave their house. Preliminary investigation revealed that the woman and her parents had taken ₹38 lakh from the complainant on the pretext of marriage. The police have registered a case and started an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-booked-for-deserting-husband-in-australia/story-Vu2oZ7biapaPHlvVTLQaGJ.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Parents accuse many private schools of overcharging, denying online classes||Despite the Delhi government explicitly asking private schools not to collect anything more than the tuition fee from students, several schools are allegedly collecting fee under other components and denying students access to online classes on non-receipt of the amount, several parents have said. The Delhi Parents Association has compiled names of at least 76 private schools that are violating the government order. Aprajita Gautam, president of the association, said parents will call for a hunger strike soon if the matter is not resolved. “We had written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on September 17, demanding strict action against these schools. However, we are yet to get a response. The government should take these complaints seriously and find a solution at the earliest,” she said. An official from the education department said, “Strict action will be taken against schools violating the government order. No student can be barred from online classes for any reason.” The directorate of education (DoE), on August 30, had directed all private schools in Delhi to charge only the tuition fees during the current Covid-19 crisis. The directorate also ordered schools not to refuse access to online classes to any student, irrespective of whether the parent was able to pay the tuition fee or not. But parents of children who study at a prominent school in Dwarka alleged that the school had been demanding annual charges and fee under “other charges”; and it had allegedly warned parents of “action” if they did not pay by September 25. The father of a class 6 student said, “The school had discontinued online classes for my child for three weeks in July over a delay in fee payment. We paid the fee in August and my child’s classes resumed. Now, the school has sent a reminder asking for tuition fee and annual fee by September 25. I am worried that my child’s classes will be discontinued again.” The school’s lawyer, said, “The school has moved the Delhi high court, challenging the Delhi government’s order to charge only tuition fee. The matter is subjudice and will be next heard by the court on October 9. The school will not bar any student from online classes.”The matter had come before the high court on September 17 and the court had sought a response from the Delhi government.DoE officials denied comment saying the matter is subjudice. The father of a class 2 student of a East Delhi school, said, “Despite paying the tuition fee till June, the school discontinued online classes for my son on Thursday. They asked me to give a date by which I would be able to submit the pending fee. I do not know what to do as my shoe business has taken a hit.”  “The classes have been discontinued only for those who have not been paying the fee since the last academic session. Parents with financial problems are welcome to discuss their issues with us,” the east Delhi scool principal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parents-accuse-many-private-schools-of-overcharging-denying-online-classes/story-Ri7xtI9gIwcbhACOjgShkO.html
24-09-2020||City||7 more Covid deaths, 191 test positive in Ludhiana||As many as 191 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on Thursday. Besides, seven persons succumbed to the virus.The district’s tally now stands at 16,974, of which 14,739 have recovered and 1,537 are active cases. So far, as many as 695 people have succumbed to the virus in the district.The dead include a 72-year-old man from Raikot, a 68-year-old man from Durgapuri, a 70-year-old man from Civil Lines, a 59-year-old man Gagandeep Colony, an 81-year-old man from Urban Estate, an 80-year-old man from Tibba Road and a 29-year-old woman from Dhandari Kalan.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said that under Mission Fateh of the Punjab government, the number of Covid-19 patients getting cured in the district is increasing with each passing day. He said that to date, a total of 2,47,698 samples have been taken, of which 2,26,784 tested negative while the reports of 1,920 are still pending.The district’s death toll reached 695 while 214 died of the virus in other districts.He said that to date, 42,267 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the district and at present, the number of such persons is 4,054. Today, 180 persons were sent for home quarantine.Sharma appealed to the residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-more-covid-deaths-191-test-positive-in-ludhiana/story-5mpWuQ0Nz0f3CjJ26auIyO.html
24-09-2020||City||Rail roko agitation: Passengers suffer as 14 special trains cancelled||Fourteen special passenger trains running from the railways’ Ferozepur division were cancelled from September 24 to 26 in view of the farmer outfits’ three-day rail roko protest against the Centre’s three agriculture bills.Only these 14 pairs of special passenger trains on these days, as routine passenger train service remains suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The city railway station wore a deserted look and only officials of the Government Railway Police (GRP) were seen at the entry and exit points of the station.Not aware of the cancellation of trains, many passengers along with their families reached the Ludhiana railway station at noon and were later informed by the cops that the railways have cancelled all the trains till Saturday.All the shops at the station were found closed. Raj Kumar, who hails from Samastipur village in Bihar, said, “I along with my five family members reached the station at 12.30 pm to board a train to Jaynagar at 2.35 pm. However, I was told at the entry point that all trains have been cancelled for three days. I was not aware of the cancellation and had to return home. I am working here as a labourer and decided to move to my hometown for a few days. Due to the pandemic, I was not able to go to my hometown earlier.”Another passenger, Shamu Shah from Jharkhand, who works here as fruit seller, said, “I booked the tickets last week to return to my hometown but when I reached the station, the cops did not allow me to enter. If farmers want to protest then they must go to Delhi to raise their issues, but their rail roko protest in Punjab has left many passengers in a fix. The government must intervene as the rail roko agitation will not resolve their issues.” Station director, Tarun Kumar said, “All the 14 pair of special trains were cancelled but the goods trains are running to ensure transportation of essential supplies. The passenger train services will remain suspended till September 26 as per the directions from the railways’ Ferozepur division.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rail-roko-agitation-passengers-suffer-as-14-special-trains-cancelled/story-b1yRVyWqRjHhrURGlwxHoI.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||NGO objects to UT admn decision to convert Cheshire Home||A local non-governmental organisation (NGO), in a letter to the UT administration, has objected to its recent decision to convert the Cheshire Home in Sector 21 as a group home for persons with mental health issues.Sharmita Bhinder, founder of NGO EmPOWER, which is associated with another NGO, Wheel Chair Cricketers Punjab, said the move would require shifting of physically challenged people living there to accommodate the new inmates.“It is our aspiration to have a training academy for wheelchair sports in what was formerly Cheshire Home so that people like us can find a safe haven where they can bring their ambitions to fruition,” wrote Veer Singh, president of the Wheel Chair Cricketers Punjab, in the letter.“Therefore, if you want to hand this place over to an NGO, please do so to us as we have worked very hard to take care of it and maintain it,” Veer Singh added.He also contested the administration’s claim that they were “encroaching” up on the Cheshire Home. UT adviser Manoj Parida, secretary social welfare Yashpal Garg, director social welfare Navjot Kaur and UT chief engineer Mukesh Anand inspected the Cheshire Homes on Wednesday to see if it could be used as a group home for people with mental health issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ngo-objects-to-ut-admn-decision-to-convert-cheshire-home/story-ZOvRNwRsavpi7FD7oOAh0H.html
24-09-2020||City||J&K witnesses 152% rise in cases in September||September is turning out to be the worst month in J&K as the UT is witnessing steep rise in Covid-19 infections and deaths.There is a 152% increase in the number of coronavirus cases in September as compared to the August data.The daily health data of J&K reveals that the region has recorded 30,916 more cases between September 1 and 24, including 1,104 on Thursday, while during the same period last month, the case tally was 12,267.In terms of deaths, 381 people, including 22 on Thursday, have succumbed to the infection from September 1 to 24, while 326 persons had died in August.On Thursday, 14 people died in Jammu division and eight in Kashmir. The overall death toll has reached 1,084 — 801 in Kashmir and 283 in Jammu.The total number of positive cases in the UT has reached 68,614 – 43,142 in Kashmir and 25,472 in Jammu.Of the 381 deaths this month, 217 have been recorded in Jammu division. Similarly, 16,664 fresh Covid infections were recorded in Jammu and 14,252 in Kashmir.Advisor to the lieutenant governor, Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, on Sunday said that the number of cases has increased in Jammu division due to increase in testing.“I urge people to not panic as the number of cases has increased due to an increase in the number of rapid testings. The government is committed towards providing best possible medical care to patients,” he said.A central team of experts from the Union health ministry reviewed the Covid-19 control measures along with the financial commissioner health and medical education department Atal Dullo in six districts of Jammu region on Sunday.The focus was on testing and surveillance of containment zones through door-to-door survey.The silver lining in the current situation is that the number of recovered patients is increasing after decreasing in the first two weeks of September. The number of recovered Covid-19 patients has shot up in the past four days in J&K.As many as 1,549 people were discharged on Thursday taking the number of cured people to 10,270 in the past eight days. Since September 21, 7,122 patients have been discharged against 4,624 fresh infections.The overall recoveries have reached 48,079 which accounts for a recovery rate of 70%. The recovery rate had been decreasing from the highest of 77.3% on September 2 to the lowest of 64% on September 20 after which it has started increasing again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-witnesses-152-rise-in-cases-in-september/story-QK0k2FnyTuYX8NAm4UB2WM.html
24-09-2020||City||Political leaders condemn killing of BDC chairman in Budgam||Political leaders of Jammu and Kashmir have condemned the killing of block development council (BDC) chairman Bopinder Singh in a suspected militant attack in central Kashmir’s Budgam district.Unidentified gunmen fired upon Singh on Wednesday night at Dalwach Khag in Budgam where he was on a visit to his ancestral home, police said.Former J&K chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah rued how political workers had become easy targets for militants.“Very sorry to hear about the assassination of BDC councillor Bhupinder Singh. Mainstream grassroots political workers are easy targets for militants and unfortunately in recent years the threat to them has only increased. My condolences to his family. May his soul rest in peace,” he tweeted.A police officer said Singh was residing with his family at Aloochi Bagh in Srinagar and was provided with two personal security officers (PSOs). However, on Wednesday he went to his ancestral house without his PSOs and didn’t give any information to the police about his visit.“Condemn the dastardly killing of BDC member. Violence will get us nowhere,” said the president of the Peoples’ Conference, Sajad Lone.The police said they have registered a case and started the investigation to establish the full circumstances of the crime.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader from central Kashmir, Nazir Khan was saddened owing to his personal association with Singh.“During his stint as BDC Khag, Bhupinder Ji ushered a new era of developmental works in the block. His killing has a lot to do with the existence of political crisis Kashmir has caught itself in. Bhupinder Ji, you will be missed. Rest in peace,” Khan said.“Deeply anguished by the news of the brutal assassination… Not a day goes by when Kashmiri blood is not spilt. Deaths of despair are a constant fixture in our daily lives,” said PDP in a tweet.Though BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur denied the reports that Singh was affiliated with the party, he said, “BJP strongly condemns such barbarism and cowardly act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/political-leaders-condemn-killing-of-bdc-chairman-in-budgam/story-KldKfgiHotlBNDfgSD3wyL.html
24-09-2020||City||Himachal logs 10 Covid deaths, case tally rises to 13,386||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday logged 337 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the state tally to 13,386. Meanwhile, 10 more people succumbed to the virus. Of the new cases, 86 were reported in Shimla, 65 in Mandi, 54 in Solan, 36 in Bilaspur, 27 in Sirmaur, 21 in Kangra, 18 in Kullu, 11 in Chamba, 6 in Una, five each in Hamirpur and Kinnaur and three in Lahaul-Spiti. As many as six fatalities were reported in Kangra district and one each in Chamba, Kullu, Shimla and Sirmaur. With this, the death toll rose to 145. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said that all patients who died of the virus in district were aged above 60 and had co-morbidities. DEATH RATE RISES TO 1.09% Himachal has witnessed a steep rise in Covid-related deaths in September. As many as 109 people have succumbed to the virus this month. From March to August, the death toll was just 36. With this, the death rate has gone up from 0.5% to 1.09%. 118% JUMP IN INFECTIONS Meanwhile, the hill-state saw a 115% jump in Covid-19 infections in September with a total of 7,270 cases being reported this month. The state had 6,116 positive cases till August end. The recovery rate has also gone up to 69% as 9,232 people have recovered. There are 3,984 active cases in the state. Solan is the worst affected district with 2,780 cases, followed by 1,979 cases in Kangra, 1,670 in Sirmaur, 1,521 in Mandi, 1,169 in Una, 1,071 in Shimla, 844 in Hamirpur, 780 in Chamba, 724in Bilaspur, 545 in Kullu, 172 in Kinnaur and 131 in Lahaul-Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-10-covid-deaths-case-tally-rises-to-13-386/story-qrof5lYbC0dSPuktnNJ7NM.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Teenager’s ordeal: Brother, high on drugs, raped her last year||A 15-year-old who was recently found to be eight months pregnant after being allegedly raped by her brother and a friend is in trauma, but her counselling process has begun. Her ordeal began when her brother, high on drugs, assaulted her.In her statement to the police, the Class 9 student said she was sexually exploited by her brother, the sole earning member of the family, in December 2019. Later in January 2020, his friend, who visited her home regularly, sexually abused her. He told the girl that he was also a Class 9 student.Even as the two raped her, the victim could not complain against them as her mother was visually impaired and her elder sister had left home after getting married in January this year. The teenager is at present being counselled by people running the 181 helpline services run by the UT administration’s Chandigarh Child and Women Development Corporation under the aegis of social welfare department.The focus currently is on her mental and physical well-being. “Moving the child to a shelter home was important for her well- being considering the fact that her violator is her brother,” said a senior officer not wishing to be named. The victim, who had initially refused to go to the shelter home, agreed to do so after counselling. She will be quarantined there for the next 15 days as a precautionary measure due to the Covid-19 outbreak before being moved to a children’s home. A case under section 376 (3) of IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered at the Sarangpur police station on the complaint of her elder sister. Request for financial aidAs the only earning member of the victim’s family has been arrested, a request has been sent to the district legal services authority to grant financial help to her. She is likely to be granted compensation under the victim compensation scheme. The victim has also been medically examined and administered medication to ensure safe delivery as termination of pregnancy at this advanced stage is not possible. As the teenager has indicated that she is not willing to keep the child, he or she will be put up for adoption after birth.Brother in prison, other accused still at large The police on Wednesday night arrested the victim’s brother, who was sent to judicial custody. He denied raping the victim during preliminary questioning. The police have yet to identify the other accused even as the search to nab him is continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/teenager-s-ordeal-brother-high-on-drugs-raped-her-last-year/story-f7ovNVSRoaTCguhLVrt11O.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 22 fatalities, 1,698 Covid infections||Haryana reported 1,698 fresh Covid infections, 2,063 recoveries and 22 deaths on Thursday. Five districts - Gurugram (288), Faridabad (240), Kurukshetra (125), Panchkula (101) and Sirsa (100) - reported 100 or more new infections while Hisar (95), Ambala (92) and Sonepat (88) were just short of the 100 mark. The fresh infections pushed the cumulative number of cases to 1,18,554 while 98,410 people have recovered from the virus. Now, there are 18,889 active cases in the state. As per a medical bulletin, the state’s recovery rate, which is over 83%, continued to show improvement. The case fatality rate is 1.06%. Among the 22 who succumbed to the viral illness on Thursday, four were from Panchkula, three each from Ambala and Kurukshetra, two each from Faridabad, Rohtak, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Kaithal and one each from Karnal and Fatehabad. The bulletin said 376 patients were critically ill, and 54 of them were on ventilator support. Among other districts, Rewari reported 77 cases, followed by Panipat (71), Karnal (60), Rohtak and Palwal (55 each), Yamunanagar (47), Mahendergarh (44), Fatehabad (39), Jind (34), Jhajjar (30), Kaithal (28), Bhiwani (13), Nuh (11) and Charkhi Dadri (five).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-22-fatalities-1-698-covid-infections/story-Cpj6gClGf31FDmF1SQNLxN.html
24-09-2020||Patna||Report red-flags air pollution level in Gaya, Muzaffarpur||The rising air pollution levels require immediate mitigation measures and future infrastructure and growth for the city should be planned only after evaluating the impacts and consequences of the potential environmental damage, says the ‘Gaya and Muzaffarpur Clean Air Action Plan (GCAAP) reports’ released by the Centre for Environment Energy and Climate Change (CEECC), a Bengaluru-based technology-policy think tank. The holy city of Gaya, which attracts lakhs of tourists during normal times every year to the Mahabodhi Temple, a UNESCO world heritage site, and ancient Vishnupad temple, has been placed among the five worst polluted cities in the world in terms of particulate matter (PM), as per a 2018 World Health Organisation (WHO) report. The CEECC report, released on Wednesday by deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi at the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) in Patna, says the major sources contributing to the deteriorating air quality of Gaya city are transportation, brick kilns, and dust emission from road re-suspension. Emission from transportation sector was found to be the most, contributing to 42% of the total PM2.5 emission load. It is estimated to increase by 95% by 2030 from the baseline emissions (2018). It has recommended promoting the use of electric/CNG vehicles and incentivising the installation of diesel particulate filters (DPF) as few of the measures to reduce pollution levels in Gaya. Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) is also planning to set up 24 air monitoring stations in 23 districts of the state in an effort to achieve time-bound air quality management. Transport emission was followed by dust (including road dust and construction dust), domestic (including heating, cooking, and lighting), and brick kilns contributing 18%, 17% and 10%, respectively, in 2030. It has estimated that the city would generate around 300 tonnes per day (TPD) of solid waste by 2030. Gaya would need an additional 120 TPD of composting plants and 35 TPD dry-waste collection centres for proper waste management by 2030. The Gaya municipality would require at least Rs 28 crore (capital cost) for installing these plants. Another report was also released on Muzaffarpur, one of the 20 most polluted cities in the world (WHO, 2019) in terms of particulate matters (PMs) and has also been identified as one of the non-attainment cities under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). Heavy industries, including power plants, and transportation sector were found to be the biggest contributors, accounting of 34% and 24% respectively. Sharing concerns over the deteriorating air quality of Gaya and Muzaffarpur, Dipak Kumar Singh, principal secretary, department of environment, forest and climate change, said that a state level committee has been constituted by the government to implement the control measures suggested in the report. “The department is planning to plant trees along the roads instead of end to end pavement construction as one important measure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/report-red-flags-air-pollution-level-in-gaya-muzaffarpur/story-RSHRW10MLwSKXYQZNSET2H.html
24-09-2020||City||Power generation trials begin at waste-to-energy plant in Shimla||SHIMLA Trials to produce electricity from garbage generated by residents here has started at the solid waste management plant at Bhariyal, located on the outskirts of Shimla.Around two-kilowatt power is being produced during the trials every day. The waste-to-energy plant has the capacity to generate two megawatts electricity daily.Due to the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, electricity production for commercial use was delayed. However, the Shimla municipal corporation (MC) has claimed that the required power will be produced as soon as the plant gets fully commissioned.The MC has entrusted a private company with the task of running the solid waste management plant. But the private firm is yet to get some machines from abroad, and only after they do will the plant be able to generate power to its full capacity.Plant supervisor DP Singh said preparations are underway to start the commercial production of electricity, which will be fully started as soon as the Covid-19 restrictions are lifted.Around 70 to 80 tonnes of garbage is generated daily by the households of Shimla. However, the plant would require 100 tonnes of daily waste to generate electricity for the city. To fulfil this requirement, the MC has made arrangements to source garbage from the panchayats adjacent to Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-generation-trials-begin-at-waste-to-energy-plant-in-shimla/story-upc3oYBjFtZ0xiFnKqMkdN.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Netting criminals, not goals: Former hockey skipper gets set for new innings, but Covid holds him up||ChandigarhEarlier, it was all about maintaining peak fitness levels and honing his hockey playing skills as captain of the Indian team. Now,for 34-year-old Sardar Singh, life is as disciplined as before, but since he hung up his (sports) boots the stick has been replaced by weapons and strategising is done to net criminals, not goals.Undergoing police training at the Haryana Police Academy in Madhuban, Sardar Singh’s morning starts with parade and physical training drills followed by classes in weapons handling and operations, investigation theory and law. Special instructions are given to cadets by top policemen narrating their experiences in handling critical situations. In the current situation, new lessons in handling the Covid-19 lockdown and “unlock” situations are also imparted. However, things have come to a halt for a brief while, again due to Covid-19, as the sportsman and winner of Arjuna and Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna awards, currently training as deputy superintendent of police (DSP), has tested positive for Covid-19.Isolating at home in Panchkula, Sardar Singh says: “There have been Covid-19 cases in Madhuban, outdoor training is discontinued for the last few days. All seven DSP trainees in my batch were tested and two, including me, were found positive. Being part of the police force, in the recent past, we have had numerous discussions on the outbreak so I am not psychologically impacted by the news.”Fortunately, though he does not have any symptoms, Sardar Singh is self isolating at home according to health protocols and will rejoin the academy once he recovers.The transition from sports gear to khaki, he says, has been easy. “Police training has again put me back in the schedule of my playing days. In Madhuban we have to get out of bed at 4.30am for parade, followed by two sessions of PT drills.”Sitting in class used to be ‘tough’The toughest challenge for the veteran of over 300 international matches is to sit in a classroom for theoretical sessions. “It’s almost after a gap of 14 to 15 years that I am back in the classroom culture. Because it’s police training you can’t afford to take anything lightly, so I had no other choice. Initially, I found it tough to sit still in class but later, when we got to investigation theories and weapons my interest levels peaked.”Grateful to the ustads (teachers) for being tough but supportive, Sardar Singh says, “At times, whenever I get stuck and have issues related to the technicalities of the training, they (teachers) do a lot of hand-holding.” Grateful for support When asked if he’s getting special treatment being the sports star that he is, Sardar Singh replies, “Once you are in the police academy, everyone is treated at par. But I am thankful to the director of the academy, Inspector General Yoginder Singh Nehra, who is always there to support us and listen to our queries.” The two-time Olympian was recruited as a DSP in the Haryana police force under the sports quota in 2008 but could not undergo the mandatory one-year training. Last year, after announcing his retirement, he joined police training, taking a couple of months off in between to play in the professional league in Canada. “My training is in its final phases and after that we will undergo three months of field training at a police station. Let’s hope I am able to contribute similarly to the police services as I have done in the sports field,” he signs off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/netting-criminals-not-goals-former-hockey-skipper-gets-set-for-new-innings-but-covid-holds-him-up/story-HXoHmpgPCLohawcn0uqEFO.html
24-09-2020||City||Pune district reports 3,555 positives, 49 deaths on Thursday||Pune: Pune district reported 3,555 positive cases and 49 deaths on Thursday due to Covid-19 infection, as per the state health department. It recorded the progressive positive count to 274,421. Of these total cases, 208,796 have recovered, 5,478 were declared dead and 60,146 are active cases. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 1,572 fresh positives taking the total Covid cases to 147,634 and 26 deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening, which took the death toll to 3,355. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) recorded 745 fresh positives taking the total virus cases to 70,881 and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening, which took the death toll to 993. Pune rural reported 1,238 fresh positives taking the total cases to 55,906 and 11 deaths in last 24 hours till Thursday evening. The death toll is 1,130.Virus update as on September 24Pune district: Covid cases - 27,4421 Recovered patients: 208,796 Deaths: 5,478 Active cases: 60,146 Pune: Daily cases 1, 238; progressive 55,906; daily deaths 11; total count 1,130PMC: Daily cases 1, 572; progressive 147,634; daily deaths 26; total count 3,555PCMC: Daily cases 745; progressive 70,881; daily deaths 12; total count 993||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-3-555-positives-49-deaths-on-thursday/story-NYjxkNF4auxnG8agzxrmSK.html
24-09-2020||City||Centre should withdraw anti-farmer agri bills: HP Cong||Newly appointed in-charge of Himachal Pradesh Congress and former Union minister Rajiv Shukla on Thursday said the central government should immediately withdraw the agricultural bills as these would not benefit the farmers.While addressing the media at the party headquarters here on Thursday, Shukla said the central and state governments failed to prevent the outbreak of coronavirus. While unemployment remains a concern, patients suffering from diseases other than Covid are not being provided with proper treatment and care, he alleged.“A woman battling with coronavirus has committed suicide in Shimla, which is the biggest failure of the government,” he added.He said it was high time that the people came to openly support the Congress so that it could regain power and speed up the country’s development.When asked about factionalism in the party, Shukla said, “Congress is united and there are no differences of any kind within the party.”Shukla is on a two-day tour of Shimla. He reached the Congress headquarters on Thursday where he was welcomed by fellow party members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-should-withdraw-anti-farmer-agri-bills-hp-cong/story-AwXvrZoMZ5iyJaFerOEecJ.html
24-09-2020||City||Covid patient suicide: Himachal Cong lodges protest at DDU Hospital, seeks high-level probe||A day after a 54-year-old woman battling Covid-19 committed suicide at Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital here, the Congress on Thursday staged a protest demanding a high-level investigation in the incident.Congress has held the BJP-led state government responsible for the mishap.During the protest, Congress leader and Shimla (rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh said the party had earlier objected to making DDU Hospital a dedicated Covid-care centre for four districts as it lacks the manpower required to undertake such a huge task, but the administration put the patients’ lives in danger anyway.He alleged that the woman had no choice but to commit suicide as she was upset over not receiving proper treatment at the hospital and the state government is to blame for it.Shimla district Congress committee president Jitender Chaudhary has demanded the resignation of the state health minister.Congress also warned the state government of intensifying the movement if the investigation is not conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patient-suicide-himachal-cong-lodges-protest-at-ddu-hospital-seeks-high-level-probe/story-mzfHjTcR03Hdoy9OSePY9L.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for murdering wife, sister-in-law, mother-in-law in Panipat||A man was arrested for murdering his wife, sister-in-law and mother-in-law in Samalkha town of Panipat on Thursday. The accused, Noor Hasan, 27, of Patti Kaliyana village of Sonepat district, admitted to killing his wife Madhu, 25, sister-in-law Manisha, 18, and mother-in-law Jamila, 48 and raping the bodies. Hasan suspected that his wife was having an affair and that his in-laws were supporting her. The bodies were recovered from three different locations on September 6, 7 and 8. A special investigation team was formed under Panipat deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satish Kumar on September 11.On September 5, he drugged and killed his wife and sister-in-law with sharp-edged weapons. He covered their bodies in quilts and dumped them. Later, on September 8, he took his mother-in-law from Gamri village and strangled her to death near Bursham Village. He tried to burn her body. Hasan had been living a rented accommodation in Samalkha with his wife and two sons. He has been booked under Section 302 (murder) and 201 (hiding evidence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-held-for-murdering-wife-sister-in-law-mother-in-law-in-panipat/story-mnFwUkF37QceE4LL2PjtYK.html
24-09-2020||City||Himachal govt to promote winter sports, tourism in Manali||Himachal Pradesh government is giving an impetus to the tourism sector and will also promote winter sports, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday.He was listening to public grievances in Manali where he also held an interaction with the representatives of the International Luge Federation.He assured the representatives of the federation that winter sports would be encouraged in the state, especially in Manali. He said there is an immense possibility of activities like skiing and mountaineering, among other winter sports, in various areas of the state.The CM said with winter sports would provide an opportunity to the youth to showcase their talent and compete on the international level. Such events would also attract more tourists to the hill state, Thakur said.Education minister Govind Singh Thakur, MLA Surender Shourie, State BJP vice-president Dhaneshwari Thakur and BJP district president Bhimsen were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-to-promote-winter-sports-tourism-in-manali/story-SVncjgEC1JVmbWKJoSCrNO.html
24-09-2020||City||Atal Tunnel will strengthen nation’s security: Jai Ram||Ahead of the Prime Minister’s proposed visit to Atal Tunnel, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday held a meeting with Kullu district officials in Manali.Besides paving the way for round-the-year movement to the border areas of Himachal, the tunnel will strengthen the security of the nation, the CM said during the meeting.Stating that the PM would be accorded a traditional welcome on his proposed visit, Thakur directed the officers to ensure adherence to the standard operating procedures for Covid-19.The CM called for maintenance of social distancing by the people while welcoming the national head and avoiding crowding in one place.In view of the Covid pandemic, he said, adequate ambulances must be stationed at the venue and necessary arrangements made for isolation.He said the inauguration programme will be broadcast live. Video screens would be installed at the district headquarters and other places for people to watch the event.In the meeting, education minister Govind Singh Thakur said the commencement of Atal Tunnel is a historic event for the residents of Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti districts, adding that it would herald many activities of economic development in the entire region besides giving development a push.MLA Surender Shourie, deputy commissioner Richa Verma, superintendent of police Gaurav Singh, Atal Tunnel chief engineer KP Purushothaman, BJP state vice-president Dhaneshwari Thakur and BJP district chief Bhimsen were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/atal-tunnel-will-strengthen-nation-s-security-jai-ram/story-QWG5E1T6RSJmeEKgAyv91I.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Polls to be held for vacant sarpanch, panch seats in J-K||The Jammu and Kashmir administrative council has given the go-ahead for elections to vacant sarpanch and panch constituencies in the union territory (UT).The council, which met on Wednesday evening under the chairmanship of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, approved the proposal of the department of rural development and panchayati raj to issue a notification for holding the elections. “The detailed schedule will be finalised by the election authority,” the official spokesman said, adding that filling of the vacant constitutional posts will ensure devolution of powers and proper grassroots planning in the third tier of the local self-government. He said that the elections will enable non-functional panchayats to start working.Earlier, general elections to 39,521 sarpanch and panch constituencies were conducted in 2018, of which 13,257 positions fell vacant due to resignations, removal or elections of sarpanches as block development council chairpersons, death, and non-availability of candidates at the time of elections. Among these 1,089 vacancies are for the offices of sarpanches and while 12,168 are for panches. More than 504 panches have resigned since the 2018 polls for various reasons, the maximum from south Kashmir’s Anantnag with 129 resignations, followed by central Kashmir’s Budgam district with 81 and in Baramulla and Kupwara districts with 67 and 61 resignations, respectively. Twelve sarpanches who resigned after getting elected include one each in Anantnag and Baramulla districts; five in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district and one each in Baramulla, Budgam and Bandipore districts of Kashmir. Five panchayat members were killed by militants in the last one year and many panchayat members have been moved to high-security zones after security forces received inputs that they were on the radar of militants.Since the 2018 polls, more than 504 panches have resigned over different reasons. The highest number of resignations came from south Kashmir’s Anantnag with 129 resignations, followed by central Kashmir’s Budgam district with 81 while in Baramulla and Kupwara districts 67 and 61 panches submitted their resignations. Prominent mainstream political parties, National Conference and Congress, didn’t participate in the last panchayat polls. The J-K government had earlier framed an apex level and two divisional level committees to conduct preparatory work for by-elections for panchayats and BDCs in two divisions of the UT.The elections, earlier planned for March, were deferred on the day when militants killed block development chairman Bupinder Singh at central Kashmir’s Khag area. Singh was without security and had not informed the station house officer of the Khag police station when he went to Dalwash village where he was killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/polls-to-be-held-for-vacant-sarpanch-panch-seats-in-j-k/story-3lzDgvvGCx2eFkvQHD4B7N.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Hours after Rohtak assistant professor’s body found in car, wife allegedly commits suicide with daughter||An 11-year-old girl survived while her sister died after their mother allegedly pushed them into a water tank before jumping into it in Rohtak hours after the body of the father of the siblings was found in a car after apparently dying by suicide, the Haryana police said. The three left their home immediately after learning about the recovery of the body, they added.The 11-year-old informed residents of the area near the tank, who took out the bodies of the 33-year-old woman and her other daughter from the tank. The body of her father, a 35-year-old assistant professor at a Rohtak college, was found along the Jhajjar-Rohtak road a day after he had left for Gurugram. The police said they have recovered empty pouches of agricultural pesticide celphos from the car, which suggests the professor may have consumed them and died by suicide. A note recovered from his car did not mention any reasons for it nor blamed anyone.Rohtak Urban Estate police station in-charge Shamsher Singh said the bodies of the woman, who was a teacher, and her daughter have been recovered from the water tank. He cited the preliminary investigation and said it seems the woman died by suicide along with one of her daughters as she could not bear the news of her husband’s death.Singh said the bodies have been sent for post-mortem and they would be able to comment further only after they get autopsy reports. The investigation is going on, he added.Rohtak deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sajjan Singh said as per preliminary investigation the assistant professor was depressed because of a family dispute and the death of his brother a few months ago. He did not mention the reasons for the dispute in his suicide note. The assistant professor resided in government quarters on campus with his wife and daughters.The DSP said, “The 11-year-old girl, who survived the incident, was very brave. Not only did she manage to get out of water but she made her way through mud and climbed over a wall to seek help for her mother and sister.”He added that the girl’s grandparents were looking after her. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hours-after-rohtak-assistant-professor-s-body-found-in-car-wife-commits-suicide-with-daughter/story-hUqqvk6tkpmvQ2IvoNsvWL.html
24-09-2020||Music||K-pop band BTS to Indian fans: Your energy keeps us going strong||The recently released song Dynamite by one of the most popular K-Pop band BTS garnered 10 million views within 24 hours of being on YouTube, and among these numbers there were 8 million Indian fans who liked this video. Is there anything else needed to prove the craze that Indians have for BTS and K-Pop? So, when BTS shared a video message for K-Pop competitors in India, the fan following went crazy! BTS has been the talk of town among K-Pop lovers since the results for the virtual K-Pop have been announced recently. In vocal, Chanchui Khayi from Delhi has bagged the first position while Xeo Pachuau from Aizwal has scored the first place in the dance category. Although this is for the first time when the K-Pop competition was organised virtually across various parts of the country 1,348 K-Pop fans from India participated overall and the finale saw a selected 36 performances. And on the day of the finale, BTS shared a video message for the participants, and their Indian fans. The band said, “We heard online contests were held in 18 regions around India for this grand finale. As K-Pop artistes, BTS is very proud that such a great event is being held even though things are tough around the world. We want to say thank you so much to everyone in India who loves K-Pop. Your energy keeps BTS going strong. Thank you ‘Army’ in India. There will be more great music to heal and inspire you. Please keep cheering for us.” BTS, too, watched the finale, and their message filled the fans and participants in India with crazy enthusiasm. Chanchui Khayi from Delhi, who won the finale, says, “I was quite thrilled and nervous at first because you never know what to expect in the digital realm, and the virtual audience. However, the organisers did their best in making things simple and clear, and the message from BTS was an icing on the cake! It was an exceptionally wonderful encouragement for all of us. I believe this is just the start for an amazing feat to happen in India and the K-wave. BTS has undoubtedly made it bigger and possible. They are exemplary in influencing not only Armies but everyone else watching around the world. I believe it’s something we can all see and learn to grow oneself.” Another participant, Vicky Singh from Delhi, says, “Receiving a congratulatory message from worldwide famous stars BTS was a really great feeling. Among their busy schedule of promoting their new single Dynamite, they took out time to wish us; that was really amazing. We also aspire to become great artistes in the near future, and their words definitely motivated me a lot. Thank you BTS! If there’s one thing I’ve learnt in this journey, it is that I shouldn’t ever give up and keep pushing. There’s always a way.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/music/k-pop-band-bts-to-indian-fans-your-energy-keeps-us-going-strong/story-VfZb9NI06UOyNwB6el1RTI.html
24-09-2020||Kolkata||Two murdered in Bengal village for using fishing net without owner’s consent, allege relatives||Two men were murdered at Parbatya in West Bengal’s Malda district on Wednesday for allegedly using a fellow villager’s fishing net without his consent. “We have received a complaint of murder against several people. We have nabbed three of them. They are being questioned. Raids are on to catch the others,” district police superintendent Alok Rajoria said. Residents said Fulchand Ghosh, 32, and Arjun Ghosh, 30, who were relatives, apologised to Rajesh Roy for taking his net but were still attacked. The two received stab injuries and were rushed to the Malda Medical College and Hospital, where they were declared dead.Also Read: Hours after rescue, kidnapped minor girl dies with family in Bengal road accidentBabulal Ghosh, a nephew of Fulchand Ghosh, said, “All ponds in the area have been flooded because of heavy rain over the past few days. On Wednesday, my relatives went to catch fish from one of the ponds. Since they did not have a net of their own, they picked up Roy’s net... Our relatives apologised and left the spot. They were attacked when they were coming home.”Beheaded bodies of two teenagers were earlier recovered in the adjoining Murshidabad district on August 30. The families of the teenagers said some men who had warned them against fishing in an inundated field in the Kanthali area of Berhampore killed them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/two-murdered-in-bengal-village-for-using-fishing-net-without-owner-s-consent-allege-relatives/story-cWnQQFr4PomB0HzKVyYujM.html
24-09-2020||Pune||20 sanitiser dispensers lying uninstalled at Yerawada-Vishrantwadi ward’s garden in Pune||PUNE Twenty hand sanitiser dispensers are lying unattended at a Pune municipal corporation (PMC) garden in Vishrantwadi-Yerawada ward. The machines, bought for Rs 22,500 each, were expected to be installed at strategic locations inside the ward to facilitate residents sanitising hands once they step out of the house to the market or the public toilets.Residents and civic activists alleged that the machines were slated to be stationed in the ward area a month ago.Chandrakant Hase, an area resident, said, “The sanitising machines are lying unattended . The PMC must install it soon amid the pandemic for the safety of residents.”Sapna Sahare, junior engineer, Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori regional ward said, “The installation of the sanitising machines has been delayed due to delay in the release of the work order and its approval. The process of machine installation is on and we will complete the work at the earliest.”“The machines will be installed at places where there is a need and also taking the COVID situation into consideration,” she said.Former Mayor Siddhartha Dhende said, “ The machines should have been installed long ago, but there is some issue over who will look after maintenance and upkeep. As installation has been delayed, the machines are lying unutilised.”Balu Patil, an activist of Sahakarnagar, had called for an audit of the machine installation work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/20-sanitiser-dispensers-lying-uninstalled-at-yerawada-vishrantwadi-ward-garden-in-pune/story-6ZOLIFI8jbbBs2nNdHZDTM.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Back in Punjab, Badals credit Shiromani Akali Dal with making farm bills a national debate||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said that the Akali leadership should be credited with making farmers’ rights a national debate by quitting the Narendra Modi cabinet and raising voices against the farm bills in Parliament. Addressing party supporters at Takht Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo, Badal said: “Recent Indian political history has no example where an ally of a Union government has quit a ministerial position for farmers’ rights.” “I had reiterated several times that the SAD would not hesitate to make any sacrifice if the farming community’s interest is compromised. (Bathinda Lok Sabha MP) Harsimrat Kaur Badal and I spoke bluntly against the farm bills in Parliament. As Akali leaders raised the concerns and reservations of farmers boldly in front of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi, they brought the attention of the entire nation towards a sensitive issue touching the lives of farmers,” said Badal, who represents Ferozepur in the Lok Sabha. Badal and his wife Harsimrat returned to Punjab for the first time after she quit as Union food processing industry minister to protest the passage of the farm bills last week. The couple paid obeisance at the shrine, associated with the visit of the 10th Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh. A large number of Akali workers had gathered at the historic gurdwara’s Diwan Hall to listen to their leaders, throwing Covid-19 guidelines to the wind. SEED SOWN BY CONGRESS: SUKHBIR The Badals targeted their regional political foes, the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party in their respective speeches. Sukhbir Singh Badal said that the Congress had in its 2017 assembly poll and 2019 general election manifestoes promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act and make trade in agricultural produce, including export and inter-state trade, free of all restrictions. “Modi only followed but the seeds of these anti-farmer ideas were first mooted by the Congress leadership,” he said. Appealing to farmers’ cell of the SAD to rope in arthiyas (commission agents) and farm labourers in the ongoing agitation, Badal said that he will lead protest marches against Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and the central government from various districts to Chandigarh on October 1. “Amarinder should hold a special assembly session immediately to revoke the amended APMC Act of 2017 in Punjab,” he said. AMARINDER WAS CONSULTED, GAVE APPROVAL: HARSIMRAT Harsimrat said that Capt Amarinder Singh was among the seven chief ministers who had first started discussing the three farm bills with the Centre in August last year, “but he never expressed any resentment on the issue”. She showed documents to the gathering, claiming they were official papers that revealed the Punjab government had given its approval to the bills. “I had written three dissent notes, detailing issues, when the cabinet members were asked for their views in the third week of May. Whenever a central government plans a new bill, it is first discussed with the CMs and top state officials and the matter is tabled before the cabinet much later. Capt Amarinder Singh stands exposed,” she said. Unlike the ‘consent’ papers of the Punjab CM, Harsimrat did not produce anything to buttress her ‘dissent’ noting claim on the bills. “Anyone can get it through right to information (RTI),” she said from the stage. DODGE AAP PROTESTERS IN TALWANDI SABO Earlier, SAD’s political opponents had gathered near the gurdwara to show the Badals black flags but they did not get a chance do so as the Akali leaders opted to take an alternative road route. Wearing black aprons, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur were camping near Khanda Chowk at Talwandi Sabo. Baljinder Kaur said the Akalis have hurt the feelings of the farmers by being part of the NDA government that had passed the farm bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/back-in-punjab-badals-credit-shiromani-akali-dal-with-making-farm-bills-a-national-debate/story-BwQyZfprgPahaAYuBxZx8N.html
24-09-2020||Kolkata||Hours after rescue, kidnapped minor girl dies with family in Bengal road accident||A speeding SUV skidded off and fell into a pond at West Bengal’s Jalpaiguri on Thursday and left a girl rescued from captivity dead along with her mother, uncle, and a police constable. The girl was being brought from Cooch Behar to Siliguri along with her alleged kidnapper, who was injured in the accident.Also read: NHRC notices issued to UP Police in Vikram Tyagi abduction case, seeks action-taken reportAn NGO that helped the police rescue the minor had provided the vehicle, whose driver fled after the accident. A police team from Siliguri in Darjeeling district was rushed to Sahebganj in Cooch Behar on Wednesday to rescue the minor after her family lodged a complaint on August 28 that she had been abducted. The girl’s mother and uncle reached Sahebganj on Wednesday night. After rescuing the girl and arresting the accused, the team left for Siliguri on Thursday morning. “Four persons, including a policeman, the girl, her mother and her uncle died in the accident. The accused and two police personnel, including a female constable, were injured,” said Cooch Bihar’s deputy police superintendent (traffic) Chandan Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/hours-after-rescue-kidnapped-minor-girl-dies-with-family-in-bengal-road-accident/story-AE7Rh4lAXoD32SvQ6qtLuN.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||No option but to burn stubble, say farmers as doctors worry about Covid||Doctors fighting the Covid-19 pandemic are worried as farmers, with the onset of paddy harvesting, appear to be intent on burning stubble to clear their fields and the resultant pollution is likely to affect patients as the virus mostly attacks the lungs.Burning of paddy residue after harvesting has over the years attracted much criticism because it impacts air quality, spreading to cities in north India, especially Capital Delhi, creating conditions hazardous to health.As farmer unions say they will not dispose of paddy by any other means but by burning it unless the government incentivises stubble management, doctors worry about the pollution.“If pollution trends are similar to the last few years this can be a problem for Covid-19 patients, even for those who have recovered. Covid-19 impairs functioning of the lungs and breathing in smog will increase risks,” says a doctor who wishes to remain anonymous. Dr Vishal Chopra, a professor of pulmonary medicine at the Government Rajindra Medical College, Patiala, who is also managing Covid-19 patients, says people must be extra cautious. “Those suffering from ailments of heart and lungs should be careful. Exposure to smog will create problems. Patient load likely to increaseDr Rajesh Sharma, who works in rural areas, says with each year the number of patients with chest and eye problems is increasing. With medical facilities under pressure due to Covid-19, stubble burning is likely to increase the patient load those with chest ailments, including lung and breathing problems, will need medical care. He appeals to farmers to desist from the practise.Farmer leaders say they are aware of the problem as they and their families also face health issues, but lack of resources to manage stubble has left them helpless.“We too face problems and health issues and we live in farms in the fields, but we have no resources to manage it (stubble). The government must give us Rs 200 per quintal as handling charges of paddy straw,” says Jagmohan Singh of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda).Meanwhile, with the onset of the harvesting season the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre has recorded 61 incidents of fire since September 20. A maximum of 55 incidents were recorded in Amritsar, three each were reported from Tarn Taran and Mohali and one from Jalandhar.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had last week blamed the Centre for not announcing incentives to handle stubble. Also, chief secretary Vini Mahajan had directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure zero tolerance for paddy straw burning in view of the NGT guidelines. FIELDS ABLAZERs40 lakh was collected last year from penalties slapped on farmersFarm fires in 2019: 52,942 Farm fires in 2018: 51,751 Estimated stubble residue: 200 lakh tonnes Number of farmers issued fines: 3,200 Environmental compensation collected: ₹40 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-option-but-to-burn-stubble-say-farmers-as-doctors-worry-about-covid/story-ftZPlYmymWiEJzvwkygaiI.html
24-09-2020||Dehradun||95 inmates test Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand jail, 205 in one week||Ninety five prisoners tested Covid-19 positive in Sitarganj central jail in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar on Wednesday. With this, a total of 205 prisoners have tested positive for the virus in the last one week in the jail. “95 prisoners tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday while 35 jail inmates had tested positive on Tuesday. RT-PCR samples of all prisoners in the jail were collected after 73 prisoners tested positive here on Thursday,” said Dadhi Ram Maurya, superintendent, central jail, Sitarganj. Sitarganj central jail is located around 55 km from US Nagar district headquarters and houses around 700 prisoners. Also Read: Uttarakhand HC directs govt to form monitoring panels to contain Covid-19With the addition of these fresh cases, 205 prisoners have tested positive in a week in Sitarganj jail. This situation has arisen even when the entry and exit of outsiders, especially relatives of jail inmates, has been strictly banned in the jail premises, said Maurya. Maurya said reports of some prisoners are yet to be received. Covid-19 positive jail inmates have been housed in a banquet hall in Rudrapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/95-inmates-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttarakhand-jail-205-in-one-week/story-ck6hiWKfFTpIGMICXRXIPJ.html
24-09-2020||Pune||Second person arrested in Pune in ‘marks for cash’ case||A second person was remanded to police custody in the case of a data leak and seeking money in exchange for increasing marks from students of Symbiosis Centre for Distance Learning (SCDL), run by the Symbiosis open education society. The arrested man was identified as Sumit Kumar Agarwal, a man in his 30s, according to the police. “We have arrested the second person from Hyderabad. The phone numbers of students were provided to him by the first accused. Most of the students are from outside of Maharashtra. Barely two of them are from Mumbai, rest are from other states,” said senior police inspector Jayram Paygude of cybercrime police station. Hengale accessed the information from his residence, according to the original complaint. The information was then passed on to Agarwal to make contact with students who needed their marks increased and it was allegedly offered to be done in exchange of money. “Initially he (Hengale) was completely denying any knowledge of the allegations. We need to see what kind of lacunae are in the system that allowed him to access this information from home,” said senior PI Paygude. When contacted for a comment, the personal assistant of Swati Mujumdar, director of Symbiosis Open Education Society spoke on her behalf and said that she was unavailable at the moment.A case under Sections 464 (making false document), 465 (punishment for forgery), and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Cyber police station of Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/second-person-arrested-in-pune-in-marks-for-cash-case/story-BhArsasS5l62bGGrSJfKvL.html
24-09-2020||Pune||Mobile phones being tapped, alleges Marahta Kranti Morcha convener||Maratha Kranti Morcha convener has alleged that the mobile phones of some members are being tapped and the government should conduct an inquiry in the issue.Rajendra Kondhare, convener, Maratha Kranti Morcha, addressed a press conference in the city on Wednesday. He said, “The government and police are tapping our (members) phones and keeping vigilance on us. This should stop.”The Maratha Kranti Morcha plans to hold agitations in the city on September 27.Kondhare said, “Agitations will be carried out in front of offices of political parties on September 27. Morcha activists will hold agitations in front of Nationalist Congress Party’s office at 10.30 am on Tilak road. Later they will protest at Shiv Sena’s office at 11.45 which is located near Deccan bus stop and at Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) office on JM Road at noon and Congress Bhavan at 12.30 pm.”While carrying out agitations, the activist would ensure that all the norms of Covid-19 issued by municipal administration and police are strictly followed, he said.Maratha Kranti Morcha has demanded that the government must clear its stand on the recruitment and college admissions before the Supreme Court’s decision.Meanwhile. the various organisations related to Maratha Kranti Morcha met at Kolhapur on Wednesday and announced a nation-wide bandh on October 10. The band would be carried out in pan Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mobile-phones-being-tapped-alleges-marahta-kranti-morcha-convernor/story-qVIVBOe51qBdFS1Lef6YxI.html
24-09-2020||Pune||Fear of flash floods still haunts residents of Tangewala colony in Pune||On Friday, it will be a year since the flash floods struck the city on September 25, but the victims who are still picking up pieces of life have not been able to stabilise themselves. The flash floods of 2019 claimed 26 lives in Pune. For residents of Tangewala colony in Sahakarnagar, the flash floods were a nightmare as seven people from the colony lost their lives.Fears of flooding were back among residents with the city witnessing heavy rainfall over the past few days. With the rising water levels in the area, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) sent a notice on September 13 to all the 85 houses of the colony to evacuate the premises.So far the Pune district has received 154.9 mm of rain, 56.2 mm more than the normal average (98.7mm).However, the residents say since the flash floods, nothing has improved in the area. “We are living under constant fear over the last two weeks as the water level has climbed up high and at night we had to run out of our houses. As we don’t have any other option, we have to stay here. The government and PMC had promised us that they will give us new houses and also build a safety retaining wall near Ambil Odha, but nothing has happened over the past year and we are staring at floods again,” said Sunil Shinde, a resident of Tangewala colony. Tangewala colony is located behind Gangatirtha society in Sahakarnagar. There is a canal located behind the society and it has 125 slums in close proximity to each other. Last year the flash floods occurred right before the state assembly elections and all political parties tried to take advantage of the situation by dolling out lofty promises to the residents of the area, including giving them compensation, repairing and restoring the Ambil Odha, among others. However, on ground, things remain the same. The Pune Municipal Corporation and district collectorate helped the flood victims by giving them compensation. The PMC also allotted Rs 300 crore for the repair of the Ambil Odha, which is yet to be completed. Another resident Nanda Kailash Shinde, whose entire house collapsed in the flash floods, said, “Our entire house was damaged in the floods and we had to rebuilt it. It cost us Rs 2.5 lakh. Also, all our important documents were damaged due to the water and we have not been able to get any help from the PMC or the state government. We are worried about the future of our children and so, PMC should at least give us proper homes for safety.” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, said, “We are taking all the necessary measures for the safety of citizens who had been affected due to flash floods last year. I have personally visited the areas over the past week. We are currently working on their rehabilitation project.”Revisiting the horrorOne hundred mm of rain in two hours in September 2019 set the Ambil Odha up to burst its banks and overflow. 2.5 lakh- People affected by floods and 800 animals killed, including cattle in local dairies. Also, 2,700- Vehicles on the roads and parking lots were found submerged in the waterlogged areas of south Pune in localities such as Katraj, Bibvewadi, Padmavati and Sahakarnagar.What was promised- On ground situationA private firm surveyed the stream and identified 77 illegal structures along the stream which aggravated the floods- Illegal structures still stand. Spend Rs 300 crore on building retaining wall along Ambil odha and repair sections where the bank and barriers had collapsed- Work on the retaining wall hasn’t begun||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fear-of-flash-floods-still-haunts-residents-of-tangewala-colony-in-pune/story-PUyXXqsqO060aov6eZxMaJ.html
24-09-2020||Pune||PMC holds meet with stakeholders to address medical manpower shortage||The Pune Municipal Corporation organised a meeting with stakeholders to discuss the medical manpower shortage which private hospitals and government hospitals in the city are facing during the Covid-19 pandemic.Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, said, “Pune Municipal Corporation conducted a meeting with various doctors and affiliated organisations to address the manpower issue. Various ideas have been pitched which can help us reduce the shortage.”Kumar said, “The administration is focussing on increasing medical infrastructure in the city to deal with the rising Covid-19 cases, however, private as well as government hospitals are facing currently facing a shortage of trained manpower.”PMC has been recruiting medical staff for its hospitals on contract basis and is currently working to get additional manpower to run Covid hospitals as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-holds-meet-with-stakeholders-to-address-medical-manpower-shortage/story-lTA5xTGo8YfwrwvhHtAiGM.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB to record additional statements of Showik, Sawant||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday started recording another set of statements of Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik and Sushant Singh Rajput’s cook Dipesh Sawant at Taloja Prison. NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the development. NCB reached Taloja Prison after obtaining permission from a special court constituted to try cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Pyschotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Thursday morning. “We wanted to confront the two with certain revelations that have come to our knowledge during the course of further investigation. We, however, cannot disclose all facts at this stage,” said special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande. Also Read: Sara Ali Khan leaves for Mumbai from Goa, to appear before NCB on September 26 in drug probeDipesh Sawant was arrested by NCB on September 5, for allegedly procuring and handling drugs for Rajput. Meanwhile Showik was arrested on September 4. They were in NCB custody till September 9 and were remanded to judicial custody thereafter till October 6. Showik was arrested based on the statement of Abdel Basit Parihar. Parihar had claimed that he used to procure drugs from Zaid Vilatra and Kaizan Ebrahim, who have been arrested, on Showik’s instruction. The NCB claimed that Showik, during questioning, had revealed the names of several Bollywood celebrities who used drugs as well as drug peddlers. Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB questions designer Simone KhambattaFurther, Parihar and Ebrahim had also revealed Sawant’s involvement in the case. Sawant also claimed that he got the contacts of drug peddlers from Showik. Showik, in his statement before the agency, revealed that, “He used to facilitate the delivery of the drugs through Parihar by Ebrahim and Zaid. These deliveries used to be received by aides of Sushant Singh Rajput and every delivery and payment was in conscious knowledge of Rhea and even sometimes payments and choice of drug was confirmed from her,” the agency had submitted in its application, revealing the role of Showik and Rhea after Rhea’s arrest on September 8, seeking her judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-to-record-additional-statements-of-showik-sawant/story-0Gbrb4Ru014aYSCD7uDIkP.html
24-09-2020||City||Will not allow BJP leaders in villages: Farm unions||Ludhiana The coordination committee of 31 farm unions of Punjab has decided to bar the entry of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers in villages. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said, “Farmers have been stopped from marching to Delhi. We will not allow anyone associated with the BJP to enter our villages. Those who are not with farmers have no right to enter villages.”BKU-Rajewal president BS Rajewal said it was only tit for tat. “Why should BJP leaders be allowed to enter villages, when farmers are being barred from entering Delhi?” He added that farmers were now working on the principle of ‘Jehra Kisana Naal Kharu Ohi Pinda Vich Varu (Only those who will stand with farmers will be allowed to enter villages). Rajewal added that farmers have also asked BJP leaders with farming background to resign from the saffron party and join their protest.With the railways either cancelling or short-terminating trains on September 25 (Friday), farmers will lay siege on national and state highways. “As trains have been cancelled on Friday, we will protest on national and state highways. We will permanently stop train movement from October 1,” said Lakhowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-not-allow-bjp-leaders-in-villages-farm-unions/story-rxesq2lvC8i2iUUZNySsVM.html
24-09-2020||Lucknow||British firearms maker Webley & Scott to set up two shooting ranges in each Indian state||British firearms maker Webley & Scott plans to set up two shooting ranges in every state to promote shooting as a sport, besides manufacturing revolvers in Uttar Pradesh.Maninder Sial, promoter of the company’s Indian arm Sial Manufacturing Private Limited, said Webley & Scott has chosen Kanpur and Gorakhpur for establishing two ranges apart from one testing range at Sandila on its factory premises.Webley & Scott has entered into a joint venture with its Indian arm to produce 3,000 revolvers annually. It will produce its first weapon in India at its Sandila factory in Hardoi district in November.Also read: UP gave maximum number of jobs during Covid-19 lockdown, says report“We want to change the definition of what people think about weapons. They are not meant to be seen as tools for shooting but as sporting instruments,” Sial said.The ranges will be named after Webley & Scott and people can come and use the weapons and ammunition given there.“They can do trap shooting, skeet shooting, and 10-metre pistol shooting. They will learn shooting as a sport. At the same time, they will unlearn about the weapon whose image is imbibed in their psyche in altogether a different way,” said Sial.Sial’s family has been associated with the firearms business for over 50 years and has been importing firearms and selling them.His association with Webley & Scott goes back to 2003. Since 2010, he was trying to tie up with the company that armed the allied forces in two World Wars.“We could not succeed then. The opportunity came in 2017 under the current government. We jointly applied for a licence in 2018 and got [it] in March 2019.”The company has finalised the production line of .32 bore revolver Mark IV. Engineers from Webley & Scott visited its facility and trained 40 men whom Sial hired locally. In the second phase, air guns would be made from June 2021 and shotguns from November 2021.“Our experts are testing the revolvers,” Sial said. He added the company would employ 200 people, who would be from Hardoi, by the time all the four units become functional.Thereafter, Webley & Scott would produce .9x19 parabellum pistols for the Army, police, and the paramilitary forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/british-firearms-maker-webley-scott-to-set-up-two-shooting-ranges-in-each-indian-state/story-m7bEhj1mR2eVx1JpN7wg7N.html
24-09-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan police chief seeks voluntary retirement, may get new role||Rajasthan police chief Bhupendra Singh applied for voluntary retirement on Wednesday, confirmed a top bureaucrat.“The director general of police (DGP) Bhupendra Singh has applied for voluntary retirement today. He may be replaced by DGP crime ML Lathar,” the official said.He added that Singh, after retirement, may replace Deepak Upreti as the chairperson of Rajasthan public service commission or may be made the new vice chancellor of MDS university in Ajmer. Upreti is due for retirement next week.Singh, a 1986 batch IPS officer, was made the director general of police on June 30, 2019, and was supposed to hold the post for two years after his tenure was extended in August last year till June 2021.The decision of the extension was based on the recommendation of a committee set up by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and the order issued by the state government’s department of personnel.Also Read: Ahead of Rajasthan govt’s report card, AICC manifesto panel to hold review meet on FridaySingh and anti corruption bureau (ACB) director general (DG) Alok Tripathi are the senior most IPS officers in the state. Before he was made the DGP, Singh was posted as ATS (anti terrorism squad) and SOG (special operation group) DG. He was posted in Jodhpur, the home turf of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-police-chief-seeks-voluntary-retirement-may-get-new-role/story-aBZNg2sJLeCMGN7BqHpwDM.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Sara Ali Khan arrives in Mumbai from Goa, to appear before NCB on September 26 in drug probe||Actor Sara Ali Khan arrived in Mumbai from Goa on Thursday to appear before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) which is probing the drugs angle in the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.The actor was spotted at Mumbai airport with her mother Amrita Singh on Thursday.The NCB had on Wednesday served summons to Khan at her home. Three other actors - Deepika Padukone, Rakul Preet Singh and Shraddha Kapoor - have also been asked to appear before the NCB.While Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor have been asked to appear before the NCB on September 26, Padukone has been summoned on September 25.Khan and the three other actors have been named in NCB’s ongoing investigation into the drug angle in Rajput’s death. Earlier this month, NCB arrested actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik in the same case.According to the NCB, Chakraborty and her brother financed and arranged drugs for Rajput. The NCB has so far arrested over 10 people in the case.Soon after NCB issued summons to four actors, Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde during a TV interview late Wednesday night clarified that Rhea has not named anyone in her statement in the drug case. The NCB, which started its investigation almost a month back, is the third central agency to launch a probe in connection with Rajput’s death.While the Central Bureau of Investigation is probing Rajput’s death, who was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14, the Enforcement Directorate is looking into allegations of money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sara-ali-khan-leaves-for-mumbai-from-goa-to-appear-before-ncb-on-september-26-in-drug-probe/story-qNVZfBUu0qBhqD2OlhRSyO.html
24-09-2020||Patna||New look Patna Museum to tell story of Patliputra’s rise on Ganga’s shores||Patna’s century old museum is being redeveloped at a cost of Rs 158 crore to include a garden with around 700 sculptures, a new gallery showcasing the evolution of civilisation on the banks of the Ganga river, development of Bihar, and the emergence and rise of Patliputra on the shores of the Ganga.Recently some antique artefacts were shifted from Patna Museum to the newly developed Bihar Museum at Bailey Road in the city. Following this, it was decided to refurbish the old museum with new features and attractions.Patna Museum redevelopment plan has been set in motion and is expected to be ready in a couple of years.The Patna Museum belongs to the British age and is the oldest museum in Bihar and Odisha. After Bihar’s separation from Bengal in 1912, some academicians and archaeologists planned a museum to conserve the antiquities discovered in and around the city at that time and in 1915.A makeshift museum was set up at the then Patna commissioner’s bungalow in the city which is now the AN Sinha research institute. Later, this collection was shifted to the Patna high court building, and in 1917 the Patna Museum was planned at its present site at Budh Marg on the Patna- Gaya road.Designed in Mughal- Rajput architecture, the Patna Museum once had over 50,000 antiquities in its collections.Also Read: Former Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey hints at joining politics“But the majority of its collections have remained at its storage points. It’s to display all those sculptures and bring them before the art lovers that we have planned a sculpture garden on the museum premises,” Deepak Anand, Bihar Museum director, said.The old building of the museum will remain untouched, unaltered as it’s a heritage structure, he added.“We’re adding new features on the open spaces available on its northern and southern sides. Some new galleries are being developed there which will tell the tales of development of Bihar and especially of Patliputra on the shores of Ganga River,” he said.Also Read: Delhi Zoo to welcome rhino from Patna ZooArvind Mahajan, an official from the directorate of museums, culture department, said it’s a Rs 158 crore project and while some well known firms like Drona, Sikka and Batul Raj are working over the concept plan, the development work is being executed by the building construction department. “And within two years, Patna Museum will have a new look,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/new-look-patna-museum-to-tell-story-of-patliputra-s-rise-on-ganga-s-shores/story-xM4niVqucrZVgDO7XTIbXL.html
24-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s labour and industrial law changes termed anti-worker by Congress||The Uttarakhand assembly passed 18 amendment bills including five for labour and industrial reforms and one for amendment in Char-Dham Devasthanam Management Act, amid pandemonium by opposition Congress MLAs during the one-day session on Wednesday in Dehradun. The session, curtailed to one day from three days schedule, decided earlier, was attended by 42 MLAs, while 14 MLAs attended the proceedings through virtual platforms in the 71-member House. All the bills were tabled and passed on the same day with the session having no Question Hour. Among the bills passed by the House, five were related to labour and industrial reforms in the state aimed to increase the ease of doing business.In one of the bills pertaining to labour reforms, named The Trade Unions (Uttarakhand Amendment) Bill, 2020, an amendment was passed, which said --- “no such (labour) union will be registered unless 30% of the workmen engaged or employed in the establishment or industry are the members of such trade union on the date of making the application for registration.” The earlier required percentage of workmen was 10% or hundred in number, whichever was less. According to another bill named The Payment of Bonus (Uttarakhand Amendment) Bill 2020, ‘every employer in respect of the accounting year shall be bound to pay a minimum bonus to every employee in that accounting year in which the employer has any allocated (money) surplus.’ It was also passed.As per the bill named The Industrial Disputes (Uttarakhand Amendment) Bill, 2020 passed by the house, the government can exempt any new industrial establishment or new undertaking from all or any of the provisions of the Act for a period of 1,000 days from the date of the establishment of such new industrial unit conditionally or unconditionally by notification in the official Gazette. The trade unions, Opposition Congress and experts, however, termed the bills passed as “anti-labour” which, they claimed will affect their social security. Also Read: Uttarakhand assembly session: Congress, AAP protest over ‘anti-farmer policies’ Daljeet Singh, president of a labour union of a manufacturing company in Pantnagar area of Kumaon compared the bills with laws of British Raj. “These are equivalent to those during the British Raj which were meant to exploit the labourers. We strongly condemn these and will soon hit the roads against this pro-capitalist government in the state,” said Singh. Congress MLA Qazi Nizamuddin, who was present inside the House said, “The bills passed in the name of labour reforms and in favour of ease of doing business, are actually anti-labour and pro-industry.” “Toeing the line of BJP led NDA government at the Centre, the state government here is bringing such laws to suppress the labour class and promote crony capitalism. We have been against such moves and will continue to protest against them,” he said. Legal expert Dushyant Mainali said the “bills will majorly affect the social security of the labourers”. “These Labour Laws or Industrial Disputes Act provides a platform to the labour and marginalised class to fight for their rights. But these bills seem to deprive them of that and impact their social security. This will also impact their productivity at work when they will come to know that their job is not secure,” said Mainali. The House also passed an amendment in the Char-Dham Devasthanam Management Act through a bill named Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Under the amendment, the Char Dham devasthanam management board may ‘acquire land in or around the vicinity of the religious devasthanams and other places it would deem proper for its better development in favour of Char-Dham.’ Also Read: Uttarakhand HC directs govt to form monitoring panels to contain Covid-19The House also passed some other bills regarding amendment in the Epidemic Diseases Act and deduction of salaries and other allowances of the members of state Assembly for which it had earlier passed ordinances during the lockdown. Through the amendment in The Epidemic Diseases Act, the government has made violations of Covid-19 provisions a punishable offence with imprisonment up to six months or a fine of ₹ 5,000 or both. The offences will, however, be cognizable and bailable. The amendment bill related to deduction of 30% of salary and other benefits of the members of state assembly was also passed following which the deduction has come into effect from April 1, 2020 till March 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-s-labour-and-industrial-law-changes-termed-anti-worker-by-congress/story-d4zrGYdEZ5fXTUylo9bKzM.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Over 3 lakh challans issued by Delhi Police for violation of Covid-19 norms||The Delhi Police has issued more than three lakh challans between June 15 and September 23 for violation of Covid-19 norms in the national capital, officials said on Thursday. A total of 3,54,944 challans were issued from June 15 till Wednesday, they said. According to police, 1,837 challans were issued for mask violation on Wednesday till 4 pm. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal had empowered health, revenue and police officials to impose fines up to Rs 1,000 for violations of norms, including non-observance of quarantine rules, non-maintenance of social distancing, not wearing a face mask in public or work places, spitting in public places, and consumption of paan, gutka and tobacco in public places, to contain the spread of Covid-19.  A total of 3,23,233 challans were issued for mask violation from June 15 till Wednesday, they said. Three challans were issued on Wednesday for spiting and 2,591 since June 15. Similarly, 116 challans were issued for social distancing violation on Wednesday and 29,108 since June 15, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/over-3-lakh-challans-issued-by-delhi-police-for-violation-of-covid-19-norms/story-R4GLAJoNMJy94pSZk5btmN.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees driest September in 16 years||The national capital has recorded 20.9 millimetres (mm) of rainfall so far in September. This is the driest September for Delhi in 16 years, as per the data from India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to IMD scientists, no more rainfall is expected in September, as the monsoon is set to withdraw from Delhi by the end of this month. “Delhi recorded three days of rainfall on September 5, 6 and 8. No more rainfall is expected in September. This is mainly because the monsoon trough, which is an area of low pressure, has largely remained in the hilly regions in September. There was no low-pressure system or any disturbance to have induced rainfall,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. Also Read: Intense rainfall to continue over sub-Himalayan WB, Bihar and UP: IMDThe national capital’s average rainfall for September is around 129.8 mm.Safdarjung Observatory, which is taken as a representative for the national capital’s weather, recorded only three days of rainfall in September, measuring 20.9 mm. Earlier, the lowest September rainfall was recorded in 2004 when Delhi had received 3 mm of rainfall. In 2015, the city had recorded 22 mm of rainfall in the same month. While last year’s corresponding figure was 74 mm. Similarly, it was 58 mm, 158 mm and 237 mm of rainfall in 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively, as per the IMD data. Prior to 2004, Delhi had recorded 1.6 mm of rainfall in September, Srivastava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sees-driest-september-in-16-years/story-vT03o5wbKMPJ3p0Vr3M9CJ.html
24-09-2020||Lucknow||Varanasi discom among ones to be privatised; UPPCL working out details for takeover||The Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd, also known as Varanasi discom (distribution company), is among the country’s discoms identified for privatisation, people aware of the matter said on Thursday.The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd is believed to be working out assets and liabilities of the discom as on March 31 for its takeover by a private company probably by the year-end.The Union power ministry has uploaded the draft standard bidding documents for the privatisation of the distribution companies in states. The documents have been issued for encouraging and supporting the acceleration of private sector participation in power distribution utilities across the country, it said while inviting public comments by October 5.Also read: Under Saubhagya scheme for electrification, 82% rural power bills unpaid in UP since AprilThe documents were uploaded on the ministry’s website on September 22 for the states to follow for inviting the technical and financial bids, the terms and conditions for participants, the timelines, etc.The discom employees protesting against the privatisation have been assured that service conditions will not be inferior in any manner after private firms take over.UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad president Avadhesh Kumar Verma said the uploading of bidding documents on the ministry’s website is the first written document in the public domain, vindicating their fears about the government plans on privatisation of power distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/varanasi-discom-among-ones-to-be-privatised-uppcl-working-out-details-for-takeover/story-K3g6uwdlDbch4Dzzq2yXsK.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway increases local train services in Mumbai||In a bid to reduce overcrowding in locals trains amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Central Railway has introduced 68 additional special suburban services in Mumbai from Thursday.Out of these 68 services, 46 will be on the main line (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Kasara, Khopoli and Karjat), and 22 on the harbour line (CSMT to Panvel and Goregaon), the Central Railway (CR) said in a release.With this, the total number of special services of CR in suburban Mumbai has gone up to 423 from 355 earlier. “In order to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding, the Central Railway has taken the decision to increase the number of daily special suburban services from 355 to 423 from September 24,” CR’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said.The Central Railway and the Western Railway started special local train services from June 15 on Mumbai suburban section on the request of the Maharashtra government.Out of 423 services of CR, 329 are on the main line, 92 on the harbour line and two on the trans-harbour line (Thane-Vashi and Thane-Panvel).“Services were gradually increased for the convenience of passengers and to avoid crowding and maintain social distancing,” Sutar said. Earlier this week, the Western Railway started 150 additional special suburban services, taking the total number of such services on its routes here to 500.Besides the essential services staff, state and central government staff, employees of nationalised and private banks, PSUs and pharma companies are currently allowed to travel in local trains. Authorities have made QR code-based identity cards mandatory for travelling in these trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-increases-local-train-services-in-mumbai/story-3FzlfuAvfwc7Va7naHrIwJ.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||AAP, Congress activists hold protest at Takht Damdama Sahib as Badals return to Punjab||Ahead of the visit of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bathinda Lok Sabha MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal to Takht Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo on Thursday afternoon, their political opponents gathered near the historic gurdwara. Wearing black aprons, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators Baljinder Kaur and Rupinder Kaur are camping near Khanda Chowk at Talwandi. Baljinder Kaur said the Akalis have hurt the feelings of the farmers by being party to the central government’s farm bills. “As the entire farming and trading community is up against the Centre on the bills, the Akalis indulged in political gains. They supported the bill openly but the widespread protest by farmers forced them to oppose the bills superficially. The Akalis are still partners of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and their dual political role has been exposed,” she said. Sukhbir and Harsimrat will return to Punjab for the first time after Parliament passed the agriculture bills last week. The SAD has announced a statewide chakka jam (road blockade) on September 25 to protest against the bills. While Akali supporters were present in large numbers at the Talwandi Sabo gurdwara, Congress activists gathered there too to oppose the SAD leaders. Several of them were carrying placards opposing the BJP and the Akalis for their “anti-farmer” stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-congress-activists-hold-protest-at-takht-damdama-sahib-as-badals-return-to-punjab/story-dOImpeoPthQ0ZrIR5xsUZJ.html
24-09-2020||Bhopal||Upset over loan recovery notices from bank, farmer’s wife dies by suicide in MP’s Bundelkhand||A 60-year-old woman in Madhya Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region has allegedly died by suicide, her son told police on Wednesday and added she was distraught as her indebted farmer husband was receiving loan recovery notices from banks despite the Covid-19 pandemic.She allegedly consumed some poisonous substance on September 16 and was admitted to a local hospital. The case came to light when she died on Wednesday.The farmer said they grow vegetables on their farm for a living. He added his five sons worked as labourers in Delhi but they returned home after they could not find work due to the pandemic.Also read: Can govt assure no farmer will commit suicide after passage of farm bills? asks Sanjay RautOne of the woman’s sons said his father had taken two loans of Rs 25,000 each six years back for their sister’s marriage. “He has been getting notices from the banks for several months...to repay the loans that caused tremendous stress to him. My mother asked us to arrange money anyhow to repay the loans but we had no jobs here. We do not have even a ration card and no benefit from any other government scheme. We borrow food grains... My mother definitely consumed poison due to the banks’ notices.”Additional police superintendent Sameer Saurabh said the woman’s son has said she died by suicide as his father was under stress due to the notices. “We are conducting an investigation into it and will take action based on it.”A 65-year-old farmer in the Bundelkhand region earlier this month allegedly died by suicide after his crop was destroyed due to lack of rains. He was under stress as he was unable to pay his electricity bills and repay bank loans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/upset-over-loan-recovery-notices-from-bank-farmer-s-wife-dies-by-suicide-in-mp-s-bundelkhand/story-mr7OUr5xVApoQDjfVGzpxH.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi building collapse: Bombay HC initiates suo motu PIL, seeks govt response||The Bombay high court (HC) has taken suo motu (on its own motion) cognisance of the building collapse at Bhiwandi on Tuesday, which had led to the loss of 40 lives, and initiated a public interest litigation (PIL), where all the seven civic bodies in and around Mumbai along with the Maharashtra government have been arraigned as respondents. The state government and the seven civic bodies have been asked to respond regarding the steps taken to check illegal constructions and dilapidated buildings in their respective jurisdictions. The next hearing of the PIL will be held on October 15 and state advocate-general (A-G) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni has also been asked to be present in the court on that day. The two-member HC division bench, comprising Chief Justice (CJ) Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni, took up the Bhiwandi case suo motu while hearing a PIL about a dilapidated building in Kalyan. The bench observed that the building collapse at Bhiwandi was alarming and the court was concerned about the loss of several human lives. “I have been told that there are many dilapidated buildings in the jurisdiction of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the adjoining municipal corporations. We are initiating a suo motu PIL and arraigning municipal corporations, which include Thane, Kalyan Dombivali, Mira-Bhayandar, Navi Mumbai, Vasai Virar and Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal corporations, as parties to the PIL,” said CJ Datta. The CJ directed the civic bodies to submit reports on the measures they have taken regarding dilapidated and illegal structures in their respective jurisdictions on October 15 in the presence of A-G Kumbhakoni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-building-collapse-bombay-hc-initiates-suo-motu-pil-seeks-govt-response/story-bTjWF3BzHPWeODm4FXZyZM.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia’s condition stable, will undergo another Covid-19 test in couple of days||Officials on Thursday said that Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is undergoing treatment for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease at a hospital in the national capital, is stable and he will go another test in a couple of days.Sisodia had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14 and was under home isolation since. The 48-year-old was admitted to the state-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital on Wednesday, which is a dedicated Covid-19 facility. A senior official on Wednesday said that Sisodia was hospitalized as a precautionary measure since he was continuously having a little higher body temperature and his oxygen levels dropped slightly.  हल्का बुख़ार होने के बाद आज कोरोना टेस्ट क़राया था जिसकी रिपोर्ट पोज़िटिव आई है. मैंने स्वयं को एकांतवास में रख लिया है. फ़िलहाल बुख़ार या अन्य कोई परेशानी नहीं है मैं पूरी तरह ठीक हूँ. आप सब की दुआओं से जल्द ही पूर्ण स्वस्थ होकर काम पर लौटूँगा.“He is still in ICU since yesterday (Wednesday), but his condition is stable. The minister has been put on oxygen support, and under constant observation,” a senior doctor of the hospital told news agency PTI. The doctor added that Sisodia will be administered an RT-PCR test in a couple of days. Sisodia is the second cabinet minister in the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government to have tested positive for Covid-19. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain was infected in June and was hospitalised thereafter. Jain’s condition improved after he was administered plasma therapy. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-s-condition-stable-will-undergo-another-covid-19-test-in-couple-of-days/story-h46fmcJqCh7CYf0n65pYZJ.html
24-09-2020||City||Orissa high court turns down rape survivor’s plea for medical termination of 25-wk pregnancy||The Orissa high court (HC) has turned down the plea to abort the 25-week pregnancy of a mentally challenged rape survivor (22) because it violated the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. Also read: Bombay HC refuses permission to terminate pregnancy in case of correctable deformityEarlier this year, the Union Cabinet had cleared a long-pending change to the Act by raising the legally permissible limit for an abortion to 24 weeks from 20 weeks.A single-HC bench of justice Biswanath Rath said the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 applied to rape on minor, minor and mentally challenged, minor and physically challenged, unmarried major, married major, mentally challenged major and physically handicapped major.“In case there is no interest shown for continuing with the pregnancy, the local chief district medical officer (CDMO) should undertake its termination under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. In case, an interest for termination is not shown, then the police along with the CDMO would have to take care of both mother and child in the womb involving pre-birth and post-birth care for at least one year after the birth takes place,” the HC observed. “In case of termination of pregnancy, the CDMO should take a DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) sample of the child, which can be handed over to a court concerned via the investigating agency for requirement, if any, of a criminal trial. To maintain secrecy of her pregnancy and termination, the state will ensure, if necessary, to let the mother stay in custody of a woman rehabilitation centre until her delivery and convalescence,” the court further observed. The order came on a plea of the mother of the mentally challenged survivor to allow abortion of the 25-week foetus due to her mental incapacity. In August, the survivor’s mother had lodged a complaint with a local police station in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district after she found the woman to be 16-week pregnant. She moved the HC in September, seeking permission to terminate her daughter’s pregnancy. “The pregnancy of the victim has been forced and it is contrary to her choice. The rape survivor has been forced not only to carry an unwanted pregnancy, but is also forced to give birth to the child against her will. She will carry a stigma and humiliation for the rest of her life for the offspring born as a result of the rape. The situation compelled the court to give protection to her and the child. The court took into account the affidavit of her mother agreeing to take responsibility provided there is direction on financial and medical assistance as well as extension of co-operation by Srirama Chandra Bhanja (SCB) Medical College & Hospital in Cuttack, the CDMO and Jagatsinghpur district administration to both the mother and the child,” the judge noted in his order.The HC held the state government responsible for the rape survivor’s sufferings. It directed the state government to pay an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to her within seven days of the judgement and another Rs 3 lakh in case she gives birth to a male child and Rs 5 lakh for delivery of a girl child to make sure that the latter does not suffer throughout her life. The compensation amount would be kept in fixed deposit in any nationalised bank, stated the court order.The HC said transport, medical and medicinal expenses, including accommodation of the survivor and her mother, would be the responsibility of Jagatsinghpur district administration. The education of the child would be the responsibility of the state, the order added.The HC pulled up the government officials for their negligence and observed that the unwanted pregnancy could have been avoided had they taken recourse to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 when the matter first came to light in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/orissa-high-court-turns-down-rape-survivor-s-plea-for-medical-termination-of-25-wk-pregnancy/story-sq5WmITC4uNdY9aik15RjO.html
24-09-2020||Education||Lessons on Nehru, 1984 riots, Ayodhya dispute ‘deleted’ from Assam Class 12 syllabus||The Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC) has reduced syllabus across streams by 30% to make up for the academic loss due to the Covid-19 pandemic and dropped topics including those related to first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, the Ram temple dispute and the 2002 Gujarat riots for class 12 political science students as part of the rationalisation.Also read: Schools, colleges reopen in Assam after Covid-19 lockdownIn a notification, AHSEC cited the pandemic and said the reduction of “exam stress” on the students for the 2020-21 session and prevention of learning gaps were the main objectives behind the move.The topics removed from ‘Politics in India since Independence’ section include the first three general elections, Nehru’s approach to nation-building, foreign policy, and political succession after Nehru, etc. The other topics removed include the implementation of the Mandal Commission report for Other Backward Classes reservations, etc.From the world politics section, removed topics include India and the cold war, dominance and challenge to the US in economy and ideology and the rise of China as an economic power in the post-Mao era, etc.Topics like kinship, caste and class, Bhakti-Sufi tradition, and kings and chronicles have been removed from the history syllabus. From Swadesh Adhyayan subject introduced in 2018 about Assam and the north-east’s history and geography, the issue of illegal immigrants and “population explosion” in Assam have been removed.AHSEC secretary Manoranjan Kakati said an academic committee after consultations with many experts took the decision on the removal of topics. “But since the issue regarding the political science syllabus has cropped up, we will surely take a look at it and address it, if needed.”Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in July cited the extraordinary situation because of the pandemic and said the Central Board of Secondary Education was advised to revise the curriculum and reduce the course load for the students of classes 9 to 12. “Considering the importance of learning achievement, it has been decided to rationalise syllabus up to 30% by retaining the core concepts,” he tweeted.The Council for the Indian Schools Certificate Examination also revised its syllabus for the same classes in July.Schools across the country were physically shut in March in view of the lockdown enforced to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and classes have been held online since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lessons-on-nehru-1984-riots-ayodhya-dispute-deleted-from-assam-class-12-syllabus/story-W50JilpbHjZvM87WOdFyUO.html
24-09-2020||City||Kashmir: CRPF ASI and militant killed in separate incidents||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a militant were killed in two separate incidents in south Kashmir’s Tral and central Kashmir’s Budgam district. The police said one of the incidents took place at Maghama in Tral Awantipora when the Army, Police and the CRPF launched a joint operation in the area.The police said a militant was killed in the initial gunfight . “The operation is still underway,” a police officer, who did not wish to be named, said, adding the police and army had sealed all routes leading to the spot.The man has been identified as Irfan Ahmad Dar of Pulwama. The police said he had recently joined the ranks of militant group Albadr.Also Read: Terrorists kill BDC chairman in KashmirIn another incident, motorcycle-borne militants fired upon an officer of the 117 battalion, CRPF, at Chadoora Budgam. The militants also snatched the officer’s rifle.A senior police officer said that ASI/GD Badole of 117 Bn sustained bullet injuries. He was evacuated to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.Soon after the attack, forces launched search operation in the area. The attack comes a day after militants killed Block Development Council Chairman (BDC) chairman in Khag in the same district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-crpf-asi-and-militant-killed-in-separate-incidents/story-azIJOiLUGDF2t7awSNmHeN.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Nagpur: Bombay HC quashes FIR against eight Myanmar nationals booked for ‘Tablighi activities’||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Monday struck down offences registered against eight Myanmar Muslims accused of engaging in “Tablighi activities”.“Compelling the applicants to undergo a trial would cause grave injustice,” said a bench comprising justices VM Deshpande and Amit Borkar while striking down the FIR registered by the tehsil police station at Nagpur against the group that visited the city in March 2020, just before the imposition of the nationwide lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The bench was also of the opinion that “allowing the prosecution to continue would be nothing but an abuse of the process of the Court, especially because of lack of evidence supporting the charges levelled against the foreigners”.The tehsil police had booked them under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 14 (contravention of any provision, order or direction issued under the Act) of the Foreigners Act, Section 3 (disobeying any regulation or order made under the Act) of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1987 and Section 51 (refusing to comply with order issued by the Centre or State government) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Also Read: Maharashtra crosses 20K new cases mark after 2-day drop, Covid-19 case count 1,263,799All eight Myanmar nationals had moved the court to quash the FIR and the charge sheet filed against them.They were booked under Section 14 on the Foreigners Act primarily on the ground of violating two clauses the Visa Manual, which prohibits foreigners from engaging in preaching religious ideology or making religious speeches in India.The high court, however, found no material to support the accusation. It noted from witness statements that the foreigners only read the Quran and offered namaz at a local mosque. They did not even know Hindi and therefore there was no question of them of engaging any religious discourse or speech.The bench also found no material to support the charges under sections 269 and 270, as the Myanmar Muslims had undergone Covid-19 tests and their results were negative, despite which they were kept in isolation. “There is no material on record to prove that applicants had indulged in any act which was likely to spread Covid -19,” said the bench.With regard to Section 188 of the IPC, the bench said the police could not have applied the section on their own in the first place. Only the district collector, who issued lockdown orders at the local level or one of his subordinates could have lodged a complaint, that too, with the judicial magistrate concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nagpur-bombay-hc-quashes-fir-against-eight-myanmar-nationals-booked-for-tablighi-activities/story-Uom8h9ZrPWuPhGkhd8S4yK.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man beaten to death while rescuing another person from being lynched||A photographer (23), who reportedly tried to save a neighbour from being beaten by a mob of 20 in outer Delhi’s Kanjhawala over a relationship, was beaten to death by the mob, Delhi Police said.Shaukat, who was beaten by the mob on Tuesday evening, succumbed to his injuries the following morning. The incident sparked tension in the area as Shaukat’s relatives and neighbours staged a protest with his body. Also read: Mob lynches three murder suspects in JharkhandPK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (Rohini), Delhi Police, dismissed the alleged communal angle to the incident. He said the situation is under control. “We have deployed adequate force in the neighbourhood. We are speaking to elders from both the Hindu and Muslim communities in a bid to ensure that the situation remains peaceful,” said the DCP.Though violence took place at an unauthorised slum in Sawada village in Kanjhawala at around 8.30 pm on Tuesday, trouble was brewing in the neighbourhood for the past few days.Rihan (18), a friend of Saider who the mob was looking for, has filed a police complaint about Tuesday’s incident.“My friend Saider had a girlfriend. A few days ago, he came to know that his girlfriend was in touch with another youngster, Ankit, from our neighbourhood. Saider spoke to his girlfriend and sorted the matter out with her,” Rihan has stated in the police complaint.“Ankit and his friends would keep looking for Saider in our neighbourhood, but couldn’t find him,” alleged Rihan, who is pursuing his matriculation from Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU),On Tuesday night, Ankit and his friends allegedly started looking for Saider again, but instead spotted Rihan fiddling with his mobile phone at the gate of his house.They allegedly decided to target Rihan since they couldn’t locate Saider. “The mob was armed with baseball bats, swords, rods, bricks and stones,” alleged Rihan. DCP Mishra said that closed circuit TV (CCTV) footage has revealed that the mob consisted of about 20 men, all aged between 18 and 21 years.“Some members of the mob began thrashing Rihan, while others picked up stones and bricks from an adjoining construction site and threw at his house,” the DCP said.Rihan, who was rescued by his neighbours, was left with a fractured limb and several blunt injuries. Then, the mob turned to Shaukat who had tried to rescue Rihan. “Shaukat was an innocent man, who was only trying to save a human life. He had nothing to do with the quarrel between the two groups,” said the DCP.Shaukat worked at his maternal uncle’s photography studio and lived in the same area. “The mob thrashed him with baseball bats, stones and rods,” said Rihan.The mob fled after local residents chased them away by pelting stones.The two injured men were rushed to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Rohini where Shaukat succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning, the DCP said.The lane where the violence took place on Tuesday evening was littered with stones and bricks. So far, five suspects, including Ankit (18), have been arrested and the hunt is on for the others.“It was a fight between young men over a relationship. We are ensuring that the assailants are caught and no one gives the incident a communal angle,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-beaten-to-death-while-rescuing-another-person-from-being-lynched/story-UAy6ctIB4ghHc0PNf7ULsM.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Snake in your backyard? Wildlife rescuers say don’t panic!||When Rakesh Nagpal, a resident of Gurugram, spotted a snake in an empty plot near his factory in Dhankot, he did not fret; instead, he asked his employees to keep an eye on the snake while he dialled Anil Gandass, a city-based wildlife conservationist. Within 20 minutes, Gandass was on the spot, and carefully rescued a very rare Red Sand Boa, his third rescue of the day. Recalling that day, Nagpal says, “I’m used to seeing snakes near my factory, but for the safety of my employees, I always call Anil. We believe in harming no living being.” In the months of June to October, several such incidents get reported more often in Delhi-NCR, and there’s usually a massive surge reported in reptile sightings. Needless to say, environmentalists credit the growing human-wildlife conflicts to the encroachment of forest areas for residential establishments. A recent viral video of a monitor lizard in someone’s backyard created much hue and cry on social media, and in a more recent case, a snake was rescued from an autorickshaw in the Capital. “I rescued many snakes in this season from residential areas in Gurugram, in sectors along Golf Course Extension Road and Pataudi Road, which have forests nearby,” says Gandass, from Environment and Wildlife Society. Explaining why we see more reptiles in the monsoon, he adds, “These animals are all cold-blooded and have to feed, mate and soak in some sunlight before they retire for hibernating months in the winter.” Wildlife SOS, an NGO that runs a helpline for animal rescues also tells us that most of their rescue calls during the monsoons are regarding reptiles. They get calls from all over Delhi-NCR including Jawaharlal Nehru University campus, Okhla, Rajokri and Sainik Farm. “On an estimate, we have responded to over 300 calls this season. We always advise people to maintain a safe distance from the animal, and call professional rescuers, Police or the forest department. Never take matters into your hands as it might lead to untoward incidents,” says Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS. But the task of rescuers doesn’t stop when an animal is taken into custody. Many wildlife rescuers say that the lack of knowledge, preconceived notions and the fear in people make their job a tough one. “There were around 14-15 villages near Garouli in Gurugram which used to kill monitor lizards under the misconception that they were poisonous. After many awareness programs, they have now stopped hurting reptiles, and they just call me,” says Gandass. Wildlife SOS has also organised workshops in the past to sensitise people and train them to tackle such situations. Satyanarayan says although incessant calls keep their staff on toes, it’s a welcome change. “An increase in the number of calls we receive over the years is a positive sign. This means more and more people are becoming aware and are showing more compassion towards urban wildlife,” he adds. Wildlife spotted in the house? Here’s what to do:Never engage directly with the animal/reptile Do not make loud sounds, keep an eye on it from a distanceContact wildlife rescue immediately. Wildlife SOS helpline: 9871963535; Reptile rescuer: 9999841782 Animals like snakes attack when threatened; so don’t poke or harm itTry to send an image or describe the animal/reptile to the expert you are calling, so that they can ascertain if it’s poisonous or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/snake-in-your-backyard-wildlife-rescuers-say-don-t-panic/story-z3PpnCwCtGj0YeiuiMiIGN.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Central, Western Railway services restored||Train services on the Central and Western Railway, severely impacted by the heavy rains for two days, have completely been restored.Due to heavy rainfall on Tuesday night, public transport in Mumbai was severely impacted on Wednesday. Mumbai Central local train services were suspended owing to water logging on railway tracks at Sion, Chunabhatti, Kurla, Matunga Road and Mahalaxmi.Local train services were suspended for nearly 14 hours between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) and Thane railway stations. Train services resumed on Central Railway between CSMT and Thane at 7.45 pm on Wednesday evening.Likewise, train services were suspended for nearly 24 hours between CSMT and Vashi railway stations on Wednesday. The services were resumed on harbour railway on Thursday morning at 5 am.On the Western Railway, local train services were suspended between Churchgate and Andheri railway stations for nearly 11 hours. The services was resumed between Churchgate and Andheri railway stations at 4 pm on Wednesday.Nearly 700 local trains are being operated daily from June 15 on Central and Western Railway for employees working in essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-central-western-railway-services-restored/story-SJxzY0JEuPV33LoGaMtD5H.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB questions designer Simone Khambatta||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which has been probing the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, began questioning designer Simone Khambatta on Thursday morning at a Colaba guest house. NCB has issued summons to Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh on Wednesday to join the investigation. Padukone has been asked to join the investigation on September 25 while Khan and Kapoor have been called on September 26.As per the summons, Rakul Preet Singh was supposed to join the investigation today, an NCB official said. Deputy director KPS Malhotra, NCB, said, “Her summons was issued and she was contacted through various platforms, including her phone. But there has been no response so far from her.”Apart from them, NCB has also summoned Rajput’s former business manager Shruti Modi who will join the investigation today. On Wednesday, NCB questioned Rajput’s talent manager Jaya Saha for the third consecutive day and chief executive officer of talent management agency KWAN, Dhruv Chitgopekar, for the second day. Film producer Madhu Mantena was also questioned on Wednesday. NCB officials said Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash, an employee of talent management agency, KWAN, would also join the investigation on September 25.An NCB official said Padukone’s name had emerged in a number of WhatsApp chats found during the agency’s investigation. So far, NCB has arrested 19 accused, including Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s manager Samuel Miranda and members of Rajput’s domestic staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-questions-designer-simone-khambatta/story-GHFoSwKpuFKn1xRDBeVtzL.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab, Haryana intensify protests against farm bills; Oppn parties take to streets, too||Farmers intensified their protest against the Centre’s farm bills on Thursday in Punjab and Haryana by holding sit-ins and rallies across both agrarian states with opposition parties joining their agitation a day after Parliament’s monsoon session ended. On a call given by the Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC), farmers gathered to protest near Devidaspur village in Amritsar on the Amritsar-Delhi rail route and on the tracks leading to the Ferozepur station near Basti Tanka Wali. The committee leaders said they were getting support from various sections, including government employees, labourers and social activists. They clarified that they would not allow any political leader, former or incumbent, to share the stage with them during their three-day protest that began on Thursday. The farmer leaders also appealed to rural medical practitioners (RMP) to be ready for supporting the farmers in case of medical emergencies as a large number of women are taking part in the protests. “The protest will be further intensified on September 26 as farmers will block rail tracks in Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Pathankot, Fazilka, Kapurthala and Jalandhar districts too,” said the committee’s state general secretary, Sarwan Singh Pandher. The railways took the steam out of the farmers’ rail blockade plan by cancelling 28 trains from Amritsar and Ferozepur stations from 6am on Thursday in view the safety of passengers. Radical Sikh organisation Dal Khalsa and seminary Damdami Taksal have extended their support to the farmers’ bandh call on September 25. Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwarpal Singh said, “The people of Punjab, including the political parties, should join hands for the cause. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) should snap its ties with the BJP to show solidarity with farmers.” The Punjab Youth Congress is organising a statewide ‘8 Vaje 8 Minute Mashal March’ on Thursday in support of the Punjab bandh call of farmers. State unit chief Brinder Singh Dhillon said that members will perform duties during the dharnas be it serving water, food or other things needed at the spot. SECTION 144 IN AMRITSAR TILL SEPT 27 Meanwhile, police has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC prohibiting the carrying of firearms, inflammable items and sharp-edged weapons in the Amritsar city till September 27. Acting magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Jagmohan Singh said the decision was taken in the wake of farmer and labour organisations planning a rail blockade from September 24 to 26, besides giving a bandh call on September 25. HARYANA SEALS ITS BORDERS High-voltage drama was witnessed at the Shambhu barrier on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway, where activists of Punjab’s Lok Insaf Party were stopped in Ambala when they were headed for Delhi on motorcycles on Wednesday. Protesting against the passage of farm bills, the party workers confronted with the police and faced water cannon for hours, refusing to step back. In view of the protests, district magistrate Ashok Kumar Sharma imposed prohibitory orders to maintain law and order, while the police put up barricades refusing their entry into Haryana. In the evening, activists, including Lok Insaf Party leader Simarjeet Singh Bains, tried to enter Haryana through the Ghagger river bed, but were again confronted by Ambala police who persuaded to go back. Youth Congress workers faced water cannons at Samalkha near Panipat on Wednesday when police stopped them to take their tractor march to Delhi to protest the farm bills. The protest was led by Haryana Youth Congress state president Sachin Kundu and Congress’ Samalkha MLA Dharm Singh Chhokar. This led to a blockade on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway but later traffic was diverted on link roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-in-punjab-haryana-intensify-protests-against-farm-bills-oppn-parties-take-to-streets-too/story-X72JFSxDezntkoWPAbRHRI.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||With 395 mm rain in 48 hrs, Mumbai monsoon its second wettest ever||Mumbai has witnessed its second wettest monsoon ever, beating last year’s seasonal rain tally.After torrential downpour on Tuesday and Wednesday, rains eased on Thursday morning with a clear sky and sunshine after three days.Mumbai received 395.1 mm rain over the last 48 hours, 53.7 mm more than what it generally receives throughout September.Also read: Moisture incursion delays monsoon withdrawal, season will end in 9 daysFrom June 1 to September 24 morning, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 3,679.8 mm rain. The quantum of rain last year was 3,670.4 mm. The highest all-time seasonal rainfall was during 1958 at 3,759.7mm, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thus, this year’s monsoon rain is the highest since 1959, or in 61 years.Seasonal rain at Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, was also the highest in 36 years with 3,198.7 from June 1 to September 4, 8.30am. Over the past 119 years (1901-2020), IMD data showed Colaba recorded its highest all-time seasonal rainfall in 1954 at 3,423.1 mm. In 1958 and 1983, Colaba had recorded 3,382.4 mm and 3,329.8 mm, making it a total of five such years (including 2020) in over a century that 3,000 mm rain was recorded.“Mumbai and Maharashtra witnessed an exceptionally good monsoon this year with rain records in all months except June. Local weather factors helped lead to the highest monthly rain in July, the formation of five low pressure weather systems in August kept weather systems active along the west coast. Rain intensity is expected to gradually decline now as September ends,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.The past 48 hours saw extremely heavy rain lash the city, leaving many areas in waist deep water and traffic snarls. Between 8.30 am Wednesday and 8.30 am Thursday, 108.7 mm rain was recorded in the suburbs and 50.4 mm rain in south Mumbai. The previous 24 hours (8.30am Tuesday and 8.30am Wednesday) saw 286.4 mm rain in the suburbs, which was the heaviest rainfall witnessed this season, and 147.8mm rain in south Mumbai.Location-wise rain over the past 24 hours showed several locations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received over 120 mm rain. Ram Mandir (near Goregaon) received maximum rain 138 mm followed by Lokhandwala 137.2 mm, Bandra 129.2mm, Worli 128mm, Thane 120.1mm, Navi Mumbai 134.2mm. The remaining areas across Mumbai received rain between 70-90 mm.“Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai received heavy to very heavy rain across isolated areas over the past 24 hours. More rain intensity was witnessed towards Thane and Navi Mumbai in the evening. Thursday started with a clear sky and possibility of a few showers towards evening,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.The weather bureau has predicted the possibility of light to moderate rain for the remaining days of the month while independent meteorologists said the city will not receive any heavy rain spells as the season ends. However, monsoon withdrawal was not expected anytime soon. “Withdrawal could be delayed due to active La Niña conditions (a phenomenon when the western Pacific ocean warms up creating a low pressure near Australia pulling winds from the Indian Ocean strengthening equatorial dynamics keeping southwest monsoon circulation active) allowing rains to linger on for some more time over the west coast and central India,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-395-mm-rain-in-48-hrs-mumbai-monsoon-wettest-ever/story-cuTeHtrhOmlFe6MJt0K8gL.html
24-09-2020||Bhopal||MP: Rape, domestic violence survivor overcomes odds with karate||When she lost her father at 10, it was just the beginning of this 20-year-old woman’s troubles. Her family could barely make ends meet and she remained unlettered. She lived with her sister in Indore for some time before she began working as a cook to live on her own in 2016. The woman started earning enough to sustain herself and educate her brother. Things appeared to be looking up until her employer’s 19-year-old son allegedly raped her repeatedly for over a year and threw her life out of gear again. The traumatised woman, then a minor, could muster courage and lodged a case only in February 2018. Over the last two years, she has overcome more odds, learnt to read and write as well as karate, and won three medals in local tournaments.The woman’s alleged rapist was arrested but she could barely breathe easy as a local council in her village in Uttar Pradesh’s Lalitpur ostracised her family. She was forced her to marry the alleged rapist in January 2019, who was by then out on bail. Her troubles appeared to be unending. “[After marriage] started another phase of sexual violence. The man who raped me was my husband now. He constantly pressured me and subjected me to mental and physical torture as he wanted me to say in the court hearing the rape case that I was not a minor when I was raped.” When she got pregnant, she was given pills for its termination on the pretext of regular medication.Also read: Girl, 16, raped and blackmailed for 2 years; cops say she was his 7th victimBy June 2019, she had had enough and decided to fight back and refused to go back to her husband’s house despite pressure from even her family to retract her statement about the rape. “I was even insulted at public places but the pressure only affirmed my resolve to fight.”The woman shifted to a woman and child development department hostel and Childline Indore, an NGO, offered her karate classes. After learning karate for one month, she used her skills to teach three men sexually harassing her a lesson. “It gave me immense confidence and I started learning karate more seriously.”Childline Indore director Waseem Iqbal said she is among a few minor rape survivors, who have shown grit and determination to fight odds. “She won three medals in just six months in different tournaments from October 2019 to December 2019 in Indore, Bhopal and Dehradun organised by different organisations affiliated with the Karate Association of India,” he said. “...[She] has now learnt writing and reading English and Hindi to follow the proceedings of her legal battle. She is not supported by anyone from her family.”Her karate coach, Saeed Alam, said he has never seen a more determined and passionate woman than her. “We also treat her as a student without showing sympathy to her to make her mentally strong.”The woman’s lawyer, Shanno Khan, said her client has filed a petition also in the Madhya Pradesh high court to have her alleged rapist tried under the Protection of Children Against Sexual Offences Act. “I have never seen a brave girl like [her]. She has faced the accused and his family bravely in the court without any hesitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/rape-domestic-violence-survivor-in-mp-s-bhopal/story-O18npqnCFWLAFtyyvC2ebP.html
24-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC directs govt to form monitoring panels to contain Covid-19||Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday directed the state government to form monitoring committees in all 13 districts of the state to check the condition of treatment facilities for Covid-19 patients in the hospitals, quarantine centres and Covid care centres. The monitoring committee will apprise the court about the situation every week. The HC has also decided to hear the matter related to the Covid situation in the state and its handling, every Wednesday. The HC gave these directions while responding to a bunch of PILs filed by Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali and Rajendra Arya related to various issues regarding the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in the state The HC gave these directions while responding to the issue raised by advocate Shiv Bhatt. The counsel of Sachdanand Dabral, Shiv Bhatt, said in the last hearing on September 18, the court had sought suggestions on how the fight against Covid-19 can be made effective in the state and how fatalities can be reduced. “On Wednesday, I made eight suggestions including the need to form district level monitoring committees. Following the submission of my suggestions, the HC directed the state government to appoint monitoring committees in all the districts of the state. The committee members will visit the hospitals, Covid care centres, quarantine centres and interact with people concerned to understand the situation with regard to the handling of the epidemic at the district level,” Bhatt said. Each district monitoring committees will comprise district magistrate or sub-divisional magistrate, secretary of the district legal services authority and president of the district bar association or a nominee appointed by him, said Bhatt. Also Read: Uttarakhand assembly session: Congress, AAP protest over ‘anti-farmer policies’ In its September 18 order, the HC had said, “In view of the seriousness of the issue involved and the demand for a regular intervention, and in order to minimize the fatalities, we are of the considered view that this matter be taken up on a weekly basis in order to help the public at large. Hence this matter will be taken up for consideration on every Wednesday. In case there is a holiday on any Wednesday, the matter will be taken up on the next working day.” Earlier on August 6, HC had directed the state government to apprise it whether the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines for Covid-19 treatment were being followed in the state hospitals. Also Read: Ganga’s water did not improve during lockdown; less flow may have deteriorated qualityIn June this year, while expressing concern over the lack of basic facilities in quarantine centres in rural areas of four districts with a high prevalence of Covid, HC had directed the state government to provide funds to village heads (gram pradhans) so that the condition of these quarantine centres can be improved. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 42,000 Covid-19 positive cases and deaths of 512 Covid-19 positive persons. Dehradun district has reported the maximum 11,362 cases and the overall positivity rate in the state has crossed 7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-forms-monitoring-committees-to-check-covid-19-situation/story-AOWpwhTSNai7nJwDq1lwqI.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Politicians who addressed anti-CAA protests mentioned in Delhi riots charge sheet||At least two arrested suspects and one protected witness in the Delhi riots case have named Congress politician and former MP Udit Raj, Congress leader Salman Khurshid and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Brinda Karat for giving provocative speeches during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests that led up to the communal violence in February. The political leaders have not been charged or named as accused in the charge sheet.The names of the political leaders have been mentioned in the disclosure statements of the suspects and the witness that are attached as an annexure to the charge sheet on an alleged conspiracy behind the riots in north-east Delhi that left 53 people dead and 607 injured. Delhi police filed the charge sheet on September 16. Also Read: Violence began with stone-pelting at Maujpur Metro station: Riots charge sheetThe statement of the protected witness, referred to as Beta, mentions the names of the above-mentioned political leaders, accusing them of visiting the site of an anti-CAA protest site in Khureji and giving gave provocative speeches. Delhi police have told the court that many prominent anti-CAA protesters such as former Jawaharlal Nehru University alumnus Umar Khalid, student activist Safoora Zargar, JNU student Sharjeel Imam and others had delivered provocative speeches as part of a conspiracy to mobilise people and start the riots in north-east Delhi. The charge sheet also mentions the name of senior advocate Prashant Bhushan and Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav in the disclosure statement of Khalid Saifi. Yadav and Bhushan have not been charged or named as accused but Saifi, who was arrested, has been charged as one of the main conspirators. Also Read: Jamia stir was a ‘beta test’: Charge sheetSaifi, in his statement, told the police that during the protests held in January 2020, Yadav, Bhushan, Khurshid and others also used to come to the protest sites and give speeches.The supplementary disclosure statement of Saifi also stated “…in order to sustain the protest for a longer time several known persons like Khurshid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider etc were called to the Khureji protest site by me and Ishrat Jahan.”Similarly, there is also a disclosure statement by former Congress councilor Ishrat Jahan(also charged by the police as one of the main conspirators) where she has said that in order to sustain the protests, several well-known personalities were called by her and Saifi to visit the protest sites. Ishrat Jahan, in her statement before the police, said Khurshid, documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy, Bhim Army member Himanshu, Chandan Kumar, a member of student outfit AISA, delivered provocative speeches that instigated the protestors against the government.“These are concocted allegations. This investigation has no credibility as it names Kapil Mishra (Delhi Bharatiya Janata Party leader), as a whistle blower. I have not just been to one site but several protest sites because my party has openly come out against the CAA,” Brinda Karat said.BJP leader Kapil Mishra, who had also given a speech a day before violence erupted in north-east Delhi, was also questioned by the police but he denied giving any speech. He was summoned on July 28 and he told the investigators that he had gone to the protest site in his personal capacity. “I have not delivered any speech. I just told police to clear the road in three days. If they did not do it, I said that we would also sit on dharna,” Mishra told the police as per the charge sheet.Udit Raj said that he went to the protest site in east Delhi’s Khureji to extend his support. “Whatever I speak in public and in the media, I spoke there also. What is provocative about it, “ Raj said. HT contacted Prashant Bhushan but he did not respond. Khurshid said: “Delhi Police have forgotten the law. I have never heard of any law which says that provocative speeches are illegal. That does not mean that I have made any provocative speeches. The speech has to be judged by its contents and the disclosure statements do not mention the words used in the speeches. This is a textbook example for the law students to show them how not to file a charge sheet and the lacunae which can be pointed out.” The charge sheet, filed by the special cell last week, has named 15 people who allegedly conspired to orchestrate the riots in February across north-east Delhi localities. In the 17,500-page charge sheet, the police have charged Abdul Khalid Saifi, Ishrat Jahan, Meeran Haider, Tahir Hussain, Gulfisha Khatoon, Safoora Zargar, Shifa-ur Rehman, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Shadab Ahmad, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Taslim Ahmed, Salim Malik, Mohammed Salim and Athar Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/politicians-who-addressed-anti-caa-protests-mentioned-in-delhi-riots-charge-sheet/story-Toem6NtYgoILqNXjdnckYK.html
24-09-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s Bada Imambada reopens after 6 months, but with conditions||Lucknow’s iconic nawabi-era structure, the Bada Imambada, opened to the public on Thursday after nearly 190 days of closure due to Covid-19 triggered lockdown and subsequent restrictions on reopening of public places amenable to mass gatherings.The entry was allowed only through e-tickets and only 100 tourists would be let inside the historic structure each day to guard against overcrowding, as per Covid-19 induced social distancing and protection protocol, said an official with Hussainabad and allied trust (HAT) that owns the structure. Other than Bada Imambada that was built by Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula in 1784, the other heritage structures (owned by the HAT) including the picture gallery and the Chhota Imambada, too opened.“Bada Imambada and other heritage structures are open for the tourists. We are expecting more local tourists and a lesser number of foreigners initially, but we expect footfall to increase by this weekend,” said Sushil Pratap Singh, city magistrate/secretary, HAT.Singh said that the trust has also put in place certain measures to ensure safety of the tourists during the pandemic. Not only is the entry restricted to only allow visitors carrying e-tickets but a ‘no mask, no entry’ policy is also in place.E-ticketing and digital payment has been made mandatory for the tourists and group photography at Bada Imambada has been banned, officials said.The visitors appeared delighted with the reopening of these iconic structures.“It’s like being back to life. These days, when cinema halls and other hangout joints are still closed, opening of Bada Imambada is indeed a big relief,” said Mohammed Shadab, a college goer, who came visiting with his friends. The reopening of Bada Imambada has also brought smiles back to the faces of the tourist guides. Also Read: Covid +ve woman delivers quadruplets in UP’s Gorakhpur“I never came across such a situation, never even heard about any such situation when Imambada had to remain closed for straight six months. It’s the first time in history. The closure hit us hard since the salary we get from the trust is too low to meet our family expenses,” said Athar Hussain, one of the oldest guides who completed 20 years’ service on August 23 this year. Other than Hussain, there are some 80 other guides who are associated with the trust. Bada Imambada initially was to be reopened from July 6 following the orders of the Union ministry of culture allowing ticketed monuments to reopen.Also Read: UP gave maximum number of jobs during Covid-19 lockdown: ReportHAT, however, had cited the non-availability of an e-ticketing system behind the delay in the reopening of the Nawabi era structure. Lucknow has two ticketed heritage structures—Bada Imambada and Residency.“Residency was opened to tourists from July 6 onwards through online ticketing. But Bada Imambada could not be opened as it did not have an online ticketing system in place. The Imambada, however, is operational now,” said Manoj Saxena, deputy superintending archaeologist, Lucknow circle, Archaeological Survey of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-s-bada-imambada-reopens-after-6-months-but-with-conditions/story-AmaVk9CcIkU0nVWDxbnExK.html
24-09-2020||Lucknow||Covid +ve woman delivers quadruplets in UP’s Gorakhpur||A woman, who tested coronavirus (Covid-19) positive, delivered quadruplets at Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College & Hospital in Gorakhpur on Wednesday.Dr Ganesh Kumar, principal of the medical college & hospital, said the woman (26) is a resident of Gauri Bazar in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Deoria district. She was referred to the hospital by doctors of Deoria district hospital on Wednesday, he said.Also read: 32,000 Covid patients treated under Ayushman Bharat, says CentreShe complained of labour pain shortly after she tested Covid-19 positive.A team of doctors conducted a caesarean operation on her and she gave birth to four babies. One of the newborns has been put on ventilator due to its critical condition. The health condition of the mother and other three newborns are stable, Dr Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-ve-woman-delivers-quadruplets-in-up-s-gorakhpur/story-ChlHXXz2q5TWmUm8Lvxy2I.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Village mourns death of 6 residents in Bhiwandi building crash||A village here in Maharashtra plunged into gloom after it emerged that six of its residents were among those killed in a building collapse in Bhiwandi town of Thane.Aarif Yusuf Shaikh (32) and his five family members, who died in the building collapse in Bhiwandi town on Mumbai’s outskirts on Monday, originally hailed from Hali village of Latur district in central Maharashtra.Local resident Babulal Shaikh, a relative of the victims, told PTI that Aarif Shaikh along with his wife and three minor children moved to Bhiwandi, a powerloom and warehouse hub, eight years back in search of work.Last month, Arif Shaikh also called his brother from the village to work there, he said.All six of them died after the three-storey Jhilani building collapsed on Monday, he said.“As the news of their death came in, several villagers expressed grief and gathered to mourn the demise,” he said.Some family members of the victims also rushed from Latur to Bhiwandi after getting information about the incident, he added.38 people, including 18 children, were killed and 25 others were rescued after the building collapsed in Bhiwandi, officials earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-building-collapse-death-toll-rises-to-41/story-YmwH2XL0d5e7ly8AxlR3qM.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police shuts two Covid Care Centres as fresh cases go down||Mumbai Police have shut operations at two dedicated coronavirus disease (Covid-19) care centres (CCCs), as less number of police personnel is found to be infected by the virus SARS-COV-2, which causes the ailment, in the past few weeks.The decision has been taken in a bid to preserve the existing resources and prepare for the near future should the situation worsen. Rajkumar Vhatkar, joint commissioner of police (administration), Mumbai Police, who is also the nodal authority for Covid-19 management of the city police force, said: “We have temporarily shut down the operations at two CCCs that are located at Mumbai Police Gymkhana at Marine Drive and at Marol to ensure that resources are not wasted. They will be resumed immediately if there is a surge in Covid-19 cases.”Also Read: Mumbai sees 104% rise in Covid-19 cases in September compared to last monthMumbai Police have taken a slew of measures to prevent the spread of the viral outbreak. They have started Covid-19 helplines for inquiry related to availability of beds and ambulance, central monitoring of critically ill patients, financial and emotional support of the infected personnel, etc. Mumbai Police had set up four dedicated CCCs with a total capacity of 726 beds in their efforts to save the infected personnel.At present, the two CCCs at Kalina will remain operational.Mumbai Police’s 5,831 personnel has tested Covid-19 positive, of which 80 have succumbed to the viral infection. At least 5,170 have recovered and nearly 70% among them have resumed their duties.Also Read: Heavy rainfall overnight causes waterlogging in Mumbai, disrupts trafficAn Indian Police Service (IPS) official said daily new Covid-19 cases in Mumbai are not increasing at the same pace as that of the peak period between May and July. However, Mumbai Police’s earlier trend is being observed in district police units across Maharashtra such as Thane city, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune and Sangli. September has proved to be one of the worst months for Covid-19 pandemic for Maharashtra Police, as fatalities have risen to 78 to date. In August, the corresponding figure was 54.So far, 21,827 Maharashtra Police personnel tested Covid-19 positive. Altogether, 18,158 personnel has recovered from their viral infection. On Wednesday, 234 state police personnel tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-shuts-two-covid-care-centres-as-fresh-cases-go-down/story-0uFE8zECFqRGrvWT3XAOIJ.html
24-09-2020||Bhopal||Congress-BJP war on farm loan waivers intensifies ahead of key MP by polls||A political war of words has broken out between the BJP and the Congress ahead of the crucial by polls for 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh with the Congress claiming that the state government has finally accepted that the previous Kamal Nath government had fulfilled its promise to waive-off farmers’ loans and therefore, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should apologise for spreading alleged falsehoods, a charge rejected in toto by the BJP, which accused the Congress of misleading the people on the issue using half-truths. MP Congress leaders have cited state agriculture minister Kamal Patel’s written reply in the assembly, given to Congress MLA Jaivardhan Singh, to claim that loans worth more than Rs 11,000 crore owed by more than 2.6 million farmers were waived off in 2019. The state was ruled by a Congress government led by Kamal Nath in 2019.Farmers’ loan waiver has remained one of the major poll issues and a point of conflict between the BJP and the Congress since the last assembly elections. BJP has accused the previous Congress government in the state of betraying farmers by not fulfilling its poll promise to waive off loans up to Rs 2 lakh per head within 10 days of assuming power. The political temperatures on the issue soared further following a tweet by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday, which said, “Congress: Jo kaha so kiya, BJP: Sirf jhoothe waade”, meaning ‘Congress kept its word while BJP has made only false promises’.State Congress president Kamal Nath, who also happens to be the leader of Opposition in the state assembly, said, “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has been misleading people right from day one on farmers’ loan waiver issue. Now, the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders have got exposed for their lies with the state government’s own reply in the state assembly, which suggested that loans worth more than Rs 11,600 crore of 2.69 million farmers in 51 districts were waived by the then Congress government. Now, Chouhan should tender an apology to the people of Madhya Pradesh.” Also Read: With Madhya Pradesh bypolls drawing nearer, personal attacks on rise in campaignsHowever, agriculture minister Kamal Patel hit back at Kamal Nath accusing the Congress of sophistry.“Congress and Kamal Nath are anti-farmers. The then chief minister Kamal Nath had signed a document that loans worth Rs 55,000 crore of 4.8 million farmers up to Rs 2 lakh per head would be waived off within 10 days. Do the Congress leaders have any document to show that any farmer’s loan up to Rs 2 lakh was waived? In fact, the Congress leaders including state Congress president Kamal Nath should tender an apology to people for their false statements otherwise Nath should step down from both his positions- leader of Opposition and state Congress president,” Patel said.Also Read: MP Congress leader slapped with NSA for assaulting officer, blackening faceIn June 2018, during campaigning for the assembly elections, the then Congress president Rahul Gandhi had said in a public meeting in Mandsaur that if the party was voted to power, farmers’ loans would be waived off within 10 days otherwise, the chief minister would lose his position. The promise to waive off the loans was also part of Congress manifesto released ahead of November 2018 elections. After BJP dislodged the Congress government in March this year, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan alleged that the previous Congress government had only waived off Rs 6,000 crore worth of farmers loans contrary to what the party had promised before the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/congress-bjp-war-on-farm-loan-waivers-intensifies-ahead-of-key-mp-by-polls/story-gWssRkvGDrkDsGgDwzer6I.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||28 trains cancelled as Punjab farmers begin three-day rail roko agitation||Special passenger trains running from the railways’ Ferozepur division were cancelled fully or partially from September 24 to 26 in view of the farmer outfits’ three-day rail roko protest against the Centre’s three agriculture bills. Divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said the division operated only these 14 pairs of special passenger trains on these days, as routine passenger train service remains suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Freight trains will be operated according to the situation, he added. According to the schedule, the Amritsar-Haridwar train will be cancelled from September 25 to 26 and the New Delhi-Jammu Tawi Express from September 24 to 26. The Hazur Saheb Nanded-Amritsar train will not go to Amritsar and end its journey in Old Delhi. Train number 02716 will run from Old Delhi instead of Amritsar on September 25 and 26. The Dhanbad-Ferozepur Cantt train will not go to Ferozepur Cantt and end its journey at Ambala Cantt. Train number 03308 will run from Ambala Cantt from September 24 to 26 instead of Ferozepur Cantt. The Mumbai Central-Amritsar train arriving on September 24 will be brought to Ludhiana and it will end its journey at Ambala from September 25 to 26. Train number 02904 will run from Ambala from September 24 to 26 instead of Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/28-trains-cancelled-as-punjab-farmers-begin-three-day-rail-roko-agitation/story-1SAqQSd3tmtGbih6bskkmK.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Line of control||It wasn’t here until yesterday. And now, a glossy white line is running along the Matia Mahal Bazaar, slicing its main street in equal halves.“It was already painted when I arrived to set up my stall this morning (read Monday) at 7,” informs tea stall owner Muhammed Hamid—his rickety table is tucked by the street-side, a spitting distance from the dividing line. The man has no clue on who ordered the partition. Bawarchi Kallan offers a guess. Sitting a few steps away, across the street, he gazes intently at the line, saying, “Corporation people must have done it.” He is referring to the area’s municipal corporation. While morning shift sweeper Kanta suggests that the line might have been painted to regulate the traffic “and to keep the left and right side apart.”That this is a novel sight is undisputed. No other pathway in the vicinity has such a divider. Indeed, the Old Quarter roads and passages know no divide— rickshaw men, cyclists, cart pullers, bikers and pedestrians (humans as well as cats, dogs, goats and rats) go about in all directions. In fact, the traffic in the Walled City interiors looks as messy as the overhanging power cables above. Yet things work—people do reach their destinations, and during emergencies the crowds part as swiftly for fire brigade trucks and ambulances as the Red Sea did for the Israelites, in the Old Testament.Even so, this attempt to impose order is noteworthy.The painted line starts at Dujan House crossing and goes past an armful of shops and eateries—Bukhari’s Kids Zone, Naseem Jewellers, K&R Pickle and Murabbas, U-Like Collection, A Jabbar Milk Store, Asgher Bakery (yummy sheermals!), A-One Xerox, Bombay Saloon, etc. It barely bends along the way, leaping over the (covered) gutters, and ends in front of the grand Jama Masjid. This late morning, beggar woman Anwari is sitting cross-legged atop the last stretch, silently immersed in thoughts. As the noon hour approaches, the street gets chaotic with increased traffic—barely anyone is respecting the line. It’s been only a few hours since it was painted but has already grown less white, and seems to have embedded itself into the texture of the tarmac. As if it had always been here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-line-of-control/story-bojUVHAyGgJKVTG0LnjEPP.html
24-09-2020||Real||Affordable Rental Housing Complexes Scheme: Chandigarh admin to appoint concessionaire, take a call on tenders in September 29 meeting||The UT administration has started the process of appointing a concessionaire for implementing the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) scheme in the city.The State-Level Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee (SLSMC), formed under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana (PMAY), will decide the tendering process and other modalities for appointing the concessionaire in its meeting scheduled for September 29.Under the ARHC scheme, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will rent out 2,500 small flats in Maloya to migrant labourers and urban poor. The scheme is to be implemented through the concessionaire.“The concessionaire will rent out the accommodations, collect monthly rentals, and also maintain the premises on behalf of administration. He will be appointed through a transparent bidding process as per the guidelines of the scheme issued by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MHUA),” said UT adviser Manoj Parida, who is also chairman of the SLSMC.CHB is the state-level nodal agency and the CHB secretary is the nodal officer. A memorandum of understanding (MOU) will be signed between Chandigarh administration and MHUA for providing the rental housing.Need for scheme felt during pandemicThe scheme was launched after the country witnessed reverse migration due to the pandemic, to provide ease of living and planned housing at affordable rent to migrant labourers and urban poor, who otherwise stayed in slums, informal settlements or unauthorised colonies.The scheme will be implemented by utilising existing vacant government houses through public-private partnership or by construction, operation and maintenance by public/private entities on their own vacant land.The complexes will be a mix of single and double bedroom dwelling units and dormitories of four to six beds constituting all common facilities that will be exclusively used for rental housing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/affordable-rental-housing-complexes-scheme-chandigarh-admn-to-appoint-concessionaire-take-a-call-on-tenders-in-september-29-meeting/story-VJt03FuBcZNEaXx6Qp8RDP.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Speculations rife about BJP’s Eknath Khadse joining NCP after Sharad Pawar holds meeting in Jalgaon||Rumors have been making the rounds that senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse is likely to jump ship and join the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). On Wednesday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar held a meeting with leaders from Jalgaon district, the hometown of the BJP leader. Pawar allegedly discussed the pros and cons of bringing Khadse in to the party fold. However, state NCP chief Jayant Patil said the meeting did not involve any discussion on Khadse. “There was no discussion related to Eknath Khadse. The meeting was called to discuss irrigation projects of the district,” Patil told reporters. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state NCP president, Anil Patil, NCP MLA from Amalner and former minister Gulabrao Deokar were present for the meeting. Khadse, the former revenue minister, was sidelined by the BJP after he was made to resign from the post following allegations of graft and conflict of interest in a land deal near Pune in 2016. Earlier, there were rumors that he would join Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/speculations-rife-about-bjp-s-eknath-khadse-joining-ncp-after-sharad-pawar-holds-meeting-in-jalgaon/story-hjS9FGDmBCHpR8CInahX5L.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||35-year-old from Mumbai’s Goregaon area arrested for sexually assaulting 8-year-old daughter||Bangur Nagar police on Tuesday arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly sodomizing his eight-year-old daughter. The accused then beat her up with a stick and threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed the incident to anyone.According to police, the accused first assaulted the girl in August and continued the abuse till September 22. Initially, the child didn’t say anything due to fear, but on Tuesday she narrated her ordeal to her mother, who then approached the police. “We arrested the accused immediately after receiving a complaint from her mother,” said an officer from Bangur Nagar police station.The accused has been booked under section 376 (2)(f) (being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman), 376(2)(n)(commits rape repeatedly on the same woman), 377 (unnatural offences), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 4 (penetrative sexual assault), 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and 10 (aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.Meanwhile, Khar police on Monday booked a 45-year-old man for allegedly molesting his 23-year-old daughter. The woman told police that her father used to consume liquor regularly, because of which there used to be frequent quarrels between him and her mother.The survivor said that on September 18, around 9pm, the accused came home drunk. Around 10pm, when she went to the bathroom to change her clothes, he followed her and molested her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/35-year-old-from-mumbai-s-goregaon-area-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-8-year-old-daughter/story-X47lo35CA43xI3fjx6LU6O.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants pre-arrest bail to Pune man booked for obstructing government servants on Covid-19 duty||The Bombay high court (HC) recently granted pre-arrest bail to a man booked for allegedly assaulting a government servant at the gram panchayat office in Pune district, where he had gone after he failed to get a bed for his Covid-19 positive mother. The HC, while allowing his application, observed that “anxious moments in the lives of near ones who have tested positive for Covid-19 lead to unexpected behaviour during a pandemic” and directed the man to be released on bail on condition that he contribute ₹10,000 to the Chief Minister’s (CM) Relief Fund.On September 18, the single-judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing the anticipatory bail application of Swapnil Lande, a resident of Somatane village in Pune district, was informed by advocate Pranav Bhoite that his client’s mother had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 25. Bhoite said that as no beds were available in the dedicated Covid hospitals, Lande had no option but to keep his mother in home-quarantine. However, as all the village residents urged him to admit his mother to some hospital, he went in search of a vacant bed in the government hospital. However, as he was unsuccessful in securing a bed, he turned to a private hospital which asked him to deposit ₹1 lakh as advance. Bhoite submitted that as Lande was not able to arrange for the funds, when he came to know that some government officials were going to visit the gram panchayat office on July 27, he reached the office for redressal of his grievance but was denied an opportunity to meet the visiting officials. Bhoite added that while Lande was at the office, the driver of an official restrained him from entering the office and humiliated and abused him. He was thereafter locked in the office. In light of these submissions, Bhoite sought anticipatory bail as the driver had complained against him. Assistant public prosecutor Suraj Hulke objected to the application and said that as per the complaint of the driver, he had taken the officials to the gram panchayat office to survey the spike in Covid cases in the region. While he was parking the vehicle, “an unknown person” was shouting and insisted that his mother should get treatment. The complaint further stated that the driver tried to stop the applicant as the survey work was underway, and Lande’s interference resulted in deterring public servants from discharging their duty. After hearing the submissions, justice Dangre noted, “It can very well be assumed that the applicant was anxious to get treatment for his mother, who was detected positive and the complainant [driver] wanted to keep a distance from him since his family member was positive.” The bench said that the applicant did not have any intention of deterring the public servant from discharging duties, “but for the anxiety to get treatment to his mother, he might have overstepped his limits”. “The pandemic situation, which has brought the entire world to its knees, is witnessed by one and all. The anxious moments in the lives of near and dear ones, who have tested positive can lead to an unprecedented situation and unexpected behaviour,” said the judge. While observing that custodial interrogation of the applicant was not required, the bench said that Lande had to take responsibility for his actions. “He must pay the price for his irresponsible behaviour since it is a well-known fact that it is the endeavour of the government machinery with its limited resources to cater to the needs of the public in the pandemic situation, and the government is attempting to do its level best,” said justice Dangre. The court then directed Lande to deposit ₹10,000 with the CM Relief Fund within four weeks and said that in the event of his arrest, he should be released on furnishing a personal bond of ₹20,000 with sureties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-pune-man-booked-for-obstructing-government-servants-on-covid-19-duty/story-FHZ2kxnQzSiXa9qCpDl6uM.html
24-09-2020||City||Thane water supply affected after pipeline near Metro site bursts||Water supply in most parts of Thane city was affected after a Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) water pipeline at Majiwada Naka burst on Wednesday afternoon. The incident occurred while digging work for the upcoming Metro-4 line was underway. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has started restoration and repair work of the pipeline on a war footing, and it is expected to be completed on Wednesday night. Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell, Thane, said, “A 600mm TMC water pipeline was damaged at Majiwada Naka due to ongoing piling work of a Metro bridge. There were no injuries or casualties in the incident. However, to complete the repair work, water supply to a few areas like Vasant Vihar, Siddhachal, Gavand Baug, Shivai Nagar, Gandhi Nagar and its vicinity has been shut temporarily.” Arjun Ahire, assistant commissioner, water department, TMC confirmed that repair work on the pipeline has started. “This was one of the crucial pipelines connecting the entire city. We have temporarily stopped water supply in a few areas and efforts to complete the work at the earliest are in place. Water supply will be restored as soon as possible,” he said. MMRDA claimed that the alignment of the pipeline was marked to prevent any such incident. Pramod Ahuja, director (works), of MMRDA, said, “During the ongoing piling work of the Metro bridge at Majiwada Naka, we had marked alignment of the pipeline but I believe there was some misjudgement that led to a puncture in the pipeline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-water-supply-affected-after-pipeline-near-metro-site-bursts/story-r6JGiuTmf9E37OMC0CSN5M.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s train, BEST bus services disrupted due to heavy showers||Public transport in the city on Wednesday was disrupted due to heavy rainfall since Tuesday which caused roads and railway tracks to get waterlogged. Brihannumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) diverted its buses on more than 110 routes in the city. Local train services were suspended early morning on Wednesday on Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR). Train services were suspended on the CR line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Thane, and on the harbour line between CSMT and Vashi railway stations.On the WR line, train services were suspended between Churchgate and Andheri railway stations. WR services resumed on the slow and fast railway lines at 4pm on Wednesday.However, CR services continued to remain suspended between CSMT and Dadar railway station, and CSMT and Vashi railway station. “Waterlogging was reported on railway tracks at Sion, Kurla, Chunabhatti, Dadar, Parel, Currey Road, Mahalaxmi, Grant Road and Mahim. The water was not receding and resulted in delays in commencing operations. Trains were operated between Dadar and Kalyan, Vashi and Panvel, Andheri and Virar railway stations,” said a senior CR official.“There was water on the railway tracks at Sion railway station on Tuesday late evening. Trains were stuck between Sion and Kurla. I walked from Sion to Kurla to reach my home,” said Ankita Sinha, a media professional. Outstation train services were also impacted due to the heavy rainfall. Ten trains were rescheduled and five trains were cancelled. Additionally, 10 trains were also short terminated due to waterlogging. BEST diverted its buses on more than 110 routes in the city. Waterlogging led to 30 buses breaking down or getting stuck. “Technicians attended to 23 buses, but seven buses remained stuck due to waterlogging,” said a senior BEST official. Box -The CR has started a special outstation train between Dadar and Sawantwadi railway station. The train will be operated daily from Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-train-best-bus-services-disrupted-due-to-heavy-showers/story-jCVtw0t8JTn09GLjd5YtDM.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood filmmaker Anurag Kashyap charged with sexual assault||After filing a formal complaint on Tuesday, the actor who has accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual assault visited the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday evening to lodge a complaint. The actor was accompanied by her lawyer, Nitin Satpute. Details of her complaint have not been revealed. On Tuesday, following a complaint filed by the actor, who has accused Kashyap of sexual assault in 2013, a first information report (FIR) was registered by Versova police. Kashyap has been charged under sections 376 (rape), 354 (assault on a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement). Deputy commissioner of police Manjunath Singe confirmed the FIR has been registered. Kashyap has denied the allegations. Satpute said the incident had taken place in 2013 when his client had approached Kashyap for work as an actor and Kashyap invited her to his home on two occasions. During the second visit, he allegedly sexually assaulted her. Last week, the actor spoke about the incident on social media. On Monday, Satpute and his client had approached Oshiwara police station to file a formal complaint, but were directed to Versova police station, as Kashyap’s residence comes under the latter’s jurisdiction. The complaint was filed eventually on Tuesday night. In a statement released on social media by his lawyer Priyanka Khimani, on Sunday, Kashyap has described the allegations as “false, malicious and dishonest”. Neither Khimani nor Kashyap were available for comment on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-filmmaker-anurag-kashyap-charged-with-sexual-assault/story-jylNIty7U1t0q7BfqhLKzJ.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Rain wreaks havoc in Mumbai, again: Two killed, areas flooded for 12 hours||Two people were killed in Agripada on Wednesday after being trapped in a lift due to waterlogging. Several areas were waterlogged for over 12 hours following continued heavy rainfall. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has urged Mumbaiites to not step out unless absolutely necessary. On Wednesday morning, Jameer Mohammad, 27, and Shahjad Mohammad, 33, got stuck in a lift when waterlogging in the basement of Nathani Residency in Agripada, led to a short circuit. Mumbai Fire Brigade reported the incident to BMC’s control room at 11.45am. Jameer and Shahjad were rescued by the fire brigade and rushed to BYL Nair Hospital, where they were declared dead on arrival. BMC said the cause of death will be revealed after a post-mortem. Waterlogging was reported at multiple locations across Mumbai, including Hindmata, Gandhi Market, Sion Road 24, Malad Subway, Bandra Talkies, Old Khar, Behrambaug Junction, Sakkar Panchayat junction, Shastri Nagar, and on railway tracks between Dadar and Kurla. Traffic had to be diverted from 12 locations on major and arterial roads due to waterlogging, including BA Road, Gandhi Market, King’s Circle, Gol Deol, NM Joshi Road, Shell Colony, Veera Desai Road, near Kalpana Cinema Theatre and Grant Road station. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Wednesday, “Mumbai received 83% of its total rainfall for September in less than 16 hours. BMC pumped out 6 billion litres of water from city till 4pm, exactly the capacity of Tulsi Lake. That is why it is taking time for water to recede.” Chahal also directed ward officials to arrange temporary shelter for those in flood-prone areas. BMC had to shut down Oshiwara bridge on Wednesday morning, after pressure from the bulging Oshiwara river dislodged a water main running along the bridge and damaged the surface road of the adjoining bridge. Water supply to parts of Oshiwara has been affected and routine supply is expected to resume by this morning, said Bharatiya Janata Party corporator Sandeep Patel. Eight partial house collapses were reported and 17 tree collapses were reported. A portion of a retaining wall along a hillock in Walkeshwar also collapsed. Fifteen instances of short circuit were reported. Guardian minister of Mumbai suburbs and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and Chahal visited waterlogged areas, various pumping stations and BMC’s disaster management cell. Thackeray also directed BMC officials to expedite work on underground flood control tanks to retain excess rainwater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rain-wreaks-havoc-in-mumbai-again-two-killed-areas-flooded-for-12-hours/story-Xs0ZC6YhISpboE4BSz9FSP.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||FYJC admission process in Maharashtra likely to restart this week||The Maharashtra government is likely to restart the admission process for first-year junior colleges (FYJC) this week. The process was stayed owing to the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the Maratha reservation. “The redrawing of seat matrix is nearly complete. The state government is now getting the required clearances. An announcement with respect to restarting the admission process is likely to be made this week,” said an official from the state education department. On September 9, the Supreme Court ordered an interim stay on Maratha reservation in education and employment. After the decision, the state education department had decided to stay FYJC admissions until further notice as admissions under the previously granted 12% reservation were no longer held valid. While the department had said that a revised timetable for the second admission round which was scheduled to take place on June 10 would be declared soon, it is yet to come up with an announcement in this regard.Meanwhile, students have been writing to the department urging the authorities to restart admission procedure as soon as possible. Junior colleges in Mumbai usually start their new academic year in August. However with the current delay, colleges are now stressed about completing the syllabus after the year begins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fyjc-admission-process-in-maharashtra-likely-to-restart-this-week/story-CJ0xBYqkeBiO1OSqv5fWxK.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Robber arrested for chasing GRP constable with a chopper in hand in Mumbai||Wadala Government railway police arrested a 26-year-old robber who chased a constable with a chopper in his hand from Wadala station to Kasaiwada in Kurla a week ago.Rajendra Pal, senior inspector, Wadala GRP, said the incident took place when constable Kishor Partole, 29, was on patrolling duty at Wadala railway station and noticed a robber moving towards platform number 4 at the station. Partole identified the accused, Mohammed Sayyed Shaikh, from several CCTV videos. Partole, who was in casual attire, began following Shaikh. Shaikh, however, noticed him.“Partole did not even have time to react when Shaikh pulled out a chopper from his pocket and pounced on him,” said Pal. Partole then ran across the platform as commuters stared in shock and hopped on a train moving towards Kurla. Shaikh, too, managed to board the train.“Shaikh realised that Partole would shout for help as the train approached Kurla station, and hence jumped onto the tracks. This time, Partole started chasing Shaikh, but lost him near Kasaiwada,” said Pal. The police then registered an offence against Shaikh and started looking for him.“We traced a mobile phone that Shaikh was seen stealing a few days ago on a CCTV footage and tracked the phone to a resident of Titwala. The resident, who had bought the stolen mobile phone, knew Shaikh and gave us his address,” said Pal.However, the police were unable to arrest Shaikh from his house, and laid a trap in Kurla and Wadala. He was arrested on Monday at Kasaiwada for trying to attack a constable and possession of a weapon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/robber-arrested-for-chasing-grp-constable-with-a-chopper-in-hand-in-mumbai/story-y75fwtT79JhjLZFCSsFNKN.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 104% rise in Covid-19 cases in September compared to last month||The number of Covid-19 cases in the city rose 104%, to 40,957 (September 1-22) from 20,031 (August 1-22), according to the state health department data. The number of deaths in this period in September dropped to 862, compared to 990 from August 1-22. Civic authorities claim the spike in the number of cases is owing to increased testing and unlocking. The daily cases also started to increase owing to festivals in August. The daily testing in August was between 7,000 and 9,000. However, in September, the daily testing is between 10,000 and 15,000. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data, on August 1, five months after the first case was reported in Mumbai, the number of tests was over five lakh. However, the number of tests rose to over 10 lakh by September 22. This also means the testing doubled in the period of around 50 days. HT reported on September 21 that in the past 31 days, the city has recorded case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.2% (1,115 deaths and 51,617 cases), which has helped bring down Mumbai’s overall CFR from 5.5% to 4.5% between August 20 and September 20. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) attributed this dip in CFR to weekly monitoring at private and municipal hospitals as part of its ‘Mission Save Lives’ launched in June. CFR is deaths due to Covid-19 as a per cent of the total cases reported. BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on September 6 told HT: “For the next 30 days, the civic body expects to detect daily around 2,000 cases as it aims to increase daily testing to around 12,000-14,000 tests.” Chahal had added the capacity is to conduct around 15,000 tests, and we are planning to optimise testing. So far, over 10.22 lakh tests have been conducted in the city, with overall positivity rate of 18.22%. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “It is a good sign that the number of deaths has come down despite the number of cases going up drastically. This is because of early testing or detection of possible Covid-19 patients. Also, availability of drugs to stabilise several critical patients has also helped bring down the mortality rate.” Meanwhile, on Wednesday, the city reported 2,360 cases taking the tally to 190,264 and 49 deaths taking the toll to 8,604. A total of 154,088 patients have recovered. The city’s recovery rate is 80.98%. The city has 27,186 active cases and the fatality rate is 4.52%. Dharavi recorded 22 new cases, taking its tally to 3,087.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-104-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-september-compared-to-last-month/story-QYyWXlH3DnAJYSzP1EdPiN.html
24-09-2020||City||Former Kalyan mayor succumbs to Covid-19||Shiv Sena corporator and former mayor of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), Rajendra Devlekar, 54, succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday night. Devlekar was the corporator of Milind Nagar and Gholap Nagar in Kalyan (West).He was hospitalised for the last few days as his health deteriorated and was later shifted to a Mumbai hospital for intensive treatment. “We visited him in the hospital a few days ago and were hoping he would get better soon. Devlekar’s demise is a huge loss for the city. He worked on the ground level and he did a lot of work for the city during his mayoral tenure as well. We have been lost many party workers during the pandemic. These are Covid martyrs,” said Shrikant Shinde, Shiv Sena member of Parliament (MP) from Kalyan constituency. Devlekar is survived by his wife and two daughters. In April, two people were booked for spreading rumours about Devlekar’s ill health in Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-kalyan-mayor-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-bqomziC6SqduGFcQF4YMTL.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 20K new cases mark after 2-day drop, Covid-19 case count 1,263,799||After reporting less than 20,000 cases for two days, Maharashtra recorded 21,029 fresh infections on Wednesday, taking the case count to 1,263,799. It was the 15th day when more than 20,000 fresh cases were recorded in this month. The number of active cases went up to 273,477, 21.63% of the total cases reported so far.Death toll reached 33,886 with 479 new casualties reported. The highest toll in a day so far was recorded on September 15 with 515 fatalities.Maharashtra has continued to struggle to control Covid-19 cases as the surge in cases has not come down since lockdown restrictions were eased in phases from June 3. Free movement of people allowed the pandemic to reach even rural areas.The state has recorded 472,545 cases and 8,941 deaths in the past 23 days, which means an average of 20,545 cases and 388 casualties were recorded per day.In August, a total of 371,238 cases and 9,589 deaths were reported.The tally of fresh infections is likely to increase even further, according to an internal projection of the state health department. It states that daily cases are likely to rise by the end of this month. Officials, however, said detecting more cases should not be considered as a negative thing in this scenario as it will help in breaking the chain. They added that early detection also means less fatality.Ramaswami N, director of national health mission (NHM), said, “Daily infections have been static in the last few days and are stabilising in major cities. After unlocking the restrictions, cases were expected to increase, and our efforts are on to contain the spread. There is a possibility that cases will go up, and it is for good because it will help in breaking the chain.”He added that following social distancing norms is the only way to control the pandemic, for which peoples’ cooperation is a must. “We want everyone to contribute in controlling the spread,” he added.Meanwhile, the door-to-door survey under the ‘My family My responsibility’ initiative launched by the state government seems to be working. Survey teams have found over 4,500 Covid-19 positive patients in the past one week. They have also found more than 5 lakh comorbid patients in the same period.Since the campaign started, 7,075,797 homes have been visited and health surveys of 28,363,000 people have been carried out, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office. It added that 4,824 people were found positive for coronavirus and 7.54 lakh people were found with comorbidities.To tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases and reduce number of deaths, the state government launched the initiative on September 15. The state-wide survey aims to check 2.25 crore families for symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and comorbidities. The idea is to effectively curtail the spread by reaching out to each and every citizen of the state and provide necessary care wherever required.Under the campaign, health workers are conducting door-to-door surveys to check residents’ body temperature and oxygen level, besides other symptoms including tiredness, throat pain, dry cough, diarrhoea, and loss of smell and taste.Each team comprising one health worker and two volunteers will survey each and every family of the state twice in over a month. The state is also assigning one doctor for every five teams. The first phase of the survey is expected to be completed by October 10, while the second phase will be conducted between October 12 and 24.Though the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state is going down, the number of daily deaths still remains highest in the country with Maharashtra accounting for 37.64% of the total deaths reported across the country till Wednesday at 90,020 deaths.In terms of CFR, Maharashtra comes second with 2.68%, right after Punjab which has 2.89% CFR with 2,926 deaths on Tuesday, according to the statistics shared by the state medical education department.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 2,360 cases, highest in the state, on Wednesday, pushing its tally to 190,264. Of them, 27,186 are active cases. The death toll in the city reached 8,604 with 49 deaths on Wednesday.Pune city has contributed the second highest cases in the daily caseload as it recorded 1,797 cases on Wednesday, taking its tally to 146,062 while Nagpur city becomes third with 1,373 cases, taking its case count to 52,967.The state has conducted 89,503 tests on Wednesday, far less than 105,026 tests done on Tuesday. The total number of tests conducted till date is 6,106,787. The state aims to conduct 1.5 lakh tests a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-20k-new-cases-mark-after-2-day-drop-covid-19-case-count-1-263-799/story-QUuTODCkHYIaq817j6TLWJ.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Set up dedicated teams in 20 worst-affected districts: PM Narendra Modi to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during interactions with chief ministers of seven states, suggested that the Maharashtra government set up dedicated teams in 20 districts of the state that are worst-affected due to Covid-19, to bring down the number of cases in the state. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray sought Centre’s intervention in fixing the price of medical oxygen and regulating its supply as there could be a shortage of medical oxygen in the state owing to a high number of cases.Thackeray also expressed confidence that the state’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign will bring down the case fatality rate (CFR) and Covid positivity rate in the coming weeks.Maharashtra accounts for more than 22% of the country’s total confirmed cases and over 37% of fatalities. Since the outbreak in March, the state has record 1,263,799 cases and 33,886 fatalities.Thackeray said, “Through campaigns like ‘My Family, My Responsibility’, we are going to aggressively combat Covid-19. In the near future, it will bring down the case fatality rate and case positivity rate as well.”The CM said that in the first phase of the campaign, 59,000 teams have been deployed to carry out check-ups. “Since the campaign started [on September 15], 7,075,797 homes (26% of the total) have been visited and health surveys of 28,363,000 people (18% of the total) have been carried out… [During the visits] 4,824 people were found positive for coronavirus and 7.54 lakh people were found with comorbidities,” it said.According to the statement from the CMO, PM Modi hailed the people of Maharashtra for “bravely” fighting the outbreak. “By setting up special dedicated teams in the 20 worst-affected districts of the state, the infection rate will reduce; thereby bringing down the number of cases on the national-level as well,” the PM said as per the statement.Though the state has an adequate quantity of medical oxygen, Thackeray said there could be a shortage. “There is a possibility of a shortage of oxygen in the state, and the Centre must resolve the rate of medical oxygen. There is also a need to control its supply,” the CM said in the press statement.The CM outlined the measures taken up to combat the Covid-19 outbreak. He said that daily testing is going to be increased to 1.5 lakh and added that tele-ICU will be set up in rural areas so that infected people get timely treatment. He also said that post-Covid care will also be started.Thackeray said using masks is going to save many people from getting infected. He also requested PM Modi to address the nation and “direct the people of the country on how to go ahead in the fight against Covid-19. He added that the country faces challenges ahead, as festivals including Navratri, Dusshera, and Diwali are coming up, which could lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/set-up-dedicated-teams-in-20-worst-affected-districts-pm-narendra-modi-to-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-qJefh74Poq4TFNSrdK9qAK.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, Punjab Engineering College to introduce choice-based credit system with new elective courses for UG batch||If all goes to plan, the December batch of undergraduate engineering students at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) will be offered more flexibility when choosing subjects apart from their core subjects.In a senate meeting held on Wednesday, the structure of the courses was discussed. For effective adoption of this choice-based credit system, PEC has decided to introduce several new courses for undergraduate engineering students.At present, PEC offers eight BTech courses and 14 MTech courses to over 3,000 students.Other than the regular engineering subjects, PEC will offer credit-based elective courses in humanities and social sciences to the December batch. To finalise the subjects, a panel has been constituted.Flexibility after second yearAs per the plan, students will be given options to choose subjects other than their core subjects in the third and fourth year of the undergraduate courses.Director of PEC Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We offered flexibility in curriculum earlier, too, but we want to provide more choices to our engineering students.”The plan to introduce new courses is being carried out in line with the provisions of the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020.Credit break-up for BTechAccording to the proposed credit break-up for the BTech programme, which was tabled in the senate meeting, all curricular components will have 160 credits for those who do not opt for major or minor specialisations; for those who do, grand total will be of 176.Institute core courses will carry 36 credits; humanities, communication and management elective courses will have a total of 12 credits; department core courses will carry 40 credits; and the department elective courses will have 20 credits. Besides this, the institute open electives will carry a total credit of 24. For internship and non-academic courses, credits will be 18 and 10, respectively.Former vice-chancellor of Panjab University, professor Arun Kumar Grover, said, “Students should be allowed to study what they like. Already the job market is shrinking and we need our students to be competitive in all aspects. I think it is a good initiative taken by PEC.”Committees set up by PECSeveral committees were constituted by PEC during the senate meeting on Wednesday to introduce more flexibility in the curriculum. The committees will work on further modalities and will decide on what courses should be available for students apart from their core subjects. The students may also be allowed to enroll for courses online from other platforms other than PEC, however, the panel will work towards ironing out the plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/soon-punjab-engineering-college-to-introduce-choice-based-credit-system-with-new-elective-courses-for-ug-batch/story-r2amTOVGQ74vv7dUjXLaxJ.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nearly 50K people have recovered in J&K||After steadily dipping for over two weeks, the recovery rate of Covid patients in Jammu and Kashmir has been increasing for the past three days.As many as 2,798 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the number of recoveries over the past week to 8,721. As many as 5,573 people were discharged over the last three days against 3,520 fresh infections.The overall recoveries have touched 46,530, which accounts for a recovery rate of 68.9%. The recovery rate had decreased from 77.3% on September 2 to 64% on September 20, after which it started to increase again.A government spokesperson said 1,578 people were discharged in Jammu division and 1,218 in Kashmir. Of the total, 33,493 were cured in Kashmir and 13,035 in Jammu division.The UT also recorded 20 more deaths and 1,249 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases in the UT to 67,510. As many as 646 people tested positive in Jammu, including 35 travellers, while 603 cases were reported from Kashmir, of which 27 were travellers. This month, Jammu has witnessed more infections on daily basis as compared to Kashmir. There are 19,918 active cases in the UT and 14.64 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far. The spokesperson added that 20 more people had succumbed to the disease — 16 in Jammu and four in Kashmir. The death toll has risen to 1,062 — 793 in Kashmir and 269 in Jammu. In Jammu division, the highest jump of fresh cases was witnessed in Jammu with 230 cases while 88 people tested positive in Rajouri . In Kashmir, the highest number of fresh cases was recorded in Srinagar where 199 more people tested positive, followed Baramulla at 80. Srinagar is the worst affected district with 13,608 cases and 272 deaths. Jammu is at the second position recording 10,905 cases and 146 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nearly-50k-people-have-recovered-in-j-k/story-juQmhsxkNKfNqsl1Z07XBP.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||SpiceJet likely to start two more flights on Delhi-Dharamshala route from October 1||The private airline SpiceJet is contemplating to start two more flights on Delhi-Dharamshala sector with Himachal Pradesh opening the borders for tourists amid the Covid-19 pandemic. At present, Spicejet operates one flight on this sector. Alliance Air, the domestic arm of national carrier Air India, also operates a flight on the route. SpiceJet in-charge at Kangra Airport, Gaggal, said if the government allows and the number of flyers increases the new flights will be started from October 1. With the introduction of these new flights, Spice Jet will have three flights on this route while the total number of flights will go up to four. According to the schedule uploaded by the company on its website, the first flight will take off from Delhi at 6:55am. The second flight will be at 11:00am and the third flight at 2:15pm. Return flights will take off from Gaggal at 8:50 am, 12:40 and 3:55 pm. The company releases its year-round schedule in March and these two flights are already in the calendar Kangra airport is the busiest among three airports in the state. Other two airports are at Kullu and Shimla. Alliance air operates one flight daily on Delhi-Kullu sector. Shimla airport receives no flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spicejet-likely-to-start-two-more-flights-on-delhi-dharamshala-route-from-october-1/story-t36UeqDUZYp6oFLqy3d4wL.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra expects 3.68 lakh Covid cases in 2 weeks; tally rises to 1,263,799||The state has predicted another 3.68 lakh Covid-19 cases in the next two weeks, which will take the tally to 16.11 lakh, as of October 6. Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Nagpur will contribute the most to this rise and in its wake, the districts/cities will face shortage of oxygen, isolation beds and ventilators, according to a presentation made by the state health department to the cabinet on Tuesday. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 21,029 new cases, taking the tally to 1,263,799, and 479 more deaths, taking the toll to 33,886.According to the projections, the caseload in Mumbai is expected to touch 2.21 lakh by October 6, up from 1.88 lakh, while in Pune and Thane, it will rise to 3.36 lakh and 2.05 lakh from 2.67 lakh and 1.74 lakh respectively. In Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur, the case tally will be 47,985 (from 31,401), 52,550 (from 32,905) and 52,642(from 39,585) respectively. Nagpur and Chandrapur tallies are projected to rise to 1.06 lakh(from 66,959) and 14,973 (from 8,099) in the next two weeks.The state has created health infrastructure comprising 1.49 lakh isolation beds without oxygen, 49,049 oxygen beds, 5,163 ICU beds for confirmed cases. However, as many as 11 districts like Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Chandrapur will be in deficit of oxygen, ICU beds and ventilators. As per the projection, Pune will face a shortage of 381 ventilators, Nashik 142, Satara 114 and Raigad, Chandrapur 120 each by October 6. Chandrapur and Yavatmal in Vidarbha will face a shortage of 174 and 118 ICU beds in next two weeks. Of the 2.91 lakh active patients, as of Tuesday, 25,607 are critical, while remaining 2.66 are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients. Of the critical patients, 10,118 are in ICU, including 2,302 on ventilators. 7,816 are on oxygen supply inside the ICU, while 15,489 are on oxygen supply outside the ICU.“12.6% of the Covid-19 patients require oxygen supply. Against the required O2 supply of 632 metric tonnes, we have 647MT O2 available currently, which needs to be augmented to 1004MT. In the cabinet meeting held on Tuesday, it was decided that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will speak to the prime minister during the video conference on Wednesday for the additional supply of oxygen, ventilators and PPE kits,” said an official from the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-expects-3-68-lakh-covid-cases-in-2-weeks-tally-rises-to-1-263-799/story-E8ptocZ89td7lt0WEeYvLO.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||SC rescues traders facing 200% customs duty on Pak imports post-Pulwama attack||The Supreme Court on Wednesday came to the rescue of certain traders who were asked to pay “enhanced custom duty of 200%” on imported goods from Pakistan due to sudden increase in the tariff by the Centre following the 2019 Pulwama terror attack and ordered that they will have to pay the duty under the older tariff. The top court dismissed the appeal of the Centre against a Punjab and Haryana high court judgment holding that it cannot levy enhanced custom duty from importers who had already presented “bills of entry for home consumption before the enhanced rate was notified’ in e-Gazette. As many as 40 Central Reserves Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed on February 14, 2019 in an audacious terror strike at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir. A Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist had rammed an explosives-laden vehicle into a bus carrying the security personnel. Two days after the terror strike, the central government on February 16, last year had issued a notification under Section 8A of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 and introduced “a tariff entry by which all goods originating in or exported from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan were subjected to an enhanced customs duty of 200 per cent”. The notification allegedly led to huge financial burden to some exporters, who had already exported goods under the old custom rates, and had to get their imported goods re-assessed for the purposes of levy of custom duty at enhanced rate. The consignments of import covered a diverse range of goods, ranging from dry dates to cement. The government’s notification was uploaded on the e-Gazette at around 8.46 pm on February 16, 2019 and the customs authorities at the land customs station at Attari in Punjab sought to enforce the enhanced rate of duty on importers who had already presented bills of entry for home consumption before the enhanced rate was notified in the e-Gazette and this led to filing of cases by traders in the Punjab and Haryana high court, the apex court noted in its judgment. The high court, on August 26, 2019, had allowed the pleas of traders and had held “that since the importers, who had imported goods from Pakistan, had presented their bills of entry and completed the process of ‘self-assessment’ before the notification enhancing the rate of duty to 200 per cent was issued and uploaded, the enhanced rate of duty was not attracted. The HC had also held that the importers were liable to pay the duty applicable at the time when the bills of entry for home consumption were filed under Section 46 of the Customs Act and had ordered the Centre “to release the goods within seven days on the payment of duty ‘as declared and assessed’ without applying the notification enhancing the rate of duty on goods originating in Pakistan.” The Centre came in appeal against the HC’s order which was dismissed by a bench comprising Justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph in two separate and concurring verdicts. Justice Chandrachud, writing the judgment for himself and Justice Malhotra, referred to various provisions of the Constitution and the Customs Tariff Act and held that the importers who had already got their imported goods self-assessed for the levy of customs duty cannot be asked to pay the higher duty. “The rate of duty was determined by the presentation of the bills of entry for home consumption in the electronic form under Section 46. Self-assessment was on the basis of rate of duty which was in force on the date and at the time of presentation of the bills of entry for home consumption. This could not have been altered in the purported exercise of the power of reassessment under Section 17 or at the time of the clearance of the goods for home consumption under Section 47. “The rate of duty which was applicable was crystallized at the time and on the date of the presentation of the bills of entry in terms of the provisions of Section 15 …,” Justice Chandrachud, who wrote 82-page judgement, said. Justice Joseph wrote a separate and concurring 94-page judgement in the case and dismissed the appeals against the HC’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-rescues-traders-facing-200-customs-duty-on-pak-imports-post-pulwama-attack/story-RbRT6UvAFOVsvPCKFkt5lL.html
24-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi collapse toll is 38; search on for a toddler||Three days later, the death toll in the Bhiwandi building collapse on Wednesday rose to 38, including 17 children, while the number of injured was 25. Rescue operations were still on at the time of going to press, now for close to 70 hours and amid heavy rain, after the collapse of the 36-year-old Jilani building, a ground-plus-three storey structure, around 3.30am Monday.Officials said that they were searching for a two-and-a-half-year-old boy. Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) commissioner Pankar Ashiya, said, “There is a claim of a two-and-a-half-year-old child missing, so at one end, the search will continue and from the other, debris removal will go on. At present, the confirmed deaths are 38.” Of the deaths, the youngest was of Junaid Jabir Ali Shaikh, who was one-and-a-half years old. Milind Palsule, public relations officer of BNCMC, said this was the deadliest building collapse in the power loom town’s history. The rescue operations on Wednesday were mostly done using machinery as there was a need to clear debris to go deeper. The machine would do the clearing of the debris, while few rescue workers kept guiding and checking. “Throughout the afternoon, no body was found, we found 14 bodies overnight by Wednesday morning. While the work of clearing the debris was on, there was heavy downpour. This slowed down operations a bit. If there was no rain, we would have completed rescue operations much before,” said an officer from the National Disaster Management Response Force (NDRF), who did not wish to be named. Around 7pm, the Bhiwandi police made announcements on loud speakers, asking family members, relatives and friends to come forward if anybody is missing.Shaira Qureshi, aunt of Museb Qureshi, the boy who is still missing, said,”Our son is yet not found and we have asked officials to search for him. They have initiated a search.”Meanwhile, no arrests have been made in the case so far as the builder-cum-owner Sayyed Ahmed Jilani has gone absconding since after the incident. The Narpoli police, which is investigating the case, had initiated a search. In one of the more heart-wrenching scenes of the day, rescue workers found the bodies of Farida Banu, 32, holding her three-year-old daughter, Riha, in her arms, around 6.30 am. Sandeep Ghode, 22, a jawan of the Thane disaster management response force (TDRF), who pulled out the body of the mother, said, “When we recovered the mother’s body, we saw the baby in her arms. She tried to save her child, but unfortunately, both died as a large piece of debris fell on her. Two of her other children were also found besides her. This sight made all of us emotional,” Ashiya claimed that by Saturday, the civic body will have a list of extremely dangerous structures and vacate them. The civic body chief also assured temporary shelter for those who will be vacated from their houses. “By Saturday, we will have a proper list of buildings, which are unsafe, and our team will inspect them personally. These buildings will be vacated 100 per cent and residents will be in transit camps, community hall or schools in the city on a temporary basis. Arrangements will be made by the civic body for them. This will be on priority,” said Ashiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-collapse-toll-is-38-search-on-for-a-toddler/story-WXEy6ymG2db1s0AG9BkXTL.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||2020 monsoon is Mumbai’s third wettest||Torrential downpour between Tuesday and Wednesday was not only the heaviest rain spell this season for Mumbai’s suburbs, which left many parts in waist-deep water and disrupting rail and road traffic, but also made this year’s monsoon the third-wettest (as of 8.30pm Wednesday) since readings began being collated in 1944.Amid the record spell, two people died in a freak incident after they got stuck in an elevator in the basement of a residential building, owing to waterlogging in the circuit, in Agripada, officials said.From June 1 to September 23 8.30pm, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 3,666mm rain, 4.4mm short of last year’s seasonal rain tally of 3,670.4 mm. The highest all-time seasonal rainfall was recorded during 1958 at 3,759.7mm, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Mumbai also received its second-highest 24-hour September rain in 26 years (1994-2020) between Tuesday and Wednesday, categorised as extremely heavy rain. This is also the fourth highest 24-hour September rain recorded during the period 1974-2020. On September 20, 2017, Mumbai had recorded 303.7 mm rain. All time 24-hour rain was on September 23, 1981 (318.2 mm).Extremely heavy rain over 24 hours (between Tuesday and Wednesday) accounted for 91% of the monthly average rainfall for September, which Mumbai crossed on Wednesday.Mumbai recorded 528.3mm rain against the mean rainfall of 341.4 mm, 55% excess of the monthly mean.South Mumbai also set a rain record in 2020 with the highest seasonal rainfall in 10 years (2011-2020) at 3,165.5mm, which is only the fifth time in 119 years that over 3,000mm rain was recorded by the Colaba weather observatory.Continuous intense downpour on Tuesday night led to waterlogging in several areas across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). After rain intensity reduced marginally around midnight, thundershowers were witnessed from around 3.30am onwards, followed by intense downpour till 5.30am. Thereafter, light to moderate continued through the day with heavy rain spells across some areas on Wednesday.“Most of MMR, especially the entire western side of Mumbai from Colaba to Bhayandar, was under a thick cloud cover (maximum height 7-8 km) causing very heavy rain spells since Tuesday evening. Short bursts of intense rain recorded across isolated areas and the trend continued throughout the night with thundershowers followed by intense cloud cover and light to moderate rain on Wednesday,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.Between 8.30 am Tuesday and 8.30 am Wednesday, the Santacruz weather station, representative of the suburbs recorded 286.4 mm (extremely heavy) rain while Colaba, representative of south Mumbai, recorded 147.8 mm (very heavy) rain.Prior to 24-hour rain between Tuesday and Wednesday, the heaviest rain spell this season for Mumbai suburbs was between August 3 and 4 at 268.6 mm. The highest for south Mumbai, however, was August 5 and 6 at 331.2 mm.On Wednesday, between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm, the suburbs recorded 94.9mm (heavy) rain while 18.2mm (moderate) rain was recorded at south Mumbai.The India Meteorological Department classifies 64.5-115.5 mm rain as heavy, 115.6-204.4 mm as very heavy, over 204.5 mm as extremely heavy rain, and over 300 mm exceptionally heavy.Between Tuesday and Wednesday, maximum rain was recorded towards south-central Mumbai at Bandra Kurla Complex at 366.4 mm and Dharavi 360 mm followed by the western suburbs Ram Mandir (including areas of Goregaon) 298.5 mm, Malad 257.2 mm, Borivli 204.4 mm, Dahisar 191 mm, and in the eastern suburbs Chembur recorded 209.8 mm and Bhandup 185 mm. Across MMR, Panvel received 250 mm rain, Navi Mumbai 183.7 mm, Bhayander 101 mm, and Thane 119.8 mm. “Such intense spells can cause localised flooding especially for low-lying areas, which caused severe discomfort for commuters on Wednesday morning. The impact of extremely heavy rain was maximum on road and rail transport,” said Hosalikar.Independent meteorologists said rain intensity was much more than expected due to a vortex formation off the Mumbai coast. “This system pushed cloud bands from the sea paving the way for very heavy to extremely heavy rain,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, adding that monsoon withdrawal could be delayed due to active La Niña conditions (a phenomenon when the western Pacific ocean warms up creating a low pressure near Australia pulling winds from the Indian Ocean strengthening equatorial dynamics keeping southwest monsoon circulation active). “This will delay withdrawal, allowing rains to linger on for some more time over the west coast and central India. Farmers need to take care of their crops as unseasonal showers can cause crop damage,” he said.Meanwhile, meteorologists said rain intensity was likely to reduce through the rest of the week with on and off moderate rains with isolated heavy spells. IMD predicted light to moderate rain from Thursday to Sunday and did not issue any colour-coded alerts.“Most likely heavy rain for this monsoon is over,” said Balasubramanian.In the Agripada incident, the deceased, identified as Jameer Mohammad, 27, and Shahjad Mohammad, 33, were pulled out the the lift by the Mumbai Fire Brigade and rushed to Nair hospital, where they were declared dead. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC,) however, said that the cause of the death was not known and will be revealed after a post-mortem.According to information from the Mumbai fire brigade, water entered the basement of the building and the lift stopped working as its circuit failed due to the logged water. The incident was reported to the BMC control room by the fire brigade at 11.45am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2020-monsoon-is-mumbai-s-third-wettest/story-uxZtWH2AryOEM9cP0Pj5bI.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan, Rakul Preet Singh summoned||As part of its investigation into allegations of drug abuse in the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday issued summons to actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh. KPS Malhotra, deputy director, NCB, said summons were issued to the four actors on Wednesday. Padukone has been asked to join the investigation on September 25, while Khan and Kapoor have been called on September 26. An NCB official said Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash, an employee of talent management agency KWAN would also join the investigation on September 25. Singh, designer Simone Khambatta and Rajput’s former business manager Shruti Modi have been asked to join the investigation today.Padukone, Khan, Kapoor, Singh and Khambatta had not responded to HT’s calls and messages till the time of going to press. Khan and Singh’s names cropped up during the interrogation of actor and arrested accused Rhea Chakraborty. An NCB official said Padukone’s name had emerged in WhatsApp chats found during the agency’s investigation. On Wednesday, NCB questioned Rajput’s talent manager Jaya Saha for the third consecutive day and chief executive officer of talent management agency KWAN, Dhruv Chitgopekar, for the second day. Film producer Madhu Mantena was also questioned on Wednesday. So far, NCB has arrested 19 accused, including Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s manager Samuel Miranda and members of Rajput’s domestic staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ssr-case-probe-deepika-padukone-shraddha-kapoor-sara-ali-khan-rakul-preet-singh-summoned/story-JVN9QFa2HRmQDIoB9aJKmM.html
24-09-2020||City||Covid-19 review: UP officials asked to maintain vigil during festival season||Ghaziabad: Officials from the Union home ministry and Niti Aayog on Wednesday held a video conferencing with senior officials of Uttar Pradesh about Covid-19 preparedness in the western region of the state. During the meeting, officials of the four western UP districts were asked to heighten vigil in coming months, especially during the upcoming festival season when the movement of people will be high. The video conferencing was attended by Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), divisional commissioner (Meerut) and district magistrates of Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Baghpat and Meerut. The meeting was held in presence of Dr VK Paul, member of Niti Aayog and senior officers of the Union home ministry, besides the officials from the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Dr Paul asked all officials to take up steps for heightened vigil especially during the upcoming festival season. He stressed on creating more public awareness and adherence to Covid protocols such as use of mask and social distancing. The officials have also directed that all the symptomatic cases who turn negative through rapid antigen kits should be tested with RT-PCR method,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. According to Ghaziabad officials, officers from five Haryana districts, including Gurugram and Faridabad, also attended the video conferencing. Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar, said, “Our high rate of testing was pointed out during the discussions and presentation we gave. Our testing rate is high among the NCR districts. The officials of the Centre also said that studies have suggested that wearing of mask reduces the chances of contracting infection by 30%. The officials asked us to maintain the work we are doing and also ensure availability of beds.” The district officials also said that they have been asked to continue with surveillance and enforcement in containment zones in order to find out suspected cases and also to keep in check the spread of Covid-19 infection. “They termed our surveillance activities as satisfactory. From UP’s side, our officials also raised issue that a lot of manpower is devoted when it comes to enforcement in containment zones. We expect that the Centre may issue some further directions in this regard,” Pandey, the Ghaziabad DM, said. The Ghaziabad district till September 19 had a list of 629 containment zones. In this regard, the district magistrate said that he has spoken to the state officials with a proposal in which municipal corporation is to be roped in to manage affairs of the containment zones in the district. “I have spoken to the state officials if the corporation can be roped in and given responsibility of managing the containment zones. This, of course, will be done with the help of incident commanders who are officers of the district administration. In such a manner, better management of containment zones can be taken up. We are waiting for the response from state officials,” Pandey said. He added that during the video conferencing, the central officials have also asked for better monitoring of containment zones and keep track of how many patients were discharged, besides ensuring speedy facility allocation. Meanwhile, Awasthi on Wednesday evening said that the chief minister has directed that Covid-19 tests should be taken up for all high risk groups. “The CM said that high risk groups should be tested through RT-PCR method. He has also said that if anyone having symptoms turns negative through rapid antigen kits, should be tested through RT-PCR,” said the UP’s additional chief secretary (home). The high risk groups comprise people who are close contacts or family members of positive patients, old aged persons and people with co-morbid conditions. On Wednesday, Ghaziabad reported 205 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 12,831 in the district. Now, the district has 1,689 active cases, while 11,068 patients have been discharged. On the other hand, GB Nagar saw 152 new positive cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 11,815. The district is now has 1,615 active cases, as per the data from the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-review-up-officials-asked-to-maintain-vigil-during-festival-season/story-kWK51Lv1kTS6NAKbLj1IsN.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Violence began with stone-pelting at Maujpur Metro station: Riots charge sheet||Stone throwing at Maujpur Metro station by a group of 200-300 Muslims at 5.23pm on February 23 was the first riot reported to Delhi Police in the communal violence that rocked north-east Delhi, according to the charge sheets filed on a conspiracy behind the violence. “After the police reached the spot, the mob started pelting stones on them in which five policemen were injured. This was the first set of medico-legal cases in relation to the north-east Delhi riots,” reads the charge sheet. It was the first of the 16,381 distress calls that the police control room (PCR) received between February 23 and 27, according to the charge sheet filed by the special cell of Delhi Police last week.The riots, which started as protestors against and for the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) and later acquired a communal colour, left 53 people dead and 607 injured.About an hour later, while a police team was dispersing the mob and collecting stones/bricks amassed at the spot, the control room received information about the second rioting incident from Kabir Nagar, Bhajanpura, less than a kilometre away from the Maujpur Metro station. In the charge sheet, police have mentioned that at 6.40 pm, two police officers were injured in the stone-pelting near a crematorium in Kabir Nagar. A police inspector who was on patrol duty with his team noticed a mob of over 100 people beating three men. The police team were attacked with stones and bricks when they went to rescue the person. The police have registered 751 different incidents of rioting, murder, arson, destruction of property and other sections in which 1,571 people have been arrested. Weapons usedFrom guns to wooden sticks and from a pair of scissors to plastic crates --- the rioters used all kinds of things as weapons, the charge sheet says, citing the recoveries made by the police. According to data cited in the charge sheet, at least 12 pistols, 121 empty and 92 live cartridges, 33 wooden sticks, one iron rod, 61 glass bottles filled with chemicals, two knives, four swords, a pair of scissors, stones, several plastic sacks, plastic crates, one plastic tub, stones and 11 slingshots were seized by the police from the sites where violence had taken place. According to the police, the riots were “deliberate, planned and caused after due preparations”. The police have attached the statement of a protected witness, who has claimed to have seen suspended municipal councillor Tahir Hussain and his men stocking glass bottles, petrol and acid, which were later used in the riots. Police have also alleged that the money to buy a pistol, which was used to murder a man named Rahul Solanki, was provided by Hussain and he handed it over to arrested suspect Mustaqeem (first name only).Hussain has in the past denied the allegations and said that he was a riot victim; that his house was damaged; his family had to flee for safety and that the police were framing him.Fire incidentsBetween February 24 and 27, the charge sheet shows, the fire department received at least 242 calls of arson from the police and local residents. Records show thatthe maximum number of calls, 95, were received on February 25. During the clashes, a tyre market in Gokalpuri, a parking lot with over 150 cars in Shiv Vihar, a petrol pump in Bhajanpura and houses and shops were burnt. The lone woman, who died in the riots, Akbari Begum, 85, was killed when rioters set her house on fire in Bhajanpura on February 25. The charge sheet says at least 1,130 commercial and residential properties were damaged in Karawal Nagar and Yamuna Vihar. The police said they are awaiting the survey report from other areas such as Seelampur and Shahdara. The government has so far disbursed Rs 21.93 crore against the damages claims while 185 claims are still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/violence-began-with-stone-pelting-at-maujpur-metro-station-riots-charge-sheet/story-t9QzDCNVTSdDDB0tUK3xbM.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Over 101k recoveries, 40 deaths in home isolation in Delhi so far, data shows||More than 123,000 Covid-19 patients have been treated under home isolation in Delhi, of whom 101,916 have recovered so far, and 40 have died, data available till September 17 from the directorate general of health services (DGHS) showed.The report also stated that between June 22 and September 17, a total of 54,251 pulse oximeters were given to Covid-19 patients under home isolation. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced on June 22 that pulse oximeters will be given to all Covid-19 patients being treated at home.Of the total patients prescribed home isolation, 2% had to be shifted to hospitals or Covid health centres as their condition worsened. Experts who reviewed the home isolation numbers said Delhi’s strategy has been “fairly successful”, with several other states implementing it after initially making institutional quarantine mandatory for all Covid-19 patients including asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms.“The idea of distributing pulse oximeters also seems to have worked in Delhi since the number of patients who had to be shifted to hospitals is just 2,474 out of 123,000 home isolation patients. Only around 0.032% patients in home isolation have died, which is also commendable. The practice of health care experts making follow-up calls initiated in Delhi is the key to treating Covid-19 at home because one cannot do away with medical supervision in a disease like this,” said Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research.At least 346,819 calls were made to patients in home isolation till Thursday, as part of the Delhi government’s tele-counselling scheme.But other experts argued that, ideally, no patients in home isolation should die.Dr T Jacob John, a retired professor of clinical virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore said, “If there is any death under home isolation, it only means there was neglect. The main cause of death in such cases is usually complications related to the reduction in oxygen saturation levels. The surveillance should be so strict that no senior citizen, even if asymptomatic, should be allowed home isolation, because they are the ones who die without showing any Covid pneumonia symptoms,” he said.As per the national guidelines for home isolation, which are followed in Delhi as well, elderly patients aged more than 60 years are allowed home isolation, but only after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer. John emphasised that the proper evaluation by the medical officers becomes very significant in such cases and that there should not be any lapses in the process.Data also showed that Northwest district, which has the highest case load of all 11 districts in Delhi, has the most patients under home isolation (22,435), recoveries (19,397) as well as deaths (11) under the same category. This was followed by west district, which had a total of 16,648 patients in home isolation till September 17.Only New Delhi and Southwest districts reported zero deaths under home isolation, as of September 17, while north district had the highest ratio of deaths with five of the total 7,987 patients under home isolation dying.Kant said the concept of home isolation helps the city take the load off hospitals.“This way, serious patients are treated and given better attention in the hospitals,” he said.As per Wednesday’s health bulletin, the number of Covid-19 patients in Delhi who are in home isolation fell by 1,379 as compared to Monday. On Wednesday, 17,834 persons were under home isolation, as compared to 19,213 on Monday. On Tuesday, the number had dropped by 750 compared to Monday, which was a decline recorded after nearly a month of a steady rise in such cases.Since last week of August, both the number of home isolation cases and containment zones have shown a steadily rise, except on September 19 when the count of home isolation cases was 18,648, a very marginal fall from the previous day’s figure of 18,701. However, this Tuesday, for the first time in nearly 30 days, home isolation case count fell by a sizeable margin of 749, to 18,646.The Delhi government said in addition to pulse oximeters it has now also started to provide oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients under home isolation who ask for it. “Our home isolation concept is perhaps the first of its kind not just in India but in the world. Our teams continue to contact each home isolation patient two to three times a day to check their body temperature, oxygen levels and symptoms, if any. It has also boosted the number of tests in the city as people are no longer afraid that testing positive for Covid-19 would mean having to be locked up in institutional quarantine. Since over 80% of Covid-positive persons in Delhi have been asymptomatic, it helped them recover in the comfort of their home and loved ones,” a government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-101k-recoveries-40-deaths-in-home-isolation-in-delhi-so-far-data-shows/story-3ERbvUnBUEvythJ81ezb5N.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Crimes in Delhi up 275% from 2013: CAG report||Crime incident in Delhi increased by 275% in 2019 compared to 2013 even as “acute shortage” of manpower put the force under “tremendous strain” with average daily duty hours ranging from 12 to 15 hours against the prescribed eight hours, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report on manpower and logistics management in Delhi Police which was tabled in Parliament on Wednesday. The report says that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had approved 12,518 posts in the city police with advice to operationalise 3,139 posts first and then the remaining 9379 posts after deployment of 3139 personnel on ground.“…..However, due to failure of Delhi Police to recruit against these 3,139 posts, the remaining 9,379 approved posts could not be operationalised (August 2020). We found the functioning of the Delhi Police being affected by shortage in manpower,” a press release issued by the CAG quoted the report as saying.A Delhi Police spokesperson said, “We have now initiated a proposal for recruiting nearly 5,800 constables. The recruitment process is on.” According to the CAG release, the registration of heinous crimes such as murder, robbery, rape in Delhi increased sharply between 2013 and 2015 (from 4,159 to 11,187 in 2015). However, after 2015, registration of such crimes has been constantly decreasing, showing a positive trend. The police registered 5,185 henious crimes in 2019 compared to 4,159 in 2013.Former Delhi Police commissioner Neeraj Kumar said he higher crime figures should never be seen as the index of performance of the police as it is the “easiest to meddle with these numbers” and underreport them to show the law and order situation to be improving.He said that while the police would do well to fill the existing vacancies, the answer does not lie in the numbers, but in the utilisation of the existing resources. “The more the number of police personnel, the more lax is the control of the police leadership over them. Instead, the leadership must use technology as a force multiplier and better utilise their existing personnel,” said Kumar.After Neeraj Kumar retired on July 31, 2013, BS Bassi, Alok Verma and Amulya Patnaik served as Delhi Police commissioners before SN Shrivastava became the police chief in March this year.According to the CAG audit, only one out of 72 police stations had staff as per the norms prescribed by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D). In other police stations, there was a manpower shortage of up to 35%.Outdated communication system According to the CAG report, the increasing number of blank calls received in the police control room (PCR) has been a major irritant affecting the performance of the emergency response system but a “satisfactory solution has not been found”.The audit found that the city police have been using a 20-year-old trunking system (APCO), which is 10 years beyond its normal life span. The proposals for upgradation of these sets were initiated 10 years ago, but even tenders have not been finalised yet, the top auditor says in the report.“The number of wireless sets under the conventional system declined from 9,638 in June 2009 to 6,172 in June 2019 as the sets condemned during the period were not regularly replaced,” the report says.It also pointed out that the police have installed 3,870 CCTV cameras at strategic locations across the city, but the percentage of cameras functioning satisfactorily is abysmally low with 31% to 44% cameras being defunct. The police spokesperson said, “A proposal for procuring a new and advanced communication system is at the advanced stage in the ministry of home affairs.” The CAG says that despite being Delhi’s specialised counter terror unit, the special cell lacked vehicles, protective equipment like bulletproof jackets, and arms and ammunition, which are vital for quick, real-time response.Problems with digital initiatives In its report, the CAG has pointed out the Delhi Police’s Himmat (Plus), women safety mobile application, witnessed a lukewarm response from the users despite a sizeable expenditure (₹ 18.5 lakh on development and ₹6.82 crore on publicity).“Out of a total 1.66 lakh downloads of Himmat/Himmat Plus app, there were 1.32 lakh uninstalls leaving only about 0.34 lakh users as of May 2019, which was much less as compared to users of women safety apps of Bengaluru Police (50,482) and Maharashtra Police (84,000),” says the report.The police spokesperson said, “More citizen-centric mobile applications are being added for effective and transparent functioning of police. It is for the public to use such facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crimes-in-delhi-up-275-from-2013-cag-report/story-rseuhpQhIqbzZnTJ0gFKzH.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||CPIM urges govt to take steps to address mental health crisis||Keeping in mind the recent suicide by a Covid-19 patient at a Shimla hospital, Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPIM) has urged the state government to take steps to cope up mental health crisis in state.In a memorandum submitted to state health minister Rajiv Saizal, CPIM said that job loss, prolonged isolation, increase in domestic violence, fear and consequence of contracting the infection, and uncertainty regarding vaccine has led to upsurge in mental health issues ranging from distress, depression, anxiety and in some cases, deaths due to suicide.Population most affected include those already facing mental health issues, people who have recovered from covid, frontline healthcare workers, youth, physically challenged, women, workers of unorganised sector and the elderly. CPIM state secretariat member Kuldip Singh Tanwar said without proper physiological support at hospitals and covid care centres patients, attendants, non-covid patients and healthcare workers are becoming victim of stress and anxiety.“Resultant anger and anguish is being directed towards overworked, stressed and burned-out healthcare workers. Given that this situation is likely to persist in the near future, immediate actions need to be taken,” he said.The party also placed some suggestions and proposals before the government. CPIM urges government to deploy mental health specialists and counsellors in isolation, quarantine and covid care centres to ensure good mental health of people put under isolation and quarantine along with heathcare workers and attendants, said Tanwar.“Psycho-social support teams should be formed in all 12 districts,” he said. He stressed on strengthening mental health care system by appointing psychiatrists, psychiatric social workers, clinical psychologists, social workers and counsellors on short-term basis and organise training and capacity building.“Undertake statewide awareness campaigns to cope with stress, depression and suicide ideation by involving different departments including education, women and child development, and social and voluntary organisations,” Tanwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cpim-urges-govt-to-take-steps-to-address-mental-health-crisis/story-QmdcNVe9tbU53cqULGOU6O.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||DM Jammu declares different areas as containment, red zones||In view of the situation emerging due to spike in Covid-19 cases, Jammu district magistrate Sushma Chauhan declared different localities in district as containment and red zones on Wednesday.As per orders issued by Jammu district magistrate, Muthi Gaon, near minibus stand and Purkhoo Camp, north falling under police station Domana, Rajpura and Lane no 6, near Government School New Plot falling under police station Bakshi Nagar, Ram Vihar Ward no 35, Janipur falling under police station Janipur, Rajiv Nagar, Narwal falling under police station Trikuta Nagar, near KC Hyundai, Channi Rama falling under police station Trikuta Nagar, Channi, Ward no 40, Poonch House, Talab Tillo falling under police station Nawabad, Ward no 9, RS Pura (Chohala Mohalla) falling under police station RS Pura, Nai Basti, and Gajansoo Marh falling under police station Kanna Chak have been declared as containment areas and red zones.According to orders, the SOP issued by state executive committee vide order number 38-JK-DMRRR of 2020 dated April 14, will be applied to the said areas.These areas will be under strict lockdown and tight perimeter control except for essential needs. There will be no movement, whatsoever, in and out of the containment zones.All business establishments, except medical shops will remain closed in the containment/red zone. However, for any medical emergency, individuals can contact the 24x7 control room at 0191-2571616, 0191-2571912 and necessary facilitation shall be done.As per orders, it will be mandatory for people residing in designated containment zones to get themselves tested and any refusal in this regard shall invite action including filing of FIR under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act.Magistrate and SHO concerned will ensure that 100% sampling and testing is done.Any violation of this order will invite punitive action under Section 188 of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dm-jammu-declares-different-areas-as-containment-red-zones/story-8wjOF6cc9eBLroTfMvo2eN.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 3-year-old killed after SUV hits rickshaw||A three-year-old boy died after a SUV allegedly crashed into a rickshaw he was travelling in near sector 37 D on Tuesday morning. Police said the ’killer’ car driver was arrested and later released on bail. According to the police, the incident took place around 9am on Tuesday when the victim Harish, 25, a native of Rajasthan, had gone to Basai Enclave, along with his two sons, aged three and four, in his rickshaw. In the police complaint, Harish, said, “I stay in the slums on Basai road. On Tuesday, I had gone to Basai Enclave with my sons to fill water in some drums. We were returning to our house and had reached a road in sector 37D, when the incident took place. As I drove the rickshaw towards the crossing, a car crashed into it from the rear.” He added that due to the collision, the rickshaw lost balance and his three-year-old son fell on the road. “My son sustained severe head injuries. Several commuters immediately gathered around and nabbed the driver of the SUV. I took my injured son to a hospital in Kadipur in the car of the suspect but the doctors declared my son dead on arrival there. The incident took place due to rash driving by the driver,” Harish said.A police official, privy to the investigation said, “The car driver has been arrested and released on bail. We have registered a case and a probe has been initiated.” A case was registered against the driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code at sector 10 A police station on Tuesday, said police. Motorcyclist killed in accident on Golf Course Road In another incident, a 35-year-old man, who worked as a carpenter, was killed while his friend suffered minor injuries after a car brushed against their motorcycle on Golf Course Road (GCR) near a metro station in DLF Cyber City. Police said the motorcyclist succumbed to his injuries at a government hospital in Delhi on Tuesday. According to the police, the victim, Sunil Kumar, a native of Azamgarh, Uttar Pradesh, and his friend, Pawan Kumar, were on their way to a relative’s house on Monday around 3.25pm. They were about to take a U-turn near a metro station on GCR in DLF Phase 2, when the incident took place. A police officer, privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “Sunil was riding the motorcycle, while Pawan was riding pillion. In the statement, Pawan said that as they were about to turn, a car arrived and hit them from the side. Sunil suffered serious injuries and was rushed to a private hospital in DLF Phase 3. He was later referred to a hospital in Delhi, where he died on Tuesday.” Police said the complainant, Pawan, suffered minor injuries on his legs and ear and is stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-3-year-old-killed-after-suv-hits-rickshaw/story-TCZV4YQTTlkYOn2NzvA8MO.html
24-09-2020||Pune||Dry swab test: Four months on, CSIR awaits ICMR approval||Pune: Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) director general Dr Shekhar Mande has termed delay in approving the dry swab test as “shame” while asserting that bureaucratic delay is hindering Science in the country. The CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) had announced dry swab in June though lack of approval from Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) blocking the entry of new method, which according to Mande, can save Rs 100 crore a day. Mande while speaking during Pune International Centre’s for Society series lecture on Tuesday said that dry swab test for Covid-19 has received positive response and yet it is still awaiting regulatory approval even after four months. The dry swab tests, according to Mande, have established its efficacy in multiple laboratories, including Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), Hyderabad; IISER Berhampur (Odisha) and Pune- based Armed Force Medical College. “What we needed in the country is to get Science rid of all the bureaucracy that exists. In fact, one thing that hinders Science in India is our bureaucracy. We had announced dry swab in June and yet on today’s date, we don’t have regulatory approval for one reason or the other. It’s a shame,” Mande said. ICMR scientist said what Mande claimed was incorrect. Dr Nivedita Gutpa, ICMR scientist at its epidemiology and communicable diseases department and the one who is responsible for testing augmentation said, “This information is incorrect. I have flagged this with DG ICMR.” Dr Gupta said ICMR will tweet its response though there was no update on Twitter till the time going to press. The dry swab method is the same as RT-PCR except it does not require nasopharyngeal swabs to be immersed in Viral Transport Medium (VTM). Under the RT-PCT test, nasopharyngeal collected from patients are immersed in viral transform medium followed by RNA extraction. The RNA then is subjected to RTPCR, which is considered gold standard across the world. Under the new method, scientists of CSIR-CCMB have generated a simplified protocol where dry swabs are collected and directly used for RT-PCR. “This method has been established to have no loss of sensitivity and is on par with the current gold standard of testing,” director Rakesh Mishra was quoted by CSIR on its website. Established in 1942, CSIR is an autonomous research and development organisation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi being its president. According to Mande, Armed Forces Medical College in Pune tried the dry swab test method and informed CSIR about its efficacy. “In fact, AFMC in Pune has now told us that the test works very efficiently.” Hindustan Times has sent an email query to AFMC and is awaiting response. Mande said that the dry swab test is cheaper by about half of RT-PCR. Mishra in his interaction had also explained that dry swab method will allow testing of more than 36 lakh people with recurring cost of Rs 3,740 crore. “Our method does not need any new reagent, equipment or training. What it says is: do differently, in a simpler manner, and skip a few items and steps,” Mishra had said. Earlier last week, Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) gave nod to India’s first Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic (CRISPR) Covid-19 test for commercial launch, said Mande. This is developed by Tata and powered by CSIR-IGIB (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology) FELUDA (an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor-Limited Uniform Detection Assay).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-months-on-csir-awaits-icmr-approval-for-dry-swab-test/story-5zRuiRddXUwvQy3tY4X7yK.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Vehicle emissions fell to 5% in early lockdown: Study||Contribution of vehicular emissions to Delhi’s PM 2.5 concentrations reduced from 19% during the pre-lockdown period to only 5% during the lockdown period between March 25 and 17. It again increased to 15% during phase 3 of the lockdown in May, a new analysis has shown.The impact of the nationwide lockdown to halt spread of Covid-19 starting March 25 was visible on Delhi’s air quality but a source apportionment study commissioned by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to IIT Kanpur and IIT Delhi has revealed what exactly changed during the various phases of lockdown until May. The study was referred to by CPCB in its report titled “Impact of Lockdown on Ambient Air Quality” released on Wednesday.Vehicular emissions, local coal and waste burning and urban organic aerosols (generated from urban sources) reduced sharply from the pre-lockdown phase into lockdown phase and were found to be steadily rising again with increasing relaxations under the Centre’s Unlock plan.The share of biomass burning reduced 21% in the pre-lockdown period to 17% during the initial lockdown phase until April 17. The share of contribution from power plants increased from 10% before lockdown to 25% in the lockdown period. This could be because of decrease in contribution from other sources, the report said.The source apportionment study was conducted in four phases--pre-lockdown (February 19 to March 24), lockdown phase-1 (March 25 to April 17), lockdown phase-2 (April 18 to May 3) and phase-3 (May 4 to May 18). Maximum restrictions had been imposed during the first phase of lockdown.It was also observed that contribution from vehicular emissions in PM2.5 levels were found to be higher (14%) only in the pre-lockdown phase, while for all consequent phases the factor was found to contribute only in trace amounts. Similarly, both the coal combustion and waste incineration sources decreased steadily during lockdown months.Black carbon which is primarily contributed from biomass burning and traffic emissions in total PM2.5 composition dropped from 12% during pre-lockdown period to 6-8% during lockdown phases.Secondary chloride remained unaffected by the lockdown. “This is a research question as to why secondary chloride concentrations didn’t change. Secondary chloride is generated due to various other chemical compounds which may have chloride in them interacting with each other. We are still studying this,” said SN Tripathi, head, civil engineering department, IIT-Kanpur.Air quality in Delhi had improved compared to 2019 even during the pre-lockdown period in 2020. This may be due to meteorological conditions as well as the fact that a few restrictions such as those on cinema halls, schools, colleges, etc. were already in place during the first half of March, the CPCB report said. PM2.5 (fine, respirable pollution particles) levels reduced by 24% during the pre-lockdown phase, it further reduced by almost 50% during both lockdown phases as compared to levels observed during 2019. PM10 (coarse pollution particles) reduced by a massive 60%, with nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels falling by 64%, benzene by 62% and sulphur dioxide (SO2) by 35%, during the second phase of lockdown as compared to levels in the same time period in 2019.“Real time source apportionment shows us the immediate effect of taking action against pollution sources. It can be a very important tool for decision making because it also shows how toxicity of emissions reduces with stopping of certain emissions and hence having health benefits,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicle-emissions-fell-to-5-in-early-lockdown-study/story-vsZs9BnufstZ19rOoEIDPN.html
24-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 38 villages oppose being brought under MCG’s jurisdiction, to hold protests||Residents of 38 villages in the district — that are proposed to be brought under MCG’s jurisdiction — have opposed the move and said that they will stage a protest against it on Thursday. The members of a joint action committee of 38 villages on Wednesday said that 80 per cent land in these villages was still agricultural and there was no reason to bring them under the jurisdiction of an urban local body as the people were satisfied under the Panchayati Raj system. As per the committee, the 38 villages proposed to be brought under MCG are located in Gurugram, Sohna and Farruknagar tehsils. Twenty-seven of these villages are in Gurugram, seven in Sohna and four in Farruknagar block. These villages have about 3 to 4 lakh population living in them and the panchayats also have sufficient amount of funds with them, members said. “A large number of people will gather at Zila Parishad office on Thursday morning and then go to the mini-secretariat to submit a memorandum of our demands to the deputy commissioner. This transfer to MCG will be opposed strongly as this step is not in the interest of local people,” said Virender Singh ‘biru sarpanch’, while addressing a press conference on Wednesday afternoon. The members of the committee alleged that condition of villages, which had come under the jurisdiction of MCG after it came the corporation was formed in 2009, was pathetic. “Around 40 villages went to MCG and lost their land and their funds available with the panchayat. It seems the current government is also eyeing around 7,000 acres of land and over Rs 900 crore, which is currently held by the 38 panchayats,” said Sunder Lal Yadav, sarpanch, Sikanderpur Barha and also the president of district sarpanch association. The members of joint action committee also said that the panchayats in these villages have constructed public health centres, schools, chaupals and other community facilities and they apprehended that a takeover by MCG will downgrade the existing facilities, as had been the experience in several villages earlier. “We have been warned by sarpanches and residents of villages, which are currently under MCG, to fight against this move as it will damage the existing ecosystem, which is serving us well,” said Yadav. The committee members said they would approach MP Rao Inderjit Singh, and MLAs of Gurugram district to seek support for their demand and to ensure that government does not take this decision forward. Gurugram Mayor Madhu Azad —when asked about the opposition to the proposed extension — said that this proposal has been made by the government and the house was informed regarding this in the last meeting. “We have not received any memorandum or met any delegation in this matter till now. However, if people of these villages have reservations regarding extension of jurisdiction then we will certainly consider it and take up the matter with higher authorities and the chief minister,” said Azad. She, however, said that extension of municipal limits was a gradual process and it happens over time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-38-villages-oppose-being-brought-under-mcg-s-jurisdiction-to-hold-protests/story-WF5dAqSPve4MKjAV77UHkL.html
24-09-2020||Delhi||Headhunting at DU hit by pandemic, only 138 students placed this year||With the recruitment season finally coming to an end at most Delhi University (DU) colleges, institutes are assessing the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the recruitment process this year.The university’s central placement cell, which placed over 1,160 students last year, was able to place only 138 students this year. Hena Singh, the in-charge of the placement cell, said this was due to the restrictions imposed during the Covid-19 lockdown.“We had planned to hold recruitments for over 2,500 students as we had tied up with several companies that were interested in bulk recruitments. But the hiring process involved the conduct of large-scale tests -- something that could not be done online. Also, the delay in announcing the results of final-year students impacted the numbers,” Singh said.Also Read: DU Admissions 2020: ‘ECA trials should be held with all Covid related precautions’Generally, exams for final-year students are completed by May or June. This year, in the wake of the pandemic, and a subsequent change in the exam pattern, several exams are still ongoing for a section of students and the results of all students are expected only by October or November.“We have been getting proposals for holding recruitments again and it may start again. Since the Covid-19 crisis has given rise to an unprecedented situation, graduating students should be given another chance and we will be holding discussions on what can be done,” Singh, who teaches at Miranda House, said.At Miranda House, the highest annual package this year was Rs18 lakh per annum as compared to Rs20 lakh per annum last year. The average package, however, rose from Rs6 lakh per annum to Rs7.33 lakh per annum.Also Read: Delhi University and Delhi govt again spar over funding of state collegesIshita Bhatia, president of the placement cell at Miranda House, said, “The placement process turned sluggish between March and May (lockdown period). However, it has picked up since August and companies are recruiting from the graduating batch of 2020.” Even colleges that fared better than last year are feeling the sting of the pandemic. In a placement report released by the Shri Ram College of Commerce on Tuesday, the college said the highest offer its students received this year was Rs31 lakh per annum; the same as last year. The average package this year stood at Rs8.4 lakh per annum -- a jump of Rs2 lakh per annum from last year. Also, more number of recruiters came to the campus this year. The highest package offered during the lockdown period of May to June was Rs17 lakh per annum and the average package during that period was Rs6.77 lakh per annum.Principal Simrit Kaur said the placement team was working closely with students whose offers were rescinded by companies. “Some students approached us after global companies rescinded on the offers made to them. In the case of smaller companies, our teams interacted with employers and tried to renegotiate the offers.”Sanshita Vij, student coordinator for placements at SRCC, said, “A noticeable change this year included a shift towards remote hiring and aggressive hiring to the divisions of sales and marketing, and business development by smaller startups. Bigger recruiters were more conservative.”At Lady Shri Ram College for Women, the highest package stood at ₹30 lakh per annum this year and the average package stood at ₹9.4 lakh per annum. Last year, the highest package offered was ₹37.8 lakh per annum.Arvind Kumar, convener of the placement cell at the college, said this was due to the Covid-19 crisis. “Few offers, less than 5%, were also revoked due to the crisis. Current aspirants should hone their IT skills which are going to gain more importance in the times to come,” he said.While the highest package at St Stephen’s College last year was ₹29 lakh per annum, this year the number dropped to ₹26 lakh per annum. The average base pay package for both the years, however, only had marginal difference with the amount standing at ₹10.25 lakh per annum this year.Shankar Kumar, faculty in charge of the placement cell at Hindu College, said, “Our college’s average salary increased by ₹1 lakh per annum from last year. If we look at the placement figures of top DU colleges, it won’t synchronise with the 23% fall in India’s GDP in the first quarter. The placement figures haven’t changed much from last year as companies that largely recruit from top colleges are from sectors such as information technology or accounting. These businesses were not affected by the pandemic as compared to other sectors such as service industry or tourism.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/headhunting-at-du-hit-by-pandemic-could-only-place-138-students-this-year-says-recruitment-cell/story-fgfwhTN3BJslapWTT1YuRN.html
24-09-2020||Pune||Three arrested for illegally selling Remdesivir at a private hospital in Pune||Three persons, including a woman, were arrested on Wednesday for illegally selling Remdesivir injection, used for treatment of Covid-19, at a private hospital in Akurdi. The trio was identified as Vaishali Kunkar, Vijay Ranjane and Shahid Jabbar Shaikh. The men are ward boys and the woman is a security guard at the hospital, according to the police. “A complaint was lodged by a person whose friend’s father needed medicine for which they were approached by one of the accused. The trio took extra money to provide the medicine. They did not work at the medicine sale department,” said senior inspector Ganesh Javadvad of Nigdi police station. The complainant is a 19-year-old owner of an electronic store who lost his mother to Covid-19 while she was undergoing treatment at the same hospital between August 19 and August 23. Of the eight injections that he had paid for during his mother’s treatment, two were missing. The security guard, one of the accused, had sold the two injections to him at a hiked price, the complaint told the police. “As the complainant had paid a higher price for injections when his mother was admitted at the hospital, he caught the accused red-handed while fleecing his friend before filing a late-night application at the police station. The arrested ward boys used to take prescription and bring medicine. They used to steal one injection every day. They later sold it at a high price to patients who have already paid for it,” said assistant inspector Prashant Aradwad of Nigdi police station. A case under Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Drugs and Cosmetic Act was registered at Nigdi police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-illegally-selling-remdesivir-at-a-private-hospital-in-pune/story-F5zd9rmj2FgiFi2StgSZSJ.html
24-09-2020||Pune||IMA seeks clarification on admission of patients from the state government||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has sought clarification from the state government regarding the admission of Covid-19 patients to private hospitals. The IMA points to the state notification dated September 18, which it claims discourages patients being admitted to private hospitals without an RT-PCR test, and only on the results of the rapid antigen test. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra chapter, said, “There are several points in the same notification which need clarification. The notification says that a couple of patients are admitted in private hospitals without an RT-PCR test, but only on rapid antigen tests. Does this mean that if a rapid antigen test of a person comes positive, is it not sufficient reason to admit? Is there any notification by the state or ICMR regarding that? If a positive RT PCR is the only criterion to admit the patient, why is the government carrying out rapid antigen tests?” Point four of the notification says, “It has been noticed that there are hospitals admitting patients who have not been tested as per RT-PCR and have been diagnosed based on rapid antigen tests or HRCT.” Dr Bhondwe said, “This point criticises that some patients are being admitted with HRCT reports. If in the initial clinical examination of a suspected patient HRCT shows evidence of Severe Bilateral Viral Pneumonitis, which is internationally accepted as a positive sign of the Sars-Cov-2 infection, should the hospital not admit? The results of the RTPCR test take a minimum of 24 hours, to three days at times. Still, as per your instructions the patient is not to be admitted? There are a large number of such cases when the RTPCR test turns positive after four days or remains negative, since there is no Viral Flora in the throat.” The Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra chapter had issued a strongly worded letter asking the state government to withdraw the notification, after which, the state government issued a clarification. The notification also says that hospitals that are not on the list of designated Covid health care centres are treating Covid positive patients, but also consuming a large amount of oxygen. This activity needs to be curbed immediately. The IMA has objected to the same saying that the association that is the local authority is not taking action against such hospitals if they are consuming a lot of oxygen. The IMA letter to the government dated September 22 said that these might be hospitals with ICU serving the community at large and must be supported with corrective measures to register them as Covid hospitals. The IMA has been in an open disagreement with the state government since the beginning of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ima-seeks-clarification-on-admission-of-patients-from-the-state-government/story-JjtSyFmJ32epkQuqIOjs4O.html
24-09-2020||Pune||State’s October 1 estimates for Pune show shortage of beds, manpower||Pune: The director of health services (DHS) has projected that Pune district will report about 3.23 lakh Covid-19 by October 1, and also deficit in the number of ventilators, oxygenated beds and even isolation beds. Although the district administration is adding more beds each day, shortage of manpower and expertise to take care of these extra patients is a major problem. As per the estimated projection by DHS, Pune district will report about a total of 323,539 Covid-19 cases, of which 67,894 will be active and the remaining 6,697 will be reported dead while 248,948 would have recovered. The estimates also project that going by the number of cases that are estimated to be reported from the district, Pune might face a deficit of over 2,300 isolation beds, 1,500 oxygenated beds and 200 ventilators. The estimate does not project any shortage of ICU beds without ventilators. The projection, when compared to the previous projection done for September 14, shows a positive trend with reduced percentage in case fatality and active cases while the recovery rate is seen to be improving. However, even as the number of cases is increasing, the administration is struggling to increase the bed capacity. To improve the bed capacity, the administration is likely to order private hospitals with available isolation beds to convert them into oxygenated beds. The earlier projection by the DHS for Pune as of September 14, is very close to the real figures that were reported by the state health department. As per the state health department’s September 14 press note, the district reported 235,419 total cases of which 152,297 were recoveries and the remaining 4,838 were declared dead and 78,284 were undergoing treatment. The projected figures for September 14 were total cases 230,194, recoveries 172,311, deaths 5,610 and active cases 52,272. The predicted deficit in infra for the same date was isolation beds 198, oxygenated beds 1,984, ICU beds 145 and number of ventilators 348. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “We have been successful in adding 850 beds without O2, 545 beds with O2 and 39 ventilators since last Friday. Also, we are increasing the capacity of Sassoon General Hospital which has total 540 beds for Covid-19 patients and is undergoing repair works. Once the work is over, we will provide enough doctors and other paramedic staff and increase the capacity to over 800 beds. Also, we will add beds in DY Patil hospital, Baner Covid facility, COEP jumbo facility and add ventilators and other facilities.” During an online press meet, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We are increasing beds in rural areas too which has seen a fall in case fatality rate. By adding more beds in these areas, the stress on city hospitals will reduce.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-government-projects-over-3-23-lakh-cases-in-pune-district-by-oct-1-shortage-of-beds-manpower-estimated/story-9NfRzRD6ImdoCV2q7VSKvM.html
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||54-year-old woman dies by suicide in Covid isolation ward of Shimla hospital||A 54-year-old woman, diagnosed with coronavirus infection, hung herself in the isolation ward of Deen Dayal Upadhaya Hospital here on Wednesday. This is the first case in the state where a Covid patient has committed suicide in a hospital, police said. A resident of Chaupal in Shimla district, she tested positive for Covid-19 on September 18, after which she was referred to the hospital and admitted to the isolation ward, police said. The victim, a widow, hung herself from a balcony of the hospital with a dupatta (scarf) around 12.05am and was found dead by hospital staff who informed the police and her son. Her son said she was suffering from hypertension and frequent headaches, for which she was being treated at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. He said he did not suspect foul play. However, he said the staff had been negligent and demanded that an FIR be registered against the hospital. “My mother was killed due to negligence. No doctors had attended her since her hospitalisation on September 18. The staff had refused to attend her in the isolation ward saying they cannot use a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit for a single patient. She was traumatised with the treatment meted out to her by hospital staff,” he said. Negligence allegations grow shriller Multiple patients and their family members have levelled allegations of negligence against different hospitals in the state since the outbreak of the virus. A Covid patient who was hospitalised at Indira Gandhi Medical College died after he took a fall on September 10. His family members had alleged that the patient had been neglected. Not just laymen but politicians have also complained that the staff were negligent. Himachal Pradesh jal shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur, a senior minister in the state cabinet, had left IGMC alleging the staff were negligent after he had tested positive. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. You can reach Mental Health and Rehabilitation Centre, Boileauganj, Shimla, at 0177-2633601 or visit www.hhmhrshimla.org.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/54-year-old-woman-commits-suicide-in-covid-isolation-ward-of-shimla-hospital/story-DSQvoYOio3l19JrlZqWgSJ.html
24-09-2020||Mumbai||Sonneratia alba species declared state mangrove tree of Maharashtra||The state government on Tuesday declared Sonneratia alba, or the mangrove apple, the official state mangrove tree. Maharashtra is the first coastal state in India to declare a state mangrove tree species to enhance conservation of the salt-tolerant vegetation. The government resolution (GR) issued on Tuesday noted that the state’s coastline benefits from mangrove vegetation and read, “Students and general public should be made aware about the importance of mangroves, and their support for the protection and conservation of these trees. Accordingly, the Maharashtra government declares Sonneratia alba as the state mangrove tree.” Sonneratia alba is an evergreen mangrove species that grows up to five feet; has white flowers with a pink base; and bears distinctive green apples as fruits. They often grow on newly-formed mudflats playing an important role in combating land erosion. The fruit is used to make pickles. Of the 60 mangrove species found globally, Maharashtra is home to 20. On August 7, the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL) had approved a proposal for the declaration by the state mangrove cell under the forest department. “Mangrove presence is prominent along our coastline acting as shield against natural disasters and crucial in terms of carbon storage. More so, a large area near our urban centres has mangrove cover. Declaring a state mangrove tree gives our effort to protect this ecosystem a further boost,” said Aaditya Thackeray, state environment and tourism minister. Milind Mhaiksar, principal secretary (forest) said, “It is a welcome step which shows sensitivity as well as aesthetic recognition towards the important ecosystem of mangroves. The state is also on a fast track to complete the final notification of mangrove areas as reserved forest, and also hand over these zones to the forest department.” In Mumbai, the mangrove cell documented the species along Thane creek, Bhandup, Vasai and Dombivli along major mudflats. “The idea was to select a species which was neither extremely rare nor common, which could help us spread awareness among local communities and public at large about mangrove conservation,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell). Experts said mangrove apple had the potential to thrive and the species and instinctively equips itself with a defence mechanism to fight future sea level rise where the state’s dominant species Avicennia could fail. “This declaration is symbolic both of our hope to fight climate change through nature-based solutions and the best way to do it that is through a community-based conservation strategy” said N Vasudevan, former mangrove cell head. MANGROVE CELL FRONTLINE STAFF SUCCUMBS TO COVID-19 Security personnel of the Maharashtra State Security Corporation (MSSC) Tushar Shivaji Aavhad, 31, died at Sion Hospital on Monday. He is the first of the state mangrove cell’s on-ground, frontline staff to succumb to Covid-19. “Aavhad died due to health complications (brain haemorrhage) which aggravated after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was a head guard deputed at Mandale for mangrove protection,” said DR Patil, divisional forest officer (mangrove cell). Two other officers (another MSSC security personnel and a range forest officer) have also tested positive for Covid-19 and been admitted to different hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sonneratia-alba-species-declared-state-mangrove-tree-of-maharashtra/story-VPM2J3RYQTsOMkypOPa2pO.html
