25-09-2020||Noida||To protest against reform bills, farmers block Delhi-Noida road at Sector 14A||Farmers from Noida Friday blocked the city’s border with Delhi for over two hours to protest against three farm reforms bills passed by Parliament last week, throwing traffic in the area out of gear till afternoon. A number of farmers bodies, under the aegis of Bharatiya Kisan Union, had come together to march from Noida to Delhi in support of the nationwide protest, but were stopped on the way by police.More than 150 farmers —all members of Bharatiya Kisan Union — reached Noida Gate near Mayur Vihar border around 11.45am, but were met by barricades that had been set up by Delhi Police personnel.Around 150 Delhi Police personnel — armed with anti-riot gear — were deployed at Chilla village on the border on Friday morning in a bid to prevent the agitating farmers from crossing over to the national capital. The deployment of Delhi Police personnel at Alipur on the Delhi-Haryana border was minimal.The farmers parked several tractors and cars on the Noida side of the border, completely halting vehicular movement from both sides. The protesters blocked the road till 2pm, slowing down vehicular movement on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, and forcing the police to divert traffic.According to Delhi deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh, traffic going towards Noida was diverted towards other border points, including New Ashok Nagar, Kondli, and Mayur Vihar Phase-3. Except the Chilla border, which was blocked for nearly three hours, all other routes connecting Noida from Delhi, including the Delhi-Noida Direct flyway, were open for motorists. The traffic diversion, however, caused some confusion among several motorists. At 12.44 pm, the Delhi Traffic tweeted a traffic alert, informing the public about the “obstruction in traffic at Chilla border due to demonstration.”However, the police, in a tweet two hours later, said that the traffic had returned to normal.Uttar Pradesh (UP) police officers spoke with leaders of the farmers’ groups in Noida, said Alok Kumar, joint commissioner of police (JCP), (eastern range), Delhi Police. The farmers were apprised about the guidelines of Unlock 4, which prohibits any kind of mass gathering or protests across the country, including the national capital, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic after which the protests were called off. The three farm bills approved by Parliament, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance; and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, have become contentious issues.The new laws aim to liberalise the agriculture sector by removing hurdles created by the Agriculture Marketing Produce Committee (AMPC) Act in direct procurement of agriculture produce by buyers and create a level-playing field for all, thereby allowing private players a bigger role in farm trade.Farmer bodies and opposition parties say that these reform bills take away price protection provided through Minimum Support Price (MSP), whereas the government maintains that MSP will remain in place and the bills will ensure higher remuneration for farmers.BKU’s NCR chapter president, Subhash Chaudhary said through the bills, the government will abolish mandis (agricultural produce marketing committees) and open avenues for corporates to directly access farmers’ produce. “There are no measures in the bills to ensure farmers are able to sell their produce at decent rates. The government should at least ensure that grains are bought at or above the MSP. The government is promoting capitalism with the bills, and hence farmers demand amendments in them,” he said.Ashok Bhati, spokesperson, BKU (Noida), said the farmers had held a symbolic protest in different districts of Uttar Pradesh on September 21 as well. “We had requested the government to address our grievances. The government ignored our demands hence we hit the streets,” he said. Bhati said the government framed the three bills— Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020—without consulting farmers and without safeguarding their interest.Vipin Pradhan,a farmer leader, said that the farmers submitted a memorandum to senior police officers demanding the three bills to be rolled back.Kumar Ranvijay, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said the protest was peaceful. “We had diverted the Delhi-bound traffic to DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj. The police personnel were also deployed at the DND Flyway loops and Noida Expressway to guide the commuters. Delhi Police had diverted Noida-bound traffic to internal roads,” he said.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Noida said arrangements were placed on time to divert the traffic in light of the protest and there were no jams on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/to-protest-against-reform-bills-farmers-block-delhi-noida-road-at-sector-14a/story-wWCGladGGXWpkI5bAWCehN.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Brakes had failed, claims driver of bus that crushed three to death in N-E Delhi||The driver of the speeding cluster bus that crushed three people to death and injured three others in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri late Thursday night, told police that the brakes of the vehicle had failed. Senior police officers said they are getting a mechanical inspection of the bus done, which will ascertain the driver’s claim.The accident took place around 9.30pm, police said. Three persons -- 12-year-old boy Karan from Mandoli, 22-year-old Ravinder Pal from Ghaziabad, and 40-year-old Amar Singh, a daily wager -- were killed by the speeding bus plying on Route Number 261 (between Sarai Kale Khan and Nand Nagri). Three injured persons, including a woman and 16-year-old boy, are still undergoing treatment at a hospital in north-east Delhi, the police said.Police said an irate crowd later vandalised the cluster bus and shouted slogans against Delhi Police. They blocked the road and even chased away a police van for “arriving late at the spot”. They also stopped an ambulance from taking the injured persons to a hospital. A video made on phone by an onlooker showed an irate crowd pulling off the ambulance the stretcher carrying an injured boy. In the video, a few people can be heard shouting slogans against the police and were seen blocking the road.The errant driver, Pushpender Singh, who had fled the spot on seeing “the angry crowd”, was arrested in the early hours of Friday, police said. He was booked for rash and negligent driving and for causing death due to negligence.Deputy commissioner of police (north-east) Ved Prakash Surya said Singh told the police that the brakes of the bus had failed while it was descending the ITI flyover with nearly 15 passengers on board and that led to the mishap. “The driver has said after the brakes failed, he first tried to stop the bus by driving it on to a concrete road divider. But the bus did not stop even after ramming the divider -- it went on to hit a mini truck. The driver then lost control of the vehicle and it crashed into a vendor’s cart and ran over a few pedestrians,” the DCP said.Surya said the police are verifying the driver’s claims about the sequence of events. “A mechanical inspection of the bus will be done to verify of the brakes had failed,” he said.Cluster buses are managed by private concessionaires and regulated by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System ( DIMTS).When asked about the brake failure of the bus, as alleged by the driver, DIMTS did not respond.Spokespersons of the Delhi government also did not offer comment on the matter on behalf of the transport department.Witnesses told the police that after hitting the mini truck, the bus rammed a vendor’s cart and hit a few more people before coming to a halt. Around six to seven were injured in the accident, of whom a man and a boy died on the spot while the third man died during treatment at Swami Dayanand Hospital.The incident also sparked a law and order situation as a mob of over 100 people vandalised the cluster bus and pelted stones on it. The mob also vented their anger on the personnel of a police patrolling van that had reached the spot. They chased the van away and blocked the main road,before staging a protest and shouting slogans against the police.DCP Surya said nearly 60 police personnel from three police stations and the reserve battalion were rushed to the spot to contain the situation and avoid further violence. “The agitators dispersed when they were assured of swift police action. Some minutes later, some women also arrived there to stage a protest and block the road. But we intervened and cleared the spot. The situation was brought under control within half an hour and no untoward incident has been reported since then,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/brakes-had-failed-claims-driver-of-bus-that-crushed-three-to-death-in-n-e-delhi/story-afSthHkG66N4dWrAUD9rJK.html
25-09-2020||City||Noida: Four arrested for e-commerce fraud; ₹17.62 lakh seized||Noida: Four suspects were arrested after they allegedly hacked the servers of a Noida-based digital marketing company and sent scores of bulk messages as advertisement to sell mobile phones and gadgets at a heavy discount, but then duped the customers in an online fraud.The suspects were arrested Thursday by teams from the cyber cell and Phase 3 police station in Noida’s Sector 100. The police recovered ₹17.62 lakh, ten mobile phones, five laptops, 12 debit cards, four Aadhaar cards, three PAN cards and two cheque books, among others.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that on August 24, a leading digital marketing company filed an FIR against unknown persons alleging that the suspects had hacked the company’s servers and sent scores of bulk messages to people.“The company is based in Sector 63. The suspects had hacked the company’s server and sent text messages to sell branded mobile phones at cheap rates. A number of people found the advertisement lucrative and paid the money online. However, the suspects did not deliver the goods,” Chander said. When the company noticed foul play, it filed a complaint at the Phase III police station. The police had registered a case against unknown persons under Section 420 (cheating) and Section 66 of the IT Act.Police said that they investigated the mobile phones and IP addresses allegedly used in this operation, based on which the suspects were identified. On Friday, the police arrested Ankit Ramola, and Harshit Ramola, who are residents of Pandav Nagar in Delhi; Akash Bansal, a resident of Sector Beta II in Greater Noida; and Akash Kansal, a resident of Hapur in Uttar Pradesh. Chander said the suspects allegedly also used to make fictitious websites and place lucrative advertisements. “They used to text and call vulnerable customers and offer heavy discounts. Once they got the money, they used to block the customer’s number and ignore their requests,” he said. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-four-arrested-for-e-commerce-fraud-17-62-lakh-seized/story-o81RBHKEmf2oTbtMeW8QaJ.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Special teams formed to bust betting rackets: Ludhiana police chief||With the Indian Premier League (IPL) in progress, miscreants involved in betting on cricket matches are back in business. On Thursday, the anti-smuggling wing arrested four men for accepting bets on the match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Mumbai Indians from a house in Rup Nagar of Basant City. The accused have been identified as Kapil Kumar of Dugri, Sanjiv Kumar of Dashmesh Nagar, Mohit Jaiswal of Star Colony and Manjot Singh of Dashmesh Nagar. Ten mobile phones, one LCD, a laptop and wi-fi dongle have been recovered from their possession.A case has been registered under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 120-B of Indian Penal Code and Sections 13 A, 3, 67 of Gambling Act at Sadar police station. During investigation, it was found that the accused procured mobile phone connections using fake identities.Police said that those involved in betting have a secure network of bookies and accept bets only within their circle. The day after the match, they collect and distribute payment as per the result.They added that betting rackets are being run from rented accommodations, hotel rooms and farm houses, and those involved are using mobile phones procured using fake identity to avoid being traced. Not only international cricket matches and IPL, bets are also being accepted on regional leagues and tournaments including Tamil Nadu Premier League.Ludhiana police chief Rakesh Agrawal said special teams have been formed to bust these rackets and they have also activated their informants’ network. He added that routine checks are also being conducted at farm houses and hotel rooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/special-teams-formed-to-bust-betting-rackets-ludhiana-police-chief/story-MiVWqtjIItOehsYUy5nhbJ.html
25-09-2020||City||Four burglars arrested in Noida; stolen valuables recovered||Noida: The police arrested four men for allegedly committing a series of burglaries in houses and factories in Noida. The suspects were identified as Ravi and Vishnu Thakur, residents of JJ Colony in Sector 8; Jai Prakash, a resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad; and Vijay Kumar, a resident of New Ashok Nagar in Delhi. Police recovered a Hyundai Accent car, seven stolen factory equipment, ₹12,400, an iron cutter, a countrymade gun, two live cartridges and a knife allegedly from their possession.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said the gang has allegedly been committing theft and burglaries frequently in Noida. “On Friday, the police received information that the suspects would be near Sector 8. A team from the Sector 20 police station was sent, which signalled the suspects to stop their car near the power house. The vehicle was searched and the police found unauthorised weapons and some stolen valuables,” he said. During interrogation the suspects allegedly revealed that they are part of a gang that commits thefts and burglaries in Noida, the officer added.Ranvijay said that on September 21, a factory in Sector 8 which had been robbed was allegedly the handiwork of the four arrested suspects. “During the robbery, the suspects had held a security guard at gunpoint. They later went to a different floor of the same building and decamped with ₹30,000 from another company’s office,” he said. The same factory had been burgled on August 19 as well. The owner had then filed a complaint against the security guard, and the Sector 20 police registered an FIR under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC and launched an investigation. They scanned CCTV footage from the premises and identified the suspects, which led to their arrest on Friday. Police found that the guard had no role in the robbery.Officers added that the arrested suspects also allegedly admitted to their role in the burglary in the same factory on August 19, as well as in a theft in a house on July 18 in Sector 27, and another on August 28 in Sector 6. “The four suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. An accomplice, Sarfaraz, a resident of Bijnor, is absconding,” Ranvijay said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-burglars-arrested-in-noida-stolen-valuables-recovered/story-G5y2YoZITJtiCltY6RuoNK.html
25-09-2020||Noida||Work on three new community centres begins in Noida||The Noida authority on Friday started work on three community centres with an aim to provide recreational facilities to residents in Sadarpur sector 43, Hoshiyarpur near sector 51 and Aghapur sector 49. The Gautam Budh Nagar Member of Parliament Dr Mahesh Sharma, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and the Noida authority general manager Rajiv Tyagi inaugurated these three projects on Friday.The authority has sanctioned and started work on these three projects after residents of these neighbourhood demanded for these facilities so that they can organize their community events, parties and wedding functions at reasonable rates, said officials.“As the work has been started at the site the authority will finish the work in next 18 months so that the residents can start using these facilities in their respective areas. The work on these three projects will be put on fast-track so that it is completed and delivered within the stipulated time frame,” said Rajiv Tyagi general manager of the Noida authority.The authority will spend Rs76.50 lakh on Aghapur community centre, Rs2.37 crore on Sadarpur sector 43 building and Rs59.60 lakh on community centre building to be built in Hoshiyarpur sector 51 area.Apart from this the authority also reviewed the progress on an underpass project that is being built near Kondli village at (19.400km distance from zero point) Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The four-lane underpass of 840 metres length is being built to provide seamless connectivity for the thousands of commuters, who use this stretch.“In last 2.5 months we have been doing construction on war footing. As a result we have completed 20% of construction work on this project. We feel that the work on this project will be completed even before the deadline if work goes with the same pace,” said Tyagi. The authority has fixed June, 2021 as the completion deadline of the underpass project that has a budget of Rs 44.89 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/work-on-three-new-community-centres-begins-in-noida/story-eda3a59PmjaOdHP0yPpl3O.html
25-09-2020||City||Centre unveils train design for high-speed RRTS corridor||Ghaziabad: The first look of regional rapid transit system (RRTS) trains, which will connect Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut, was unveiled Friday by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). The officials of the NCR Transport Corporation, the agency developing the RRTS, said the prototype is scheduled to roll off the production line in 2022.The first 82-kilometres stretch of RRTS, pegged at ₹30,274 crore, is under construction and a priority stretch of 17km is coming up in Ghaziabad, between Sahibabad and Duhai. The priority section of the corridor is targeted to be commissioned in 2023, while the entire corridor will be commissioned in 2025. RRTS is proposed to run high speed trains which will have a design speed of 180kmph, but the operation speed will be kept at 160kmph.“The rolling stock of India’s first RRTS has been designed with a vision to fulfil the aspirations of new India. The rolling stock will be energy-efficient, with about 30% regeneration during braking. NCRTC has awarded the rolling stock work with an integrated, long-term comprehensive maintenance by the manufacturer, thus leveraging the benefits of life cycle costing,” said Vinay Kumar Singh, managing director of NCRTC.The entire rolling stock for Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor will be manufactured at Bombardier’s Savli plant in Gujarat under the ‘Make in India’ initiative.For RRTS, NCRTC has proposed 30 trains of six coaches each, which will operate on the main RRTS track of 82kms. The corporation has also proposed 10 trains with three coaches each, which will serve as a local transit module in Meerut.Officials added that the state-of-the-art rolling stock will be the first of its kind in the country, and will have a radiating stainless steel outer body with an aerodynamic design. “The RRTS rolling stock will have lighting and temperature control systems to enhance passenger experience and reduce energy consumption. This is developed on the line of Lotus Temple in Delhi, which has a design flow of natural sources of light and air circulation,” said Sudhir Sharma, chief public relations officer of NCRTC.Another energy saving feature will be that all doors of the trains will not open simultaneously.“There will be a push button inside and outside with the help of which passengers can open the doors. Otherwise, opening of all doors together leads to loss of air conditioning,” Sharma said. The trains will be lightweight and fully air-conditioned. Each car will have six automatic plug-in type wide doors, three on each side (the business class will have four such doors, two on each side).The RRTS trains will have transverse 2x2 seating with adequate legroom, optimised aisle width with grab handles and grab poles, for a comfortable journey for standing passengers, overhead luggage rack, mobile/laptop charging sockets and on-board Wi-Fi among other commuter-centric features.Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary, MoHUA said, “It is a matter of great pride that these high-speed, high-frequency commuter trains for RRTS are being manufactured entirely under the government’s ‘Make in India’ policy. The environment friendly, energy efficient trains will improve the quality of life in and around the national capital region by accelerating economic growth, creating economic opportunities and at the same time reducing air pollution, carbon footprint, congestion, and accidents.” The 82km long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor is one of the three prioritised RRTS corridors being implemented in phase-1. This is the first RRTS corridor in the country and will overall have 24 stations, including 21 in Uttar Pradesh.The other two Phase-I corridors are Delhi-Gurugram-SNB and Delhi-Panipat. Officials said pre-construction activities are in full swing for Delhi-Gurugram-SNB corridor and its detailed project report (DPR) is under active consideration of the Centre for sanction. They added that DPR of the Delhi-Panipat RRTS corridor is also under active consideration of the respective state governments for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-unveils-train-design-for-high-speed-rrts-corridor/story-Ond3JpoMdizEEu722iW5cK.html
25-09-2020||Noida||Noida district road safety committee holds meeting; officials told to check speeding||The Gautam Budh Nagar district road safety committee on Friday held a meeting with departments of traffic, transport, education to discuss ways to check speeding on expressways and other roads besides taking other safety measures.“We have directed the officials of traffic and transport department to take safety measures and check speeding on the expressways. We have also asked the officials to install some cameras on the Yamuna Expressway which will facilitate issuing fines to the speeding vehicles,” said additional district magistrate, Diwakar Singh, who chaired the meeting.Prashanti Tiwari, assistant regional transport commissioner (enforcement), Gautam Budh Nagar. said, “The maximum speed for light motor vehicle on expressways is 100 kmph, and for trucks and motorcycles, it is 60 kmph. The traffic and transport officials have been told to fines to violators who cross these speed limits,” he said. Tiwari said the transport department has planned to launch a drive to paste reflectors on commercial vehicles in light of the approaching winters. “In winter, visibility becomes poor because of fog, and hence reflector plays an important role in terms of road safety. We will also launch a drive to paste reflectors on all commercial vehicles,” he said.“Buses and vans used by government and private schools are also not in use for the last six months. We will hold a meeting with the school officials regarding fitness of these vehicles, once we get an official notification about reopening of schools in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-district-road-safety-committee-holds-meeting-officials-told-to-check-speeding/story-CFHNCdjlnD6WSGhWQlJfHM.html
25-09-2020||City||Greater Noida to hire agency to set up waste remediation plant||The Greater Noida authority on Friday said it will soon hire a private agency to set up a waste remediation plant in Lakhnawali village.“We have issued a request for proposal a process required to hire any private agency for the project. Now, the interested agencies can apply for the project by submitting a proposal, and then the authority will select one out of the agencies,” said Deep Chandar additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The authority said it will select an agency within 45 days to set up the plant at Lakhnawali village where it dumps the city’s waste. For the remediation process, first chemicals are sprinkled on the waste which helps in making the solid waste dry and then machines are used to segregate soil and plastic. Soil is used for earth filling and plastic material is used to provide to cement plants, etc, said officials.Meanwhile, the authority has already started the process to hire another private agency to collect household waste from sectors Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Omicron, Mu, Zu, Zeta and Eta among others.The authority had issued a tender to hire this agency a month ago, said officials.“Total 18 private firms have applied for this project. The authority will select one agency out of the 18 within three weeks,” said Chandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-to-hire-agency-to-set-up-waste-remediation-plant/story-iN7CLQ5czh47jIA3VydhbJ.html
25-09-2020||City||Farmer found dead in Greater Noida with head injuries, burn marks||A 40-year-old farmer was found dead with injuries to the head and burn marks over his body in Jarcha village of Greater Noida Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Bishan Singh, a resident of Gulawathi Khurd village in Bulandshahr. Police said Singh had left home around 6am Wednesday after telling his family that he will be back in some time. However, when he did not return even till late night, the family began looking for him. Later, on Friday around 8am, a villagers who was acquainted with Singh, spotted the body lying in the green belt near a petrol pump in Jarcha. He then informed Singh’s family and the police. Shyam Sundar, station house officer, Jarcha police station, said the body had a blunt injury to the left side of the head and burn marks on the torso. “It appears that he died of the head injury. We have sent the body for a post-mortem examination and reports are awaited. It is not clear how Singh sustained the head injuries and the burns,” he said. Police suspect that the man was murdered and dumped in the area. Sunder said primary investigation shows that Singh had come to Jarcha to meet a family and discuss the marriage proposal of a known acquaintance last week and then returned home. “On Wednesday, he left home without telling his family members where he was going. We are checking his call detail records and questioning people to find out more,” he said. Narender Pradhan, Singh’s neighbour, said Singh had gone missing in the past too for a few days but he always returned home eventually. “Singh used to drink heavily. We suspect someone spiked his drinks and killed him,” he claimed. Police said Singh’s family has not filed any written complaint so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-found-dead-in-greater-noida-with-head-injuries-burn-marks/story-SNDVB0ch8X9rHfwQDAeoOI.html
25-09-2020||City||Delhi govt extends free meal plan till end of winters||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has extended the free meals for residents of the homeless shelters under the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) till end of the winters and finalised a rehabilitation plan for residents of two slum clusters of which one is located near India Gate and the other in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh.“A meeting of the DUSIB was held today, chaired by the Chief Minister Shri Arvind Kejriwal, in which several important decisions to improve the condition of DUSIB shelter homes and provide various amenities to the people living in these shelter homes were discussed. In the meeting, the DUSIB has decided to provide three free meals a day to the homeless people living in DUSIB shelters, at an annual expenditure of Rs. 15.31 crore,” said a statement issued by the government on Friday.During the lockdown, the government started free meals in the DUSIB-run shelters which were free for all. From July, the scheme was limited to residents of the shelter homes but there was uncertainty over when it would end.“The Board has also decided to rehabilitate 784 people residing in Princess Park, to facilitate the use of land by the Ministry of Defence for the construction of the National War Museum and Memorial. The families will be rehabilitated to the transit camps for 1-1.5 years, which are located at Sector 16B Dwarka. Around 350 families living in the slum dwellings in Karol Bagh will also be rehabilitated to the transit camps. The rehabilitated people will be shifted to the flats that are being constructed in Dev Nagar Karol Bagh area,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-extends-free-meal-plan-till-end-of-winters/story-syDRWQ2wwW1fIznfcPMouL.html
25-09-2020||City||UP-Rera nudges state govt to implement SC order on lower interest rate to realty developers||Two months after the Supreme Court ordered the Noida and Greater Noida authority to charge a lower interest rate on residential project developers for the land they bought, the Uttar Pradesh government is still to implement it. Now, Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority (UP-Rera) has recommended to the state to follow the order as it would help revive the real estate sector, officials said.According to a state government official, the government is reviewing the order and considering all legal options before it.UP-Rera wrote its recommendation to the state additional chief secretary of the industrial development department and said the sector was witnessing a liquidation crisis in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic Covid-19.“In view of the possibilities that disputes, which are increasing between buyers and promoters in Noida and Greater Noida, may be positively resolved, we decided to send our recommendations to the government on this issue as per the provisions of Section 32 of the Rera Act 2016,” said Balwinder Kumar, UP-Rera member who confirmed that the letter was sent last week. “The real estate sector has been witnessing a huge financial crisis lately. As a result, homebuyers’ interests are also affected as promoters are unable to deliver units due to the fund crunch.”According to their policies, Noida and Greater Noida authorities charge an interest rate of 11% on developers, who pay for the housing land in instalments. On defaulting, a penal interest is imposed.Going by the old interest rates, Noida has around ₹25,000 crore in land dues that it has to recover while GNIDA has to recover around ₹7,000 crore from developers. On July 10, the Supreme Court, while hearing petitions in the matter, directed Noida and GNIDA to only charge an interest rate of 8.5%, as per the marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) on land cost, fixed by the State Bank of India. The Supreme Court’s order also says that developers should deposit 25% of total dues within three months and the rest within one year from the date of the order if they want to avail benefits of the apex court’s order. “Many developers have submitted their proposals with Noida and GNIDA asking that their land dues be recalibrated in light of the Supreme Court order. However, the two authorities are yet to settle the dues. If this order is implemented, then at last 250,000 units can be finished and delivered,” said RK Arora, president (UP chapter), National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO).“The commencement certificate required to start work at a new project is issued only after the no financial dues certificate. And the no financial dues certificate is possible only when the financial dues are settled, with the new Supreme Court order on interest rates. We hope that the Noida and Greater Noida authorities implement this new order and help the sector,” said Prashant Tiwari, president (Western UP chapter),Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI).Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari and the Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan refused to comment on the issue. However, a UP government official, on condition of anonymity, said, “The state government is examining the legal aspects of this case before implementing the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-rera-nudges-state-govt-to-implement-sc-order-on-lower-interest-rate-to-realty-developers/story-wQfRh4mPgBZSYO1bYiGSVI.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Four men arrested for thefts, snatchings in Ludhiana||Four men were arrested on Friday for their alleged involvement in multiple snatchings and thefts and 25 mobile phones and 13 two-wheelers were recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Sunni Bhandhari, 35, Vishal Kumar, 30, Brijesh Kumar, 27, and Shiv Kumar, 29, all residents of Haibowal.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city-1) Deepak Pareek said they were arrested near civil hospital on the basis of a tip-off near. He added that they were on a motorcycle and on being stopped and questioned, failed to produce documents for the vehicle. On further questioning, they confessed that the vehicle was stolen. They were arrested, and based on information provided, police recovered 12 more vehicles and 25 mobile phones from their possession.The ADCP added that the accused are drug addicts and commit crimes to fund their habit. The accused told police that they stole vehicles from parking lots and markets and snatched mobile phones, bags and other valuable items from commuters Pareek added that the accused are already facing trials in various cases including snatchings and theft.A case has been registered under Sections 379-B and 379 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snatchers-gang-busted-25-mobile-phones-13-2-wheelers-recovered/story-M8c7CZu8e72eBng4bWgDSM.html
25-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad custodial death: Autopsy finds no sign of ‘hanging’||The autopsy report of a 45-year-old man who died in custody at the Vijay Nagar police station found no signs of hanging, putting a question mark on the police’s earlier version of suicide. The death was reported on the evening of September 23 the same day that the man was picked up after his wife complained of domestic violence. On Wednesday, police booked the wife for abetment, and also suspended four policemen of the station. A magisterial inquiry is ongoing.The autopsy report, released on Thursday, said that the cause of death could not be ascertained and that the viscera was preserved for further analysis. “It is possible that he could have suffered heart stroke while he was trying to hang self as he was also under influence of alcohol. He was declared brought dead at MMG Hospital,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). “Already we have two FIRs lodged in the case and we are investigating the entire incident.” The police, after the death of the deceased on September 23, had claimed that the man allegedly tried to hang himself in the lockup. They claimed to have then rushed him to MMG Hospital. Upon a complaint from by his wife, the Vijay Nagar police had registered an FIR against the man under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation). On Thursday, brother of the deceased also gave a police complaint in which he alleged that the woman used to harass his brother and that it resulted in his taking the drastic step. On the basis of the complaint, the police on Thursday registered the second FIR which was against the wife of the deceased under IPC section 306 (abetting suicide). The body was handed over the family after autopsy. When contacted, the son of the dead man did not offer a comment. Following the sequence of events, senior police officials on Thursday also suspended the station house officer of Vijay Nagar police station, a head constable and two constables for alleged laxity and dereliction of duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-custodial-death-autopsy-finds-no-sign-of-hanging/story-AEfzPPfkc3ejGXWMJ3WaKK.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Courier company drivers booked for stealing mobile phones in Ludhiana||Two drivers of a courier company were booked on Friday for stealing at least 60 mobile phones that were meant for delivery to customers. The accused have been identified as Ashok Kumar of Rohtak, Haryana, and Lallan Kumar of New Delhi.Jagmohan Singh, manager of the company which has its office in Jalandhar Bypass, stated in his complaint that they hired Ashok from Didar Transport Company, New Delhi. He said that Ashok had started stealing mobile phones and other valuables from the office, so, they replaced him with Lallan.Singh added that in collusion with Ashok Kumar, Lallan also started stealing mobile phones that were meant to be delivered to customers, along with other valuables from the office.Based on the complaint, Salem Tabri police have registered a case against the accused under Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code.Assistant sub-inspector Jatinder Kumar, investigating officer in the case, said a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/courier-company-drivers-booked-for-stealing-mobile-phones-in-ludhiana/story-sU6AAaSVYDtwD0tUToieOJ.html
25-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Covid disrupts polio, measles drive||The Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a significant drop of immunisations and supplements-- of over 73,000-- in Ghaziabad on women and children from last year between April and August when the lockdown was in force. Even the health department’s corrective measures in May did not seem to have corrected the trend.Most of these immunisations and supplements are critical in preventing diseases such as polio, measels and childhood tuberculosis, pneumonia among others. Some of these also figure in the central government’s Indradhanush programme, which aims at full immunisation for all children and pregnant women.Previous studies, including one from the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), pointed that the BCG vaccine administered to prevent childhood tuberculosis averted severe Covid-19 infections and deaths.According to the records of the district health department, about 299,762 children and women received vaccinations and supplements as per the immunisation schedule between April to August in 2019. The same period this year, it was 226,105. “The shortfall has been the result of lockdown when activities and movement of people was not taking place and our health care workers were also focused on Covid-19 duties. Since the period of administering vaccines is fixed, many missed the schedule between March to May,” said Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer. “These include vaccinations given at the time of birth and up to age of 16 years in children. The women are also given preventive vaccines against tetanus and diphtheria and also given supplements like iron. If these are not given on time, there is a higher risk of contracting these diseases.”With Covid-19 surging, the health department resumed the vaccination drive in May.“To make up for the lost time period, we’re holding sessions three days a week, including Mondays,” said Dr Vishram Singh, district immunisation officer. Yet, it has not drawn more people, some of who may have migrated to their home towns during the lockdown have not returned. “Generally, there is no major risk if a child misses vaccination. Such misses take place during routine days and it also happened during the lockdown period. But, it could lead to slower immunity levels in the population and the desired peak is not achieved. After a break, the vaccination schedule is generally resumed from where it had stopped. Thereafter, it is followed as per the timeline,” said Dr. Pramod Sabharwal, president of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (Ghaziabad branch). Dr. Sumit Gupta, paediatric from Columbia Asia Hospital (Ghaziabad), said that compulsory vaccines should be resumed as soon as possible. “The vaccines start protection from the time when they are administered. So, they will definitely not protect during the period of delay and the child may be at risk. So, the vaccines, which are compulsory, should be resumed as soon as possible if there is a delay,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-covid-disrupts-polio-measles-drive/story-pyppUNohwZiTuHhTNTSzqL.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chakka jam: Declare Punjab principal market yard, say SAD leaders||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) held large protests across the district on Friday as part of the “chakka jam” to support farmers in their agitation against the farm bills passed in Parliament. SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon addressed rallies at Basti Jodhewal and Selem Tabri to express his solidarity with farmers. SAD MLA from Dakha, Manpreet Singh Ayali, staged a protest on Ferozepur Road. He asked chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to call a cabinet meeting immediately and pass an ordinance to declare Punjab one mandi (principal market yard) so the agri bills are not enforceable in the state. Youth Akali Dal (YAD) leaders including Simranjit Singh Dhillon, who is the son of Samrala MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, staged a protest in support of farmers at Sahnewal grain market on Jalandhar Bypass Chowk. A large number of YAD workers also raised a stir at Salem Tabri and blocked Ludhiana- Jalandhar Highway. The protest was joined by YAD district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, and other leaders including Vijay Danav, Madan Lal Bagga, Poonam Arora, Manpreet Singh Bunty, Nek Singh and Parmjit Singh Pamma. Addressing the gathering, Gosha said that Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation as Union minister is a clear and loud indication that SAD supports the farmers and will not hesitate before rejecting cabinet ranks and other positions. He added that SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal will announce the party’s next move during his visit to Ludhiana in the coming days and their protest against the ordinances will continue indefinitely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chakka-jam-declare-punjab-principal-market-yard-say-sad-leaders/story-Ua36iLqCEXkR96WXYXhXNL.html
25-09-2020||City||Covid crisis: Ghaziabad officials told to enforce containment norms strictly in hot spots||The state government appointed nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, on Friday directed Ghaziabad officials to ensure strict enforcement of containment norms in hot spots across the district.In light of the directions, the district administration on Friday appointed an officer to oversee sealing efforts in containment zones. “The nodal officer directed us to make sure all containment zones are properly managed and all protocols are duly enforced. For the purpose, we have asked station house officers (SHOs) of respective areas to keep track of enforcement norms, and we have also deputed additional district magistrate (city) as the nodal officer to ensure that boundary tapes, which are provided by the municipal corporation, are put outside containment zones in order to seal them,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.HT had earlier reported that residents and local councilors had alleged that many containment zones were not fully sealed allowing unrestricted movement of people.According to the records of the district administration, Ghaziabad has 415 containment zones.Nodal officer Pandian C on Friday also visited the RT-PCR and TrueNat laboratories at MMG Hospital. He reportedly expressed dissatisfaction over the state of affairs as the TrueNat testing machine was not testing samples for Covid-19 since September 10, while the RT-PCR laboratory was only testing nearly 200-250 samples daily.“The sampling kits for TrueNat machines are yet to be received. We received only 100 today(Friday) and we need more. For the RT-PCR lab, we require more human resources to ramp up testing. We would require about 12 lab technicians to undertake 750 tests per day,” an officer from MMG Hospital, who did not wish not to be named, said.The district magistrate said that he has deputed additional district magistrate (executive) to make a work plan for the RT-PCR lab at the district hospital. “I have deputed the officer to prepare a work plan on the requirement of technicians and infrastructure which is needed to ramp up testing. Otherwise, our Covid-19 samples which are taken by the health department are being sent for testing to Noida. The nodal officer has directed that our RT-PCR laboratory should test at least 750 samples per day,” Pandey added.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said two lab technicians were provided to the laboratory already.“We will provide more technicians for the new laboratory. It is in our interest that the laboratory processes samples collected from the district. Otherwise, we have to send them to other districts. We have received approvals for hiring 20 more lab technicians, and the process for hiring them will start soon,” he added.On Thursday, the nodal officer had directed the officials to test at least 6,000 daily apart from asking officials to trace and test workers employed in industrial units in case they have symptoms of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-crisis-ghaziabad-officials-told-to-enforce-containment-norms-strictly-in-hot-spots/story-zjftk62fkAbDufM2N7cjIP.html
25-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Kin alleges mix-up of bodies||Four days after the Jilani building collapse in Bhiwandi, which claimed 38 lives and injured 25, the family of one of the victims, Shabnam Mohammad Ali Khan, 28, alleged her body was claimed by another victim’s family and they also carried out the funeral. “We are in shock as we have realised that my sister’s body was taken away from IGM hospital on Tuesday by another family. The body of their family member is still unclaimed at the hospital. Both of them had the same name, which led to the confusion,” said Khan’s sister Nilofar Shaikh, 33. “The police had called us and the other family for inquiry. The family which claimed my sister’s body is denying their mistake. I could not see my sister one last time, which is so painful. How will I sleep peacefully now? They also carried out her last rites,” said Shaikh. Shaikh claimed she had checked the unclaimed body several times and it did not match her sister’s features and clothes. “The unclaimed body has mehendi applied on the nails which my sister never did. The police have collected DNA samples for a test. My mother who survived the collapse is in a state of shock,” said Shaikh. Rajeev Muskawad, superintendent in-charge of IGM Hospital, said, “There is an unclaimed body of a woman from the building collapse site at the hospital. No family has claimed it yet.” MB Shinde, senior police inspector of Narpoli police station, said, “The family claimed the body at the hospital is not of their sister. We have collected the DNA samples and are awaiting the report. When we handed over all the bodies to the relatives, we had checked all their records and took their statement on the spot. We will inquire with both the families and take needful action.” Another family has claimed the body of their 2-year-old child, Museb Qureshi, is yet to be found. Saleem Usman Qureshi, 28, the toddler’s uncle said, “The police searched for the body on Friday too, but it was not found. We have filed a missing person’s complaint with the police. The police have assured to investigate the matter.” Museb’s mother and another sibling died in the incident, while his father and two other siblings managed to survive. “We have started the process of filing a missing case. We will investigate further,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-kin-alleges-mix-up-of-bodies/story-UqZsDxngj6918OzWwRdDBO.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Two former heads of Lakshmi Vilas Bank held for misappropriating Religare funds of ₹729cr||The Delhi Police on Thursday arrested the former assistant vice-president of RMG Corporate Credit Group at Lakshmi Vilas Bank, Janpath branch, and the regional head of the bank in connection with misappropriation of fixed deposit funds of Religare Finvest Limited (RFL) to the tune of ₹729 crore, senior police officers said.Police have identified the two arrested persons as 57-year-old Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Inderpuri and former regional head, and Anjani Kumar, 48, former assistant vice-president and resident of Noida Extension.Join commissioner of police (Economic Offences Wing) OP Mishra said as per the complaint filed by Manpreet Singh Suri of Religare, in November 2016, his company had placed an amount of ₹400 crore in two fixed deposits (FDs) with the Lakshmi Vilas Bank.“These FDs were of a short-term tenure,so that they remained free of encumbrances. In January 2017, Religare placed an additional ₹350 crore in two FDs with the bank. These two FDs were also of a short-term tenure,” Mishra said.He said all four FDs were renewed by Religare from time to time till their maturity in July 2017. On July 31, Religare was shocked to receive an email from Lakshmi Vilas Bank containing the fund statement for Religare’s current account. “Religare discovered that the bank had credited the proceeds of the FDs to the current account and then debited the cumulative amount of ₹729 crore from the account without any prior intimation to Religare. The bank and the other accused persons had used RFL’s funds for onward lending without due consent,” Mishra said.He said the bank would have made huge gains from such lending as it held the FDs at an interest rate of 4.5% and had purportedly lent the money further at the interest rate of 10%. It was further alleged that the bank cheated Religare and misused its public shareholder money entrusted with the bank in its capacity as Religare’s banker, thus causing a wrongful loss to the complainant company to the tune of ₹729 crore, Mishra said.Religare’s complaint to the EOW named the arrested persons; brothers Malvinder Mohan Singh and Shivinder Mohan Singh; their companies RHC Holding Ltd, Ranchem Pvt Ltd and Lakshmi Vilas Bank, its former directors and employees. During investigation, police found that the bank officials, in collusion with the promoter brothers, deliberately did not complete the mandatory formalities before onward loaning the money to RHC Holding and Ranchem to benefit these companies and to allow the accused persons to square off their liabilities.“Therefore, following searches, Pradeep Kumar and Anjani Kumar Verma were arrested, “ Mishra said.Both Singh brothers are lodged in Tihar Jail following their arrest last year by the Enforcement Directorate. In a charge sheet filed in January, the ED had alleged that the brothers used two sets of “conduit companies” to funnel funds from their finance company Religare over eight years. A large part of this money was used to buy properties and there was no intention of repaying the sum, the charge sheet had said.Officials of the Lakshmi Vilas Bank couldn’t be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-former-heads-of-lakshmi-vilas-bank-held-for-misappropriating-religare-funds-of-729cr/story-6nydiW9PHYD8f2ldeaVYoL.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||BEST procures 32 electric buses on wet lease in Mumbai, to be operational soon||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has procured 32 electric buses on wet lease, and it will soon begin operating in the city.Under the wet lease model, BEST does not own the buses, but gets the buses from contractors who provide them for a fixed per-kilometre rate.These buses will be operated on all routes, particularly on the long-distance ones. They have been procured under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric vehicles (FAME) II scheme that promotes the use of electric vehicles in the country.“The buses have been procured and will begin operations in the city soon. More electric buses will also be procured soon.” said a senior BEST official. A total of 340 electric buses will be procured by BEST.Of the 340 electric buses, 160 are midi air-conditioned (AC) buses, 40 buses are non-AC midi buses and 140 are single-deck AC buses. The organisation currently has six electric buses operating in the city. These buses have a capacity of 31 passengers and can travel up to 200km in a single charge.The first set of 10 electric buses in the city was rolled out by BEST in September 2019. Six of the buses were AC and four were non-AC.The BEST has also recently received 76 buses from Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and started its operation on five routes in the city.The organisation has witnessed an increase in passengers due to the suspension of local train services in the city, owing to the spread of Covid-19..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-procures-32-electric-buses-on-wet-lease-in-mumbai-to-be-operational-soon/story-Gl03e7ysrtSuwTM7lZvUeP.html
25-09-2020||City||‘Sexual assault’ on minor: FIR registered after Panchkula DC’s intervention||In a ‘sexual assault’ case of a minor girl, an FIR was registered at Women police station, Sector 5 Panchkula after over 50 days, with the intervention of Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC).The incident dates back to August 4, when the girl’s father alleged that his 16-year old daughter was returning home and as she reached near one bank in Sector 14, four youth in a drunkard state started passing lewd remarks and stalking her and as he intervened, they attacked him and his daughter.It was mentioned in the FIR that the girl received a severe head injury and was taken to Civil Hospital in Sector 6. The minor girl’s father alleged that the police officials at Sector 14 police station not only “refused to register the complaint but they threw the mother out of the police station and hit the father so badly that he found it difficult to walk back home.”The complaint reached DCP, on whose intervention an FIR was registered at Woman police station against four youth on Thursday. The case is registered under Sections 323 and 34 of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act.It was stated that the primary report has been sent to the district magistrate and other senior officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sexual-assault-on-minor-fir-registered-after-panchkula-dc-s-intervention/story-SZ72pcrtb7RMLVw09BUfCJ.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||South civic body razes 8 locked gates in Green Park, Safdarjung colonies||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday bulldozed eight gates of two residential colonies at Green Park Extension and at Safdarjung Enclave after receiving complaints from residents over gates being closed during the day, which made it difficult for them to access the neighbourhood. A team of officials from south zone of the civic body, backed by a team from Delhi Police, on Friday afternoon demolished four gates each in Green Park Extension and Safdarjung Enclave, respectively. According to officials in the civic body, it has received similar representations from residents of several other colonies such as Greater Kailash, against closure of gates. But, the corporation has not yet decided if those gates will be demolished yet. “The gates were pulled down after a group of residents repeatedly complained of gates being closed during the day time, causing them inconvenience in accessing the colony. They had met the deputy commissioner of the south zone regarding the matter, after which action was taken today,” said a senior south corporation official. He added that so far they had no plans of pulling down gates in any other colonies. “In order to rebuild the gates, the RWAs will require taking clearances from traffic police and the SDMC. They will also need to ensure that the gates are manned at all times,” the official said. The resident welfare associations (RWAs) of the two colonies, however, expressed shock and said that the SDMC officials did not give any prior notice about the demolition of the gates and it would cost them a hefty amount to rebuild the iron gates, which had guarded the colonies for around 30-40 years. “Four gates (no. 5, 7, 9 and 16) were demolished with JCB machines this afternoon. It came as a shock, as there was no prior intimation. Also, there were no fresh complaints from any residents about the gates being closed and no one in particular had complained regarding the gates,” said Neha Puri, general secretary, Green Park Extension Association. She added that because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the RWA had kept most of the gates shut in order to restrict movement of residents . “There are a total of 18 gates in the colony, of which two along the main road remained open 24 hours. The remaining gates remain closed during 1 pm-4 pm in the day and 10.30pm and 5am. Also, after the lockdown was lifted, several residents had requested that some of the gates be opened at a specific time and an arrangement regarding the same was made,” said Puri, adding, that all gates are open for pedestrian movement during the day. The Delhi High Court in an order on July 17, directed the RWA of N-Block GK-I to open a colony gate during the daytime while hearing a petition filed by a resident challenging RWA’s decision to keep most colony gates closed. K P Menon, president, B-3 RWA, Safadrjung Enclave, said that the gates which have been demolished stood here for the past 40 years. “The least a civic body can do is to give a notice. The gates have been broken down in a discriminatory way at the behest of some residents, who had been opposing the closure of the gates,” said Menon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/south-civic-body-razes-8-locked-gates-in-green-park-safdarjung-colonies/story-8sC69Er5eQzDp13gTLQ69I.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Local trains collide in a car shed in Mumbai, one injured||A railway employee was injured after two local trains collided inside Western Railway operated Mahalaxmi railway car shed on Thursday night. The collision reportedly occurred while the local trains were being moved inside the car shed.The employee sustained a minor injury to his finger in the incident and was provided with immediate medical attention.The reason for collision is not known and the Western Railway has ordered an inquiry into the incident.“Inquiry has been ordered and the incident is being thoroughly investigated. One railway staff has suffered a minor injury,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-trains-collide-in-a-car-shed-in-mumbai-one-injured/story-C7q6PQiRhH3H0pzJZ4oKbM.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt schools start second round of admissions to classes 6 to 9 and 11||The Directorate of Education (DoE) on Friday started the second round of admissions in Delhi government schools for classes 6 to 9 and 11 after receiving requests from parents who could not apply in the first round held earlier this month. The window for applications under the second round will remain open till October 3.According to the DoE, as many as 64,450 students had applied for admissions to these classes in the first round and all 64,450 have been allotted schools. The first phase of admissions will be over by September 30. An official in the education department, on condition of anonymity, said, “Many parents have said they were not aware of the admission process due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation and that’s why they could not apply earlier. After receiving several such requests, the government decided to launch a second round of admissions.”The admissions in government schools are crucial this year due to the possibility of migration of students from private schools to government schools in view of the financial challenges wrought by the Covid-enforced lockdown. The education department, however, is still analysing the data. “The admission under the first round will be completed by September 30 and the second round it will go on till October 15. Once both rounds are over, we will analyse and see if there has been any major influx of students from private to government schools. It’s still early to say if the number of admissions is more or less than last year’s as admissions to government schools are open throughout the year. None can be denied admission to a government school,” the official added.In a statement issued Friday, education minister Manish Sisodia’s office said, “The second phase has been launched to address the concerns of parents who could not get their wards registered earlier for online admissions...The Link for submission of online registration form is available on the home page of the department’s website -- www.edudel.nic.in under the tab, “Govt. School Admissions”.”While the registration process for admission to classes 6 to 9 consists of only one step, while admissions to class 11 will entail two levels. “In the first step, a registration number and password will be generated. In the second step, the applicant has to complete the registration form after logging in. The applicants must complete both steps, else the form will be rejected,” the statement read.A centralised helpline number --1800116888 or 10580--has been issued for any admission related queries. “Once the admission is confirmed, the applicant will have to visit the allotted school with all the requisite original documents along with copies for confirmation of admission as per the schedule provided to them. Admissions will be confirmed only after the physical verification of requisite documents by the government school concerned,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-schools-start-second-round-of-admissions-to-classes-6-to-9-and-11/story-w0pyz1hOmSZVJN19NIfwtK.html
25-09-2020||City||St Stephen’s releases application forms for PG courses||New DelhiDelhi University’s (DU) St Stephen’s College on Friday released application forms for admission to postgraduate courses. Candidates selected on merit or through the DU entrance test (DUET) will be called for an interview for admission in postgraduate courses in the college.The college had in July announced that it would switch to online interviews for admission to postgraduate courses this year to maintain social distancing norms amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A similar decision was taken for admission to undergraduate courses, along with doing away with the written test component for this year.The forms will be available on the college’s official website from Friday. The college is yet to announce the last date of applying and interview schedule. “Only those candidates who have registered on the St Stephen’s College postgraduate admission portal and who have been selected by the University of Delhi for admission in the concerned postgraduate program will be considered for interviews,” the college prospectus stated.The college offers nine postgraduate courses —MA in Economics, English, History, Philosophy and Sanskrit; and MSc in Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics and Operational Research.St Stephen’s College is a religious minority institute, has its own process for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses and reserves 50% seats for Christian students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/st-stephen-s-releases-application-forms-for-pg-courses/story-CJV17BlO0m7qmxkumXPQ7J.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Covid-19 tally inches closer to 20,000||The district’s total tally of Covid-19 cases inched closer to the 20,000-mark on Friday, with 279 new positive cases being detected in the last 24 hours. Gurugram’s current tally stands at 19,367 cases.Of these, 168 have succumbed to Covid-19, with one new death being reported on Friday. On the other hand, the district also saw 426 new recoveries on Friday, taking the total recovered cases to 16,537. Gurugram’s recovery rate, as of Saturday, stood at 84.5 percent while the fatality rate was 0.87 percent.The number of active cases in the district now stands at 2,842, of which 233 are hospitalised at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, while 17 are under observation at dedicated Covid-19 healthcare centres. Another 2,842 individuals are following home quarantine, as per the district health department’s daily bulletin on Friday.Gurugram on Friday conducted 3,050 new tests, of which 913 were rapid antigen tests. The district, till date, has tested 2,43,506 samples, with a cumulative positivity-rate of 7.9 percent. The daily test-positivity rate (TPR) on Friday was 10 percent, and has remained at 10 percent or higher over the past week.At the state level, Haryana recorded 2,024 new cases on Friday. The state tally now stands at 1,20,578 cases, with 1,273 deaths and 1,01,273 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-s-covid-19-tally-inches-closer-to-20-000/story-SJFRCyutueERcaN9ZtbtFL.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Air quality in Delhi likely to worsen, Nasa forecasts increase in PM 2.5 levels||With wind speeds in Delhi gradually decreasing, and the number of stubble burning cases shooting up in parts of Punjab, the city’s air quality is likely to plunge in the coming weeks.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Delhi is currently receiving north-westerly winds from Punjab and Haryana, which means that plumes of smoke from farm fires were blowing in to pollute the city’s air.On Friday, Delhi overall air quality index was 134, in the ‘moderate’ range. During the day, the hourly average AQI had touched 152.On Thursday, the AQI recording of 104.“Throughout next week the AQI levels are likely to remain in the ‘moderate’ range, but on the higher end. It all depends on how much stubble burning happens in Punjab and Haryana,” said a senior IMD official.The official said that while throughout next week, wind speed in Delhi will range between 15-20kmph, which will be favourable to disperse pollutants. But things will start deteriorating from next Saturday.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, also confirmed that wind speed will gradually reduce in the coming week. He added that Delhi for now has no forecast of rain, which could wash away pollutants coming from the neighbouring states.Meanwhile, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa)’s GEOS Composition Forecasting (GEOS-CF) system, which produces global, three-dimensional distributions of atmospheric composition, showed high PM 2.5 (ultra-fine particulate matter) presence over the Indo-Gangetic Plains, which will also bring down the air quality in Delhi.Pawan Gupta, research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research, Universities Space Research Association, said that a mix of dust, smoke and unfavourable weather conditions will play a role in increased PM 2.5 levels in the coming days.“Dust is sneaking into the mix of smoke and pollution in India and Pakistan. The GEOS forecast shows high PM 2.5 levels over the region in the next two-three days. It appears a combination of smoke, dust and weather playing a role,” Gupta said.Gupta also said that NASA’s satellite imagery had shown a significant rise in the number of fires in across various districts in Punjab on Friday.Vini Mahajan, chief secretary of Punjab, in a letter written to Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) chief Bhure Lal on Friday, said that the district administration of Amritsar, from where maximum number of crop residue burning cases are being reported, has been directed to collect environment compensation from erring farmers as challans.“It is intimated that we have also received alerts from the state monitoring agencies about a few paddy residue burning incidents in the Majha region as the area grows vegetables immediately after the harvest of paddy. The area is not a part of the hotspot districts and the window of time available to these farmers to manage the residue is too short for timely plantation of next crop,” the letter read.The letter added, “However, taking a serious note of early incidents of crop residue burnings, the concerned deputy commissioners were asked to send reports after field verification.”EPCA chief, Bhure Lal, had earlier this week written to the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana asking them to intensify action against the early instances of stubble burning visible through satellite imagery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/air-quality-in-delhi-likely-to-worsen-nasa-forecasts-increase-in-pm-2-5-levels/story-YcRJpWG95orHpxPfTVytBP.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||35-year-old arrested for raping daughter in Mumbai’s Andheri area||Andheri police arrested a 35-year-old man for raping his 16-year-old daughter. According to the survivor, the incident took place on September 14 when nobody was home. The accused also allegedly threatened her that he will set her on fire if she would reveal the incident to anyone.An officer said, “On September 24, we received a complaint from the survivor, following which we arrested the accused.”The survivor in her statement said that her mother had died in 2016 and she used to stay with her father and elder brother who is 18-years-old. She further said that after her mother’s death, her father molested her multiple times.The survivor who was scared to approach the police, narrated the ordeal to one of her neighbours, who helped her and took her to the police station to register a complaint, said an officer. The police booked her father under section 376 (2) (F) (being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354 (A) (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment] of Indian Penal Code and section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault),8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/35-year-old-arrested-for-raping-daughter-in-mumbai-s-andheri-area/story-UmHiksmBMN4ETsvluWyiKK.html
25-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Three injured in clash over garbage collection in Bandhwari||htreporters@hindustantimes.com Three men allegedly suffered gunshot wounds on Friday morning after an altercation between two groups turned violent at Bandhwari waste treatment plant on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road. The police said the fight was between the groups who are involved in contractual work for collection and segregation of garbage at the plant. The three injured men were rushed to two different hospitals in Faridabad. Two of them are said to be critical, said the police. Both the groups hail from Mangar village in Faridabad, the police said, adding that the incident took place between 8.30 am and 9 am. The police said that in a statement, Harinder, who was among the injured, alleged that he and his brother, Manoj, along with several other workers, were segregating waste at the plant when a group of at least seven people arrived. “The incident took place at the plant. He alleged that the rival group arrived and had an argument with them over some contractual work. It escalated into a scuffle with lathis and several gunshots were fired from both sides. Prima facie, there was dispute between the two parties over garbage collection work,” said sub-inspector Praveen, in-charge, Gwal Pahari police post. The police said Manoj suffered a gunshot wound in the head while Harinder suffered minor injuries from pellets. Mohit, from the second group, sustained gunshot wounds in the ribs and arms. Manoj and Mohit are undergoing treatment at different private hospitals in Faridabad, said the police. After the information was received, a team from Gwal Pahari police post was rushed to the spot. “Three persons were injured in the melee. Mohit and Manoj have been declared unfit-for-statement and are critical. On the statement of Harinder, who is also admitted at the hospital, an FIR has been registered against at least seven people. The other party is yet to record their statement,” said the police officer quoted above. A case was registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Arms Act at DLF Phase 1 police station on Friday evening, said the police. A spokesperson from Ecogreen Energy, the MCG concessionaire, said, “This incident has nothing to do with Ecogreen. MCG gave contracts to third parties for treatment of legacy waste. These companies floated tenders for procurement of products and services. In one of the such company procurement process, two vendors came face to face and got personal with each other. Ecogreen Energy Private Limited shouldn’t be commenting further on the incident as the matter belongs to third parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-three-injured-in-clash-over-garbage-collection-in-bandhwari/story-cUo5KsvGeurPADC6NZ8xVK.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: DTCP allows construction of guard room, toilet in stilt parking areas||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has decided to allow the construction of guard room and toilet in the stilt parking area/floor of those plots which are four storeys and above. The department said that the reason for allowing construction is that in majority of such structures, such facilities are usually constructed behind the stairs. Since buildings with multiple floors need a lift operator and a guard to manage it, the need was felt to allow the construction of such facilities. Ravi Sihag, senior town planner, Gurugram, said that only 200-foot construction in the parking area would be allowed and this will be included in the floor area ratio (FAR) permitted for the plots. “A number of people had given representations in this matter and the matter was taken by the headquarters. We have sought objections from people by October 15 and after which the permission is likely to be granted,” said Sihag. The town planning department officials said that whenever they went for inspection or a sealing drive, they found that such facilities were present at majority of the homes. “Keeping in view these observations, it was decided to allow such constructions within the permissible FAR,” said RS Bhath, district town planner. The notification issued by DTCP stated, “Service/guard room and a toilet (maximum 20 sq m) shall be permissible in the stilt area/floor, subject to conditions that this area be located adjacent to the staircase/ lift, be counted towards FAR and that the parking and other norms (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-dtcp-allows-construction-of-guard-room-toilet-in-stilt-parking-areas/story-800feTwXzsv9lc1Gngmi3L.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Government schools hold meetings with stakeholders on the National Education Policy||Government schools across the district held consultation meetings on the National Education Policy (NEP) with various stakeholders, such as members of school management committees, parents, village heads and legislators on Friday. School heads said that the meeting was an exercise to seek feedback and convey necessary information regarding the new policy. This comes at a time when Haryana has been pushing for a swift implementation of NEP. The state recently concluded a four-day academic conclave on the policy. State education minister Kanwar Pal on Thursday had said that Haryana aspired to become the first state to implement the new policy.In July this year, the Union Cabinet passed the country’s new National Education Policy. This is the first such policy in the last 28 years. It recommends sweeping changes in the education system, including the introduction of primary education in local languages, facilitating the possible entry of foreign universities in India, creating a single higher-education regulator, and easier board examinations. As per the policy, the 10+2 structure of school curricula is to be replaced by a 5+3+3+4 curricular structure.Asha Miglani, principal of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Sector 43, said that various stakeholders, including parents, local leaders, and members of the school management committee, reflected upon different facets of the new policy. “This policy affects the future of children and the country. It was important to explain various facets of the policy to parents and other stakeholders in the education system. We took the help of PowerPoint presentations to explain the policy in simple terms and received constructive feedback from parents,” said Miglani.Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that both private and government schools in the area had been invited for the discussion meeting on Friday. Raghav said that the discussion mostly revolved around the new provision of teaching in local languages. “People had doubts if private schools would abide by the policy along with government schools. With English being a crucial language, there were mixed reactions to the new provisions. Overall, it was a healthy discussion. While most people have constructive feedback, others raised some concerns,” said Raghav.Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that besides discussing the various components of the new policy, feedback had been sought from parents and teachers regarding the provision of teaching in local languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-government-schools-hold-meetings-with-stakeholders-on-the-national-education-policy/story-Chxdvhm7SDe1kyaDnHvWlL.html
25-09-2020||City||Gurugram: NHAI allows partial resumption of work on Sohna road project||abhishek.behl@hindustantimes.comGurugram: The National Highways Authority of India has allowed partial resumption of work on the Sohna road project from Saturday. The work was stopped after the collapse of a concrete slab of an elevated corridor of the project on August 22. NHAI officials said that work would be allowed to start at surface level and not on the elevated structure, which will be resumed only after getting the report of high-level technical committee probing the collapse. The permission to resume work comes after an inspection was conducted by NHAI project director on September 16 and a report was submitted by an independent engineer on the measures taken to improve safety at the site, the officials said.“Permission has been granted to start work at surface level after the contractor installed seamless barricades, grilles and other safety measures. However, work on the elevated section will not resume till further directions,” said Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI. To study the reasons for the collapse of span, NHAI had formed a committee which has directed that concrete strength should be tested in a private laboratory. The 21.66 km-long Sohna road project (from Rajiv Chowk to Sohna) has two parts. The first part includes an underpass and an elevated road from Subash Chowk to a point beyond Badshahpur. The second part comprises the expansion of 12.72-km road from Badshahpur to Sohna and will involve construction of flyovers and underpasses at major crossings to ensure smooth movement of vehicles on the entire stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-nhai-allows-partial-resumption-of-work-on-sohna-road-project/story-2jxPLEWezlbR69hSAkiS4I.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 28K apply for admission to UG courses in govt colleges||The state higher education department on Thursday closed the registration process for admission to undergraduate courses with roughly 28,000 aspirants submitting admission forms to four government colleges in the city. Approximately 10,006 students registered for admission at Dronacharya Government College whereas the newly established Government Girls College in Sector 51 received only 327 applications for two courses. Pooja Khullar, principal of the Dronacharya Government College, said that the college had received 10,006 registrations across 14 courses. The colleges received the highest number of applications for BA and BCom courses respectively. “The deadline for submission of forms was extended till September 24. With the registration process being closed, we can now proceed with the verification of submitted forms. The team of nodal admission officers for city-based colleges has received directions regarding the verification process on the basis of which objections raised by students will be resolved,” said Khullar. The college has a total of 2,900 seats for all UG courses. Gyan Devi, the nodal admission officer for Government Girls College in Sector 14, said that the college had received over 8,000 applications for 2,400 seats across all 15 courses the college was offering. The highest number of applications were submitted for BA and BCom courses. Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that due to the changes in the admission schedule, the college was expecting classes for first-year students to start by October, once the verification process has been completed. “We have received around 9,161 forms for the nine courses we offer. The total seats across all courses are 1,110. Following the trend of the past many years, BA and BCom received the highest number of applications,” said Yadav. As per the revised admission schedule, the verification of the submitted admission forms will continue till September 27 after which the first merit list will be declared on October 1. The remaining admission schedule has been tweaked and the first merit list is expected to be out on October 1. Earlier this week, the education department had also sought feedback from colleges for initiating guidance visits for a second- and third-year​ students. However, colleges said that they were waiting for the admission process and final-year examinations to be completed before they could proceed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-28k-apply-for-admission-to-ug-courses-in-govt-colleges/story-AsPT2kwdoCXWnLS1w4O5UP.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Two bookies held for placing bets on IPL match||Two alleged bookmakers were arrested by the crime branch for placing bets on an Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket match earlier this week, said police on Friday. Police said a raid was conducted based on a tip. According to police, the two suspects --- identified by police as Virendra and Rajesh Kaushik --- were operating from a flat in a sector 107 society and had placed bets on the match. A crime branch official, requesting anonymity, said, “When the police team entered the house, we found Virendra, opened the door while the other man, Rakesh Kaushik, was on the phone taking bets with a laptop in front of him.” Police said the match was being screened on a television set in the room. On a mattress, several mobile phones were kept. Police seized three mobile phones, a laptop and a notepad. “The bookmaker on the phone was saying that the odds were 39 paise for a bet on the team batting first, which means that a person placing ₹100 on that team at that point of time, would receive ₹139 if it wins. The odds keep changing as the match progresses,” the official quoted above said. Both the accused are from Nangloi area in Delhi. Police said the suspects were produced in district court on Wednesday and released on bail. A case was registered against them under section 13 (gaming and setting birds and animals to fight in public streets) of the Public Gambling Act at Rajendra Park police station, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-two-bookies-held-for-placing-bets-on-ipl-match/story-QOY7Zbe6lyKuWTBThnYgmM.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||MCG to hold its upcoming House meeting at Sukhrali community centre on October 5||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will hold its upcoming House meeting at a community centre in Sukhrali on October 5. An invitation in this regard was sent to senior MCG officials and councillors by the civic body earlier this week, said officials on Friday.This is MCG’s third House meeting since the imposition of the national lockdown in March this year. But it is the first time that the civic body will be holding a House meeting at the Sukhrali community centre.During the last House meeting on August 28, which was held at a community centre in Sector 27, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh had taken a decision that each House meeting of the civic body henceforth will be held at a different residential sector. Singh said that the rationale behind such a move was to better understand local civic issues of different residential sectors and address them right away. He said that prior to holding a meeting, a team of MCG officials might visit the areas near the community centre and take an on-ground survey of the existing civic conditions. They can also directly communicate with the local residents regarding the civic ailments that continue to bother them. Following the House meeting in Sector 27, MCG officials had surveyed the drainage issues in sectors 27, 28, and Golf Course Road (GCR), and had come up with various plans to address the lack of proper drainage in the area and execute engineering changes.“Further, by holding a House meeting at a new residential sector every time, the local community centres across the city would also get a makeover if needed. This would ensure that various civic buildings across the city are well-maintained,” said Singh.There are 60 community centres in the city, 38 of which are managed by the MCG and 22 by local residents’ welfare associations (RWAs). As per MCG officials, councillors would be submitting their list of agendas for the House meeting next week. Mayor Madhu Azad said councillors have also been asked to compile a list of issues pertaining to Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) that can be discussed in the upcoming meeting, and subsequently be taken up with GMDA and HSVP officials in a separate meeting.“In several House meetings over the last 12 months, councillors have repeatedly raised issues pertaining to the GMDA and HSVP. Hence, we have decided to take up the matter directly with them in a separate meeting. Most issues pertaining to HSVP are related to land. GMDA, on the other hand, operates similarly as the MCG. As such there are multiple overlapping issues that need to be addressed,” said Azad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-hold-its-upcoming-house-meeting-at-sukhrali-community-centre-on-october-5/story-GvXRjEZh6wcUUr0YO5tuFJ.html
25-09-2020||City||Gurugram: Only 57 families in district under distress ration token scheme||archana.mishra@hindustantimes.com The number of families with distress ration tokens (DRTs), which were issued during the Covid-induced lockdown to the needy without ration cards in Gurugram, has drastically plunged from 9,751 in June to 57 in August, according to the data available with the district administration. Officials said that the mass exodus of migrant workers (almost three lakh people left the district) during the lockdown led to the significant decline in the number of people entitled for DRTs. Under the DRT scheme, the Haryana government is providing five kilogram of wheat and one kilogram pulses per month to each member of the entitled families.The distress ration tokens come under the Other Priority Household (OPH) category of regular ration card issued by the state government, the officials said. “A large chunk of migrant workers, who applied for DRT and were entitled under it, left the district when the government arranged trains and buses for them in June and July,” said, Monika Malik, in-charge of district food and supply department. “Out of 57 families at present, 42 are in Gurugram block, with majority of them in the Arjun Nagar area. Remaining beneficiaries are in Sohna, Badshahpur, Farrukhnagar and Pataudi blocks. In June, such beneficiaries were clustered in Nathupur area, especially in small colonies adjoining Delhi border,” said Malik. According to the data, the district in May received more than 21,000 applications for DRT, of which 4,980 were accepted for the entitlement. In June, more applications came in and the total number of beneficiaries under the scheme increased to 9,751. This was peak month when nearly 151,705 kg of wheat and 9,342 kg of pulses as dry ration were distributed to the entitled families. In July, however, the number of beneficiaries drastically plunged to 57, the second lowest in the state after Ambala having only 27 beneficiaries. Over 1,045 kg of wheat and 54 kg pulses were distributed through these tokens. In August, the number of entitled families remained the same and almost similar quantity of ration was distributed across the district. “Considering that many people in the state do not have ration card or fail to fulfil the eligibility criteria for a ration card, the state government in April decided to provide DRT to these people,” said Malik. At that time, local level committees were constituted with the help of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to survey such families. Malik said that details of such families were uploaded online for verification at the state level. “The token does not automatically entitle the holder to a regular ration card. It was provided to them at the nearby fair price shop for three months -- April, May and June. Now, the scheme is extended till November,” she said.At the state level too, there has been a significant reduction in the number of beneficiaries. In May, over 25,000 tokens were distributed across the state which came down to 5,682 in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-only-57-families-in-district-under-distress-ration-token-scheme/story-QUzznfwKNKzBeyjo5Aj99H.html
25-09-2020||City||Sisodia stable, administered plasma therapy||New Delhi: Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who has Covid-19 and dengue, was administered plasma therapy on Friday. His situation is now stable, senior officials in his office said.Sisodia tested Covid-19 positive on September 14, following which he was isolated at his residence. He was admitted to the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital on Wednesday, with fever and low oxygen count.His platelet count was found to be low and later he was also diagnosed with dengue. On Thursday, he was admitted to Max Superspeciality Hospital in Saket and moved to the intensive care unit (ICU).“The deputy CM was administered plasma therapy today. His condition is stable now. The vitals have improved significantly,” said a close aide of the minister who did not wish to be identified.After health minister Satyendar Jain, Sisodia is the second cabinet minister in the Arvind Kejriwal government to contact Covid-19 infection. When Jain was unwell, Sisodia took over as the interim health minister and was in charge of the portfolio when Delhi witnessed its first peak in June.Medical superintendent of Lok Nayak Hospital Suresh Kumar told PTI that though there is no scientific evidence to prove that plasma therapy benefits a patient, it has been administered for various ailments for several years. “In Covid-19 patients, it helps in bringing the oxygen level to the normal value besides other benefits, which aid in recovery. But in some cases, plasma therapy does not work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-stable-administered-plasma-therapy/story-cKJqTnGRDlslTq7DNoz5hN.html
25-09-2020||City||Farmers’ protest: Industrial shipments to Ludhiana delayed as trucks pull over||In the wake of farm protests, industrial activities in the city took a hit as transportation come to a halt on Friday.No dispatch of goods was done, while workers could not reach the factories due to blocking of the roads by farmers, rued city-based industrialists.Some manufacturers even kept their units closed out of fear, while most were operational with closed doors.They said the deliveries have been delayed and if the protests continued in this manner, the industry would suffer losses worth crores of rupees on a daily basis.All Industries and Trade Forum president Badish Jindal said, “Daily works were affected due to the protest as no goods were dispatched and a large number of bank transactions could not take place. Factory workers could not reach in time due while many didn’t come at all. If the protests go on the industry would suffer daily loss around ₹1,500 crore.”However, few industrial associations also backed the farmers’ protest stating that they are the backbone of the state and needed support at this time.Janta Nagar small scale manufacturers’ association head Jaswinder Thukral said, “No doubt the industrial activities have been affected by the protests, but we stand by the farmers.”The chairman of All India Motor Transport Congress and Ludhiana Goods Transport Association, Charan Singh Lohara, said trucks remained off the road on Friday as the transporters had earlier extended support to the farmers. The services would resume from Saturday.However, Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings, said, “The administration supported the industry, thus factories were able to operate normally despite the agitation. Though the dispatch of industrial goods could take place due to the suspension of transport, the same would be covered in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-industrial-shipments-to-ludhiana-delayed-as-trucks-pull-over/story-YWA44yjiwO9ysteDEsMkrJ.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Two women killed by their husbands in separate incidents, both suspects nabbed||Two women were murdered, allegedly by their husbands, in two separate incidents in Delhi on Thursday. The suspects in both the cases have been arrested, police said.In the first incident, on Thursday afternoon, a 32-year-old man allegedly bludgeoned his 28-year-old wife to death in front of their four-year-old son before trying to die by suicide by slitting his wrist in southwest Delhi’s Dabri. The man, however, was saved after a police team rushed him to a nearby hospital, where he got immediate medical attention.Police said that marital discord seems to be the reason that led to the murder. The man, identified as Bhanu Pratap, will be arrested and booked for killing his wife once he is discharged from the hospital.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said a call was received that around 3 pm on Thursday, stating that a person had “cut his veins” inside his house in Dabri. A police team reached the house and found that a couple lay bleeding on the floor. Both of them were rushed to a nearby hospital, where the woman was declared brought dead, said Meena.“The woman, Soni Devi, was attacked on her head with a blunt object that caused her death. Her husband has cut wounds on his wrist that suggests that he tried to kill himself. The couple’s child, who was in the one-room house at the time of the crime, is now living with a relative,” said DCP Meena.The police said that the initial probe into the case has revealed that the couple had strained relations since their wedding five years ago. Their frequent altercations forced them to live separately. The husband, who works as a mechanic, had started living in north-east Delhi while the woman stayed with their child in the Dabri home, a police officer associated with the probe said.On Thursday, Bhanu Pratap visited his wife. Neighbours have told the police that they heard the couple quarrelling but did not intervene since it was a routine affair. Around 2.30pm, they heard Soni Devi screaming and the child crying. They later rushed in to help and found the couple bleeding on the floor. One of them called the police, the officer said.“The exact reason behind the fight will be ascertained only after we record Pratap’s statement,” the officer added.Elsewhere, nearly 10 hours before Soni’s murder, a 29-year-old woman was strangled to death allegedly by her husband following an altercation over his extra marital affair and her checking his cellphone at their home in central Delhi’s Multani Dhanda, Paharganj.The 31-year-old husband, Sunny, was arrested later in day from Paharganj area. Sunny was driving an e-rickshaw with a mask covering his face when a police team nabbed him, said DCP (central) Sanjay Bhatia.The woman’s body was found on the floor of her home by a relative who informed the police. Her two children were at her in-laws home. Her husband Sunny was also missing after Wednesday night.“Since Sunny was an e-rickshaw driver, we started stopping and checking all e-rickshaws in the neighbourhood. Sunny tried to flee after seeing the police. But our team caught him and he confessed to having strangled his wife using her dupatta after having an altercation over his extra marital affair,” said DCP Bhatia.The woman wanted to check his cellphone’s call details to confront him on his affair. Sunny refused to hand over his cell phone. It led to an argument and he killed her in a fit of rage, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-women-killed-by-their-husbands-in-separate-incidents-both-suspects-nabbed/story-2bBXuyQiL2gKS4fy6MSHrM.html
25-09-2020||City||Agri bills death knell in garb of reform, says LIP chief Simarjit Singh Bains||Lok Insaf Party (LIP) staged a massive protest at Dhandari Chowk against the “anti-farmer” legislations approved by the Union government here on Friday.Led by party president Simarjit Singh Bains and patron Jathedar Balwinder Singh Bains, the agitating office-bearers and workers raised slogans against the PM Narendra Modi-led BJP government and demanded the repealing of the law.Addressing the workers, farmers, farm labourers, and other organisations, the LIP chief said it was not an agrarian reform law but a death sentence for the farmers.He said with the implementation of this law, the farmers would remain as bonded labourers in their own fields and would be forced to sow only those crops which the industrial houses like Adani-Ambani would want and they would also decide the price. He added that as per the provisions of the law when the farm land would be taken on lease, the industrial houses would have the right to draw loans on them. Bains said 70-80% of the farmers of Punjab were already in debt and their lands were mortgaged with the banks, under which the industrial houses would first buy their crops at half price and later usurp their land.Effigy burnt outside Jama Masjid Meanwhile, members of the Muslim community here came out in support of the farmers and joined their cause. They also burnt an effigy of the central government outside Jama Masjid on Friday.Maulana Habib-ur-Rehman Sani Ludhianvi, national president and Shahi Imam of the Jamaat Ahle Islam Hind, said people must stand up and save the nation from being sold out to crony capitalists.Earlier during the day, trade unions also joined the protesting farmers and took out a procession from Jagraon Bridge to oppose the agriculture-related bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agri-bills-death-knell-in-garb-of-reform-says-lip-chief-simarjit-singh-bains/story-WxgL92sl4jvOpSp2JLfXaP.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||‘My family, my responsibility’ drive will make state fit: CM Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government’s ‘my family, my responsibility’ anti-COVID-19 drive will create a health map for the state and make its people fit, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday.He was speaking at a review meeting held on the outbreak situation in Konkan and Pune regions, with officials from there taking part through video-conferencing.The campaign aims to survey and screen households in the state to detect COVID-19 patients as well as those with other ailments.Volunteers were compiling data of those who had been detected with the infection, those who had recovered and their post-coronavirus situation, Thackeray said.“In Konkan, 10.63 lakh families have been surveyed. In Pune, they have surveyed 182 villages and 13 municipal councils,” the CM said.He said the campaign was being extended in Pune to include factories, housing societies and civic wards.He said easing of lockdown restrictions, also called ‘unlock’ and ‘begin again’ by authorities, increased the threat of the virus spreading and asked people to ensure they wear masks and maintain social distancing norms.“Now we see two kinds of people. One who has tremendous fear for the coronavirus and the other who is very careless about the outbreak. The threat of spread of the virus is more from asymptomatic patients,” Thackeray claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/my-family-my-responsibility-drive-will-make-state-fit-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-p8UyzFfyyZpH6DOkBvVrKN.html
25-09-2020||Election:||‘Will never waver from promises’: Confident Nitish spells out plans for next term||Putting his best foot forward for the upcoming assembly elections, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday underlined that he has delivered on all the seven resolves for governance made during 2015 and, if voted back to power, would leave no stone unturned to usher 2.0 version of the freshly laid out seven-point programme in his next term.Positioning himself as the man for the moment for taking Bihar to the next level of development, Kumar said “Janata malik hai (In a democracy, voters are the masters). They have to take a call and decide who do they want to give a chance.”In doing so, Kumar, who addressed the media at JD(U) office, not only pitched the party’s punch-line “15 years vs 15 years” for the upcoming assembly polls but also reminded people about his track record in delivering on his promises to the electorates, despite the change in the composition of the government in the stand-off with the RJD on the issue of corruption.“A promise is a promise. I will never waiver on delivery,” he said, as he spelt out part-2 of the new seven-point governance priority for the new term. Kumar first served the state as the CM of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and then, for a brief period of less than two years, as the head of Grand Alliance government from November 2015 to July 27, 2017.Also read: ‘Social media platforms will be held liable for failure to counter misuse’ - CEC Sunil Arora“All sectors in the state witnessed all-round growth. We would like to carry forward our seven resolves-part 2. It will focus on the next level of development and have provisions for maintenance of the infrastructure thus created. We will construct and maintain it on the pattern of present initiative for road and bridges. The new resolve will be achieved in the next five years,” said Kumar.The chief minister said that the NDA government will endeavour to provide access to irrigation facility to every agricultural land parcel while highlighting the benefits of student credit card in promoting higher education.Kumar also tried to silence the opposition and NDA alliance partner LJP, which had been raising the issue of unemployment by emphasising the training of youths through a programme called ‘Yuva Shakti, Bihar Ki Pragati’. “For this, every district will have a mega skill centre and create a skill department,” he said.Also read: High stakes for Grand Alliance in Bihar, win could have national implications Kumar announced programmes to develop entrepreneurship among women. “Women will get special assistance of Rs 10 lakh and we will provide Rs 25,000 to the girls passing intermediate exams and Rs 50,000 to the girls who graduate,” said Kumar.He said that villages would henceforth be neat and clean like cities and will be equipped with solar lights and facility of solid waste management and centre for old people in every town along with better healthcare facilities for both human beings and livestock in the rural areas. Kumar, however, ducked a question on Chirag Paswan and revealed that Jitan Ram Manjhi’s party has joined the NDA on the advice of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-polls-2020-will-never-waver-from-promises-confident-nitish-spells-out-plans-for-next-term/story-SZFgOMOafllCAtpj3ZVTbP.html
25-09-2020||Education||DU to announce first cutoff list on October 12; academic session to begin on Nov 18||Delhi University (DU) colleges will announce the first cutoff list for admissions to several undergraduate courses on October 12, the university said Friday.The admission process in DU has been delayed by over three months this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, the first cutoff list was announced on June 28. The DU has also announced dates for admission to entrance-based undergraduate and postgraduate courses. While the undergraduate admissions will begin from October 19, postgraduate admissions will start from October 26.According to the admission schedule released by the DU’s admission department, there will be five cutoffs scheduled this year. However, in case seats remain vacant even after the five, further cutoffs will be released. The admissions under the first cutoff will be conducted between October 12 and 14. The second cutoff is scheduled to be released on October 19.There will be a three-day admission window for each cutoff. The third, fourth and fifth cutoffs are scheduled to be released on October 26, November 2 and November 9, respectively. A special cutoff will be released on November 18 for seats vacant and admission under that will be conducted between November 18 and 20.Dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said the session for the first-year undergraduates will begin from November 18. “We are hoping that we manage to wrap up admissions under at least the five cutoffs before November 18. This year, we are also waiting for the CBSE compartment exam results (to be announced by October 10) in order to give a fair chance to everyone,” she said. “Once the cutoffs are released, the eligible colleges and courses will automatically appear on the admissions portal. Aspirants can select the course and college of their choice. The college will then verify the documents of the applicants online and approve the admission.Then the applicants can pay the fee online to complete the process,” she explained. DU has introduced several changes in its admission process this year to ensure social distancing norms in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The entire admission process has been shifted online and will be carried out in a contactless manner. To ensure social distancing norms, the university has done away with physical verification of documents for which students had to visit colleges in the previous years. The initial verification will be done online this time and the final verification would be done by colleges whenever campuses reopen and in-person classes commence.The university has received as many as 353, 918 applications for approximately 70,000 undergraduate seats. This is a jump of around 100,000 applications from last year when the university had received 258,388 applications. The highest cutoff last year was set by Hindu College -- 99% for for BA (Hons) in Political Science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-to-announce-first-cutoff-list-on-october-12-academic-session-to-begin-on-nov-18/story-Ikpj8PeYNJzHa9MTsWLEqK.html
25-09-2020||City||Hope visuals of distressed farmers mellow Centre: Capt||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday expressed hope that the pain of the agitating farmers, who are braving the pandemic to oppose agriculture laws, will reach the Central government and the latter will show some regard to the farming community. In a statement issued here, the chief minister said the BJP-led Union government, with its “ill-conceived and unconstitutional” farm laws, had pushed the farmers to the brink, forcing them to come out on the roads and endanger their lives. “Maybe the distressing visuals of tens of hundreds of farmers out on the road in Punjab, and in several other states, will touch the hearts of the central leadership,” he said. Reiterating his commitment to fight the draconian laws till his last breath, Amarinder also urged the President of India not to give his assent to the Bills, which, he said, were crafted to destroy not just the economy of Punjab and the food security of the nation but also the lives of lakhs of farmers and their families. “The Bills, if implemented, will have devastating effects for the border state of Punjab, as well as for the entire nation,” he warned, accusing the Centre with ignoring the farmers’ concerns to promote the interests of their capitalist cronies. The CM said his government, along with the Punjab Congress, will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers to oppose the laws, and will take whatever steps needed, including moving the courts, to scuttle the Centre’s dangerous attempt to demolish the state’s well-established farming network. Amarinder also lashed out at the Akalis for their public posturing on the laws, which even the farmers had dismissed as crocodile tears. Reacting to the attack by Sukhbir Badal and Harsimrat Badal on him (Captain Amarinder), the CM dubbed it a “blatant tactic to divert attention from their own failure to protect the farmers’ interests and their decision to stay on in the government, after actively supporting and defending the farm ordinances”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hope-visuals-of-distressed-farmers-mellow-centre-capt/story-IaYWxImj545SxeyzyfLjLJ.html
25-09-2020||City||Haryana police lathicharge sacked PTIs protesting against deputy CM||Haryana police on Friday used water cannons and resorted to lathicharge to stop sacked physical training instructors (PTIs), who were protesting against deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and planning to gherao him during his visit to Charkhi Dadri district. Superintendent of police Vinod Kumar said the police had to use water cannons and lathicharge after some protesters tried to cross the barricade outside the PWD rest house. The PTIs had taken out the protest march along with Khap representatives and other social activists. Following the protests, the deputy CM cancelled his programme at the PWD rest house.Phogat Khap president Balwant Singh said they are protesting in support of the sacked PTIs, who are demanding that the state government reinstate them.“The government is trying to suppress the voice of the PTIs by using water cannons and resorting to lathicharge,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-police-lathicharge-sacked-ptis-protesting-against-deputy-cm/story-0Qg5yg7uahXzJTKnlBeHVJ.html
25-09-2020||City||Farmers’ protest: Passengers stranded at Ludhiana bus stand as transport suspended||With bus services suspended due to farmers protesting Centre’s agriculture bills across Punjab, the onward journey for many passengers was cut short on Friday, leaving them stranded at the city bus stand.Anxious to reach home, the passengers were seen inquiring about the resumption of public transport, only to get their hopes dashed when the staff informed that the buses won’t ply the whole day.Maqbool, a Jammu resident, was on his way from Mumbai before he got stuck in Ludhiana in the hopes of catching a bus home.“I reached Delhi by train, but the next one for Jammu got cancelled due to the protest. So, I boarded a bus to reach Ludhiana from where I was expecting to get on one to my hometown. But now the roads are blocked and no buses are operational. I am stuck here since morning. The bus operators are saying that private buses might start plying after 5pm, but that’s not for certain. The protesters should think of the inconvenience public has to face before blocking rail tracks and roads.”Similarly, a migrant labourer from Bihar, Sonu, was seen waiting for the bus service to resume so he could reach Moga for work.He said, “I had gone to meet my family in Bihar and was on my way back to Moga on Friday. The bus operator, however, cut the journey short and left us at the Ludhiana bus stand stating that the roads ahead were blocked. Now, I am waiting for the service to resume so I could reach my destination.”Meanwhile, the officials said the services were halted as a precautionary measure to avert any untoward incident during the farmers’ protest.On an average, around 150 buses depart from the city bus stand for inter-district journeys and towards Chandigarh.Punjab Roadways Ludhiana general manager Inderjit Singh said, “The public transport was suspended as a precaution against any undesirable situation amid the large-scale stir. Also, there was low footfall as people refrained from moving out due to the protests. The services would resume from Saturday.”Intra-city buses don’t ply eitherThe bus service presently active on two routes within the city, also remained suspended due to farmers’ protest on Friday. Service contractor Jaskirat Singh said the bus movement was suspended as a precautionary measure and would resume on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-passengers-marooned-at-ludhiana-bus-stand-as-transport-suspended/story-G7neBht3qPHE4VqKSeVYWP.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farm produce bill will double farmers’ income, says HP CM||The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill passed by the parliament will not only provide better marketing facilities to farmers but also help double their income, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Friday.The chief minister said agriculture produce marketing committees (APMC) and marketing boards will continue to function as usual and grant-in-aid to develop market yards will also continue.He said the new legislation will create additional trading opportunities outside the APMC market yards to help farmers get a better price for their produce. He said it will also allow development of private market infrastructure in the state besides improving market access for farmers through farm-gate sales.“It will help introduce new technologies in the farm sector through private investment,” said Thakur, adding that buyers and investors who directly purchase farm produce from the farmers will not have to pay any market fee or cess, which will motivate reputed agri-businesses and companies to purchase directly from the farm fields.“The Focus will be on electronic mode of transactions, which will help meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of one nation, one market,” he said.The CM said it will usher in development of cold chain infrastructure in the state as licensing would be deregulated, which will ensure ease of doing business and increase investment in the agro processing sector.Accusing Congress leaders for misleading the people of the state, the Chief Minister said the new law will give price assurance to farmers at the time of sowing with better income options.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-produce-bill-will-double-farmers-income-says-hp-cm/story-mPtQx1bLaTvqsl71goCp7I.html
25-09-2020||Lucknow||Entertainment and ‘fatafat’ money amid ‘Covid slowdown’||For businessman Rahul Agarwal (name changed), the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) has come as a big boost to his confidence and his finances, as he has been betting a handsome amount on the matches every day, and winning most of the time. After the 13th edition of the league started in the UAE last Saturday, his family has been enjoying the entertainment in the shortest format of cricket at a time when the world is going through a bad phase due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Agarwal’s bet of Rs 2,000 on the first match between the MS Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings (CSK) and the Rohit Sharma-led Mumbai Indians (MI) fetched him Rs 6,000 as the odds were not high for the favourites and three-time champions CSK in the opening encounter. Agarwal has no plans to bet on all the matches, but the entire family plans to watch all the matches without any interruption. “As I have my business outlet and house together at one place, I close my shop at 7pm and by the time the match starts, I am settled on the couch to watch the proceedings till the end. In fact, IPL has given the much needed entertainment to me and my family of five, including my 70-year-old father,” said Agarwal. How things start for him on the betting front everyday is quite interesting. His favourite betting sites ‘Guru Nine’ and ‘Betway’ have unique systems of collecting and paying back the money only to ‘well-known’ clients. “I call on a certain number and put my money. The person on the other side of the phone only says yes or no and we hardly talk for 10-15 seconds. The next morning of the match, either I pay my dues or get my winning purse as per the rate by a pre-designated messenger.” Agarwal said he gets a new phone number every time he bets. “If you dial on the same number the next day, it won’t exist. Moreover, no new person is allowed to make it to the betting circle unless you are being introduced by someone known to the people running the show. One has to take your guarantee as no one believes in your paying capacity or your loyalty,” added Agarwal, who runs his big outlet in the heart of the state capital. Agarwal isn’t the only one, who is betting on IPL games. There are many across the state who are making a fast buck. In Prayagraj, one of the ‘priests’ in Gaughat area has been known for his betting operations for many years. He is happy that business this time has grown manifold. “I have been managing the show in Prayagraj for many years, but this time the number of betters is phenomenal. Its only because of corona I believe that people are fed up of this crisis situation and looking for an option of entertainment as well as some extra income as businesses are sluggish,” said one ‘Mishra Ji’. “I don’t entertain unknown people as there is always a chance of catching police’s attention. This time, I have added 50-6 new people on my list of 150-odd regulars. I get a good cut for my efforts as I own the responsibility of collecting and paying money to the betters here,” he added. “This year, the IPL is happening at such a place, which is notorious in terms of fixing and betting. We should legalise betting in India too,” said Kanpur’s Shakeel (name changed), who had been a tennis ball cricketer in the past. Meanwhile, the UP police are tracking down betting rackets. “The activities of such people are being monitored at the district level. Our special units are also vigilant in the state,” said Jyoti Narayan, inspector general (law and order), UP police. A police team recently busted a betting racket in Kanpur and arrested six people. The accused ran the betting operations through various social media applications. “Our social media team also keeps a tab on suspicious activities through online platforms. If such activities are noticed, the teams alert the other police units for required action,” said the officer. According to police sources, the more these bettors use technology in a limited group, the more difficult it gets for the police to nab them. “Social media apps and other technology have allowed bettors to run operations in a small closed group. The monetary transactions in these cases are done via digital medium with limited or absolutely no physical interaction,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/entertainment-and-fatafat-money-amid-covid-slowdown/story-Cf6ngRCXKzWBldUsjtAXqK.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi’s 65th Foundation day: Minister urges students to strengthen healthcare system||Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan participated in the 65th foundation day celebrations of All India institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi on Friday. This was the day when AIIMS had started the first batch of its Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) classes. The premier healthcare institution and medical college has devised new ways of teaching because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Dr Harsh Vardhan urged the students to “aggressively” and “meticulously” brainstorm ideas that would help strengthen the medical services and in positioning the country among top scientific nations.Also read: NMC to function as top medical education regulator operational from today“I appreciate that in the last six months AIIMS has taken a huge responsibility in providing care to patients suffering from Covid-19, innovating in areas of research, guiding colleagues across the country and developing new methods of teaching and communication. It has fulfilled the objectives of its establishment by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences Act, 1956. It has always sought to achieve a high standard in healthcare services, education and research,” said Harsh Vardhan on the occasion.AIIMS was recently ranked first among the medical institutions in the country by the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) under the Ministry of Education.“AIIMS has established a high reputation and has contributed significantly in academic, research and patient care. It has attracted students from various other countries like the United States of America (USA), the United Kingdom (UK), Australia, Germany, etc. It is a huge achievement. It is a one-of-its-kind institution that has state-of-the-art facilities. Our government is making efforts to spread the services of AIIMS to every nook and corner of the country,” said Ashwini Kumar Choubey, minister of state (MOS), health & family welfare.The ministers also released a research section manual and inaugurated an exhibition titled “AIIMS in Covid-19 Times” that highlighted the contribution of the healthcare institution in dealing with the ongoing public health emergency.AIIMS, Delhi, was one among the first few government-run hospitals, which was declared a dedicated Covid-19 facility in March, including its campus in Jhajjar, Haryana. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-s-65th-foundation-day-minister-urges-students-to-strengthen-healthcare-system/story-mxsuzz6jcWuC3LLN0ewBPJ.html
25-09-2020||City||HC dismisses pleas of pharma firm on cough syrup testing||Shimla The Himachal Pradesh high court has dismissed the petitions of Kala Amb-based Digital Vision pharma company and its partner Parshottam Lal Goyal in connection with the failure of samples of cough and cold medicine named Coldbest PC cough syrup. A dozen children were killed in Udhampur district of Jammu by drinking the cough syrup. According to Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, these children died due to a substance called ethylene glycol, a dye present in the cough syrup.The petitioners had challenged this year’s orders of Sirmaur chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of March 11 and May 2 in the court. In this case, the CJM allowed the drug inspector to take additional samples of the seized syrup. According to the drug inspector’s application, the government analyst found that the dye found in the drug was not sufficient for ethylene glycol testing. Therefore, the court was requested to allow taking of additional samples. The magistrate also rejected the objections of the applicants, who pleaded not to send 20 bottles of samples taken on March 11 for testing, but wanted only four bottles, taken on February 26, for testing. Although the magistrate allowed only four bottles to be opened for examination, he also made it clear that if the sample was inadequate, another 20 bottles will be tested. The applicants had challenged these orders in the high court through two separate petitions, which justice Vivek Singh Thakur has dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-dismisses-pleas-of-pharma-firm-on-cough-syrup-testing/story-FSoKjTjzPK0cN4B8Ib9MpL.html
25-09-2020||Bhopal||Shifting of deer to maintain ecological pyramid in national parks of Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh (MP) forest department authorities have started translocation of 3,000 spotted deer from Bandhavgarh and Pench Tiger Reserves to three other national parks and a wild sanctuary in the state in a bid to ensure that there are enough prey for tigers, a forest department official said on Friday. “The decision of translocation of the spotted deer was taken in early September to cater to the tigers’ prey in Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Sidhi, Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Damoh and Satpura Tiger Reserve in Hoshangabad. The population of tigers in these national parks and wildlife sanctuaries have risen in the past few years. But the population of their prey has not increased in equal proportion,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), wildlife, MP. The population of deer in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries should be 40 per square (sq) kilometre (km) and 35 or less per sq km, respectively. In the absence of adequate prey, the tigers can move out of their natural habitat and hunt domestic animals in adjoining villages, leading to human and tiger conflict. “The translocation of spotted deer is being done from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in Umaria and Pench Tiger Reserve in Seoni, where there is an abundance of the animals, who are causing havoc by destroying crops. The population of spotted deer is 50,000 and 70,000 in Bandhavgarh and Pench Tiger Reserves, respectively. There are around 50 spotted deer per sq km,” Kumar added. Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary, which has at least five tigers after two big cats -- a tiger from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve and a tigress from Kanha National Park – were shifted in 2018, has reported a decline in its deer population. “It is imperative to maintain the balance, as the population of tigers has increased to five. However, there is an acute shortage of prey, including deer in the sanctuary. The state forest department granted permission of translocation of 200 spotted deer on Thursday and in all, 500 spotted deer will be shifted,” said Rakhi Nanda, divisional forest officer (DFO), Damoh. The translocation of spotted deer, which started in September, will be completed by March 2021 through the Boma method, where an enclosure is placed to catch the animals and its exit open into a truck, said Nanda. “We are taking care of vegetation and environment before the translocation of the spotted deer. Altogether, 2,400 spotted deer will be shifted from Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in Umaria to Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Sidhi. Umaria and Sidhi have similar kinds of vegetation. As a result, the spotted deer won’t face any difficulty in their survival,” said Vincet Raheem, field director, Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve. Experts said there is no threat to shifting of spotted deer by using the Boma method and the animals also have good adaptive features. “Spotted deer might have faced problems while mingling with the local population. But that’s not a big issue. Similarly, spotted deer take a very short span of time in adapting to a new environment. The chances of survival of spotted deer are 100% after the translocation,” said SK Mandal, a former PCCF, wildlife, MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/shifting-of-deer-to-maintain-ecological-pyramid-in-national-parks-of-madhya-pradesh/story-oWY3x3Z3PYrTTKNlKwBl8O.html
25-09-2020||Patna||AIIMS Patna begins OPD services for post-Covid-19 care||Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Friday started outdoor patient department (OPD) services for post-Covid-19 care. Only two patients registered on the opening day, officials said.The Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), which is the other Covid-19 designated hospital in Patna, initiated the post-Covid care OPD services last week.The AIIMS had suspended OPD services and stopped admitting non-Covid patients when it was designated a Covid-19 special hospital on July 10.“The OPD service will be available in the department of pulmonary medicine from 9 am to 2 pm on weekdays, with registration till 12 noon. We will not admit patients other than those with Covid-19 at this stage,” said Dr CM Singh, superintendent, AIIMS Patna.Also Read: Patna AIIMS to be referral hospital for DRDO Covid care centresBesides catering to patients with complications arising out of Covid-19, the OPD will facilitate research.“We will conduct CT scan or CT-angiography in the fourth and 24th week of post-Covid care follow-up to check for pulmonary fibrosis, or scarring of the lungs, that affect their functioning,” said Dr Deependra Kumar Rai, head of the department of pulmonary medicine, AIIMS Patna.“Studies have revealed that 20%-30% of patients develop pneumonia after recovering from Covid-19. There are others who suffer from cough, breathlessness...severe weakness, sleep disturbance, gastro-intestinal issues, abdominal or chest pain after recovering from Covid-19. We have developed a standard operating procedure on the treatment protocol of such patients.”He said doctors at the pulmonary medicine OPD would consult clinicians of other specialities like cardiology, neurology, gastro-intestinal medicine, etc on a case-to-case basis, for patients suffering from co-morbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/aiims-patna-begins-opd-services-for-post-covid-19-care/story-KrKxwiRKhDjWEGf9NviERP.html
25-09-2020||City||Check all imported apple for quality: Orchardists||Shimla Himachal Pradesh Progressive Growers Association has written a letter to the Central government demanding that officials must check 100% of shipments of apple and kiwi from Iran and Turkey for all insects and pests, before clearing these for sale. The letter adds that due to the sale of fruit in such shipments, there was potential threat of losses to fruit crop growers in the state. Apples are grown in Shimla, Kullu, Mandi and Kinnaur districts and contribute around Rs 4,500 crore to the economy. This year, growers have already suffered due to the lockdown, heavy rain and hailstorm and absence of labour force during the plucking season.Imported apple from Iran and Turkey is the latest worry for growers as the price of their produce has witnessed a dip. Apple imports from these two countries started in August and will continue till October, giving tough competition to Himachal apples.President, Progressive Growers Association, Lokinder Singh Bisht, claimed that in some apple shipments from Iran there was live presence of Cydia pomonella (codling moth), Aspidiotus nerii (acuba scale ) in kiwis and bacterial infection Pseudomonas viridiflava (bacterial leaf blight of tomato) and imports of such infected crop could potentially lead to losses. He added good quality apple produced in Himachal was not getting a fair rate in the market, impacting returns. The imported apple is available between Rs 60 and Rs 70 per kg, while Himachal apple is being sold between Rs 120 and 150 per kg.According to the data with Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), apple import from Iran increased to 21,521 tonne in 2019-20, as compared to 7,020 tonne in 2017-18; while apple imports from Turkey increased to 32,289 tonne in 2019-20 tonne, compared to 7,500 tonne in 2017-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/check-all-imported-apple-for-quality-orchardists/story-1Un3zRXIilmv7vw8owjrKL.html
25-09-2020||City||Chhattisgarh DGP calls for fair trial of 120 tribals in Burkapal attack case||Chhattisgarh police chief D M Awasthi has instructed the inspector general (IG) of Bastar to make arrangements for the fair trial of 120 tribals arrested for their alleged role in an attack on security forces at Burkapal in 2017.“Everyone has right to a fair trial in court and it is established system of law,” he said in a letter to the IG on Friday after taking cognisance of an HT report that said the tribals have been jailed for three years without trial.Also read: Spike in killings by Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar raises questionsAwasthi asked the IG to take a personal interest in the case and other cases pending trial. “The accused should be produced in court on time and trial should be done.”An inspector-rank officer was among 25 paramilitary personnel killed in the April 2017 Maoist attack at Burkapal in Sukma. It was the deadliest attack since 76 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force were killed in 2010 in the Bastar region.Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist and lawyer, said 120 innocent people from villages around Burkapal were booked. “The police framed innocent people under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code from the area where the Maoist action occurred. The trial is still in the initial stage of framing of charges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chhattisgarh-dgp-calls-for-fair-trial-of-120-tribals-in-burkapal-attack-case/story-oAxdx0QXs2ruWDjYONFLNP.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir, Harsimrat lead Akali chakka jam against farm bills||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who is the Bathinda Lok Sabha member and quit the Narendra Modi cabinet over the farm bills recently, led party workers in blocking traffic (chakka jam) at Lambi in Muktsar district. The SAD, an ally in the NDA government, is the only key political party that held road blockades across the state against the Centre’s move. While Akali activists blocked roads across the state, Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders did not join the farmers’ protests but expressed solidarity with the protesters. Bathinda Congress urban president Arun Wadhawan said the party had appealed to traders and commission agents to shut their establishments in support of the bandh call. Teachers and government employees associated with Left-wing organisations also joined the farmers in their protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-harsimrat-lead-akali-chakka-jam-against-farm-bills/story-F0nnEUKp7UsSejALj99WiI.html
25-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Man electrocuted as high-tension line falls on him||A 29-year-old man died of electrocution when a high-tension wire fell on him on Friday morning in Haldwani area of Nainital district of Uttarakhand, said police. Nandan Singh Rawat, station house officer Kathgodam police station, said Kamal Rawat died when a high-tension line fell on him at Teri Puliya in Kathgodam. “Kamal was a resident of Damuwadhunga and worked at a private nursing home,” said Rawat. Also read: 8 undertrials escape from makeshift prison in Uttarakhand; 4 caught“Kamal Rawat was going to the nursing home on his bicycle on Friday morning. When he reached Teri Puliya, a high-tension line fell on him, electrocuting him,” he said. Rawat said a taxi driver who knew Kamal was passing by. “He informed Kamal’s family who rushed to the spot but the man had died by then. They informed the Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) and police. A police team sent the body for post-mortem,” said Rawat. UPCL executive engineer Devendra Singh Bisht said an inquiry committee headed by UPCL executive engineer, Haldwani, rural, had been formed to investigate the incident. “The committee will submit its report within 10 days,” he said. Bisht said as per the norms, the kin of the deceased will be provided a compensation of ₹ 4 lakh. “We will try to provide ₹ 50,000 on Saturday and the remaining amount will be given on completion of necessary paperwork, “ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-man-electrocuted-as-high-tension-line-falls-on-him/story-GJWX6BHukuR8AwOfNBk6PN.html
25-09-2020||Pune||Dams full as 33 of 35 districts in Maharashtra receive normal to excess rainfall||Southwest monsoon has brought good news for Maharashtra with 33 of 35 districts either receiving normal or excess rainfall till September 23. With rainfall in ample quantity, most big and medium dams in Maharashtra are also full and the agriculture department also expects bumper crop this year. As of Thursday, cumulative water stock in all the dams in Maharashtra stood at 83.17%. During the same day last year, the dam stock was 72.46%. However, in parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha, heavy rainfall in the past one week, has also damaged the crops. According to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) seasonal map for Maharashtra, only two districts from Vidarbha have received deficient rainfall (lesser than 20% to 59% of normal). The two districts are Akola and Yavatmal where rainfall deficiency has been 26 and 23 per cent respectively. The 16 districts which have received normal rainfall are from Vidarbha and parts of Konkan. The 17 districts which have received more than normal rainfall are Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Mumbai, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Sangli, Pune, Thane, Solapur, Osmanabad, Latur, Beed, Jalna, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nashik. According to Anupam Kashyapi, head, India Meteorological Department, “The state has had good rainfall so far even as the return journey of monsoon will take some time. In Maharashtra, monsoon is expected to withdraw in the second or third week of October. The surplus rains over Maharashtra is a good sign as there will be no scarcity of water in the drought prone areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dams-full-as-33-of-35-districts-in-maharashtra-receive-normal-to-excess-rainfall/story-wKyBrra1JHPPCU7U90ECsN.html
25-09-2020||City||Assam sets up commission to redraw BTAD boundary as per Bodo accord||Eight months after the signing of the Bodo peace accord, Assam government on Friday announced the setting up of a commission to redraw the boundary of Bodoland Territorial Areas District (BTAD) as mentioned in the deal. The peace accord signed in January by National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB), All Bodo Students Union (ABSU) and United Bodo Peoples’ Organisation (UBPO) with the Centre and Assam government had included the redrawing of BTAD—which comprises Baksa, Kokrajhar, Udalguri and Chirang districts—as one of the main clauses. “The government will set up a four-member commission headed by former chief secretary PP Verma. It would have a tenure of six months from the day of its formation,” health, finance, PWD and education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists. The present administrator of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) Rajesh Prasad, Jayanta Basumatary of ABSU and Dalim Bayan, a non-Bodo representative, are the other members of the commission. Also Read: Politics picks up pace in Assam ahead of next year’s assembly pollsAs per the accord, villages contiguous to BTAD with a Bodo population of more than 50% can apply to be included within its boundary and villages within BTAD which are contiguous to its boundary and have a non-Bodo population of over 50% can apply to be excluded from its area. “As provided in the accord, the commission will advise the state government on increasing the number of seats in BTC from 40 to 60 as well as delimiting constituencies,” Sarma said. The minister said that Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi has already approved the renaming of BTAD as Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR), as specified in the accord. “Once these clauses are implemented, the state government will initiate the inclusion of Bodo as an associate official language in Assam as well as set up a Bodo-Kachari Welfare Council for Bodos living outside BTAD,” said Sarma. The new initiatives announced on Friday follow a meeting between Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on September 20 regarding the implementation of the accord. Elections to BTC, which was ruled by Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the BJP-led ruling coalition in the state, was scheduled in April this year, but the entire BTAD was placed under governor’s rule the same month as polls couldn’t be held due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “The health department is of the view that elections for BTC can’t be held till November-end. The chief minister will hold an all-party meeting regarding the polls soon and a decision on holding the election in December may be taken. We are also watching how assembly polls in Bihar are conducted,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-sets-up-commission-to-redraw-btad-boundary-as-per-bodo-accord/story-IUFWbplwwEnuuQfPpvPAkM.html
25-09-2020||Pune||No entry for Covid: How housing societies in Pune, against all odds, kept the virus out||The city’s Covid-19 case count 1,47,634, as of Thursday, leaves little doubt that few areas and even fewer multi-apartment housing societies can claim to be unaffected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes the infection. As the virus has claimed 5,478 lives since the first recorded case in Pune in March, housing societies have worked hard to build a common, societal response to ensure virus-protective norms issued by the authorities have been met. Aapla Ghar society in Kirkatwadi and Konark nagar in Vimannagar and Astonia Society in Balewadi are three such housing complexes that for all the Covid data indicators, have kept the virus out… so far. No residential member of these three housing societies have contracted the virus yet. HT meets the “groundsmen”, the “captains” and the “fielders” of these residential complexes to understand how Covid-19 was kept out. Aapla Ghar society, Kirkatwadi, 88 apartments, 125 residents“Ever since the lockdown, we stopped entry of persons from outside. For daily needs and eatables we called vendors to the gate and everything was distributed at the gate. From eggs and chicken to groceries, everything was distributed at the gate,” said Yogita Bagnikar, ex-chairperson, who took on a lead role during the last six months. Bagnikar made sure that even orders from D-mart were made in bulk, at one time, the distribution of which was controlled by the society. “Avoiding contact with outsiders and strict protocols of not leaving the home without gloves and masks made things easy to manage,” added Bagnikar. Ninety per cent of houses have stopped maids coming in to work for the last six months. “Only in exceptional cases, where there are toddlers or only senior citizens, maids are allowed. We will allow maids once the situation becomes normal. Most have still continued ‘half payment’ to maids as financial support,” explained Bagnikar, who also is the administrator of the Aapla Ghar WhatsApp group where all information is relayed to residents. Thermal scanning at the gates and sanitisation points within the society are the other de riguer measures in place. “Residents who leave the society premises sanitise themselves completely before coming back into the building premises,” Bagnikar claims. “It is the support of people from within the society which has made things possible for us. We ensure that no one breaks the protocol,” said Poonam Savarkar, a resident. “We had vendors for all essential services like milk, fruits, vegetable. The biggest challenge was in initial days to get people used to the new norms. The committee did a fantastic job in our building, said Shabana Shaikh, a resident. The Shaikh family has five members living in the society.Konark Nagar, Vimannagar, 131 row houses; 23 buildings, 518 apartments For Konark Nagar in Viman nagar, early precautionary measures played a trump card as the society has 518 families and a population of 1,500. “We were monitoring the rise in the number of Covid in other countries. Our management was alert and started a discussion regarding precautionary measures early on. We cancelled all Holi celebrations and stopped outsiders from entering the society,” explains Sandeep Singh, chairman of Konark Nagar, who has a PhD in Agriculture. “My agriculture background helped me and we started quickly spraying a disinfectant – sodium hypochlorite and viroxide - in the society, every day, thrice,” says Singh. Special care was given to senior citizens, who make up 30 per cent of the complex’s residents. “Strict controls on the movement of senior citizens was kept and door delivery services were provided to them,” adds Singh. “I kept myself busy with gardening. Being a senior citizen, we were treated very well by society members,” said Lakshmi Narain Batra, 81, former assistant works manager, Ammunition Factory Khadki.The society allowed watchmen to stay on premises. For the first two months – April and May – maids were not allowed to go home and lived on the society premises. “We then increased the salaries of maids and it has ensured that they will only work at our society and go home. They agreed as they also wanted to secure themselves against the virus,” says Singh. Astonia Society, Balewadi, 96 apartments “We have created our own bubble” is how Vaishali Kambli, a resident who shifted to Astonia Society, two months before the virus broke out, explains it in one sentence. “Only going out, if it is very urgent is the protocol followed by all. And since we are a little far out from the city, we have managed to keep social distancing norms with ease,” adds Kambli. Currently, at Astonia, if any renovation, or moving of residence has to be done, no more than four persons are allowed to work together at a time. “Even after work is completed, the person who hired the workers has to sanitise all areas where the work, and the workers, operated,” added Kambli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-entry-for-covid-how-housing-societies-in-pune-against-all-odds-kept-the-virus-out/story-SFt8dyG9lDLWTxu5HUHmxH.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Consider allowing export of pending onion consignments: Bombay HC tells Customs||The Bombay high court on Friday directed the Customs authorities in Mumbai to consider allowing pending consignments of onion -- of about 108 containers which were brought to Customs before the Centre suddenly banned onion export on September 14 -- to be exported.“It will be in the interest of justice to consider the case of the petitioners, because their consignments were with the Customs authorities before issuance of the notification (imposing band on onion export),” said the bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Abhay Ahuja.The bench was hearing a petition filed by Horticulture Produce Exporters Association challenging the abrupt ban imposed by the central government on export of onions.In the petition, filed through advocate Sujay Kantawala, the association contended that the Ease of Doing Business promise of the Centre clearly stopped the authorities from arbitrarily interfering with the freedom to export freely exportable goods.The petition added that section 51 of the Customs Act, 1962, mandates Customs officers to clear goods for export, if satisfied that their export is not prohibited. The Customs officers, however, acted arbitrarily on September 14, and refused to process Let Export Orders (LEOs) even before the notification was issued, said the petition.The counsel for the petitioner association, senior advocate Darius Shroff, pointed out that the notification came in the evening, at about 6 pm on September 14, but the Customs officers refused to process LEOs from the morning of September 14, even when the consignments were brought to the parking plaza outside the Customs area.Senior advocate Pradeep Jaitley, who represented the Customs, however, claimed that most of the consignments for which export bills were submitted have been cleared by the authorities and allowed to be exported. He added that if any consignments are still remaining, the authorities would certainly consider the same.The bench appreciated the efforts made by Customs to mitigate hardship faced by onion exporters because of the abrupt ban, but added the case of the members of the petitioner association were also required to be considered.The bench directed the authorities to consider the case of the petitioners at the earliest, as the goods are perishable, and posted the petition for further hearing on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consider-allowing-export-of-pending-onion-consignments-bombay-hc-tells-customs/story-yji8mBgJGZ6GEMYMicUOOM.html
25-09-2020||Lucknow||Migrants helping beautify Ganga ghats in 7 east UP districts||Migrants workers, who returned to their villages in Uttar Pradesh due to the coronavirus lockdown, have been roped in to plant trees and beautify the banks of river Ganga in at least seven districts of eastern part of the state as part of the Namami Gange project. “More than 3,000 migrant workers of various districts have been employed by local authorities for the work under the project. The shortage of labour that we faced earlier was taken care of,” said Subodh Kumar, overseer of the project in eastern UP. The migrant workers were hired by different departments and organisations working on the project, including the local district administration, municipal bodies and the forest departments. In Bhadohi, around 200 migrant labourers were hired for a plantation drive along a 10 km stretch of the river in July. Similarly, in Rae Bareli around 350 migrants were hired for a plantation drive in August. In Ballia, around 300 migrant labourers helped in clearing the banks of Ganga for a plantation drive in August. Also Read: UP’s first private farm mandi opens in Bulandshahr amid protestsOver 400 others have helped in strengthening the embankments in the district. The migrant workers, paid by their hiring departments, earned between Rs 200 to Rs 300 for a day’s work. “More than 120 km long stretch on Ganga’s banks was cleared or underwent plantation drive with the help of migrant labourers since July this year,” said Kumar. Also Read: Green cover in Prayagraj almost doubles in 3 yearsGanga enters Uttar Pradesh in Bijnor and travels around 1200 km before entering Bihar after passing through Ballia. The beautification of the entire stretch has been underway since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/migrants-helping-beautify-ganga-ghats-in-7-east-up-districts/story-P1riCXwc6Qw2NTyl47iGHJ.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tihar director-general tests positive for Covid-19||Sandeep Goel, the director general of Delhi’s Tihar prison, has tested positive for Covid-19. “My condition is stable and I hope to be on my path to recovery soon,” said Goel.A Tihar official said Goel got himself tested for the virus after he felt some body ache. “His report on Tuesday confirmed that he was positive for Covid-19,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Also Read: This is why Covid-19 may be life-threatening for some patientsThe official added the administrative block at the jail Complex has been sanitised two-three times since Goel tested positive. As many as 70 prisoners have tested positive for the virus till September 8, according to the official data. Of them, two have died while 63 have recovered. Five other prisoners are undergoing treatment for the disease. Official said 188 staff members of the prison have tested positive for Covid-19 till September 8. While 168 of them have recovered, the remaining are under treatment for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-tihar-director-general-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-kkGyTwS001Y2Y05bGh9AcK.html
25-09-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal fire brigade gets 4 robotic fire fighting equipment; other vehicles||West Bengal fire brigade department on Thursday launched four remote-controlled fire fighting vehicles and a range of other fire tenders and vehicles that could help in fighting fire in the hills and douse flames triggered in chemical factories. “The robotic fire fighting vehicles would be of great help to us as it can reach places where our men find difficulty in reaching. It can be remotely operated from a distance of 100 metres,” said a senior official of the fire department. Each vehicle is fitted with thermal sensing equipment and optical cameras and can trigger a water jet with a force of 1800 litres per minute. A range of other instruments and vehicles, including those purchased to fight specific types of fires such as those triggered in chemical factories, were also launched. Also Read: ‘Will put coronavirus in lockdown and hold Durga puja’: Mamata Banerjee“We have deployed five multi-purpose foam tenders, which could help in fighting flames in chemical factories and 10 mini water tenders, each with a carrying capacity of 3,000 litres that could come handy in hills and for entering narrow roads in urban areas where large water tankers can’t reach,” said the official. Also Read: National People’s Party opens unit in north Bengal, backs Gorkhaland More than Rs 18 crore was spent to purchase the equipment and vehicles which officials said would help in modernising the fire fighting force. Around 100 motorcycles fitted with fire fighting equipment were also deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-fire-brigade-gets-4-robotic-fire-fighting-equipment-other-vehicles/story-35jCYKkaRdRxnwQDFAFahJ.html
25-09-2020||City||Assam launches 4 schemes to boost Covid-hit tea industry||The Assam government on Friday announced four new schemes to boost the state’s tea industry, which has taken a severe hit because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions. Around 800 tea gardens in Assam had remained closed for around two months due to the lockdown, which were enforced from end-March because of the viral outbreak.Also read: Assam announces infrastructure projects worth nearly Rs 12,000 croreTea production until August is estimated to have dropped by around 25%, as compared to the corresponding period last year. Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who announced the schemes, hoped that the initiatives would help the tea industry in the state to recover. The new schemes will cost the state exchequer around Rs 200 crore. “If any tea garden has taken a working capital loan from a commercial bank, the Assam government will pay 3% of the interest on the borrowed sum. The maximum cap on the subsidy will be Rs 20 lakh for each tea garden per year,” Sarma said. The state government will pay a tea garden a subsidy of Rs 7 per kilogram (kg) to grow orthodox tea in a bid to promote production and export of this variant of the hot beverage. This incentive will be over and above the Rs 3 per kg of tea to be paid by the Tea Board of India (TBI). “The state government will also provide a 25% subsidy to procure plants and machineries to grow orthodox tea,” Sarma said. The state government has also announced an agriculture income tax holiday to tea gardens for three years. “We hope tea gardens will give a 20% bonus for the upcoming Durga Puja to all their workers following the state government’s announcements of the new schemes. Employees of gardens under the Assam Tea Corporation, a state government undertaking, have been assured of a 20% bonus,” Sarma said. TBI data showed that Assam produced 223 million (m) kg of tea between January and July this year, as compared to 274 m kg of the hot beverage during the same period last year. In 2019, Assam had produced 716 m kg of tea. Also read: Assam re-launches self-employment scheme worth Rs 1,000 croreThe wholesale price index (WPI) for tea grew at an all-time high of 79% in August due to a drop in production. Though WPI for May was -1.8%, it rose to 8.9% in June and further shot up to 45.8% in July. “The rise in prices is due to a drop in supply because of the lockdown restrictions. This had affected the tea auction as well. It started picking up only around end-August,” said Priyanuz Dutta, secretary, Guwahati Tea Auction Centre (GTAC). He said GTAC sold around 49 m kg of tea between end-April and mid-September, as compared to 63 m kg of the plantation crop during the same period last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-launches-4-schemes-to-boost-covid-hit-tea-industry/story-UIubxPoOmIF57zP9QjbMDJ.html
25-09-2020||Noida||Farm bills: Farmers protest, block Delhi-Noida road at Sector 14-A||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members have blocked the Delhi-Noida border near Sector 14A in protest against the farms bill passed by Parliament nearly a week ago. Farmers from different villages gathered to march to Delhi as part of a nationwide protest but they were stopped on the way by the police. Farmers, in tractors and cars, reached Noida Gate near Mayur Vihar around 11.45am. Delhi Police personnel have been deployed on the Delhi side of the border. They set up barricades to stop farmers’ entry into Delhi. Also Read: Here’s why farm protests have been loudest in Punjab, HaryanaOn the Noida side of the border, farmers parked several tractors and cars at the Noida entry gate, completely halting vehicular movement from both sides. The farmers sat down and started addressing the gathering about the farm bills. BKU’s national Capital region president Subhash Chaudhary said that the government has abolished mandis and opened avenues for the corporates to directly access farmers’ produce through these bills. “There are no measures regarding farmers being able to sell their produce at decent rates. The government is promoting capitalism. We demand amendments in the law. The government should at lease ensure Minimum Support Price (MSP),” he said. Also Read: Bharat Bandh: Cops, armed with anti-riot gear, deployed on Delhi-Noida borderA number of police personnel from Noida have been deployed at the spot. Kumar Ranvijay, additional DCP, Noida, said the protest is peaceful. “We have diverted Delhi-bound traffic to DND Flyway and Kalindi Kunj. Delhi Police have diverted Noida-bound traffic to internal roads,” he said. The farmers said the protest will continue until they receive an official communication from their counterparts who are on strike in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/farm-bills-farmers-protest-block-delhi-noida-traffic-at-sector-14-a/story-wk93NjqosE7BZc24LiPCNJ.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Total bandh in Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar and Bathinda against Centre’s farm bills||The usually bustling city of Amritsar wore a deserted look on Friday with shops and offices closed and vendors off the streets as the district observed a total bandh in support of the call given by farmer organisations against the Centre’s bills to liberalise the farm sector. Police personnel were deployed at key points in town to ensure law and order. Transport services were hit and government departments besides banks and private companies reported low attendance as most residents chose to stay home. Government offices were partially closed.A few devotees turned up to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple in the morning. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) announced that its offices will remain closed in support of the bandh call. Farmers and allied organisations staged demonstrations at Bhandari Bridge, whichis situated at the heart of the city. Panthic organisations such as the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), a splinter group of the Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal, and the Dal Khalsa also held demonstrations at the bridge.Implementing a chakka jam, SAD leaders blocked roads and held gatherings in their respective assembly constituencies in the district. The bandh was also successful in Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts of Majha region. In Gurdaspur, Congress leaders, including MLAs, joined the protests, while SAD workers blocked the national highway on the bypass road. Tepid response in Pathankot  The bandh garnered a lukewarm response in Pathankot, which is a stronghold of the BJP. The area is dominated by businessmen and traders. However, two of three MLAs in the region are affiliated with the Congress, which has supported the bandh call. Almost all shops and outlets remained open in Pathankot town. Few farmer groups staged agitations on the outskirts, but it did not affect routine life. Of the two primary trader organisations in the region, one group supported the bandh while the other opposed it. FARMERS BLOCK HIGHWAYS IN PATIALA DISTRICT Farmers blocked state and national highways in Patiala district since morning as commercial activities came to a halt in response to the farmers’ bandh call on Friday. The farmers parked their tractor-trolleys on roads across Patiala district to block traffic. Several allied organisations came out in support of the farmers and gathered at Shambu barrier, bordering Haryana, on the Jalandhar-Delhi national highway. Punjabi singers joined the demonstration at Nabha. COMPLETE BANDH IN DOABAThe four districts of Doaba region, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, observed a complete bandh. The farmers and trade union members held protests at the sub-division level. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union blocked the highway in Phillaur, while roads in Jalandhar town wore a deserted look with markets closed. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee held a massive protest at Lohian Khas in Shahkot. Congress MLAs from Jalandhar cantonment and Shahkot, Pargat Singh and Hardev Singh Laddi, respectively, took out rallies in support of the farmers.Hundreds of farmers gathered at Phagwara and held an agitation. Satnam Singh Sahni, the general secretary the Doaba Kisan Union, blocked the highway near Sugar Mill Chowk. In Adampur, the Shiromani Akali Dal held a protest and blocked the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur highway. Adampur MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu said the protest will continue till the Narendra Modi government revokes the bills. ESSENTIAL SUPPLIES HIT IN MALWAThe supply of essential items, such as milk and vegetables, was disrupted in south Malwa due to the farmers’ agitation. Markets, petrol pumps and shops in Bathinda and adjoining districts remained shut.Activists of farmer organisations held a dharna at Bhai Ghanaiya Chowk, snapping road connectivity with the rest of Punjab and adjoining Rajasthan and Haryana. Protesters used tractor-trolleys to block national highway-54 and NH-7.The Bathinda district administration deployed a large number of police personnel with fire tenders and riot control preparedness near the dharna site. No untoward incident was reported.Farmers held protests in neighbouring Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazilka and Ferozepur.Mansa, a hotbed of agitations by Left-leaning trade unions, also witnessed huge gatherings of protesters. Agitators held a dharna on rail tracks, too.Massive turnout in Hoshiarpur All commercial establishments in Hoshiarpur remained shuttered and different political and social outfits joined the protest against farm ordinances. Farmers took out a march across the city and held a massive rally at the Phagwara Bypass. They were joined by different ethnic groups and employee organisations.SAD held rallies in all seven assembly constituencies while Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) activists staged a protest at Phagwara Chowk.In Chabbewal, SAD and local leaders affiliated with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and BSP clashed over banner display and held separate rallies at the same place.Heavy police force was deployed to avert clashes between the two groups. Farmers also blocked the national highway in Tanda and Mukerian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/total-bandh-in-amritsar-patiala-against-centre-s-farm-bills/story-fzEvDcsU9PA2XFKylNTpQM.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Saamana hits out at ‘attempt’ to ‘discredit film industry’||Saamana, the mouthpiece of Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena, on Friday hit out at a “systematic attempt” to “discredit the film industry” to ensure that prominent film personalities living in Mumbai leave. In an editorial, Saamana said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several states have used the same film personalities when it suited their needs. It added a “picture” was being painted to show all major film stars are drug addicts and grow ganja in their homes.“Is such an environment being created so that the cinema industry and the personalities working in it leave Mumbai? This speculation is gaining ground. In a systematic fashion, a picture is being painted that the actors, directors, cinematographers, etc have left acting and become drug addicts and leaving art, they have started farming ganja and afeem in the galleries, and balconies of their homes,” the editorial said.Also read: Glided like snakes, now silent, says Sena, slams BJP’s silence on Kangana’s ‘terrorist’ remarkThe editorial comes as the Narcotics Control Bureau has summoned prominent actors in connection with its probe into the case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.It said the “mudslinging” is going on to discredit the industry. “Prime Minister Modi and several states have used the artists of this film industry for [enhancing] their political status. In Gujarat, Modi and Salman Khan were flying kites. Amitabh Bachchan was the brand ambassador of Gujarat. Modi had given the responsibility of teaching people how to eat mangoes to Akshay Kumar. Vivek Oberoi has made earnings from the film made on Modi, and Anupam Kher on the film made on Manmohan Singh.”The mouthpiece said attempts were being made to “finish off” the Mumbai industry as Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced a film city in his state. It added that the idea of starting a film city is good but running it is hard as several studios in Mumbai are facing tough times.The editorial said Mumbai as a film city will always stay relevant. It said the Centre should have thought of starting a film city in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/saamana-hits-out-at-attempt-to-discredit-film-industry/story-Ia0wJV8PGVQ4t3ntjqnuGM.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Commuters bear brunt of farmers’ bandh in Punjab||The bandh called by farmers in Punjab on Friday left scores of commuters stranded at various places in the state, including the busy Ladhowal Toll Plaza on the Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway 44. Passengers were left with no choice as they waited at Jalandhar Bypass for the agitation to end at 4pm. “I had no clue that buses won’t be operating. I was returning to Hoshiarpur from Ludhiana,” Kamla, 85, said. Pargat Singh, 48, a mason from Beas said, “I was in Ludhiana for work and was returning to Beas. Now we have no choice but to wait for the bus service to resume.” Shahnawaz Khan, 40, said he was on his way to Gurdaspur. “I checked out of a hotel in Ludhiana a short while ago to catch a bus but now I don’t know where to go.” Some autorickshaw and private taxi operators made most of the situation. While taxis charge between Rs 800 and Rs 1,000 per passenger to Jalandhar, a commuter, Vishal Kumar, said they were demanding Rs 3,500 for a trip to Jalandhar during the bandh. Sharanjit Singh Kalsi, the vice-president of Azad Taxi Union, however, said the taxi operators’ union has joined the protest at Ladhowal. “We are not operating our vehicles today in support of the farmers. If farmers suffer how will our business survive?” he said. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, the vice-president of a Bharti Kisan Union faction, said “Prior information was given about the protest. We regret the inconvenience caused,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commuters-bear-brunt-of-farmers-bandh-in-punjab/story-RGJZKq6iPHhaHIqmf0ttNO.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi cluster bus mishap: Another person succumbs to injuries; toll rises to 3||One more person succumbed to his injuries on Friday morning following the previous night’s accident on a busy road in north-east Delhi’s Nand Nagri, where a speeding cluster bus allegedly ran over around seven people and killed two of them on the spot.The accident, which had occurred at 10 pm on Thursday, had triggered a violent protest in the area. The errant driver, Pushpender Singh, who had fled the accident spot in a bid to escape an irate mob, was arrested from north-east Delhi in the early hours on Friday, Delhi Police said. The mob had vandalised the cluster bus that ran on route number 261 -- between Sarai Kale Khan and Nand Nagri. The agitators shouted slogans against Delhi Police and chased away a police van for arriving late at the accident spot. “The third accident victim was identified as Amar Singh (40), who worked as a labourer and lived at Harsh Vihar in north-east Delhi. We have arrested the bus driver and booked him for rash and negligent driving causing death and injuries. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence), and 337 (rash or negligent act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Nand Nagri police station,” said Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (north-east), Delhi Police.DCP Surya said that the arrested driver has claimed that the accident occurred because the brakes of the bus failed while it was coming down from the ITI flyover. The bus had 15 passengers on board when the accident occurred.The driver told the police that after the brakes failed, initially, he had tried to stop the vehicle by hitting a concrete road divider. Later, he rammed into a mini truck, but still failed to stop the moving bus. He lost control of the vehicle and it crashed into an egg vendor’s cart and ran over some pedestrians, the DCP said, quoting the driver.“We are trying to ascertain the driver’s claims about the sequence of the events that led to the accident. A mechanical inspection will also be done by experts to verify whether the brakes of the bus indeed failed,” added the DCP. Eye-witnesses told the police that after hitting the truck, the bus rammed into a vegetable cart and hit a few more vehicles before coming to a grinding halt.Up to seven people were injured in the accident, among whom a youth and a boy, died on the spot. The accident victims were identified as Ravinder (22) and Karan (12). Three injured persons, including a woman and a boy (16), are still undergoing treatment at a hospital in north-east Delhi, the police said.Over 100 people had gathered at the accident spot and vandalised the cluster bus by pelting stones at it. There was swirling rumour that the accident had claimed five lives. The mob also vented their anger at a police patrolling van that had arrived at the accident spot after receiving an emergency call. The agitated people blocked the main road where the accident took place, staged a protest and shouted slogans against Delhi Police. They also stopped an ambulance from taking an injured person to a hospital. A video made by one of the onlookers showed some angry people were pulling out a stretcher, where an injured and unconscious boy was lying down, from the ambulance. Some people can be heard in the video shouting slogans against Delhi Police and talking about blocking the road. DCP Surya said that around 60 police personnel from three police stations and the reserve battalion were rushed to the accident spot to bring the situation under control and avoid further violence. “The agitators dispersed when they were assured of swift police action. A few minutes later, some women also tried to stage a protest and block the road. But we intervened and cleared the spot for vehicular traffic. The situation came under control within half an hour and no untoward incident has been reported since then,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cluster-bus-mishap-another-person-succumbs-to-injuries-toll-rises-to-3/story-WnbWdiv3VOea348ehMqftI.html
25-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM says farm bills for ‘one nation one market’, Opposition protests||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday said the three farm bills, passed by the Parliament during the Monsoon session, will strengthen the concept of ‘one nation one market’ and directly connect farmers with the market, eliminating the role of middlemen. Rawat added that these bills will bring revolutionary changes in the lives of the farmers. “Modi government has tried to aid farmers in two ways; if they want to sell their produce in (farmer markets) mandis, they will get a high MSP and if he wants to sell it outside the mandis, he can sell it anywhere at a good price and the government will provide him technical assistance in the process,” Rawat said, adding, “There will be no role of middlemen now.”Rawat said the Narendra Modi government is pro-farmers and the people of the country know it well. “Some people are however, trying to mislead farmers and provoke them. Farmers will have to themselves understand these agrarian reforms. They very well know that Prime Minister Narendra Modi always thinks about their welfare,” he said. Listing the steps taken by the central government for farmers, Rawat said MSP of various crops has been increased and recommendations of the Swaminathan report have been implemented by the government for the benefit of farmers Meanwhile, Uttarakhand Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state unit have announced a series of protests against these bills Terming the bills as ‘anti-farmer’, Congress state unit president Pritam Singh, in a press conference here on Thursday, announced the calendar of protests in the state till October 31. “We will start an online campaign Speak Up on September 26. Then on September 28, we have decided to take out a protest march from the party office in Dehradun to the governor’s house. On October 2, we will organise state-wide protests at district and assembly segment level. Between October 2 and October 31, we will start a signature campaign against these bills which will be then presented to the AICC (All India Congress Committee),” he said The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, were passed by both the Houses of Parliament during the monsoon session recently and await Presidential assent. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state unit president SS Kaler said they have decided to continue protests against the anti-farmers bills in the state. “On Friday, to begin with, we will organise a major protest demonstration in the Sitarganj area of US Nagar. On Wednesday, we had staged a protest in Dehradun at a time when the one-day assembly session was underway,” he said. Kaler added that his party will continue to fight for the cause of the farmers and hold regular interactions to seek their feedback.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-cm-says-farm-bills-for-one-nation-one-market-opposition-protests/story-IARgoPFTUTm9fMPKyTdPPK.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Congress-ruled Punjab at standstill till 4pm in support of farmers’ bandh call||Congress-ruled Punjab is observing a total bandh till 4pm on Friday in response to the call given by farmer organisations against the three bills passed by the BJP-led NDA government last week. The Shiromani Akali Dal, which is still an NDA ally but draws its strength from its farmer constituency, and the Aam Aadmi Party are also backing the farmers. Farmers and farm labourers, supported by the Left, blocked state and national highways since early on Friday morning, disrupting the supply of milk and essential commodities in several areas. No vehicle was allowed to ply on the main artery of the state, the national highway from Shambu barrier in Patiala district that cuts across Punjab. “It’s a total shutdown and the response is overwhelming. Even people who have no concern with agriculture are out in our support. I think they have realised the bills are suicidal for the agrarian community,” said BS Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union. PEACEFUL PROTEST ACROSS STATE The bandh has been peaceful with all parties barring the BJP backing the farmers. Reports of a total shutdown were received from Bathinda, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Gurdaspur districts with people belonging to different social and religious organisations, including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, expressing solidarity with the farmers. The railways cancelled all passenger and freight trains in the state as farmers have blocked key rail routes. PUNJAB GOVT URGED NOT TO IMPLEMENT LEGISLATION The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has given the bandh call, supported by 31 farm organisations, including factions of the BKU. The committee wants the Centre to revoke the bills and has urged Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to pass a resolution in the state assembly that the central bills will not be implemented in the state once they become a law after Presidential assent. The committee said farmers apprehend the move will bring to an end to the system of open-ended assured procurement and minimum support price (MSP) and the entire agricultural operations will go into the hands of corporate houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-ruled-punjab-at-standstill-till-4pm-in-support-of-farmers-bandh-call/story-TTpcHF01zat1PAUi4JrClI.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB questions Rakul Preet Singh, Deepika Padukone’s manager||Actors Rakul Preet Singh and Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash reached Mumbai Port Trust’s guest house at Colaba on Friday morning, where the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) authorities are questioning people linked to the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. NCB officials visited the house of Kshitij Ravi Prasad, executive producer, Dharma Productions, again on Friday morning and took him for questioning to the Colaba guest house.Prasad was asked to be present at the NCB office on Friday morning after he was summoned a day ago, according to Sameer Wankhede, zonal director, Mumbai, NCB.On Thursday, NCB had questioned designer Simone Khambatta and Rajput’s former businesses manager Shruti Modi for around six hours. The agency has also issued summons to actors Padukone, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor to join the probe. They will appear before the NCB authorities on Saturday. An NCB officer said Padukone’s name had emerged in WhatsApp chats during the central agency’s probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-ncb-questions-rakul-preet-singh-deepika-padukone-s-manager/story-WxIIYMxWCUcrjcTQlRiUUI.html
25-09-2020||City||Tarun Gogoi stable now; AIIMS doctors also monitor health||Congress leader Tarun Gogoi’s condition is stable, Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday a day after the 85-year-old former chief minister was admitted to Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH)’s intensive care unit (ICU). Sarma said experts were constantly monitoring Gogoi and his health parameters are better than they were on Thursday.Gogoi was recovering from Covid-19 at GMCH after testing negative for the disease when he was admitted to the ICU as his oxygen saturation level dropped.“On Friday morning, we had a video conference with [New Delhi]’s AIIMS [All India Institute of Medical Sciences]... director Dr Randeep Guleria... Gogoi’s son, Lok Sabha MP [member of Parliament] Gaurav Gogoi, and a team of doctors from GMCH were present and detailed discussions were held on the former CM’s health,” Sarma said.He added GMCH doctors gave a detailed presentation on the line of treatment. “Dr Guleria expressed satisfaction and suggested some more tests. ...Gogoi’s oxygen saturation level is at 94% and his condition is stable.”Sarma said a specialist from AIIMS will visit Guwahati in the next couple of days to take a stock of Gogoi’s health.Gogoi, a three-time chief minister from 2001 to 2016, was tested Covid-19 positive on August 26. The Assam government constituted an eight-member team of doctors to monitor his health after he was admitted to GMCH.There was a sudden drop in his oxygen saturation level on August 31. It returned to normal later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarun-gogoi-stable-now-aiims-doctor-to-visit-for-check-up/story-mLJQGqK6L9lTicuzWCuUcN.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC allows open-air dining in restaurants||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) authorities have allowed open-air dining in restaurants amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the national Capital.The civic body authorities took the decision at a meeting on Thursday and allowed restaurateurs to serve food on rooftops and lawns. However, it is mandatory for restaurant owners to obtain no objection certificates (NoCs) from the Delhi Fire Service authorities. Also, restaurateurs must have valid trade licences to be able to operate. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally nears 5.9 mn; 86,052 new cases recorded in last 24 hrs“Open-air dining is allowed only in restaurants, where there is an open area such as a rooftop that is private property. There should be no encroachments on public lands, footpaths or roadsides,” the civic body’s order stated. “No cooking will be allowed in an open area. Food will have to be cooked within enclosed kitchens. Food can be served in an open area. A liquor licence is mandatory to serve alcoholic beverages in open areas,” it added. The permissions regarding open-air dining will be granted to restaurant owners only on submissions of structural safety certificates from a certified engineer, it further stated. South Delhi has around 2,000 restaurants and eateries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sdmc-allows-open-air-dining-in-restaurants/story-OVeFm6SAVor0wt8TYtOuwK.html
25-09-2020||Jaipur||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, lockdown imposed in Jodhpur||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Jodhpur, the district administration has imposed a lockdown, which will remain in force for the next three days.According to orders released by the district administration, the lockdown has come in effect from 10pm Friday and will remain in force till 5am Monday. The lockdown will extend to 20 villages located on Jodhpur’s periphery.There will be prohibition on all activities except emergency services.Also Read: Covid-19 fear kept one in two TB patients in India from seeking care: Report“The decision was taken in view of the rising number of cases. People are not following the guidelines such as wearing mask and social distancing. Till the time a vaccine is developed, wearing mask and distancing is the only precaution,” said a district administrative official.A total of 22, 692 cases have been reported so far from Jodhpur. On Friday also, 630 cases were reported from Jodhpur, the highest so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/amid-rising-covid-19-cases-lockdown-imposed-in-jodhpur/story-4eaYlPQl8skmUNFSgxg4VK.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Farm bills: Maharashtra farmers participate in nationwide protests||Farmers in Maharashtra participated in nationwide protest against the farm bills passed in Parliament early this week. Farmers burnt copies of the bills and demanded them to be withdrawn at the earliest. The Congress and Nationalist Congress Party have extended their support to the protest, which will be spread headed by farmers’ organisations, including Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) and Lok Sangharsh Morcha among others in Maharashtra. Members of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, led by former MP Raju Shetti, burnt copies of the bills in Kolhapur and have announced they will intensify the protest if the bills are not withdrawn by the Central government.“Shetkari Sanghatana has always been against the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), and our leader late Sharad Joshi used to call these committees ‘abattoirs’ of the farmers. However, we do not endorse the way the existing system is being thrashed out by the Central government. This is an attempt to make farmers slaves in the hands of industrialists,” Shetti said. Also Read: Farm protests may hit transport of essentials: RailwaysHe said that this was the first step towards the privatisation of Food Corporation of India and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed), who purchase about 30% of farm produce in the country.Shetti has announced that the protests will be intensified against corporate companies that are expected to benefit from the bills.ABKS will begin the protest at 1pm Friday. “At least four or five organisations that have supported the nationwide protest are participating in them in 21 districts in Maharashtra. We will burn copies of the bills and hand over our memorandums to the district collectors in peaceful manner, ” said Ajit Nawale, general secretary, ABKS. Also Read: Cong terms farm bills ‘unconstitutional’Nawale said that though APMCs have become dens of corruption and monopoly, the bills passed by the Centre are more dangerous for the farmers. “At least the farmers have some mechanism in place to market their produce at a reasonable price in the form of APMCs today. The bills passed in Parliament are the first step towards handing over farm marketing to a few industrial houses who will decide the prices of the produce. Though the Centre has been claiming these bills are a way to be free from the clutches of APMC, the government has freed itself from the responsibilities of fair and remunerative prices to the farmers. In Maharashtra, the Fadnavis government had brought bills to regularise APMCs, but it could not set up an alternative mechanism to the APMCs to give farmers remunerative prices for their produce. It was a failed attempt,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farm-bills-maharashtra-farmers-participate-in-nationwide-protests/story-kWXkYpqFXPJAFHrRH8CTRJ.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||All employees must have email id: Himachal high court to chief secretary||The Himachal Pradesh high court has asked the state chief secretary to ensure all government employees have an email id. A division bench, comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua, issued this order on Thursday while hearing a writ petition filed by a junior engineer challenging his transfer. The court asked the state chief secretary to issue instructions to all government employees, including staff of various boards, at least to the level of Class-III, to mandatorily create email IDs. The officer was transferred from the community development (CD) block in Kullu to Anni on the basis of a department order to accommodate the respondent. The court, in its earlier order, directed to issue a notice to the respondent junior engineer via email. The state project director was asked to provide the email id. However, the respondent junior engineer was not served the notice. While hearing the petition, the court observed that during the Covid pandemic, it has been hearing petitions mainly relating to service matters, but during proceedings, it is found that despite advancement of technology, many officials don’t even have email IDs, making it inconvenient to issue notice when they are party to litigation. The court posted the matter for hearing on October 1. BANS POWER BOARD STAFF’S STRIKE The court also banned a protest by employees of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd. The division bench of justices Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Jyotsna Rewal Dua said that the employees can’t hold protests or strike work to press for their demands as the law doesn’t permit this. If the employees are unhappy with decisions of the board of directors, they can move court or the electricity regulatory commission. The court said that it can’t allow anyone to take law in their hands. If the employees fail to comply with the order, they may have to face departmental and criminal proceedings. The court will hear the matter on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-employees-must-have-email-id-himachal-high-court-to-chief-secretary/story-ThEizmlYS7aaSV4AAaYFxH.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets three sex workers free, says women have right to choose vocation||Observing that prostitution is no offence under the law; an adult woman has the right to choose her vocation and cannot be detained without her consent, the Bombay high court on Thursday set free three sex workers detained at a women’s hostel.Justice Prithviraj Chavan said the purpose and the object of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act (PITA), 1956 is not to abolish prostitution. “There is no provision under the law which makes prostitution per se a criminal offence or punishes a person because he indulges in prostitution,” said the judge.Clarifying that what is punishable under the law is exploitation or abuse of a person for commercial purposes and soliciting in public places, the court set free the three young women, aged 20, 22 and 23, respectively.The women were “rescued” by the social service branch of the Mumbai police from Chincholi Binder area in Malad, in September 2019, after laying a trap using a decoy customer. They were produced before a metropolitan magistrate, who remanded them to a women’s hostel and called for a report from a probation officer.On October 19, 2019, the magistrate refused to hand over the custody of the women to their respective mothers as the magistrate found that it was not in the interest of the women to stay with their parents. The magistrate, instead, directed that the women be kept at a women’s hostel in Uttar Pradesh.That was because the probation officers’ report revealed that the women were from a particular community from Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, and there was a long tradition of prostitution in the community.The women had moved the court through advocate Ashok Saraogi after the magistrate’s order was upheld by Dindoshi sessions court on November 22, 2019.The high court on Thursday struck down both the orders. “It is important to note that the petitioners / victims are major and, therefore, have a right to reside at the place of their choice, to move freely throughout the territory of India and to choose their own vocation, as enshrined the Constitution of India,” said the judge.The court said the magistrate ought to have considered the willingness and consent of the women before ordering their detention. It added that the magistrate appeared to be swayed by the fact that the petitioners belong to a particular caste and it had long history of initiating girls of the community into prostitution.The single judge bench added that keeping in mind the interest of the women, the state government can, under PITA, seek directions from the court to send them to corrective homes. institution, but their fundamental rights stand on a higher pedestal vis a vis the statutory right or any other right conferred by a general law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-sets-three-sex-workers-free-says-women-have-right-to-chose-vocation/story-8inKJ8LrFohrkq4Dl45rwO.html
25-09-2020||Lucknow||UP’s first private farm mandi opens in Bulandshahr amid protests||Uttar Pradesh’s first private mandi (market place) for procurement of farm produce was inaugurated at Arania Khurd village of Bulandshahr on Thursday amid protests against the three farm reform bills.A group of farmers and gram pradhans (village chiefs) from nearby villages protested against the private mandi and said it would eventually go against the farmers, while the mandi officials objected to their remarks.Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) of Khurja Lavi Tripathi inaugurated the mandi and said it would provide an alternative platform to farmers to sell their produce. She further said that farmers were happy as no additional fees was charged at the mandi for selling their produce and the mandi would also help them by providing seeds and fertilizers at subsidized rates in future.A Delhi-based rice export company has established the future agromart pvt ltd and has plans to establish similar mandis in Aligarh, Hapur and Bareilly in coming years to procure paddy and other produce from farmers of western UP.The company’s director Ajay Bhalotia said that over a dozen farmers sold their produce on the opening day of the Agromart. He claimed to have procured paddy at the market rate and said that they would ensure best possible facilities and assistance to farmers in future.Latest Updates: Farmers’ Protest LIVE NewsBhalotia admitted that a group of people tried to disrupt the function but the situation was controlled.Farmer Jagdish of Shyampur village arrived at the mandi with 40 quintal basmati which he sold at Rs 1950 per quintal. “I am happy, I got a good price of my produce”, said Jagdish. Responding to ongoing protests by farmers against the farm reform bills that have enabled selling of agriculture produce directly to private firms, he said, “ Kisano ki to durdasha ho hi rahi hai” (The condition of farmers is miserable).Also Read: Bharat bandh call over farm reform bills: UP police put on alertBharatiya kisan union’s (BKU) state spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said that the union government was more interested in shielding the interest of corporates instead of farmers and the former were ready to use all resources to exploit the agriculture sector with the help of the government.He said that the government’s tall claims that the farm bills were for the benefit for farmers were an eyewash and farmers had decided to fight a decisive battle.Madhur Chauhan, president of Arania block gram pradhan sangthan, who also attended the inauguration, said that opening of private mandis would create a competitive atmosphere but the government should also protect the interest of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-first-private-farm-mandi-opens-in-bulandshahr-amid-protests/story-l2KyZlkCa7V1uF31TF5FON.html
25-09-2020||Environment||Mahul firms catching up with state’s pollution abatement plan: Environment Minister||Four companies located at Mahul --- considered to be Mumbai’s “gas chamber” -- have started complying with their pollution abatement commitments that were made under the Maharashtra environment department’s action plan, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has said.Residents of the Mahul-Trombay industrial area have been demanding their rehabilitation for the past two years on health grounds because of severe air pollution.The air pollution is being caused by emissions from refineries and thermal power plants that operate in Mahul-Trombay industrial area.Earlier, though several court orders had directed a reduction in emissions caused due to logistic services, storing oil, gas and chemical items, and oil companies releasing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) during loading, storage and unloading of hazardous chemicals, the directives were not adhered to. Also Read: Environment group challenges green clearance renewal request for Navi Mumbai International AirportIndustrial firms such as Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL), Aegis Logistics Ltd (ALL), and SeaLord Containers Limited (SLCL), a subsidiary of ALL), had all agreed to a series of measures proposed by the state environment department during a meeting in February, where an action plan was proposed. Nitrogen blanketing -- a method of applying nitrogen gas to the vapour space or top layer of a container carrying chemicals to control its composition and reduce oxygen access to curb emission -- bottom filling of trucks to ensure liquid does not spill out, constructing a parking area to avoid congestion of vehicles, developing a green belt, and granting permission to park vehicles on the Eastern Freeway during non-peak hours for smoother vehicular movement and curbing spillage were some of the measures that the action plan had proposed.Also Read: Farm fires growing in Punjab, plumes of smoke seen over Delhi in satellite imagesOn Thursday, the state environment department met four agencies -- the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai Police and the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) authorities -- to review the pollution control targets.“As per the updates received, nitrogen blanketing has been completed by three of the four firms,” said Thackeray.“Most companies have adhered to bottom filling of trucks, except for a few truck companies. I have asked the MPCB authorities to review it within a month. A parking area will be provided by MMRDA and the process is near completion. The BMC will undertake a green belt development programme in this zone, and traffic permissions have been granted to reduce congestion of vehicular traffic,” he added.The minister added that 90% of the pollution norms were being followed, and compliance for the rest is expected soon. “However, we need to understand why the area is unfit for human habitation,” said Thackeray.In February, the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) had transferred 300 of its available flats at Gorai to rehabilitate residents from Mahul following an order from the state government. “So far, 202 flats have been handed over to residents from Mahul, who have shifted to Gorai,” said Bilal Khan, a social activist.In August, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had termed the Mahul-Chembur area as Mumbai’s “gas chamber” while directing the four industrial firms to pay Rs 286.2 crore as environmental compensation due to air pollution damages. However, the companies have challenged the order and moved the Supreme Court (SC).As per NGT’s order, a 10-member joint committee was constituted in September to prepare a separate action plan for pollution reduction over the next five years and address the health hazards of the residents of Mahulgaon, Ambapada and its surrounding areas due to severe air pollution, MPCB authorities said.The committee members met for the first time on Wednesday. “The basic framework for the action plan and how it needs to be implemented was discussed during the meeting and the final plan will be drafted soon,” said PK Mirashe, assistant secretary (technical), MPCB.The committee is headed by Justice VM Kanade, a former judge of the Bombay high court (HC). The other members of the panel comprise two officials from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), a representative from the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), an MPCB member as the nodal agency, Maharashtra health secretary, Mumbai district collector, and representatives from the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay and King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital in Parel.Residents of Ambapada and Mahul Koliwada have complained to the NGT about a foul stench emanating in the area around midnight daily and the source of the noxious substance is reportedly originating at an industrial area, which is located 10 minutes away from these villages.“The stench comes from the SeaLord industrial area. We have filed several complaints with the MPCB and CPCB authorities, but they have only responded through emails. They are yet to make a site visit,” said Devram Mahulkar, one of the applicants before the NGT.“We have also requested Thackeray to meet the residents of Mahul and take cognisance of the grievances that we have been raising in court,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/mahul-firms-catching-up-with-state-s-pollution-abatement-plan-environment-minister/story-UsCUhfRnAYUxlxbvmh6NgP.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Four Delhi cops suspended for selling 159kg of seized marijuana||Four policemen, including two sub-inspectors (SIs), of the Jahangirpuri police station were suspended for allegedly stealing and selling nearly 159 kilograms of marijuana that they had recovered from a local drug peddler around a fortnight ago, senior police officers said Friday. The suspended policemen, along with other personnel, had seized nearly 160 kilograms of marijuana from a room in Jahangirpuri B-block on September 11. Anil, the alleged drug peddler (identified by his first name), had stored the narcotic substance in the room after procuring it from Odisha, a police officer said, requesting anonymity. “The seized marijuana was brought to the local police post (chowki). The policemen in question allegedly took Rs1.5 lakh in bribe from Anil’s family to “settle the matter”. “Instead of documenting of the entire recovery, the policemen noted they had seized only 920 grams of the contraband and he was let off from the chowki itself,” the officer said. Also Read: Delhi man tries to slit throat after bludgeoning wife to death; rescuedAccording to the officer, the policemen in question allegedly sold the remaining 159 kilograms of the seized marijuana in the gray market and distributed the money among themselves. When deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Vijayanta Arya learnt about it, she ordered an enquiry into the matter. During the enquiry, the officer said, the investigating team caught Anil, who revealed everything. Further, all the police personnel involved in the raid were questioned, the officer said. “The four policemen were suspected after the enquiry,” said DCP Arya. Officials said that the probe is continuing to ascertain the source through which the suspended policemen sold the seized marijuana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-delhi-cops-suspended-for-selling-early-159kg-of-seized-marijuana/story-eFg8Eh2Jq8ckGtc3NTKUQM.html
25-09-2020||Lucknow||Bharat bandh call over farm reform bills: UP police put on alert||The Uttar Pradesh police have asked its personnel in all the districts of the state to make arrangements for maintenance of law and order on Friday when a coalition of farmers’ organisations and political parties will stage protests against the farm reform bills passed in the Monsoon Session of Parliament.Director general of police HC Awasthy said he had alerted the police department in all districts about the protests. He said the UP police were making necessary arrangements.The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), All India Farmers’ Union (AIFU), All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) and All India Kisan Mahasangh (AIKM) have come on a common platform and announced a nationwide shutdown on September 25.Farmers’ Protest LIVE: Police deployed in Punjab’s Amritsar, LudhianaThe Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) has given a call for a state-wide chakka jam (road blockade) in UP on Friday. “We have asked workers and farmers to organise a chakka jam in all the districts between 11am and 2pm,” BKU state president Rajveer Singh Jadaun said.“We appeal to people to lend their support to the chakka jam by keeping markets closed and transport off the roads,” he added.Also Read: Bharat Bandh: Nationwide farmers’ strike today, rail, road transport to be affected. All you need to knowSome farmer organisations in the state have, however, come out in support of the farm reform legislations. The Shekhar Dixit-led Rashtriya Kisan Manch said the bills would benefit farmers with the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the country and save them from the “exploitation of middlemen”, reported news agency PTI.Parliament has passed three farm reform bills -- the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill -- in the Monsoon Session, which concluded on Wednesday. The Opposition has called these bills “anti-farmers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bharat-bandh-call-over-farm-reform-bills-up-police-put-on-alert/story-L9Czy7vMLo1RiMaZNvVpQN.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi man tries to slit throat after bludgeoning wife to death; rescued||A 32-year-old man allegedly bludgeoned his 28-year-old wife to death in front of their four-year-old son before trying to kill himself by slitting his throat at their home in southwest Delhi’s Dabri on Thursday afternoon. The man’s life was saved after police rushed him to a nearby hospital, where he got immediate medical attention. Also read: Man and 12-year-old boy run over by speeding DTC cluster bus in Nand NagriMarital discord is suspected to have led to the crime. The man, Bhanu Pratap, will be arrested and booked for killing his wife and trying to claim his own life, once he is discharged from the hospital. A case of murder and suicide attempt has been registered at the Dabri police station, senior police officers associated with the probe said. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that around 3 pm on Thursday, the police control room received a call regarding a person “cutting his veins” in a house Dabri. A police team reached the house and found a couple bleeding on the floor. Both of them were rushed to a nearby hospital, where the woman was declared brought dead, said Meena. “The woman, Soni Devi, was attacked on her head with a blunt object and it led to her death. Her husband has cut wounds on his throat that suggest that he tried to kill himself. The couple’s child, who was in the one-room house at the time of the crime, is now with a relative,” said DCP Meena. The police said that initial probe into the case has revealed that the couple had strained relations since their wedding five years ago. Their frequent altercations forced them to live separately. The husband, who works as a mechanic, had started living in north-east Delhi while the woman stayed with their child in the Dabri home, a police officer associated with the probe said. On Thursday, Bhanu Pratap visited his wife. Neighbours have told the police that they heard the couple quarrelling but did not intervene since it was routine. Around 2.30 pm, they heard Soni Devi screaming and the child crying. They found the couple bleeding on the floor. One of them called the police, the officer said. “The exact reason behind the fight will be ascertained only after we record Pratap’s statement. He is currently undergoing treatment and unfit for making a statement,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-tries-to-slit-throat-after-bludgeoning-wife-to-death-rescued/story-apNNWRcUFd0i6CliFEbB8I.html
25-09-2020||Lucknow||Put up posters of sexual offenders at road crossings: Yogi tells cops||Aiming to check crime against women, Uttar Pradesh police is planning to put up posters of sexual offenders at road crossings, said senior home department and police officials. They said this and some other initiatives will be part of ‘operation durachari’ to be carried out throughout the state to crackdown on sexual offenders.The officers quoted above said the anti-Romeo squads will intensify the crackdown against sexual offenders and the police have been directed to identify repeat offenders and ensure strictest action against them.The officials said that the campaign is being launched on the instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The CM has also asked the police to identify people helping or providing legal assistance to sexual offenders and publicise their names and identity, the officers said.They added that the CM has asked to have sexual offenders punished by women police personnel so that they “realise the pain”. As per the recent data of national crime records bureau (NCRB), 17,220 cases of sexual offences were reported in the state in 2018. These include 41 cases of murder after rape, 3,946 cases of rape including 1,353 cases of rape with minor girls, 661 attempt to rape cases including 144 with minors, 12,555 cases of assault with intent to outrage modesty of women and 17 cases of insult to modesty of women.Similarly, 17,609 cases of sexual offences were reported in the state in 2017. It included 64 cases of murder after rape, 4,246 cases of rape including 1,504 cases of rape of minor girls, 609 attempts to rape cases including 139 incidents with minors, 12,607 cases of assault with intent to outrage modesty of women and 91 cases of insult to modesty of women.A senior government official said that on an average, around 234 cases were reported from each district in 2017. In the past, police used to put up photographs of offenders from a particular area at local police stations, he said and added that now posters of sexual offenders will be put up at road crossings and other public places in the concerned jurisdictions.He emphasised that details of repeat offenders would be prominently publicised on these posters.ANTI ROMEO SQUADSIn a home department press release, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said 7,361 FIRs have been registered and 11,564 persons have been arrested by the anti-romeo squad (ARS) since its formation in March 2017.Also Read: UP CM Yogi Adityanath launches portal to connect students with jobsBesides, 83 lakh people were checked at 35 lakh spots across the state and 35 lakh people were warned of stern action.He said officials have been asked to intensify the squads’ activity.As per DGP headquarters’ record, the squads checked 57,541 spots, including road crossings, market places, parks, schools and colleges between August 23 and September 22. During this period, 186 FIRs were registered against those causing trouble to women and 290 persons were arrested while 62,131 people were warned of stern action.Also Read: International flights from Kushinagar by Diwali: YogiMeanwhile, DGP HC Awasthi issued a circular asking police officials to curb crime against women and increase women police personnel’s participation in the anti romeo squads. He also said that the checking squads should have body cameras and claimed that CCTVs will be installed soon in market places, malls, schools and colleges.Awasathi added that a complaint box should be kept outside girls’ colleges and schools and police officials should also hold meetings with the administration and principals of girls’ colleges and schools for feedback and solutions. He also ordered deployment of police patrol vehicles outside girls’ schools and colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/put-up-posters-of-sexual-offenders-at-road-crossings-yogi-tells-cops/story-BEsrtvMjtKYtKDlwZtlCrN.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Simply sooji, and yet||The most simple things can be the toughest, especially in cooking. Everybody can boil an egg, but not everybody can boil it perfectly. Take sooji halwa. So easy to make, apparently, and so many do it reasonably decent. This makes it tough for a sooji halwa to stand out from the crowd.In Santosh Rani’s hands, the delicacy becomes truly sublime—a truth acknowledged way beyond her 30th floor apartment in Gurugram.“My secret is I add a little besan to the sooji,” Ms Rani disarmingly reveals this afternoon, on WhatsApp video. The lady’s deep-throated voice is like comfort food—so affectionate and protective that you’re tempted to give her a hug. Indeed, she is like one of those cordial Jane Austen characters who spark a nice feel every time they turn up on the page, even when just passing through. Right now she is distressed she can’t offer her halwa through phone screen.Living with husband, son and his family, Ms Rani says she learnt her basic skills in cooking from Swarajvati. “She was my Chaiji.... in my town we address mummy as Chaiji.”In her early 70s, she has mostly lived in the Delhi region, but spent the first 18 years before her marriage in Amritsar, Punjab. “Our house was near Dal Mandi, close to Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple).” She often visited the iconic temple and recalls eagerly receiving the sacred halwa prasad. “It was always delicious and used to be of atta, not sooji.”Ms Rani now prepares her edition of the sooji halwa. She makes it whenever “dil kehta hain (heart says)”, including on religious occasions and birthdays. Most recently she cooked it during the Lakshmi Pooja in Shradh, the traditional month to offer homage to one’s ancestors. She is partial to desi ghee, “which is good for overall health if taken moderately.” And good for skin too, she asserts—her husband rubs it on his hands every morning after his pooja.But is Ms Rani’s sooji halwa as tasty as her late Chaiji’s? The lady burst into giggles, saying tactfully, “No comments!”Here’s the recipe. Ingredients 1 cup sooji 2-3 tbsp besan 1 cup sugar3 cups water 1 pinch saffron3 whole elaichi Handful of almonds & cashews 1 cup ghee MethodPut water, saffron, elaichi and sugar in a saucepan and bring to a boil. While that boils, heat ghee in a kadahi and roast the sooji and besan on medium heat until it turns fragrant and golden. Lower the flame and add boiled sugar water, while stirring continuously (it bubbles up at this point so be careful). Keep stirring until it thickens and the fat separates. Transfer to a bowl, garnish with nuts, and serve hot||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-simply-sooji-and-yet/story-08Q6Aiby4isuh1RNvKs21O.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Late night drink-drive checks to restart in Chandigarh||The traffic police plan to restart its late night drink-drive checks and penalise offenders for the first time since March 10 after breathalyser use was suspended due to the Covid-19 outbreak to prevent its transmission, officiating senior superintendent of police (SSP-traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena has confirmed.However, even though nakas will be set up in a few days, breathalysers to test drivers’ blood-alcohol levels will not be used.“Ever since traffic has normalised and bars have opened in the city, we had been studying how traffic police in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi are working to restart nakas and challans for drunken driving. A meeting was held with all traffic deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) and other stakeholders on Thursday in which the decision to start late night nakas has been taken,” Meena said.Double zigzag nakas to be set upWith breathalysers still not being used, the police plan to set up double zigzag nakas with barriers instead of the easily negotiable ‘S’ shaped checkpoint to easily detect those driving under the influence. “They will have trouble negotiating the turns, and we will be closely monitoring driver behaviour. Anyone who behaves suspiciously will be stopped and if the cops suspect the driver of being drunk he or she can be taken for a medical test to measure their blood alcohol percentage,” said Meena.The new checking system with double barriers will also prevent instances of drivers ramming their cars into nakas and escaping or injuring policemen in the process,” he added. Effectiveness remains to be seenSuch nakas are needed urgently, said Kamal Soi, a member of National Road Safety Council, adding that their effectiveness had to be ascertained. “Rather than allowing an intoxicated person to get inside the car, a vigil can be maintained outside markets with a lot of bars. Anyone who seems to be intoxicated can be stopped before he can drive the car and endanger himself or others,” Soi suggested.Harman Sidhu, member, UT Road Safety Council, advised: “Anyone who the traffic police suspects of being drunk should be made to walk in a straight line as is done in some Western countries. This is also an effective way of determining whether someone is drunk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/late-night-drink-drive-checks-to-restart-in-chandigarh/story-5u5afzFJAees6TLWJ3hASN.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab braces for bandh against Centre’s three agriculture bills today||Nearly all farmer unions in Punjab have joined hands to observe a statewide bandh on Friday (September 25) with various social and religious organisations coming out in their supportagainst the Central government’s contentious agriculture bills that were passed in both Houses of Parliament. At least 31 farmer bodies, including various factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), sangharsh committees and mazdoor sabhas, have divided the state into different zones where the activists will stage the day-long dharnas. On Thursday, hectic parleys were going on to finalise the modalities of the sit-ins. Jagmohan Singh Patiala, an office-bearer of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee which is leading the protests, said they are opposing the draconian legislations which the NDA government has decided to impose on the country’s farmers. NEVER RECEIVED SUCH RESPONSE, SAYS BKUBS Rajewal, who heads a faction of the BKU, said, “We have never received such an overwhelming response to the protests in the past. Scores of social and religious bodies have come in support for the farmers’ cause. Even the political parties, except the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have extended to us their support.” “Today, activists of farm bodies took out motorcycle rallies in different parts of the state requesting the traders and shopkeepers to keep the markets shut on Friday,” he added. The farmer unions are pressing for repealing the bills besides asking the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab to bring in a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha not to implement the legislations, which they say, will bring to an end the system of open-ended assured procurement and minimum support price (MSP) while the entire agricultural operations will go into the hands of the corporate houses. SAD GEARS UP FOR A PARALLEL SHOWThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), an alliance partner of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which runs government at the Centre, has also decided to organise parallel protests (‘chakka jam’) after Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned as the Union food processing industries minister. Many farmer organisations feel that the SAD planned a parallel protest to torpedo their stir for which preparations were already going on. SAD spokesperson Dalit Cheema said their party cadre will hit the roads in full strength. The party has asked its MLAs, halqa incahrges, and district chiefs to mobilise their workers. CONG ASKS MLAs, CADRE TO SHOW SOLIDARITYPunjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar has asked the party MLAs and other leaders in all the districts to show solidarity with the protesting farm bodies and provide them all support besides offering langar. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) too has decided to support the farmers’ protest. “Our activists will sit with the farmers during the protests. We are in discussions as to how the senior leadership of our party will move out,” said Harpal Singh Cheema, leader of opposition in Punjab assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-braces-for-bandh-against-centre-s-agriculture-bill-today/story-KPs4Pji8RZGOqk4TJGzcUM.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dentist killed in scooter-SUV collision in Chandigarh’s Sector 22||A 26-year-old dentist was killed after an SUV hit his scooter at the Aroma light point in Sector 22 on Thursday morning. The car driver, Kompal Budhiraja, 40, resident of Sector 21, Chandigarh, fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind. She was arrested later. The deceased, Vishal Kapila, hailed from Una in Himachal Pradesh, and was living in Phase 3, Mohali. He worked as a dentist at a private clinic. Police said he was on his way from Mohali to the Sector-17 IBST on his Honda Activa around 7.30pm. When he reached the Aroma light point, a Maruti Vitara Brezza, being driven by Budhiraja, hit him from the side. She was commuting from Sector 21 to Sector 22, where her family runs a shop, Anmol Watches.The traffic lights were not functional when the accident took place, and only the blinkers were on. Police rushed an injured Vishal to the Sector 22 civil hospital, where doctors referred him to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. But, he died during treatment. His helmet was recovered from the accident spot and Budhiraja’s abandoned vehicle was impounded.She was booked under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code and later bailed out. The deceased’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dentist-killed-in-scooter-suv-collision-in-chandigarh-s-sector-22/story-0wkIB1Mhdb8AbFgyq5JgKI.html
25-09-2020||City||Farmers block tracks in 6 Punjab districts on day 1 of ‘rail roko’ stir against Centre’s agriculture bills||Thousands of farmers, farm labourers, commission agents and others blocked the railway tracks in at least six districts of Punjab against the Central government’s contentious agriculture bills on the first day of the three-day-long ‘rail roko’ protest. At Amritsar district’s Devidaspura village, activists of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC) besides employees and commission agents laid siege to the Amritsar-Delhi rail route. The protesters pitched tents on the tracks where they will continue to protest till Saturday. The protest started around 12:30pm with rural medical practitioners (RMPs) seen supporting the farmers. Addressing the gathering, committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “The Centre has strangulated the democracy by passing these bills. But, the people of the country will not let the NDA government go ahead with this.” Also, the farmers passed a resolution against those supporting the Centre on the issue and called for their social boycott. They announced to block railway tracks in Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Fazilka, Kapurthala, Tarn Taran and Jalandhar districts on the last day of the three-day stir. Personnel of the Punjab Police and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) were deployed at the site. In Sangrur district’s Chhajli village, the farmers put a tent on the Delhi-Ludhiana track, while the protesters blocked the Bathinda-Ambala railway track in Barnala town. Manjeet Singh Gharachon of the Bhartiya Kisan union (BKU-Ugrahan) said the youth, women and people from all walks of life are joining hands with them and their protests will force the Modi government to withdraw the “anti-farmer bills”. In Ferozepur district, the farmers blocked the tracks leading to the Ferozepur railway station near Basti Tanka Wali village. In Nabha town of Patiala district, farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ugarahan) blocked the Patiala-Dhuri railway track. Hundreds of farmers gathered at the railway station and raised slogans against the Centre for bringing the ordinances. Union’s district president Manjit Singh said they will stage sit-ins on the rail tracks across the district on September 26. “The farmers are feeling betrayed with the NDA government’s move as their future is at stake,” he added. Also, scores of BKU (Ekta Ugrahana) activists squatted on the railway track in Mansa town. Led by union’s district president Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha, women were also present at the protest site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-block-railway-tracks-in-6-punjab-districts-on-day-1/story-uvxHDV8EKUkn8EldDyx5hP.html
25-09-2020||City||10 fatalities in Chandigarh’s tricity area, 523 test positive||Covid-19 claimed the lives of 10 people in the tricity, even as 523 fresh cases also surfaced on Thursday.Four deaths each were reported in Panchkula and Chandigarh, and two in Mohali. Among the new infections, Chandigarh led with 253 cases, followed by Mohali with 169 and Panchkula with 101.Chandigarh’s toll climbs to 144Chandigarh’s Covid count rose to 10,968 with 253 residents testing positive. The toll reached 144 with four deaths, including two senior citizens.Two men, aged 76 and 72, residents of Sectors 25 and 32, respectively, had acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), while the former was also suffering from diabetes.Another deceased, a 41-year-old man from Burail, was suffering from pneumonia, severe acute respiratory infection and primary membranous nephropathy. A 42-year-old woman from Kishangarh was suffering from diabetes and hypertension.Among the 253 cases reported from various parts of the city on Thursday, primarily 27 are from Manimajra; 11 from Sector 19; and 10 each from Dhanas, Sectors 11, 20 and 27. The total cases include 161 men and 92 women.Three cases were confirmed on the PGIMER campus, and another on the CRPF campus.Meanwhile, Thursday also saw 293 patients being discharged.Of the total patients, 8,342 have recovered, leaving 2,482 active cases.Mohali’s Covid tally breaches 9,000 mark, two deadThe district’s Covid-19 tally surpassed the 9,000 mark on Thursday with 169 new cases cropping up.Besides, with two more people losing the battle against the virus, the death count rose to 173.Those who died include a 77-year-old man from Industrial Area, Phase 1. He was suffering from heart disease and admitted at PGIMER, Chandigarh. A 45-year-old woman from Mullanpur Garibdas was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, and also admitted at PGIMER. Thursday’s maximum cases, at 96, were reported from Mohali city, followed by 27 from Kharar, 18 from Dhakoli, 16 from Dera Bassi, six from Gharuan, five 5 from Lalru and one from Boothgarh.On the bright side, 349 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active case to 2,356. As many as 6,966 patients have recovered so far. Four deaths, 101 new cases in PanchkulaWith four more deaths, the tally of Panchkula district’s Covid-19 fatalities reached 76 on Thursday.As many as 101 residents also tested positive, taking the patient count to 5,429. These include a 20-day-old boy from Masumpur, a one-year-old boy from Rampur Seuri and a one-year-old girl from Sector 27.While 4,183 patients have been discharged so far, 1,160 remain hospitalised or in home isolation.The latest casualties include a 60-year-old diabetic man from Tipra and a 45-year-old woman from Sector 20. Two patients – a 64-year-old man, who also had multiple myeloma, and a 65-year-old man, suffering from diabetes – are from Kalka.Legal action against those giving wrong info.Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Thursday ordered legal action against patients providing wrong contact or address information and not following Covid-19 protocols. He took the decision during a meeting with health department officials.ACP Raj Kumar has been appointed as the nodal officer for the purpose. “Action will also be taken against people who misbehave with Covid health teams. Also, patients, who are in home isolation, but violate the norms, will be penalised and shifted to Covid Care Centres,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-fatalities-in-chandigarh-s-tricity-area-523-test-positive/story-OdkQfCForxpCEINSbbcbkI.html
25-09-2020||City||Man murders co-worker near Mumbai for making fun of his disability||A 37-year-old disabled man from Vasai allegedly murdered his colleague on September 20 because the latter used to purportedly make fun of his disability. Jayant Jayprasan Rautrai was arrested on Wednesday by Waliv police for stabbing to death Somnath Kutian, 40. The police have recovered the knife used in the crime. The accused and Kutian worked at a factory in Vasai. The duo often used to have arguments as Kutian would allegedly make fun of Rautrai. On Sunday night, the two decided to drink near the factory gate. Kutian again began to tease Rautrai, following which the latter went to the factory and picked up a knife and stabbed his colleague. Some passers-by rushed Kutian to hospital, where he died, said a police officer.“We registered a case of murder against Rautrai and arrested him on Wednesday. The Vasai court remanded him in police custody,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-murders-co-worker-near-mumbai-for-making-fun-of-his-disability/story-EeLxuVwpjiqgPkD2xcWkmI.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Give insurance cover to staffers on Covid duty: GMCH-32 workers’ body||The security guards of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, gathered in large numbers outside the hospital and protested for almost three hours on Thursday. Sukhbir Singh, president of Suraksha Karamchari Workers’ Union, said, “We have many pending demands. Despite our raising the issues several times, no one from the administration paid any heed. Hence, the off-duty workers held a protest today.” “The security guards, who are working on a contractual basis, have not got new uniforms for the last five-six months. We have been demanding changing rooms for the guards for the last seven-eight years now. Our third demand is that the guards, who are on Covid-19 duty, should be provided insurance cover,” he said. The union was called for a meeting with the medical superintendent at around 4pm. “Medical superintendent Dr Ravi Gupta said that our demands would be met, therefore we ended the protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/give-insurance-cover-to-staffers-on-covid-duty-gmch-32-workers-body/story-sqzHQcX70RVxkyWMbWsUKO.html
25-09-2020||City||32-year-old Mumbai resident dies after 4 men assault him||A 32-year-old man from Chembur died at Nallasopara on Tuesday night after he was assaulted by four people on September 17 over a rivalry. The victim, Romeo KS Skaria, was attacked by lathis and iron rods, said sub-inspector Shrikant Karande of Waliv police station. No arrests have been made yet. According to the police, Skaria was attacked by Mangesh Gaikwad, Sagar Kasbe, Dilip Kutty and Narayan Kutty in at New Ashok Nagar in Vashi Naka, Chembur, and was grievously injured. Skaria rushed to his sister’s home at Saibaba Chawl in Pelhar, Nallasopara (East) to escape from the men. However, on the night of 22 September, Skaria’s condition worsened and he passed away. “We registered a case against the four. His post-mortem report revealed that he died of internal bleeding owing to the assault,” said Karande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-mumbai-resident-dies-after-4-men-assault-him/story-O985f0LZMvFHI5d21CY6UN.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Survey monkey population, sterilise them, high court tells Chandigarh admn||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Chandigarh administration to carry out a survey to find out the exact population of monkeys in the city and sterilise them if the numbers were alarmingly high.The high court bench of justice Arun Monga was hearing a petition from one Divyam Dhakla, who had approached the court in 2018 seeking directions to UT to deal with the monkey menace in city’s residential areas, especially in Manimajra. The petitioner had said that residents were forced to keep themselves as well as their children indoors. Whenever parents boarded their children in school buses, monkeys attacked children for their tiffins and bottles by snatching their school bags. Monkeys even jumped all over the roofs, pelting people with stones and causing injuries. Residents were not even able to dry their clothes as monkeys snatched and tore them off. This menace was increasing only because of the negligence of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, the petitioner had alleged.Taking note of the plea, HC sought a status report after six months on how many monkeys were released in the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary. The court held that the respondents will also do well if they set up a special monkey sterilisation centre in case the monkey population is alarmingly high. For this, a census will have to be carried out as a pre-requisite, the bench observed. The court did not agree with the petitioner’s demand to declare monkeys vermin. “The suggestion of culling monkeys like vermin, on the face of it, is outrageous, cruel and preposterous, to say the least, given that the monkey menace is self-created by the residents and/or the visitors to the adjoining religious establishment, where, invariably the visitors/residents either out of the fondness or by way of religious offerings feed the monkeys. Garbage littering by residents is another contributor,” the bench said.The court was informed by UT that a special task force had been set up to attend to the residents’ complaints and catch the monkeys within 30 minutes of complaint, before releasing them in the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary. Besides, fruit-bearing trees had been planted in many sanctuary areas to provide a secure habitat with enough food and water to the monkeys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/survey-monkey-population-sterilise-them-high-court-tells-chandigarh-admn/story-6ZtXlQKUOdB3u7AcfVDlYL.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centralised bed allotment for Covid patients: Chandigarh admin to form coordination, screening committee||The UT administration will be forming a coordination and screening committee of doctors to facilitate centralised allotment of beds for Covid-19 patients.The committee will screen all the cases and decide allotment of beds in all three government medical institutions: Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, on Thursday, in the Covid-19 review meeting, said, “This will help prevent patients from running from one hospital to another in search of beds.” He asked Arun Gupta, principal secretary, health, to device a method to form such committee.During the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, informed that two dialysis machines had been kept aside for Covid positive patients who want regular maintenance dialysis. Dr BS Chavan, director-principal, GMCH-32, stated they had conducted 686 tests, of which 423 were RT-PCR and 263 antigen. “The average positive result was around 21%,” he added.Dr G Dewan, director, health services, stated that there was an improvement in the city’s health condition since only 9% of the samples taken by them tested positive. The doctors informed the administrator that around 2,000 persons are currently home quarantined in the UT and are being regularly monitored through the control room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centralised-bed-allotment-for-covid-patients-chandigarh-admin-to-form-coordination-screening-committee/story-kOd0hGcuuks5bZXJ1dEjfI.html
25-09-2020||City||Environment group challenges green clearance renewal request for Navi Mumbai International Airport||Activists have filed objections before a government panel against the fresh environment clearance (EC) and coastal regulation zone (CRZ) renewal request made for the Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) by planning agency City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco). The request will be heard by an expert appraisal committee (EAC for infrastructure projects) under the Union environment ministry on Friday.Non-governmental organisation (NGO) Conservation Action Trust (CAT) has objected to the request, highlighting alleged violations and non-compliance of conditions imposed during previous EC clearances. From objections related to site selection, violation of wetland rules, bird strike hazard safety, furnishing incomplete and misleading information by Cidco, livelihood risks, and impact of heritage areas and ecosystems near NMIA, the group has requested the EAC through a letter (which HT has reviewed) to scrap the clearance and allow CAT a hearing before renewing any future clearances.“NMIA is an environmentally disastrous project. It is unsafe and will cause serious flooding to surrounding villages and urban nodes. Apparently, neither Cidco nor the Union environment ministry seems to have heard of climate change, sea level rise or bird strikes. Now that the adverse impacts of this project are clearly visible, this is a good time to stop wasting money on this project,” said Shweta Bhatt, director-conservation, CAT.A member of the EAC, requesting anonymity said, “The objection has been noted. We will hear Cidco’s presentation on Friday, and request them to respond to allegations made in the letter.”The new greenfield NMIA, first proposed over 20 years ago and approved in 2007 by the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA), is to serve as a second major airport for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region after the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport. It is to be built on 1,160 hectares (ha), of which 250ha is forest land (including 108.5ha mangrove forests, roughly equivalent to 73 Wankhede Stadiums). On November 22, 2010, the Union environment ministry granted EC and CRZ clearance for NMIA, and wildlife and forest clearances were granted in 2013 and 2017, respectively. The EC was subject to conditions such as compensatory plantation of mangroves over an area of 615ha, including the development of a 245ha biodiversity mangrove park, a 60-ha area mangrove restoration on the west side of the airport site around Moha and Panvel creeks and 310ha area on the northeast end of the airport between Gadhi River, Mankhurd Panvel Rail Corridor. Additionally, the National Highway 4B was to be declared no development zone, among other conditions.After garnering an extension of validity for the EC again in December 2017 up to November 11 this year, Cidco applied for EC renewal on May, claiming to have almost completed all on-site land development work.According to CAT’s letter to the EAC, the NMIA project site is ecologically sensitive and has been identified as a wetland in the National Wetland Inventory Atlas (NWIA) Maharashtra. “There is rampant destruction of mangroves, mudflats and creeks at the project site. Rivers are being diverted; forests, hills and the outcrops have been destroyed. The site is at serious risk of bird strikes with safety concern for passengers while 266 species of birds including threatened species recognised by the IUCN list will be impacted by the project,” the letter read, adding, “Previous plans for developing a mangrove sanctuary between Karnala and NMIA were deleted while Cidco failed to develop any mangrove park as recommended by the EC. Compensatory mangrove plantation has been undertaken at a site already harbouring dense mangroves.” Despite the fact that this site fell 26% in CRZ-I (most ecologically sensitive) category and comprised 400 acres of mangroves, 1000 acres of mud flats, and 250 acres of forest lands, the present site was selected for this project, CAT’s letter stressed, adding, “The haste in reclamation led to flooding across Kombudbhuj, Dungi, Paragaon, Khalche Owale and Bhangarpada villages across Ulwe.”Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco, said, “Major recommendations involving environmental monitoring and compensatory mangrove plantation have been completed by us as directed in the EC. However, other conditions are yet to be fulfilled. Discussions on the mangrove park are still underway.”Cidco’s chief planner Ramesh Dengle refused to comment on the issue, while chief general manager (transportation and airport) said, “We cannot speak to the media about ongoing projects.”Status report of efforts at NMIA construction siteAccording to submissions made by Cidco before EAC, the pre-development activity, including land development for NMIA, commenced in April 2017 after receiving forest clearance. “This is nearing completion. The cost of approximately Rs3,368 crore has already been incurred on this on-going critical airport project, which is 24% of the phase-I project cost (Rs14,179 crore). Cidco has additionally incurred a cost of Rs1,813 crore towards resettlement and rehabilitation for the project. Thus, a total of Rs5,181 crore has been incurred on the project till December 2019. The schedule of NMIA project implementation has extended as forest clearance was received in 2017, and the project on-site activities could not take place prior to this,” the letter justifying the EC requirement before the EAC read.What activists asked the government panel to considerCAT requested the EAC committee to take into consideration the following suggestions while considering green clearance renewal:•Status of compliance with the conditions imposed in the EC, CRZ, forest and wildlife clearances•Change of project parameters•Cumulative Impacts of additional projects linked to NMIA•Impact of diversion of additional rivers•Status of mangrove reafforestation and destruction as a violation of Bombay high court orders•Bird hazards studies•Rehabilitation of locals•Destruction of wetlands within Cidco’s jurisdiction•Compliance with noise standards•Impact on Elephanta caves||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/environment-group-challenges-green-clearance-renewal-request-for-navi-mumbai-international-airport/story-y3EXlWTHakMe2u46hKbZIM.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||PU teachers’ body election postponed||The election for the office-bearers of Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has been postponed, announced the returning officer on Thursday.The polling was to be held on Friday and Saturday wherein over 600 teachers of the varsity were eligible to vote. However, apprehensions were raised earlier also over the conduct of elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision came after six teachers of the university wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and registrar, seeking their intervention in the postponement of the polls. They cited the concerns expressed by other teachers over the conduct of polls at the time when Covid-19 cases are surging in Chandigarh. The returning officer for PUTA elections 2020, Vijay Nagpal, on Thursday in an official communiqué said “to avoid any undesirable eventuality, I decided to approach the deputy commissioner UT, Chandigarh, for his permission to hold the election. However, the response is still awaited”.Nagpal said he has received a communication from the university registrar wherein he was asked to address the concern of the faculty members who had demanded the postponement of the election. He was also requested to seek permission for conducting the election from the prescribed authority.New dates to be announced after DC’s permission“In view of the above, I am left with no other option but to postpone the election. New dates will be announced after the necessary permission is received from the deputy commissioner, Chandigarh,” he said in the official note on Thursday. Reacting to the development, Dr Priyatosh Sharma, one of the six faculty members who had written to V-C, said, “Many teachers are happy over the postponement of the polls. A wise decision has been made keeping in view the prevailing situation.”PUTA expresses displeasureIn an official note to the members, PUTA president Rajesh Gill and secretary JK Goswami on Thursday said, “Finally, our apprehensions about behind-the-scene efforts to derail the process of democracy have come true. Election is the most democratic method to eliminate arbitrariness and nepotism and we will do our best to preserve it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-teachers-body-election-postponed/story-58Cpq7YuerPTG9N1ToQEII.html
25-09-2020||City||Heavy downpour leads to waterlogging in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail||Around 1,700 inmates were huddled in the barracks of the first floor after the heavy downpour on Tuesday led to waterlogging at Arthur Road jail. Despite taking various efforts such as releasing inmates on bail or parole to decongest the jail amid the Covid-19 outbreak, Tuesday’s downpour forced authorities to violate social distancing norms inside the prison premises. The Arthur Road jail is situated on a low-lying area, causing rain water to enter the jail premises easily. The jail authorities have written to the court, requesting it to release more inmates, owing to the water logging problem. “On Tuesday night, within hours after it started to rain, the ground floor was filled with water till the waist. Most of the barracks, the superintendent’s office, the canteen and some other rooms were waterlogged. It was difficult to arrange lunch and dinner, but we ensured that no one went hungry,” said an officer from the jail. Sunil Ramanand, inspector general (prisons), Maharashtra said that no waterlogging was reported on Thursday. “By Thursday morning, the water level decreased. All the prisoners were then shifted back to their respective barracks. As the crowd was less it was possible to shift them to other barracks,” added the officer. The jail has a capacity to house around 800 inmates but until the pandemic broke out in March, there were 3600 prisoners in jail. “After the Supreme Court’s order to release inmates owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, there are currently around 1,700 inmates lodged in the jail, but that too, is double its capacity,” the officeerr said. 183 cases reported from jail The jail authorities tested 998 inmates in the jail, of whom 183 were tested positive for Covid-19. All the inmates have recovered. Forty-nine staffers were also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-downpour-leads-to-waterlogging-in-mumbai-s-arthur-road-jail/story-0AcPCpSgGnFE0vm2Il5f2L.html
25-09-2020||City||Thane corporator’s son murdered by step-brother over property dispute||Rakesh Patil, the 26-year-old son of Thane Shiv Sena corporator Manik Patil was allegedly murdered on September 20 and his body was disposed of in the Vashi creek. According to Kasarvadavli police, Patil was killed by his step-brother Sachin Patil over a property dispute. Police have arrested Sachin’s driver for his involvement in the crime. However, the main accused is still absconding. Authorities are yet to recover the victim’s body from the creek.Patil is the son of corporator Manik Patil’s first wife while the accused, Sachin, is his son from a third marriage. According to police, Sachin shot Patil and stole the accused’s mother’s jewellery. He later told officers that the victim had fled with the valuables. On September 21, Patil’s wife had filed a missing person complaint with Kasarvadavli police station. Police started looking for him after he did not return after 24 hours. “We suspected the step-brother after talking to our informers. We called Sachin and his driver Gaurav Singh for questioning. However, Sachin fled before questioning while Singh confessed to the crime and was arrested for murder,” said K Khairnar senior inspector, Kasarvadavli police station. “The deceased used to live separately from his father. Recently, he accepted the offer to shift to his father’s new bungalow in Waghbil, where the corporator was living with his third wife, Sachin and his family,” said another police officer, requesting anonymity.According to police, the accused allegedly was worried that Patil’s move would challenge his right to inherit the property in the future. On September 20 Patil visited the bungalow while everyone except for Sachin was out.The two then got into an argument and the accused shot Patil with his pistol. Later, with the help of his driver Singh, they disposed of his body in the Vashi creek. Kasarvadavli police said that Sachin also staged a break-in at the bungalow to mislead the police. He stole 3.5kg of gold from the house and told police that Patil had fled with the jewellery. Police along with the fire brigade and disaster management teams have started searching for Patil’s body in the Vashi creek. Meanwhile, a hunt is on to track down Sachin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-corporator-s-son-murdered-by-step-brother-over-property-dispute/story-Gx6oCkWAsBNJXd8zmHRwRO.html
25-09-2020||City||Punjab Bandh today: Transport services suspended, markets to remain shut in Ludhiana||With different farmer unions announcing ‘Punjab Bandh’ on Friday, buses and transport services would remain suspended in the city on Friday. Majority of the wholesale markets, including Akalgarh market, AC market, Gandhi Nagar market, would also remain closed in support of farmers. However, there was no clarity on whether or not the markets in Model Town and Dugri will support the bandh.However, internet services will continue uninterrupted, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said.Hotels, restaurants to open after 5pmMeanwhile, the hotels and restaurant association has decided to open restaurants after 5pm while hotels will remain operational throughout the day. Majority of the industrial units and main vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass will also continue business as usual. Bus stand supervisor Kuljit Singh said, “The department has decided to suspend the bus services citing protests by farmer bodies. No bus would arrive or depart from the bus stand on Friday.”AC market association president Gurcharan Singh and Akalgarh market garment association Manpreet Singh Bunti said that the market associations have decided to shut the markets in support of farmers.Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra said, “The market association of different markets including Ghumar Mandi, Chaura Bazar etc will take decision on opening markets on Friday after taking into account the law and order situation. Model Town market president Amarjit Singh said shopkeepers should not be forced to close shops as the traders are already reeling under losses due to the pandemic.All India Motor Transport Congress chairman Charan Singh Lohara said that transporters have already extended support to farmers protest and no truck will move on roads across the state. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-bandh-today-transport-services-suspended-markets-to-remain-shut-in-ludhiana/story-YeMtfEK0GZKiJ9Ss1CBkqN.html
25-09-2020||City||3 Rajasthan natives booked for duping UCO bank in Ludhiana of Rs 10 crore||Police have booked three Rajasthan-based persons, including a woman, for defrauding the UCO Bank of Rs 10 crore. The accused, identified as Amandeep Singh, Aditya Kumar and Swati Karwasra of in Rajasthan, had allegedly taken a loan from the bank by keeping their guar crop, worth Rs 14 crore, as the collateral.The accused had told the bank that their crop was stored in a warehouse in Khanna. “However, when the bank officials inspected the warehouse on July 6, there was no stock,” said investigating officer Balbir Singh. The loan had been availed in October 2019, and the accused were to pay it back within a year, but now they are untraceable. Sources said the bank officials tried to reach the trio over the phone, however, their phones were switched off.After several attempts to reach them, the bank officials finally lodged a police complaint.The case has been registered under Section 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 120- B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Division No 6 police station. A manhunt has been launched for the accused, the IO said. UCO bank’s assistant general manager, Ramesh Nagpal, who is the complainant in the case, could not be reached for comments despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-rajasthan-natives-booked-for-duping-uco-bank-in-ludhiana-of-rs-10-crore/story-gi4HL1mRmUx8YHZ1PjogBM.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Overcrowding on Mumbai local an unusual occurrence amid Covid-19 outbreak, says Western Railway||Local train commuters had a harrowing experience on Tuesday night and Wednesday after services were suspended owing to waterlogging on tracks. Services were suspended on the Harbour line for around 24 hours, while Central Railway and Western Railway services were suspended for around 14 and 11 hours, respectively. Two videos of overcrowded local train compartments on Wednesday afternoon and a crowded foot overbridge went viral on social media. Though services are operational only for those in essential services owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, trains and station platforms witnessed huge crowds after services were cancelled. “Water started to accumulate on tracks from Tuesday night at Sion, after which many passengers were stuck at the station,” said Divya Dutta, a civic hospital employee. “There was heavy rain in Mumbai on 23/9/2020, resulting in cancellation on suburban services. The video being circulated is that of a suburban service which started as an extra Virar 15-compartment service on September 23 [Wednesday] at 3.45pm from Churchgate. The video is of this service at Borivli platform number 3 at 5.22pm .Due to the cancellations of suburban services during morning owing to heavy rains and flooding in Mumbai, the rush at Borivli was a very unusual occurrence. Western Railway has adopted proactive approach in increasing the number of suburban services, ahead of demand, keeping the social distancing norms in mind,” an official statement from Western Railway read. Western Railway introduced 150 new services on Monday, of which 59 are operated during peak hours. Central Railway on Thursday introduced 68 new train services, of which 46 were introduced on the mainline, while 22 were introduced on the Harbour line. “To maintain social distancing & avoid crowding, Central Railway adds additional 68 services to existing 355 services from 26/09/2020. Passengers to follow social distancing, wear mask/ during entry/exit and travel. These special suburban services are for essential staff as identified by the State Government,” said a statement from Central Railway. Railway officials also stated that many commuters stood at the doorways, leading to overcrowding. “Additional local train services are being operated. However, the video in question has unusual build up at doorways. There is no crowding inside the compartment,” said a senior Western Railway official. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking started operating 76 Maharashtra State Road and Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses on Thursday on six routes in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/overcrowding-on-mumbai-local-an-unusual-occurrence-amid-covid-19-outbreak-says-western-railway/story-KR1oXa78FB0JY54xRWAffO.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||NCB quizzes designer Simone Khambatta, Sushant Singh Rajput’s former business manager Shruti Modi||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), whichisprobing the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, questioned designer Simone Khambatta for around six hourson Thursday, after she reached the agency’s Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) guest house in Colaba at 9.40am. Rajput’s former business manager,Shruti Modi,wasalso questioned by the agency.NCB officers raided the house of Dharma Productions’ executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad. However, as Prasad was not athome, he has been served summons to be present attheNCB office on Friday. NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the development. The agency had issued summons to four actors – Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh – on Wednesday to join the investigation. Padukone had been issued summons for Friday, but will be joining the probe on Saturday. An NCB officer said Padukone’s name had emerged in the WhatsApp chats found during the agency’s investigation. Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash, who is an employee of talent management agency KWAN, will join the investigation on Friday,said NCB officers. Khan and Kapoor have been called for investigations on Saturday. As per the summons, Singh had to join the probe on Thursday. “She was contacted through various platforms, including her phone. But there has been no response from her,”KPS Malhotra,deputy director of NCB,said. On Wednesday,the agencyquestioned Rajput’s talent manager,Jaya Saha,for the third consecutive day, while Dhruv Chitgopekar, KWAN’s chief executive officer, was calledinfor the second consecutive day. Film producer Madhu Mantena was also questioned on Wednesday. So far, NCB has arrested 19 people, including actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda and members of Rajput’s domestic staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-quizzes-designer-simone-khambatta-sushant-singh-rajput-s-former-business-manager-shruti-modi/story-GjlBA1REEtiXv6TV0MjdYP.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB probe illegal; witch-hunt by 3 Central agencies, Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer tells Bombay HC||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, in jail for allegedly procuring drugs for the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, on Thursday claimed before the Bombay high court (HC) that a “witch hunt” has been unleashed against her by investigating agencies. She also argued that the investigation conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) was “illegal” as it had no jurisdiction to investigate the drug links to the death of Rajput.Counsel for the 28-year-old actor and her brother Showik, advocate Satish Maneshinde, submitted that the drug related case should also have been entrusted to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Arguing Rhea and Showik’s bail applications, Maneshinde pointed out that on August 19 the SC had directed that all cases relating to the death of Rajput should be transferred for investigation to CBI, and since the drug trail was also linked, this case should also have been transferred to CBI.Maneshinde maintained that the offences attributed by the NCB to Rhea and Showik were bailable, as admittedly those are related to small quantities and stringent provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS), 1985, like Section 27A (financing illicit trafficking of drugs or harbours offenders), were not applicable.In her application, Rhea also claimed that a witch-hunt has been started against her by engaging three central agencies for investigating cases, but two of those agencies — CBI and ED — have till date found no evidence against her or her family. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who represented the NCB, said they will reply to all the arguments advanced on behalf of the Chakraborty siblings. He, however, sought time to file an affidavit in reply to the bail applications. Justice Sarang Kotwal posted the bail applications for further hearing on September 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-ncb-probe-illegal-witch-hunt-by-3-central-agencies-rhea-chakraborty-s-lawyer-tells-bombay-hc/story-6hJZqJYIqYNAR6LWYNihpN.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||PU extends online teaching facility to international students||Panjab University has decided to extend its facility of online classes to the international students who have been admitted through Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR).Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, such students are unable to travel to India and ICCR is also not processing their visas currently. The varsity had this year received over 600 applications from foreign students for admission through ICCR.The decision regarding the extension of facility was taken by PU after ICCR requested the educational institutes to offer online classes to the international students as they cannot come to India in present circumstances.Of the total applications received by the university from students of various countries such as Afghanistan, Iran, Ethiopia, Iraq, and Nepal, admission of at least 125 students has been confirmed by PU. According to the information provided by the office of PU dean international students, of the total confirmed students, only 58 have consented to attend online classes offered by the university.The students were asked to give undertakings that they would attend online classes with utmost seriousness. A meeting was also held at the varsity for extending the provision of online teaching to the foreign students wherein PU’s dean international students Nandita Singh also took part. She said, “ICCR asked us if we could offer online classes to the international students since they cannot travel due to the pandemic, after which we got permission from the university.”Instructions to departmentsThe office of the dean international students has also instructed the departments to offer online classes to international students as per the schedule of Indian students. Currently at PU, online classes of only ongoing batches of undergraduate courses are being held.Meanwhile, PU is planning to offer short-term online courses to international students during the next academic session in an attempt to expand its profile. Office of the dean international students has already asked the departments to send their proposals about courses that they can offer to international students.About ICCR scholarship programmeUnder the ICCR scholarship programme, the Indian government awards scholarships to foreign students from about 140 countries every year. During the 2018-19 academic session, about 2,150 new foreign students were confirmed for admission to various universities in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-extends-online-teaching-facility-to-international-students/story-hmPwp1lxn2nqmfyAVPRdqN.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana man held for assaulting businessman||A Man hailing from Haryana’s Hansi has been arrested for thrashing a local businessman outside a Sector-9 club, Chandigarh Police said on Thursday. The accused, Kapil, along with his two aides, had attacked Rohit Singla of Sector 22 on September 9. As per the police, the scuffle took place after Singla accidentally stepped on one of the accused’s foot while dancing at the club. This led to an argument, following which bouncers asked both the parties to leave. When Singla went out, the three accused turned up in a car bearing Haryana registration number and hit him with a wooden plank multiple times. Singla was admitted to a private hospital in Zirakpur for treatment, from where he was referred to Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 here. Based on his complaint, a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC was registered at the Sector-3 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-man-held-for-assaulting-businessman/story-FOOACgqXMGgrFp4H3byqJM.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai unlikely to have any more water cuts this year||With the overall water level in the seven lakes that supply drinking water to the city at over 98%, it is unlikely that Mumbai will face any more water cuts this year. The decision on water cuts will be formally taken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) during a review meeting on October 1. A senior civic body official said, “The catchment areas received good rainfall in the past one month due to which we also rolled back water cuts. Also, due to this there should not be any water cuts this year. However, yearly review of lake levels is taken on October 1.”Last month, BMC had announced a 20% water cut owing to low water levels in the seven lakes. This was rolled back after catchment areas received good rainfall. Previously in 2014, BMC had imposed a 25% water cut and in 2015-2016, there was a 20% water cut.In 2018, BMC had imposed a 10% water cut. According to BMC, Tulsi and Vehar lakes, which are located inside the city, are now at 100% capacity. The water level at Modak Sagar is at 99.99%; Upper Vaitarna is at 99.58%; Tansa is at 99.10%; Bhatsa is at 98.20%; and Middle Vaitarna is at 97.08%. The overall water stock is 1,426,000 million litres (98.56%) against the lakes’ total capacity of 1,447,363 million litres. The overall lake level was 98.69% and 93.30% at this time in 2019 and 2018 respectively.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems – the Vaitarna system supplies to the western suburbs and the island city; and the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai and in neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. The civic body supplies 3,750 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-unlikely-to-have-any-more-water-cuts-this-year/story-VMFYH8s3Xy4GKqdoG0TgaK.html
25-09-2020||City||AAP stages protest against agri bills in Mohali||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) protested against what they termed ‘black farmer laws’ at Phase-7 light point in Mohali on Thursday. Local leaders Raj Lali Gill and Gurtej Pannu said this ‘black law’ would not only affect the farmers, but also impact businesses and stakeholders associated with farming. “To save our farmers, our business and our state, all of us need to come together and fight to revoke this law,” they said. The AAP leaders said the first step towards revoking this law is to support the ‘Punjab Bandh’ on September 25. Slamming the Badals as well as Captain Amarinder Singh, the leaders said while Manpreet Badal supported the bill when it was tabled before the high-powered committee, the Badals kept promoting the bill till the time people started stopping their cadre from entering villages. Gill and Pannu said that Harsimrat’s resignation was nothing but a “drama” and they were trying to “sabotage” the farmers’ protests by keeping their ‘chakka jam’ on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-holds-protest-against-agri-bills-in-mohali/story-v36R0RrMGjeM8aCI5W8q0M.html
25-09-2020||City||Bhiwandi building collapse: Rescue ops called off 80 hours later; 38 dead, 25 hurt||After 80 hours, rescue operations were called off at Dhamankar naka in Bhiwandi, where a ground-plus-three storey residential building collapsed around 3.30am on Monday, killing 38 people, including 17 children, and injuring 25. The rescue teams, comprising personnel from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) and Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) and Bhiwandi Police, called off operations around 11.30am on Thursday with the last body of Murtuza Mohammad Mustaffa Khan, 33, pulled out from the debris around 5pm on Wednesday. A family, who on Wednesday claimed their two-and-a-half-year-old boy was missing following which the search was extended, has still not found him and was seeking help from the police to know his whereabouts. The police have also decided to conduct a DNA test of an unclaimed body after the family of 28-year-old Shabnam Mohammad Ali Shaikh claimed that she, too, was unaccounted for.“Rescue operations was called off after we took records from all rescue teams and then finalised the number of victims and injured. Those with disputes on missing bodies will be dealt by the police after checking records and details,” said Pankaj Ashiya, commissioner, BNCMC. “As our team was planning to call off the operations, one family claimed that their son was not found. We decided to search all over again and continued the search for around 15 hours, but didn’t find anyone. We did canine search all over the site and also moved the debris to see if we have missed someone,” said Ashish Kumar, deputy commandant, NDRF. Shakeel Qureshi, 32, “My brother’s son, Museb, is missing since after the incident. The rescue team had searched the site on our request, but he was not found. My brother is devastated. He has already lost his wife and one child in the incident. He managed to survive with his two other children.” “When we approached the police for a missing complaint, they said there is no such proof of his missing as all bodies were recovered from the site. On Thursday, while the transportation of debris was on from the site, few police were checking again to confirm,” added Qureshi. Senior police inspector of Narpoli police station MB Shinde said, “The family is claiming that their son is missing. We will take a decision tomorrow with the guidance of our senior officials on what further action should be taken in this case. Meanwhile, our team is checking the debris being cleared from the site.” He added, “In another such case [of Shabnam], we have decided to carry out a DNA test of an unclaimed body with her family member.” After rescue operations were called off at the site, the team stood in silence for two minutes for those who died in the incident. They also made announcements to inform people about the operations ending. “This is a tragic incident. Even if I was not in the building, I could feel the pain that the families would have gone through. I can never forget the sight of bodies being removed from the debris, with their families waiting to see them for one last time,” said Shabana Ahmad Khan, 38, who is from the locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-building-collapse-rescue-ops-called-off-80-hours-later-38-dead-25-hurt/story-7P5siWAU73YmLZDGWa8m3O.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Maharashtra: 93% cases and 94% deaths from 20 districts||The state on Thursday reported 19,164 Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 1,282,963. In four days this week, the daily caseload average was 18,850, a dip from the 21,190 for whole of last week. Also, the number of recovered cases inched towards the 1 million mark to stand at 973,214.The state also clocked 459 new fatalities, taking the toll to 34,345. With 2,163 infections on Thursday, Mumbai’s caseload touched 192,427. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stood at 2.68%, second highest in the country after Punjab. Of the state’s total 36 districts, 92.91% or 11.92 lakh cases and 94% or 32,284 deaths were reported in 20 districts, statistics revealed.Of the 459 fatalities reported on Thursday, 256 were from the past two days, 125 were from over past week and remaining 78 were from the period before it, according to the state health department. A total of 54 fatalities were from Mumbai, 49 from Pune (26 in city, 11 in rural parts and 12 Pimpri-Chichwad), 47 from Nagpur (including 30 in Nagpur city) and 29 from Jalgaon. Pune remained the highest contributor to the daily caseload with 3,555 cases, which included 1,572 cases in city, 1,238 in rural parts and 745 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Other key districts Nagpur and Nashik logged 1,571 and 1,231 new cases respectively. During the video conference with prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, the state has been asked to concentrate on these districts. District administrations have now been asked to increase the tracing of suspected patients. Besides Pune and Thane; Kolhapur, Satara, Solapur, Sangli, Chandrapur, Nagpur were some of the worst- affected districts identified. The local authorities have also been directed to implement the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ drive effectively, so that the vulnerable section of the society is tapped early. “Prime minister Narendra Modi has asked the state administration to focus on 20 districts with high number of cases. The CMO has been asked to monitor situations on a regular basis by contacting officials at the tehsil level in these districts. Dedicated officials are being appointed to monitor the situation in these districts to ensure that the situation is brought under control at the earliest. Districts are being directed to ramp up health facilities with adequate number of beds, oxygen supply and ventilators and at the same time, go for massive tracing of contacts. By doing this, the district administrations would be able to contain the spread,” said an official from the health department.State health minister Rajesh Tope, who was on the Vidarbha tour on Thursday, said the district administrations have been directed to increase tests and go for more tracing of suspected contacts. “The state average of tests is 40,000 per million, which needs to be maintained by all districts. The ones with fewer tests per million have been directed to increase them so that the spread is arrested,” he said.Against the state average of 44,622 tests per million, as many as 29 districts are below it. In 20 districts, the average was less than 30,000 tests per million population. 2,17,364 patients have reported to have been recovered from the infection in past ten days, taking the tally of the recovered patients to 9.73 lakh. This has translated into the recovery rate reaching 75.86% from 70.16% ten days ago. State has 2,72,993 active patients, including the highest (60,146) in Pune district. State conducted 83,602 tests in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 22.92%. 18.84 lakh Covid-19 patients are home quarantined, while 33,412 are institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-maharashtra-93-cases-and-94-deaths-from-20-districts/story-FMjDoZw8sVje5AsJ1J96CI.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||CAG flags design defects, financial viability of Chandigarh’s water treatment plant||Pointing out lapses in the set-up and function of the tertiary water treatment plant built by the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) has in its report stated that the plant suffers from design defects, while raising questions over its financial viability.Significantly, the matter was reported to the civic body in July 2018 and then in August 2019, besides to the ministry of home affairs in August 2018. The latter’s response is awaited as of December 2019, states the auditing body’s report. The CAG report notes that the Chandigarh MC decided to design and build a tertiary treatment plant in Diggian in Mohali and associated facilities with a capacity of 10 million gallons/day (MGD) to treat the discharge from its sewage treatment plants (STPs). The treated sewage was to be supplied for irrigation purposes, replacing the potable water being used otherwise. The design wrongly assumed sufficient availability of sewage, states the report. One of the underground reservoirs was shifted to the older network with lower than required discharge capacity pumps and the old STP was not technically upgraded, the report mentioned. The civic body, it said, did not ensure the required BOD level, that is below 5mg/l in the output, at the treatment plant, which likely led to the non-acceptance of treated water among the consumers. Moreover, the MC could not recover the 43% of the operational and maintenance cost of the project as planned. The report states, “Treated water was supplied for free to the green spaces being maintained by the MC’s horticulture wing. The civic body also did not bill the tertiary water connections. An audit revealed that the intended results could not be achieved even after six to seven years post-project completion, and the audit could not assure itself of the viability of the project.”KEY FINDINGSOnly six to nine MGD tertiary treated water, instead of 20 MGD as planned, is being supplied due to design and implementation failures, while the project viability is affected due to factors such as non-billingAgainst the administrative approval of Rs 4.73 crore for the aforesaid work, Rs 7.29 crore (54% excess) was incurred. The justification for enhancement of the project cost to the extent, without any significant change in the capacity/technology of the tertiary plant to be installed, could not be found on recordAgainst the capacity of 10MGD tertiary treated water from the aforesaid plant, on average, only three to four MGD tertiary treated water was being suppliedParameters of BOD level as agreed upon between the agency and Chandigarh MC was up to 20mg/l, which was far above that approved in the DPR — 5mg/l.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cag-flags-design-defects-financial-viability-of-chandigarh-s-water-treatment-plant/story-fTW8bFclKOyMeZdfpfU0VO.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Toll rates revised: Get ready to pay more to enter Mumbai from Oct 1||Get ready to shell out more to enter the city from October 1 as the toll rates are set to be hiked at the five entry/exit points of Mumbai. For cars and light motor vehicles who were paying ₹35 at the five entry points — Dahisar on the western express highway, Airoli, Mulund on the Eastern Express Highway, Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg in Mulund and Vashi toll naka — will have to pay ₹40 from next Thursday. Meanwhile mini-buses will have to pay ₹65 instead of the existing ₹45 and trucks and buses will have to pay ₹130 instead of the current rate of ₹105.The rates are being revised as per the state government notification for toll recovery against cost of flyovers, bridges, subways, road development and maintenance. It is expected to be revised every three years till September 2027.While toll was introduced for the five entry points in September 2002, the last toll rate revision took place in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/toll-rates-revised-get-ready-to-pay-more-to-enter-mumbai-from-oct-1/story-9870FHTl2hMo1kb85ST2sO.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||Two injured after argument over wearing mask||Two men suffered injuries after a group of men allegedly assaulted them following an argument over wearing masks in Shivpuri area on Wednesday evening. Sector 4 resident Dharmender Kumar, who is the complainant in the case, said, “On the way from my office on Basai road, I stopped at a bakery. As I approached the counter, I noticed that a man standing next to me was not wearing a mask. I politely told him to wear a mask and take all precautions of social distancing. Another person was with him. They started misbehaving and arguing, and then called several aides. They all attacked me and my son (22-year-old Kush Kumar). There were not carrying rods but we were hit with some object, due to which I got stitches on my ear, and my son also suffered injuries on his nose and face.” Police said a the incident happened at around 8.30pm. A case was registered but no arrests were made till Thursday night. In the FIR, Dharmender, who is a lawyer, said, “One of the men told an aide to get a gun from the car. A crowd had gathered by then and someone informed the police, following which the suspects escaped.” Police said according to the medico-legal case (MLC) report, the complainant and his son suffered injuries and were treated for it. Their condition was stable. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “We are verifying the allegations. The footage of the incident is hazy and the audio is not clear. The victims alleged that the suspects were not wearing a mask and an argument escalated over the issue. One of the accused men does appear to be wearing a mask in the footage but it is not worn properly and does not appear to be covering his nose and mouth. Several men can be seen pushing the victims.” A case was registered against the accused under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code at New Colony police station on Wednesday late night, said police. In another incident, three men were booked for allegedly kidnapping and beating up a field technician of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) in sector 65 area on Monday. Police said an FIR was registered on Tuesday after the victim filed a police complaint. According to the police, the victim, a native of Uttar Pradesh, said that on Monday, he was resolving a complaint near a private school in sector 65, when three men arrived and started assaulting him. He alleged that they threatened to kill him if he arrived at the spot again. Police did not identify the victim. Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “According to the complaint, after assaulting him, the accused men took him to his house forcibly but he managed to escape. An FIR has been registered at sector 65 police station. The suspects have been identified but are yet to be arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-injured-after-argument-over-wearing-mask/story-jzROzS20RD506IhYVUyQhK.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||HSVP shortlists 116 applicants for plots amid protest by land owners||Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Thursday shortlisted 122 applicants for allotment of plots under the oustees quota amid protests from land owners whose claims were rejected due to policy issues.HSVP officials said the plots will be allotted after a further screening. The applicants were called on Thursday at HSVP estate office II for draw of lots. It was, however, not held due to the protest. As per details shared by the HSVP officials, 622 landowners had applied for plots under the oustees quota as their land had been acquired for development. Only 116 were only found eligible. “The reason for the rejection of these claims is that, as per policy, only those who had over 75% land acquired were eligible for plots. Also, as per the directions of a high court order, the legal heirs of land owners cannot be considered for allotment of plots under this quota,” said Vivek Kalia, estate officer II. Kalia, however, said that the claims of shortlisted applicants will be further screened and they would be allotted plots at the earliest. “There were some landowners who expressed resentment as their claims were rejected but we have taken written submission from them in this regard and we will look into their issues. The final decision will be taken as per the oustees policy and directions of the court and it would satisfy all the stakeholders,” said Kalia. HSVP officials said that the process of shortlisting the applicants was carried out from 11 am to 2.30 pm. “The entire process of shortlisting was carried out as per rules. Shortlisted applicants would be allotted plots after completion of formalities,” said Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator.The landowners, however, said that their claims were being rejected on frivolous reasons and they would approach the Punjab and Haryana court against these arbitrary decisions. “When the applications were called, no such conditions were mentioned and years after acquiring our land and two years after seeking applications, the authority is now rejecting our rightful claim,” said a landowner, who spoke on the condition of anonymity||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-shortlists-116-applicants-for-plots-amid-protest-by-land-owners/story-TF4jDW7xxPUyp1JGQS4zJL.html
25-09-2020||Gurugram||Members of Gurugram unit of AAP protest against farm bills||Members of Aam Aadmi Party(AAP), Gurugram, on Thursday, took out a protest march from Sohna Chowk till the Mini Secretariat building to raise their voice against the three farm bills that were recently passed by the Parliament. AAP members also submitted a memorandum addressing the President to the district administration. The Parliament in its monsoon session passed three farm bills namely,The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. While these bills await presidential assent, farmers across the northern states of Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against them, alleging that these bills go against the interest of the farming community. AAP member RS Rathee said that the party had submitted a letter addressed to the President, asking him not to give his assent to the bills. “The objections raised by the farmers are being suppressed and the bills were passed in the Parliament by silencing the opposition parties. These parties kept seeking a division of votes but no attention was paid to their objections,” said Rathee. He said that the party would continue to protest against the legislation until the demand of the farmers are accommodated. “Small farmers will suffer if the bills are made into a law,” said Rathee. Mewat-based social organisation, Mewat Vikas Sabha (MVS), will also be demonstrating against the legislations at Badkali Chowk in Nuh on Friday. “Farmers across the country are protesting against the anti-farmer legislation passed by the government. To extend our support to farmers, we will also be protesting against the bills,” said MVS president Salamudeen Meo.BJP Haryana spokesperson Raman Malik said that criticism from AAP and other parties was unwarranted. He said that the bills would not have an impact on the minimum support price (MSP) and were aimed at giving more choices to farmers. “The bills have nothing to do with MSPs. The agricultural produce market committee (APMC) laws are not being changed. Further, the mandis (markets) are not going anywhere. These three laws will open up the market, if desired by the farmers. They will have the freedom to choose where they want to sell,” said Malik||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/members-of-gurugram-unit-of-aap-protest-against-farm-bills/story-ZSn8DbxFGi3sUg3CeasaaK.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||E-classes: Tough test for students of Mumbai’s night schools and colleges||When most students in the city were busy adapting to online learning in March, 30-year-old Seeta Patel, a Class 10 student of a night school, was not able to join her online classes. The same month, Seeta and her family were evicted from their hutment in Tardeo, after an adjacent plot was taken over by a builder. Struggling to find food and shelter in post-Covid-19 times, she found it difficult to attend her classes. “When Covid-19 cases in the city started to rise and a lockdown was imposed, we were battling to find shelter while trying to feed ourselves at the same time. Somehow, we got a small hutment in Worli and moved there, but I did not have a smartphone,” said the student of Modern Night School, Mumbai Central. While Seeta finally got a phone with the help of her school, she still has to juggle her work and studies and find time for studies. As learning still remains online, the new normal in post-Covid times is a new challenge for students of night schools and colleges. Since the virtual reopening in June, attendance at most night schools has been as low as 10-20%. Of the 120 students that are enrolled in Amar Shahid Hindi Night School in Sion, only 20 are present for classes every day. “Most students who come to our school live in Dharavi. Most of their parents have lost jobs after the lockdown and have migrated to their hometowns in April. Many are yet to come back. Even the ones who have returned are now struggling to find work. This explains the poor attendance,” said Darshana Pandav, a social science teacher at the school. Niranjan Giri, who teaches at Modern Night School in Mumbai Central where Seeta studies, said while about 120 aided night schools are operating in the city, only eight schools have been able to start online learning. “Very few students are in a position to attend online classes. As night schools mostly cater to students from Classes 8 to 10, students who join them have either dropped out in the past or have some challenges to go to a regular school. This makes it difficult for them to prioritise learning over other fundamental concerns like getting a source of livelihood and food to survive. In such a situation, they have several challenges – physical, financial and social – to adapt to online learning,” said Giri. As per a survey conducted by Masoom, an NGO that provides support to over 70 night schools in the city, of the 1,160 students who were surveyed, over 54% students have migrated to their family homes elsewhere during the lockdown. While 12.5% students said they had to go back because of lack of jobs, others had to leave as they could not pay rent in the city and hence felt unsafe. “The biggest concern is drop-outs and falling enrolments over the days to come. If schools and NGOs are not able to engage them into learning while also understanding their emotional needs, these students will not be driven towards continuing their education,” said Nikita Ketkar, CEO, Masoom. While access to technology is a big hurdle in the way of online education, another big challenge is vacant teaching posts. After the government cancelled the appointments of over 1,300 teachers who were working in the night schools along with their day jobs in 2018, only about 300 teachers were recruited against these vacancies. “This has put an additional burden on the existing teachers as they have to teach multiple subjects at the same time,” added Giri. “The situation is very grim. The government needs to intervene and address the plight of both students and teachers in night schools,” said Meenal Vagal, treasurer, Utkarsha Night High School, Worli. Night colleges, too, are struggling to get students on board, with many unable to pay their fees. Vitthal Rokade, principal at one of the city’s oldest night colleges, TK Tope College in Parel, said as opposed to three merit lists for degree admissions every year, this year, there was only one. “Until last year, not all students who applied would get a seat, but this time, everyone got a seat because there are very few applicants. Most of our students work during the day and with the pandemic, some of them also lost their jobs. Even from the students who have been able to enrol, only about 60% attend regularly and many have not been able to pay their fees. We have given them concessions and have extended the deadline because the times are really very tough,” he said. Vinay Raut, secretary, Vidya Vikas Education Society that runs Vikas College in Vikhroli, said, “Some are working as auto/taxi drivers, maids etc and live in slums and chawls. Their parents do not have the money to pay fees and many also do not have android phones.” Sudam Waghmare, a former night school teacher who now works in a day job, said the most challenging task for schools is to teach subjects like mathematics and science that are fairly complex. “Many students need a lot of help and support to pass. But many schools are now providing worksheets and activity sheets to supplement online learning with offline exercises,” he said. Since April, Masoom has been conducting 22 batches of online classes for students across night schools in the state every day. “The response has been good and we are happy that we have been able to overcome the obstacles involved in the process,” said Ramadas Alanghat, administration manager at the NGO. Students, meanwhile, are looking forward to physical reopening of schools now. “I work at a factory in Andheri all day and then attend school. In addition to studies, the school would give us nutritious meals and help us by even giving us emotional support. The online model lacks these things,” said Ramesh Singh, a student from a Santacruz-based private night school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/e-classes-tough-test-for-students-of-mumbai-s-night-schools-and-colleges/story-E2Zfjl0ejIFyIHa4VlwmaJ.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Sisodia diagnosed with dengue, shifted to ICU of Max Saket hospital||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Lok Nayak hospital on Wednesday evening after a spike in fever and dip in oxygen saturation, was diagnosed with dengue on Thursday. He was shifted to the ICU of Max Hospital in Saket on Thursday night, government officials said.Sisodia had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month. Sisodia’s condition had improved on Thursday morning, and he was moved to a ward in Lok Nayak later in the day, hospital officials said.Delhi government officials did not respond to requests for comment on Thursday.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“The minister was admitted to the hospital with high fever and low oxygen saturation. He was being monitored in the ICU and was put on oxygen support while various tests were conducted. It was found that he had low platelet count which led to the doctors to believe he might have a co-infection of dengue,” a senior doctor from Lok Nayak hospital. Sisodia has slightly elevated blood pressure, a co-morbidity known to increase the risk of severe Covid-19 disease. Also read: Study suggests dengue fever may provide immunity against Covid-19The minister had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14, when he tweeted, “Had got my Covid-19 test done after I had a mild fever. The report has come positive. I have gone into self-isolation. As of now, I have no fever or any other issue. I am fine. By your blessing I will recover fully and return to work soon.” He is the second minister in the Delhi government to contract Covid-19 after health minister Satyendar Jain in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-deputy-cm-sisodia-diagnosed-with-dengue-shifted-to-icu-of-max-saket-hospital/story-GtOZdajEAkTKCSAcwXuDmN.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dry weather forecast for Chandigarh||After 0.4mm of rain in the city on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department has predicted dry weather in Chandigarh over the next few days.“Some light rain is expected in isolated parts of the region on Saturday,” officials said, adding that rain was unlikely in Chandigarh though it could get cloudy. The coming week is also expected to remain dry.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature went down from 34.4°C on Wednesday to 33.3°C on Thursday and the minimum to 25.5°C from 26°C. The next three days will see highs of 34°C to 35°C and lows of 23°C to 24°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dry-weather-forecast-for-chandigarh/story-PDSuiCROGchvPxvC9WHuSO.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Rushdie, Chomsky, Mira Nair, among 200 personalities demanding Khalid’s release||More than 200 national and international scholars, academicians and artists issued a statement on Thursday, demanding the release of former JNU student Umar Khalid, who is under arrest for his alleged role in the north-east Delhi riots. The signatories -- including linguist Noam Chomsky, authors Salman Rushdie, Amitav Ghosh, Arundhati Roy, Ramachandra Guha and Rajmohan Gandhi, filmmakers Mira Nair and Anand Patwardhan, historians Romila Thapar, Ramchandra Guha, and Irfan Habib, and activists Medha Patkar and Aruna Roy -- have termed Delhi Police’s investigation in the case as a “premeditated witch-hunt”. They said the government should free Khalid and all those who they say were “falsely implicated” and “unjustly incarcerated” for protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Also read: Umar Khalid sent to Tihar till October 22They said the government should “ensure the Delhi Police investigate the Delhi riots with impartiality under the oath they took as public servants bound by the Constitution of India”. When approached, the Delhi Police spokesperson did not comment on the matter. “We stand in solidarity and outrage, with the brave young scholar and activist Umar Khalid, arrested in New Delhi on Sept 14, 2020, under fabricated charges of engineering the Delhi riots in February 2020. He is charged with sedition, conspiracy to murder, and under sections of India’s stringent anti-terror law, the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). This process of criminalising all dissent has been underway for a few years and even under a Covid-19 pandemic, relentless political arrests under fabricated charges are punishing the innocent long before they are brought to trial,” the statement read. Terming the anti-CAA movement as the largest most peaceful democratic rights movement in independent India, the signatories said, “Umar Khalid became a powerful young voice of truth in this movement, speaking at close to 100 meetings across India, in small towns and big cities, upholding the values of India’s constitution; articulating the dreams of all young Indians – of freedom from hunger, deprivation, discrimination and fear. He staked his claim to the full measure of citizenship, he spoke for all marginal peoples, and above all Umar spoke for peace.” “Currently, 19 of the 21 people falsely accused under terror laws, are Muslim. If we allow their identity to become their crime, India shall stand shamed in the global community of secular nations. These people are not terrorists, and the police investigation into the Delhi riots is not an investigation. It is a premeditated witch-hunt,” the statement added. Earlier this month, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava had said they had examined a large number of persons regardless of their religion and party affiliation and dismissing allegations that they were targeting a particular community.Also read: Delhi Police’s Umar Khalid investigation hinges on witnesses X and YThe signatories said no case has been registered against leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for their alleged hate speeches and criticised Delhi Police for their investigation into the riot cases. Many activists have said that in the name of investigation, police arrested anti-government voices while going soft on members of the ruling party for their alleged role in the riots. The Delhi unit of the BJP, however, said the police had investigated the alleged charges against their members but found no evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rushdie-chomsky-mira-nair-among-200-personalities-demanding-khalid-s-release/story-mb1rsm6eHrAP6OKbo9jZBJ.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Red zone count hits 2k, over 16% in S-W district||The number of containment zones in Delhi crossed the 2,000-mark on Thursday, according to government data, even as the national capital added 3,834 cases of the coronavirus disease. Of the 2,059 containment zones, most are concentrated in the western part of the city, with the highest number in the southwest district, which has 341 restricted areas (16.6%), followed by the west (234), and northwest (229) districts.With 72, northeast district has the fewest such zones (less than 4%) of the city’s 11 revenue districts, the data showed. The city had 1,987 containment zones as on Wednesday. The hot spots crossed the 1,500-mark on September 14, and over 50 such zones have been demarcated in the city on average every day since then.At least 10 of these zones have been sealed for more than two months now, officials said, including hot spots in Rohini Sector 1, RPS colony in Khanpur, an apartment in Dwarka’s Sector 16B, Valmiki Basti in Jhatikara village, Lohia Mohalla in Shikarpur and five separate areas in Dakshinpuri locality. The data showed that the localities that have the highest number of containment zones include Rohini (with 58 containment zones spread largely across sectors 3, 8, 14, 15, 16, 18 and 21), Pitampura (30), Uttam Nagar (11), Dwarka (with 40 containment zones spread largely across sectors 4, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 23) and Paschim Vihar (24). Around 19% of the city’s total active Covid-19 cases are located within containment zones, showed a report published by HT on Monday. Containment zones are sealed areas where free movement of individuals and traffic is prohibited, so are economic activities. All residents are put under strict surveillance, are periodically screened and the area is sanitised. These areas are subject to these curbs for at least 21 days from the date the last new case was recorded.The Capital had 31,125 active cases of the infection as on Thursday, and 5,123 have died so far. The city has seen a surge in cases since the first week of September, with over 3,700 infections added on average daily over each of the past seven days.“Quickly identifying containment zones has helped Delhi arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease significantly,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday, on the sidelines of his visit to the Indian Agriculture Research Institute for the live demonstration of a crop stubble decomposition technology. Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday told HT, “The government is aggressively creating containment zones to break the chain of transmission at the earliest. However, it is important to mention that the focus of the government is on creating smaller containment zones so that lesser people are affected. The status of the containment zones is periodically reviewed.” Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal had last week issued directions to the city administration to re-draft its strategy on containment zones. The new strategy, however, is yet to be finalised, said senior officials in the revenue department. This is the second time that Delhi’s containment zone strategy will be re-drafted. It was first re-drafted on June 26, in adherence to recommendations of Union home minister Amit Shah, following which the number of containment zones had shot up from 280 to 440 over three days. HT’s September 19 report, based on data till September 16, showed how the northwest and southwest revenue districts in Delhi – which rank among the top three in terms of number of containment zones — also account for the highest share of active covid-19 cases — 16.3% and 13.3% respectively. These districts have a mix of planned residential areas (such as Rohini and Dwarka sub-cities) and densely populated unplanned areas including unauthorised colonies, villages and slum clusters. Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “Delhi has adopted the right approach. Timely demarcation of containment zones and increased surveillance are helpful strategies in arresting the spread of covid-19. Delhi should continue with its containment efforts.” However, Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “At this point, Delhi can also consider doing away with the concept of containment zones and increase the scale of contact tracing and surveillance for each and every Covid-19 case identified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/red-zone-count-hits-2k-over-16-in-s-w-district/story-1sXjUTLYjOxSGQTcUe14EN.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||88% pregnant women with Covid-19 are asymptomatic in Maharashtra: Study||A study conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR-NIRRH), in association with Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) and BYL Nair Hospital has found that most Covid-positive pregnant women are asymptomatic. Despite the absence of symptoms, Covid-19 can cause health complications during pregnancies and delivery, said gynaecologists. The study analysed data collected between April 25 and May 20 by PregCOVID (https://pregcovid.com/), a registry started by ICMR-NIRRH in collaboration with MEDD and the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM). PregCOVID has data from 18 government medical colleges across rural and urban Maharashtra and the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai. For the study, data from 1,140 pregnant women was analysed and 321 tested positive for Covid-19. However, only 37 (11.5%) exhibited symptoms when they were admitted to hospitals for delivery. The prevalence of the virus in women varied (0-40%) across different hospitals. “Our results estimate the presence of one symptomatic to every nine asymptomatic pregnant women,” reads the study, which was published on September 23 in the European Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Reproductive Biology. “Detection of asymptomatic women will protect them and their new-borns [as well as] healthcare workers, and curb spread of the infection in the community. The significance of detecting asymptomatic pregnant women is useful for ensuring safe obstetric and neonatal services and assessing the burden of Covid-19 in the region,” said Dr Rahul Gajbhiye of ICMR-NIRRH. Doctors have observed that Covid-19 can lead to health complications in pregnant women. “During pregnancy, the immunity level goes down among women, which makes them more susceptible to the infection. So, women with comorbid health issues develop complications,” said Dr Ashok Anand, head of obstetrics and gynaecology, Sir JJ Group of Hospitals, Mumbai. The hospital has treated over 600 Covid-positive pregnant women since March. There is also a greater risk of complications during a caesarean section for Covid-positive mothers. “The infection leads to blood clotting in infected mothers and postpartum bleeding or postpartum hemorrhage (PPH)” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair Hospital, adding that more studies are necessary to verify these observations. PregCovid is open for all public and private Covid-19 hospitals in India that provide care to Covid-positive pregnant women. To be part of the registry, see https://pregcovid.com/for-covid19-hospitals/.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/88-pregnant-women-with-covid-19-are-asymptomatic-in-maharashtra-study/story-zlquaKiXxdHFxhjhHKsL9K.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Benzene levels in Mumbai saw spike during Covid-19 lockdown even as other pollutants dipped: CPCB report||Contrary to most air quality reports during the Covid-19-associated lockdown, a study showed that benzene concentration in Mumbai was higher during all phases of the lockdown as compared to levels in 2019. The findings were released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in its report titled “Impact of Lockdown on Ambient Air Quality” released on Wednesday. Benzene is a volatile organic compound (VOC) released in the air from anthropogenic sources such as emissions from crude oil, gasoline and industrial processes. In urban areas, the presence of benzene is most detected (through scent) at petrol pumps. Long-term exposure to benzene can cause serious health effects, said doctors.The CPCB report showed 30-35% average rise in benzene levels during lockdown. “Benzene increased in all phases of lockdown, compared to the levels during the same period in 2019. It is possible that certain industries, especially those consuming or releasing benzene, might have started operating, resulting in the increase. Local influence of emissions on monitoring stations is also a possibility,” the report said.VK Shukla, principal investigator of CPCB’s report, said, “We must realise that Mumbai experiences very different meteorological variations as compared to other urban cities. The higher benzene emission could be a localised issue near our monitoring stations. We are not sure of the exact source, but based on Mumbai’s source apportionment, there are 39 types of industries (excluding power plants), and benzene rise could be due to some functional industries during lockdown. The report is based on data collated by various stations, but exact reasons for this rise still needs to be investigated.”A similar analysis by Mumbai-based air quality research group UrbanSciences using CPCB data showed similar results. “Areas such as Worli consistently reported unsafe benzene levels with 24-hour averages over 15 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3). The two month benzene average (two lockdown phases) at Worli was 13.1 µg/m3. Sion reported the next highest daily averages with most days above safe limits. Kurla reported an abnormal spike of up to 58 µg/m3 between April 24 and 30,” said Ronak Sutaria, founder and chief executive officer, UrbanSciences. The annual safe limit for benzene in India is 5 µg/m3 but countries like Israel have more stringent norms (3.9 µg/m3 for 24 hours). “Elevated benzene levels in few areas of Mumbai are a cause for concern and need immediate investigation, especially in locations where the 24-hour averages are above the safe limits,” added Sutaria.Doctors said benzene was a proven carcinogen with severe health effects from long-term exposure. “The pollutant affects the urinary system, mainly the kidneys. It has been shown to cause bladder cancers. Levels are very high at petrol stations where VOCs are emitted. It is surprising that levels would be higher during lockdown when such activities were on hold,” said Dr Sundeep Salvi, director, Chest Research Foundation, Pune.Experts, however, said the benzene data may not be reliable. “The spike is highly unusual and data has been collated from very few stations. Also, long-term data has not been maintained for this pollutant in Mumbai,” said Professor SN Tripathi, head of civil engineering, Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur and apex committee member of National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). Meanwhile, the reduction in industrial and vehicular activity during lockdown was divided into two phases (March 25 to April 19 and April 20 to May 3) showing a decline in major pollutant concentration such as particulate matter (PM10, PM2.5), sulphur dioxide (SO2), and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) as compared to levels during pre-lockdown (March 1 to 21) and the same period in 2019.PM10 fell by 40% as compared to 2019 levels and 20% than pre-lockdown levels, NO2 fell 56% and 69% compared to the phases, while SO2 fell 56% and 48%. “PM2.5 levels increased during the first lockdown phase by 5% but decreased by 9% in the second phase, as compared to levels during 2019,” the CPCB report said, explaining that from April 22 onwards the Maharashtra government revoked permissions for activities (e-commerce companies, electrical supplies, sweet shops, confectionaries, courier services, activity related to agriculture products, restaurants). “The larger reduction in the second phase of lockdown may be due to this fact,” said Shukla adding, “Overall, like other cities Mumbai witnessed a transitional change in air pollution levels during lockdown, bringing down air pollution and achieving background air quality.”30% RISE IN OZONE LEVELS IN MUMBAI DURING LOCKDOWN: NCAP EXPERT MEMBERNCAP member professor Tripathi said Mumbai was among major urban cities in India that witnessed a 30% rise in ozone (O3). He explained that O3 rise was a complex phenomenon associated with a decline in NO2 and other pollutants, as well as meteorological factors among other reasons. Surface ozone (O3) is a photochemical oxidant, which is formed when pollutants like volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) chemically react in the presence of heat and sunlight. Ground-level ozone is harmful for humans as it can lead to asthma, cardiovascular diseases and other health ailments.“There is an immediate need for a massive urban zone like Mumbai to commence real-time source apportionment (RTSA) monitoring for pollutants like PM2.5 rather than depending on older information for pollution sources. This needs to be done on priority,” said Tripathi. IIT-Kanpur’s RTSA study for Delhi was included in CPCB’s report which highlighted source-specific decline in pollution levels during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/benzene-levels-in-mumbai-saw-spike-in-covid-19-lockdown-even-as-other-pollutants-dipped-cpcb-report/story-pAUPWfpIenm3lIn0aiHz4M.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||BJP leader Kapil Mishra claims threat to life||New Delhi: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra on Thursday filed a police complaint, alleging a “hate campaign” against him, and raised concerns over the security of his family members. Mishra filed the complaint with the Delhi Police’s special cell unit, which is probing the conspiracy behind the north-east Delhi riots. Delhi police spokesperson, deputy commissioner of police Eish Singhal confirmed that they had received a complaint at the special cell. “It will be enquired into,” he said. On Thursday afternoon, Mishra said on Twitter that there was a hate campaign against him through fake news and that his family’s life was in danger. On February 23, before communal riots broke out in north-east Delhi, Mishra had visited the Jafrabad metro station and delivered a speech, giving a three-day ultimatum to police to remove the anti-CAA protesters present at the spot. Critics of the probe into the riots have often pointed out while the police targeted anti-CAA and anti-government voices, it did not take any action against people such as Mishra, who belonged to the ruling party, even though there was video footage of them allegedly “giving inflammatory speeches.” Mishra said on Thursday,” “What I said is in video and everyone has seen that video. All legal experts have said in one voice that there is nothing wrong in what I said that day. Some forces who want to divert the attention from the truth are trying to fabricate false complaints against Delhi Police and me. Truth of Delhi riots is out, how long they have planned, their funding and why they especially chose the days of (Donald) Trump’s visit...everything is exposed already.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-leader-kapil-mishra-claims-threat-to-life/story-dG8IwYaA6Fbzui9zmlEf3L.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s micro-containment zones increased to 75||The UT administration on Thursday declared 24 more micro-containment zones in the city, taking their number to 75. On the recommendations of the affected area committee, UT adviser Manoj Parida issued orders to declare parts of Sectors 7, 15, 19, 20, 24, 27, 32, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 44, 46, Mauli Complex, Ram Darbar, Phase 2, New Indira Colony, Indira Colony and Pipliwala Town as micro-containment zones. These are in addition to the 27 zones declared on September 16 and 24 on September 8.NEW MICRO-CONTAINMENT ZONES Sector 7: House numbers 1643, 1645, 1646 and 1648Sector 15: House numbers 313 to 318Sector 19: House numbers 3362 to 3369Sector 20: House numbers 3073 to 3079 and 3125 to 3130Sector 24: House numbers 3310 to 3317Sector 27: House numbers 3369 to 3375Sector 27: House numbers 2173 to 2178 and 2157, 2158 and 2172Sector 32: House numbers 2007/31 to 2007/40 Sector 33: House numbers 812 to 818Sector 35: House numbers 3437 to 3443Sector 37: House numbers 3232 to 3236Sector 39: House numbers 1329 to 1336Sector 41: House numbers 1057 to 1066Sector 44: House numbers 761 to 767Sector 44: House numbers 2083 to 2087Sector 46: House numbers 1197 to 1200Sector 46: House numbers 4103 to 4107Mauli Complex: House numbers 3159 to 3170Ram Darbar-II: House numbers 1195 to 1198Ram Darbar-II: House numbers 1901 to 1905 and 1884 to 1886New Indira Colony: House numbers 1563 to 1574Indira Colony: House numbers 398 to 411Pipliwala Town: House numbers 202, 202/1, 202/2, 199, 201/3, 201/7, 201/5, 199/2 Pipliwala town: House numbers 478/2, 478/1, 477, 476, 474/3, 474, 473, 473/1, 474/2A, 473/2, 470/1, 470, 469, 389, 438, 436, and 436/5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/micro-containment-zones-increased-to-75/story-sKZh4LS9boty0dF8MiTnrO.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||Farm fires growing in Punjab, plumes of smoke seen over Delhi in satellite images||The number of crop stubble burning cases in Punjab has been increasing over the past five days, especially in Amritsar district, satellite images released by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) have shown. Nasa also warned that with plumes of smoke being seen over Delhi, the city’s air quality may also deteriorate in the coming weeks. Delhi government data shows that last year stubble burning accounted for 44% of the city’s air pollution. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that Punjab produces 20 million tonnes of crop stubble out of which 9 million tonnes were burnt last year. In Haryana, 1.23 million tonnes of the 7 million tonnes stubble were burnt by farmers.The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) had on Tuesday written to the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana, asking the states to control cases of stubble burning. In his letter to the two states, Epca chief Bhure Lal said it was imperative that early action be taken to control these fires ahead of the winters to control the annual pollution spike in Delhi.Data provided by Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association, shows that early instances of stubble burning started appearing on satellite images from September 12 this year, and the number of incidents is consistently increasing. The worst affected district was Amritsar in Punjab. Other districts where ‘red dots’, which indicate fires, are being observed are Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and parts of Firozpur. Also read: No option but to burn stubble, say farmers as doctors worry about CovidData shows that between September 20 and September 24, 60-100 farm fires were reported daily from Amritsar. From September 22, the satellite images spotted caught plumes of smoke over the national capital. “Satellite images show smoke over north India since September 22. This hazy cover over northern India is most likely because stubble burning activity has started,” said Gupta, who is also leading a community forum of environment experts and government representatives to understand the impact of these fires on the local environment and look for solutions to control crop residue burning. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that currently north-westerly winds are blowing across Delhi, which means that the smoke from Punjab and Haryana will directly be carried to the city, deteriorating the air quality here. “The only respite is that for the next two days the wind speeds will improve to 20-25kmph. But after that, the wind speed will reduce again and if the stubble burning activity continues to grow, the pollution levels will also see a spike in the coming weeks,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. A senior official of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) said stubble burning cases are “under control” and the monitoring teams are keeping a close watch on violators. Also read: First stubble fires start to show up on Nasa map“We are monitoring the stubble burning activity through our remote sensing system. There is awareness among farmers but our teams have started visiting villages to stop stubble burning,” said the PPCB official, on the condition of anonymity. On Thursday, Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI), according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), was 104, in the ‘moderate’ zone. On Wednesday, the city’s air was ‘satisfactory’ with an AQI value of 76.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-fires-growing-in-punjab-plumes-of-smoke-seen-over-delhi-in-satellite-images/story-oeMuYCRwplQRN9MIN4ABPK.html
25-09-2020||Delhi||This may be the driest September since 2004, shows IMD data||Delhi has recorded less than 21mm rainfall this month so far, the least amount of rain in September since 2004, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. In September 2004, 3mm rain was recorded in Delhi. In September 2015, the city recorded 22mm rain. The average normal monthly rainfall for September is 129.8mm.This year, the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded only three days of rain on September 5, 6 and 8. According to IMD, monsoon is likely to begin withdrawing from Monday — a week later than the normal date. The monsoon season will officially end on September 30.  “While the average monthly rainfall considered normal for September is around 129.8 mm, the three days of rain this September accounted for 20.9 mm, which shows a huge deficit. This time, the two major factors responsible for triggering rain --- western disturbance and low-pressure system close to Delhi --- were missing. The monsoon trough remained largely in the Himalayan foothills and did not reach closer to Delhi. Even on the three days when some rainfall was recorded, the system was weak and not enough to cover up the deficit for this month,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD’s head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC). He said it may cloudy over the next two days but there is no weather system that can induce rain in Delhi. “We are closely monitoring the withdrawal of monsoon. In the north-west region, it starts withdrawing from west Rajasthan and then from Delhi. It is expected to withdraw over the next few days,” said Srivastava. The normal date for the beginning of the monsoon’s withdrawal from north-west India is September 17, and October 15 for the complete withdrawal from the country, according to the new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates issued by IMD in April this year. Until last year, the normal date for commencement of withdrawal was September 1 and October 15 for complete withdrawal. The new onset dates are based on monsoon data from 1961 to 2019 and withdrawal dates are based on data from 1971 to 2019 analysed by scientists in IMD, Pune.“We are expecting rainfall to stop and moisture to reduce beginning next week because the low-pressure area that is lying over east Uttar Pradesh is likely to move eastwards. We are not seeing the possibility of development of any other system that could bring rain next week to the north-western region,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre.R K Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD’s National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC) said while overall Delhi has had a normal monsoon this year, September has remained rain-deficient in not just Delhi but many other parts of northwest India, including Jammu and Kashmir. “This month, the low-pressure system did not move beyond Madhya Pradesh, which otherwise goes to Punjab and Rajasthan and then moves towards Delhi. Also, there was no disturbance to pull the low-pressure system forward. When these two factors interact, it brings rain, which was absent this September,” said Jenamani. This year so far, Delhi (from June 1- September 24) has received 467.7 mm rain -- a 19% deficit, according to weather department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/this-may-be-the-driest-september-since-2004-shows-imd-data/story-z5ORBwmbWNltpOyx7CQeRP.html
25-09-2020||City||Kashmiri lawyer shot dead in Srinagar by unidentified gunmen||Unidentified gunmen shot dead Kashmiri lawyer Babar Qadri in Hawal area of Srinagar on Thursday.Qadri was rushed to Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) Hospital where doctors declared him ‘dead on arrival’.“There were bullet wounds on his neck, near the eye, under the arm and on the arm,” said SKIMS medical superintendent Dr Farooq Jan.Hours before his death, Qadri had done a Facebook live, where he had said that he was receiving intimidating messages after he wrote against High Court Bar Association president Mian Qayoom.On Twitter, he had urged police to register an FIR against a social media user after the user accused Qadri of being “projected by agencies” for “maligning Qayoom”.Qadri had accused Qayoom of trying to manipulate the election process at the Bar. Qadri had been suspended from the HC Bar Association two years back owing to his public utterances against the Bar. He had also started a separate lawyers’ group. He had sought for his suspension to be revoked in September this year after Bar Association president Mian Qayoom was released from detention. However, his application was turned down by the Bar. Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah condemned Qadri’s murder. “The assassination of Babar Qadri is tragic and I unequivocally condemn it. The sense of tragedy is all the more because he warned of the threat,” Abdullah wrote on Twitter.“Mournings are a constant feature in every Kashmiri’s life. Vehemently condemn the assassination of Babar Qadri,” wrote PDP on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmiri-lawyer-shot-dead-in-srinagar-by-unidentified-gunmen/story-GH3NyZw9f3PsegQBIvAGbI.html
25-09-2020||Pune||Patient goes ‘missing’ from jumbo Covid facility in Pune; kin stage protest||PUNE: Even after several measures and change of guard at Pune’s jumbo facility, controversies have refused to die. The latest is about a protest staged outside the facility on Thursday by a 33-year-old woman patient’s family members who claim that she has allegedly gone missing since her admission in the Covid care centre. The woman was admitted to the 500-bed facility built on the grounds of College of Engineering, Pune, on August 29, according to her parents. “The patient was discharged. Once she left the centre, we have no idea where she went,” said Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner. “Sassoon General Hospital had advised us to send her here on August 29. Ambulance came to our house and took her. Next day, I got a call saying she was misbehaving and not cooperating and I was asked to take her back home. So, I reached the hospital. After a few hours, they told me that she will be kept for 14 days and that I should pick her up on September 13. When I got here on September 13, she was nowhere to be found,” said missing woman’s mother. The parents filed a missing person case at Shivajinagar police station on September 14. “The deputy commissioner has assured us access to the CCTV camera footage of the hospital. We have also sought information from Sassoon hospital about the woman’s stay,” said inspector (crime) Manisha Zende of Shivajinagar police station. The missing woman lives at home with her parents after getting divorced from her husband. She has a minor son. “I called the hospital on the night of September 13 and asked them to show us her bed. They video called me and showed us an empty bed. The last record of the bed was that of a man. Since then, we have had multiple stories narrated to us, like she left on September 1, one doctor who recognised my aunt said she was discharged on September 8, and today (Thursday), my aunt was told that she was discharged on September 5,” said paternal cousin of the missing woman. Hospital officials are citing changed administration for the missing information. During the first week of September, television journalist Pandurang Raykar’s death at jumbo Covid facility after he failed to get cardiac ambulance raised questions over the mismanagement at the facility. Many relatives of patients came forward with complaints about the way jumbo facility was run, prompting district administration to change the operating agency. After changing the agency, administration claimed that management of jumbo facility has improved though the latest case of missing woman has once again raised questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jumbo-hospital-once-again-in-focus-as-patient-goes-missing/story-zrlE9nDayVa2eCCnwALolI.html
25-09-2020||Chandigarh||Owner, three labourers die in Dera Bassi building collapse||Four people, including the owner, died after a commercial building under construction collapsed in Meera Milli Mohalla, Dera Bassi, on Thursday morning. The bodies of three labourers were recovered from the debris in a three-hour rescue operation, while the owner, Haridev Singh, 72, succumbed to his injuries at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.The labourers were identified as Gopi Chand, 60; Raju, 46; and Ramesh Sardara, 45, all migrants hailing from Bihar.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has ordered a magisterial inquiry to be conducted and closed by sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa within 10 days. Dayalan said according to the on-the-spot report by the Dera Bassi municipal council building inspector, the collapse appeared to have been caused due to old material and faulty sanitary fittings used in construction, while structure stability and load-bearing capacity were also ignored.Action will be taken after the inquiry report, he added.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has announced ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the kin of the deceased.“District Administration along with @NDRFHQ team reached the spot but unfortunately, all 4 people trapped had succumbed to injuries,” Singh said on Twitter.Showroom came crumbling down at 9.30amPolice said Haridev Singh was getting the ground and first floors constructed of his 100 X16 square feet showroom. The showroom was coming up after demolishing old houses. While Singh and three labourers were on site, three other labourers were working around the building, when the structure suddenly caved in around 9.30am, trapping the four men inside.Singh and Ramesh were rescued within the first hour, but the latter had already died, while Singh was rushed to GMCH-32. Over an hour later, a National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team recovered the lifeless bodies of Gopi and Raju. Singh died at the hospital during treatment. He is survived by his wife and two sons, who are married.The bodies were sent to the Dera Bassi civil hospital for post-mortem examination.“The civil defence, police, medical, fire and NDRF teams initiated the rescue operation soon after receiving information of the collapse. Power supply to the building was immediately cut off to avoid further accidents,” said Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa. He added that the rescue operation was called off after over four hours on the confirmation that no more people were trapped in the debris.AS IT HAPPENED9.30 am: Two-storey building collapses, trapping owner, three labourers10am: Rescue teams from civil defence and administration arrive at scene10.10am: Owner Haridev Singh rescued, body of labourer Ramesh recovered10.30am: NDRF team joins rescue operation11.30am: Bodies of labourers Gopi and Raju recovered2.30pm: Rescue operation ends after over four hours with no likelihood of more people buried under the rubble.SIMILAR INCIDENTS IN TRICITYFebruary 8, 2020: A three-storey building collapsed at Sector 115, Mohali, leaving one dead and two injured October 19, 2019: A showroom under construction collapsed at Peer Muchalla near Zirakpur, injuring three peopleApril 2018: A four-storey residential building that was under construction collapsed at Peer Muchalla in Zirakpur. No one was hurt December 2015: Six people were buried alive and four critically injured after a liquor shop collapsed near the transport area in Sector 26, Chandigarh June 9, 2014: A major fire in a four-storey building in Sector 17 led to its collapse. Two people were killed and four injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-feared-dead-as-building-under-construction-collapses-in-punjab-s-dera-bassi-town/story-10tyj5Tw4IYXgIndWzU4BI.html
25-09-2020||Pune||Pune civic body announces amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday gave its nod to execute the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters.As per the scheme, if tax defaulters repay the amount between October 2 and November 30, they will be eligible for 80 per cent relief in the fine amount. Only those having dues less than Rs50 lakh can take benefit of the scheme. The municipal corporation imposes a two per cent fine every month on the due amount after the stipulated period.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne, said, “Last year due to rains and this year due to Covid-19, many citizens have not been able to repay the property tax. The incomes have also reduced this year. Hence, it was decided to introduce the amnesty scheme for defaulters. All the parties supported the proposal. It is applicable for all residential, commercial and educational institutes. A total of 80 per cent fine would be waived off under the amnesty scheme.”“It is expected that around Rs1,000 crore revenue would be generated through the amnesty scheme in the next two months. It is necessary to give relief to the citizens during the Covid-19 pandemic,” added Rasne.Congress leader Aba Bagul, said, “We earlier opposed giving relief in the due amount, however, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accepted a cap of Rs50 lakh and we welcome the decision. Those having dues more than Rs1 crore are not small players and we do not want to waive off money for big defaulters.”Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar, said, “We support giving relief to citizens. It was unanimously decided to bring in a cap of Rs50 lakh.”Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member Mahendra Pathare, said, “It was the party’s stand since day one that there should not be any relief to big defaulters and hence, we supported the cap of Rs50 lakh for amnesty scheme.”Relief for residentsAs per the scheme, if tax defaulters repay the amount between October 2 and November 30, they will be eligible for 80 per cent relief in the fine amount. The scheme will be executed between October 2 and November 30. Those having dues less than Rs50 lakh can take benefit of the scheme. Ruling BJP wanted to execute the scheme for all the defaulters who have dues worth Rs1 crore, but after opposition from Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena, it was decided to that the scheme will be only for defaulters below Rs50 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-announces-amnesty-scheme-for-property-tax-defaulters/story-sYEinWIAuBb4hrAOR1ni1L.html
25-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut’s Rs 2 crore case against BMC to be heard today||Kangana Ranaut’s petition against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for demolishing portions of her bungalow will be heard by the Bombay High Court from Friday afternoon, the court ruled on Thursday. The actor had sued the municipal corporation and its officials, claiming Rs 2 crore in compensation for the demolition that she alleged was an outcome of malice, and not implementation of the civic body’s rules.Shiv Sena lawmaker and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut and the BMC’s Bhagyawant Late, the civic body’s designated officer for H-West ward, who were made parties in the case on the court’s directions have been told to file their response by the time their turn comes at the hearings. Ranaut’s lawyer has also been told to make corrections in the petition.Sanjay Raut and Bhagyawant Late had requested the court for more time. The bench contrasted the request for more time to the hurry with which they had gone ahead to demolish parts of the actor’s building in Mumbai’s plush Bandra area. She had purchased the building for Rs 200 crore in 2017. It houses the office of Manikarnika Films Private Limited.“We cannot leave the demolished house the way it is. You need more time here but otherwise you are fast,” the court comprising justices SJ Kathawalla and RI Chagla observed.A demolition team of the Shiv Sena-controlled BMC had demolished parts of an office owned by Kangana Ranaut on September 9 that they contended had been built in violation of the rules. Ranaut had rushed to the high court to seek relief but by the time the court completed its hearing and stayed the demolition, the damage had been done.The court had then noted that the manner in which the BMC had rushed to demolish parts of the building within 24 hours of the notice did not “appear to be bonafide (in good faith) and smacks of malafide (dishonest intentions)”.The demolition also escalated a war of words between Ranaut and the Sena-led Maharashtra government leaders.In her petition, Kangana Ranaut has asked the judges to rule on her claim for Rs 2 crore as compensation. She said the BMC had damaged nearly 40% of her bungalow and other movable assets.She has also underscored that the BMC had failed to prove its allegations as it had not attached any photographs, which should have been taken when the designated officer inspected Ranaut’s property on September 7. She said that this pointed to high-handed action by BMC.The actor has said that the BMC demolished her building as soon as the 24-hour deadline expired but gave designer Manish Malhotra, who was issued a notice on the same day, seven days to respond.The confrontation between Kangana Ranaut and the Maharashtra government is seen to be linked to her criticism of the Mumbai police and the state’s handling of investigations into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June. The controversy took a larger political tone after the Congress accused her of carrying forward the Bharatiya Janata Party political agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-s-rs-2-crore-case-against-bmc-to-be-heard-on-friday/story-AGOSPtDBCV2OKbRpuR5MqN.html
