26-09-2020||Mumbai||Two held for snatching mobile phone at Marine Drive||Three constables on Friday arrested two thieves who snatched a mobile phone from a 28-year-old man, after chasing the accused for more than a kilometre at Marine Drive.Vinod Kharvi was taking a selfie at the Marine drive promenade when the accused, identified as Suraj Tiwari, 22, and Adnan Shaikh, 25,both residents of Worli, went close to Kharvi on their bike, slapped him and snatched his mobile phone, said Marine Drive police.Constable P Bhoye, who was on patrolling duty, heard Kharvi’s shout for help and chased the two accused on his bike. “Bhoye also alerted two of his colleagues who were on duty near Mafatlal Club and they arranged for a roadblock immediately and arrested the accused,” said an officer from Marine Drive police station.Mrityunjay Hiremath, senior inspector from Marine Drive police station, said, “Shaikh has a criminal history, and cases of theft and robbery have been registered against him at Worli and Sion police station. We have booked them under section 392 [punishment for robbery] and 34 [common intention] of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-held-for-snatching-mobile-phone-at-marine-drive/story-ccW4zUID2JRtzWDpvP9NpO.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government bans sale of loose cigarettes and beedis, traders condemn move||The Maharashtra government has banned the sale of loose cigarette and beedis. The consumers will now have to buy the whole packet of these items. The reason cited is these single stick loose cigarettes or beedis do not have the specific health warning on it which is in the public interest. The State government has issued a notification in this regard, in the public interest. This has been issued under subsection (2) of section 7 of the cigarette and other Tobacco Products (prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and commerce Production, supply and Distribution) Act, 2OO3 (Act No. 34 of 2OO3).However, this has not gone well with both the consumers and the traders.“Not everyone can afford to but the whole packet, our sales will decrease,” said a vendor who has a shop in Parel.Sayed Mehboob who is regular smoker said that such warnings hardly deter him. “Regular smokers will smoke irrespective of any warning,” said Sayed. “The state government’s move may even backfire as those who smoke one daily will be tempted to smoke more if he/she is given the full packet,” he added.Many have called it a gimmick saying that the state does not have the mechanism to check the traders and it was just an eyewash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-bans-sale-of-loose-cigarettes-and-beedis-traders-condemn-move/story-o8FFn595GQOC1LkP3LUeCK.html
26-09-2020||City||Illegal liquor found in Ambala in third such raid this month||The police on Saturday raided another godown storing huge quantities of illegal liquor in Ambala district.This is the third such raid this month. A truck with contraband was also seized earlier this month by the police near the border of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, which falls under the jurisdiction of Panjokhra police station.As per the FIR lodged on the complaint of station in-charge Mohan Lal, the raids were conducted after Lal received “secret information” about English and Indian liquor being stored inside a marriage palace on Barnala road.“Liquor to be sold in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh was stored and was being sold from here. It was a joint illegal venture of the owner of the palace, Jaipal, of Sector 7, Ambala City, and liquor contractor Pradeep Mittal. Pradeep didn’t have any documents or licence for the alcohol. Only an immediate raid could have helped recover huge quantities of liquor,” Lal said in the FIR.Speaking to Hindustan Times, Lal said, “There are nearly 1,000 boxes of different brands and quantities of liquor in the godown, but to know the exact details, counting is being done.”Meanwhile, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Ambala-2) Madan Lal said an excise inspector was called at the spot, who told the police that no godown had been let to anyone in the area. “So, this proves that the liquor is illegal and a probe will be carried out,” the DSP said.A case under relevant sections of the IPC and the Punjab Excise Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-liquor-third-godown-raided-this-month-in-ambala/story-RSRA9Uh5CvbQEjZn2uon2O.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Teachers in Maharashtra asked to upload data on students attending online, offline classes||As schools in the state continue to operate online for the last six months, teachers have now been asked to submit a weekly report on students getting access to online and offline education. As per a government resolution (GR) released on Friday, teachers now have to upload details of the students attending classes online, those who are reached out offline via phone or other means and those who cannot be reached, despite all attempts. Teachers have also been asked to share data concerning learning outcomes. The data has to be uploaded on a portal created by the state education department. “The data should be uploaded weekly on http://covid19.scertmaha.ac.in. Teachers can create their user IDs and update this from time to time. The data is essential for combining details of education during the current times,” states the GR. The department has also given a list of 44 helpline numbers- one for every district in the state. “Teachers can ask their doubts on these helplines,” it states. Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals’ Association said, “It is good that the government wants to combine this data. But asking this through an official GR is like showing mistrust on schools. The same could have been asked by officials of the education department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-teachers-in-maharashtra-asked-to-upload-data-on-students-attending-online-offline-classes/story-coEKScGeHnda2gisGgR97M.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP leaders Vinod Tawde, Pankaja Munde appointed party’s national office-bearers||Two prominent Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, Vinod Tawde and Pankaja Munde have been appointed as secretaries in the new national executive body of the party announced by party chief JP Nadda on Saturday. However, senior party leader Eknath Khadse has not been accommodated in the executive body.All three leaders were involved in a power tussle with then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and were unhappy with the treatment they got in the party. While Tawde and Khadse were denied tickets by the party for the 2019 Assembly election, Munde lost the election though she got party candidature. Saturday’s development is seen as their political rehabilitation, though it could be too early to say if it is a snub to Fadnavis, who still calls the shots in the state BJP, according to party leaders who spoke to HT. Tawde, a prominent Maratha leader, has a base in Konkan and Mumbai. Munde is a prominent Other Backward Classes (OBC) leader in the state. Daughter of late BJP leader Gopinath Munde, she hails from Marathwada (Central Maharashtra) region. Both are known for their organisational skills. There were speculations in the party that all three leaders would be rehabilitated as members of the Legislative Council when the elections for the same occurred earlier this year. However, none of them got party tickets for the elections to the upper house. Now, Tawde and Munde have been politically rehabilitated with roles in the party’s organisational body. Both of them are among 13 national secretaries in the national executive body of the party. Sunil Deodhar, who played a significant role in BJP’s victory in Tripura, and Vijaya Rahatkar, a former chairperson of the state women’s rights commission, are the other national secretaries from Maharashtra. However, Khadse who has been publicly criticising Fadnavis did not figure in the list. There have been speculations that Khadse is in touch with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leadership and exploring his options. “Though the post of secretary in the national executive body is as important as that of the general secretary, it is surely a political rehabilitation for Tawde and Munde. It is a signal by the party leadership that they are being given importance in the party,” said a senior BJP leader on condition of anonymity. While there were speculations that the move is a signal by party’s top leadership to Fadnavis that it is not happy with his handling of things in Maharashtra, a senior leader and former state minister said: “It is too early to say whether this is a snub to Fadnavis. The decision to deny a ticket to Tawde or not send both of them to the legislative Council was not taken entirely by Fadnavis.”Fadnavis who calls the shots in the state BJP has a clear say in deciding key appointments in the state unit. Following the announcement, Munde tweeted, “Thanking all party Central Leaders Hon PM Shri @narendramodi ji, Home Minister Shri @Amitshaha ji for believing in me and our National President Shri @JPNadda ji for including me in his team. It’s an honour for me..@blsanthosh ji, @v_shrivsatish ji. (Sic).” Among the other Maharashtra BJP leaders, Jamal Siddiqui will head the minority morcha while MP Hina Gavit has been appointed as a national spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-leaders-vinod-tawde-pankaja-munde-appointed-party-s-national-office-bearers/story-BGhbKYmdVzSNS9xnA1By0I.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Western Railway to increase local train services in Mumbai||Six new local train services will be introduced by the Western Railway from Monday. Of the six train services, two will be ladies special and will operate during the office peak hours. The total number of daily train services will be 506 from Monday. Local train services are being operated for essential care workers in the city.The Western Railway that witnesses a footfall of 2.5 lakh passengers earlier operated 500 train services every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railway-to-increase-local-train-services-in-mumbai/story-Q8dyBPa7PoUGSTOoNUND7H.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC disapproves of BMC’s stand on deducting salaries of visually-impaired staff||The Bombay high court (HC) on Saturday expressed displeasure over the adamant stand of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on deducting salaries of visually-impaired civic employees, although they were exempted from reporting on work due to Covid-19 pandemic.“It is unfortunate that the municipal corporation has taken this stand (of deducting salary of visually-impaired employees),” said the bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni.“We are fortunate that we can see. We are fortunate that we do not have any deformities or disabilities,” the bench reminded the counsel for the civic body, senior advocate BV Bukhari.The bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed by the National Association of Blind, espousing the cause of the 287 visually-impaired BMC staffers, as the civic body started deducting their salaries for the Covid-19 lockdown period.Their counsel, advocate Uday Warunjikar, submitted that BMC has treated their absence as paid leave and the recovery was being made from the salary of the employees for the excess period of absence which is over and above their sanctioned leaves.Warunjikar further submitted that no transportation was available for the employees to reach their respective offices. Besides, he said the state government had issued a circular exempting the employees from attending offices.Representing the civic body, Bukhari conceded that relaxation was given to visually-impaired employees from attending office but maintained that the state government circular was not applicable to civic employees. He said the relaxation did not mean that the employees were to be paid for absent days.With regards to transportation, the senior advocate initially maintained that transportation was provided to civic employees throughout the lockdown period, but later said there was no question of providing transportation as the employees were granted relaxation.The judges were irked by the technical objections raised by the civic body instead of considering the issues of the visually-impaired employees sympathetically.“So you will give relaxation on one hand and take away the benefits on the other (by recovering salary paid for the absent days),” said the judges, commenting upon the civic body’s stand.After hearing both the parties, the court on Saturday reserved its order on the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-disapproves-of-bmc-s-stand-on-deducting-salaries-of-visually-impaired-staff/story-2HfhThV8htXdnoVzhjIPwK.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case drug angle: NCB questions Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) questioned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan, and Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash on Saturday in connection with the drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. While Padukone and Prakash were quizzed at the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) guest house in Colaba, Kapoor and Khan were grilled at the NCB office in Ballard Estate.Padukone, who reached the guest house at 9.50am, was questioned by NCB’s special investigation team (SIT) for around six hours, and Prakash reached at 10.50am and left around 3.45pm. Meanwhile, Kapoor reached the NCB office at 11.50am and left around 6pm, after around six hours of questioning, and Khan reached at 1pm and left around 6pm. “We have not issued any fresh summons to anyone today [Saturday]. Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan were examined in both the cases registered by NCB (case number 15/20 and 16/20) and their statements will be produced before the court. Deepika Padukone’s statement was recorded in the 15/20 case,” Mutha Ashok Jain, deputy director general of NCB, said. “We have questioned many people and recovered evidence. We will review and plan for further investigation and course of action in the case.”The agency also arrested executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad on Saturday. A NCB team had raided Prasad’s residence in Andheri on Thursday and officials claimed they had recovered sufficient evidence to arrest him. They, however, did not disclose details. NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed Prasad’s arrest.On Friday, actor Rakul Preet Singh, too, was questioned for around four hours, while Prakash was interrogated for around seven hours. Prakash, a talent manager at KWAN talent management company, had been called in again on Saturday. Prakash’s name came up during the probe after NCB questioned Rajput’s talent manager Jaya Saha on the basis of chats submitted by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was conducting a parallel probe into Rajput’s death. In a group chat, Saha, Prakash and Padukone had discussed drugs, said NCB officials. Based on Saha’s statement, Prakash was called for an inquiry and Padukone was summoned, said the official. Kapoor and Khan were summoned after their names came up in Rajput’s girlfriend actor Rhea Chakraborty’s statement, said the official.Don’t chase celeb cars: DCP“Today we observed that many mediapersons were chasing the cars of celebrities/people who were called by the NCB. They are endangering the lives of themselves and the people going for inquiry. Action will be taken against drivers and vehicles would be seized if this happens again,” said Sangram Singh Nishandar, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-drug-angle-ncb-questions-deepika-padukone-sara-ali-khan-shraddha-kapoor/story-oW4yUnOKddbf7ToMHynOcK.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||JEE Advanced: Over 2,000 aspirants to take exam in Chandigarh||Around 2,000 aspirants will take the JEE Advanced exam in Chandigarh. Last year, four centers were set up for the exam in the city, however this year it is unclear that how many centers are set up, although the number is likely to be higher owing to Covid guidelines on social distancing.JEE Advanced is a computer-based exam just like JEE Main and the exam will be held in two slots—9 am to 12 noon and 2.30 pm to 5.30 pm. There are questions of multichoice type with either a single correct answer or multi-correct answers. Candidates will have to bring their own masks and sanitisers and they will be thermally screened before being allowed inside the centres. The seating arrangements won’t be displayed outside the centre and can only be seen after scanning the barcode on the admit card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jee-advanced-over-2-000-aspirants-to-take-exam-in-chandigarh/story-23h8y5oz7pmSZ11sZnOGJP.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||SAD (Taksali) protests against new farm bills, burns effigies of PM Modi, Sukhbir Badal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) workers staged a protest against the “anti-farmer ordinances” issued by the Union government at the Phase 1 light point here on Saturday.The protesters burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Cabinet minister Harsimrat Badal and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal. SAD workers including Gurpartap Singh Riar and Taksali Youth Wing leader Harsukhinder Singh ‘Bubby’ Badal also participated in the protest.Police were also present at the spot. Many protesters flouted Covid guidelines as they were seen without masks and did not maintain social distancing during their protest.This is a part of the protests being organised all over Punjab against the three contentious bills which farmers allege will do away with mandis and Minimum Support Price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-taksali-protests-against-new-farm-bills-burns-effigies-of-pm-modi-sukhbir-badal/story-GZgHPvVOgsguSidCEfeStL.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||13 times rise in quantity of sea cucumber seizures from India over five years: Study||Over the last five years, illegal trade involving sea cucumbers in India has witnessed a sharp spike. Over 27,166.5kg of dry, wet, and live sea cucumbers worth around ₹29.4 crore (US$3.9 million) have been seized so far, a recent analysis has revealed.The study by Hong Kong-based non-profit environmental group OceansAsia has identified a 13-times rise in sea cucumber seizures over five years from Lakshadweep, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and the Indian Ocean waters.According to the analysis, in 2015, three cases were registered, five persons were arrested and 980kg sea cucumbers worth ₹1.04 crore (US$141,610) was seized, while in 2019, 15 cases were registered, 41 persons were arrests and over 12,515kg of sea cucumbers worth ₹13.26 crore (US$1.8 million) was seized. Between January and August 2020, 11 cases were reported, 15 persons were arrested, and 9,016kg of sea cucumbers worth ₹9.58 crore (US$1.3 million) was seized. Consignments were a mix of live, processed (dry and wet), and semi-processed sea cucumbers.“There has been a significant increase in sea cucumber poaching and smuggling in the south of India recently, with Lakshadweep and Tamil Nadu now global hot spots,” said Dr Teale Phelps Bondaroff, director of research, OceansAsia.Sea cucumbers are worm-like sea creatures that are single branched marine organisms (invertebrates) high in demand across Southeast Asia, mainly China, for food and traditional medicine. Protected under Schedule I under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, a trade involving sea cucumbers is banned. The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) imposed a total ban on harvesting and transporting sea cucumbers in 2001.Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director-general of forests (wildlife), MoEFCC and director WCCB said, “We are fully aware of the rising sea cucumber trade at Lakshadweep. Taking cognisance of the request from the local administration to reinforce protection measures, adequate financing under a species protection plan, including sea cucumbers, has been provided. The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB_ is monitoring this illegal trade at ports, airports, and all other dispatch points, and regular follow-ups are in place to address this issue.”In February, WCCB sought the Interpol to issue a Purple Notice (a category to tackle international environmental crime against criminals hunting wild animals).Presently, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) taking over all major sea cucumber poaching offence cases in Lakshadweep.The general modus operandi appears to entail sea cucumbers being poached from Indian waters and then smuggled into Sri Lanka. “This way sea cucumbers are laundered and can be re-exported to Southeast Asian markets,” said Dr Bondaroff adding, “An operation involves a couple of fishers in a small boat or gleaning on the shore, to larger groups using divers and operating several vessels in deeper waters.”The Lakshadweep forest department confirmed OceanAsia’s figures were accurate if not more. “Lakshadweep became the source for this trade over the past year-and-a-half. The trade was at a small-scale earlier with isolated cases but witnessing the demand, local people got involved after being given access to satellite phones and the greed for fast money allowing a substantial rise in trade volume,” said Damodhar AT, secretary environment, forest and chief wildlife warden, Lakshadweep administration. To enhance protection, Lakshadweep declared the world’s first sea cucumber conservation reserve across 239sq km - Dr KK Mohammed Koya Sea Cucumber Conservation Reserve, Cheriyapani in February.In August MoEFCC sanctioned ₹2.72 crore for 2020-21 to enhance security measures to curb wildlife crime. The ministry agreed to form the Lakshadweep Marine Wildlife Protection Force (LMWPF) by engaging 350 personnel and established three anti-poaching camps in uninhabited islands (Veliyapani, Thinnakkara, and Suheli Islands). Damodhar said recruitment of 200 personnel (part of the LMWPF) will be completed next week.Sea cucumbers are typically sold dried, canned or frozen form, though sea cucumber powders and extracts are also available, the analysis read highlighting the spike in demand and prices over recent years. The price of a kg of dried sea cucumber that sold for the equivalent of approximately ₹221 (US$3) in the 1960s and sold for ₹4.400 (US$60) in the 1980s and ₹8,800 (US$120) in the 1990s, skyrocketed to ₹27,200 (US$370) in the 2000s, the study claimed. “The prices are even higher today. What’s worse, we have come across reports of the involvement of organized crime syndicates in the industry, with drug cartels in Mexico and the Yakuza in Japan getting involved in the industry or using the industry as cover to other illicit operations,” said Dr Bondaroff. “Destroying local sea cucumber populations can have a serious impact on marine ecosystems, wildlife, and people’s livelihoods. If poaching and smuggling are not curbed, the sea cucumber population will likely collapse.”CBI INVESTIGATION UNDERWAY THROUGH VIDEO CONFERENCING DURING PANDEMICMeanwhile, the CBI has been investigating cases over the past two years via video conferencing during the Covid-19 pandemic, said Damodhar. “Due to travel restrictions and 21-day quarantine rule in Covid-free Lakshadweep, the CBI teams have not managed to reach the islands. However, along with our support and the Enforcement Directorate, all previously arrested accused will be rearrested by CBI to track down the nexus,” he said.SCALE OF THE SEA CUCUMBER TRADEOceanAsia, a marine conservation organisation based out of Hong Kong combating wildlife crime in Asia through investigation, research and awareness, compiled their analysis based on media reports between 2015 and 2020. “There are limitations to our research but we are currently working on a more detailed version looking at the global sea cucumber crime industry, which will be released around December,” said Dr Bondaroff. “It is good to see increased attention and vigilance on the part of Indian authorities. However, international and inter-agency cooperation is also needed, as many sea cucumber smuggling routes out of India appear to go through Sri Lanka.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/13-times-rise-in-quantity-of-sea-cucumber-seizures-from-india-over-five-years-study/story-M6zDWcGtzmlZzxGLk0ZwKJ.html
26-09-2020||Gurugram||HSVP will auction 15 plots to reduce ₹12K crore debt burden||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has identified 15 commercial properties in Gurugram to be auctioned in October.The move follows the authority’s decision to monetise its land assets and reduce its debt which, according to an RTI reply in March, stood at around ₹12,000 crore. The auction is expected to raise ₹1,000 crore.As per the details shared by the authority, Sector 10 has the most number of plots with three for shopping complexes (measuring 6,080 square metres (sqm), 6,096 sqm and 5865 sqm respectively), two sites for shopping (7,820 sqm each) and three sites for commercial office (each 7,820 sqm). In sector 43, two commercial complexes of sizes 2,320 sqm and 3,120 sqm shall be part of the mega auction. Sector 47 has three sites measuring 4,327 sqm, 6,751 sqm and 82,798 sqm. HSVP will also auction a site for a college in sectors 52 A and 53 of 34,340 sqm each.The authority may identify more commercial sites up until auction day, the date of which is yet to be finalised. Apart from large commercial plots, other vacant plots too shall be identified and auctioned in the coming months, HSVP said. Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, said, “We will identify plots in other sectors as well to include in the planned auction. We have a strong reason to believe that these plots will be sold at a premium as the auctions held in last few months have been successful.” “There are around 750 vacant plots in estate office one and I have given directions for measuring them for auction. Encroachers will be at the earliest,” said Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer I. As per information shared by the authority in a reply to an RTI filed by city resident Aseem Takyar, the loans taken by it were from a number of private and public sector banks. The loans paid for projects across the state and also to pay compensation and enhancements to farmers whose land had been acquired for development. The figures were a drop from its reply to another RTI in 2019, when the authority said that the loans it took from banks stood at ₹19,611 crore till December, 2018. Chander Shekhar Khare, the then HSVP administrator, had said that authority was facing financial crunch due to the loans and they were looking at monetizing the land assets to repay the debt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-will-auction-15-plots-to-reduce-12k-crore-debt-burden/story-yp7ir6jzLvh0ea9Nrz6saI.html
26-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Test positivity rate dips below 10% for first time in two weeks||The district reported 273 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, along with 455 new recoveries and two deaths due to the illness, as per the data shared by the heath department. With the growth rate of new cases having slowed down over the past three days, the daily test-positivity rate(TPR) in Gurugram district fell to 8.5 percent on Saturday. This is the first time in at least two weeks that the TPR has dipped below the 10 percent-mark. Officials said this indicates that Gurugram might once again be seeing a slowdown in transmission of the SARS-Cov-2 virus.Health department officials also pointed out that the rate of recovery from Covid-19 has seen a significant improvement in the past week, increasing from 81 percent on September 19 to 85.6 percent on September 26. “Over the past three days, the number of daily recoveries has been over 400, but new cases are below 300. This has helped drive up the recovery rate by a good margin,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Gurugram. The daily growth rate of new positives, meanwhile, dipped to 1.4 percent on Saturday, the lowest in at least three weeks. “Throughout September we have seen a growth rate of about 2 percent, which has dipped only in the last week. Our aim is to bring the growth rate down to 1 percent, as was the case in August,” said Dr Ram Prakash Sharma, district epidemiologist, Gurugram. The slowing down of the growth rate is also indicated in Gurugram’s doubling rate, which stood at 61 days on Saturday — up from 41 days a week prior.With the dip in the positivity rate, officials said, they now have more time to increase testing. The district health department had aimed to increase the number of daily tests for Covid-19 to 5,000, but health department data shows that, over the past week, the district conducted anywhere between 3,000 to 3,500 tests per day. Officials explained that this is not worrying. “When positivity rate drops without an increase in tests, it indicates that transmission of the virus has slowed down. We can’t say with certainty as to why this is the case. However, numbers indicate that this is likely to be the case,” said Dr Jai Prakash, adding that testing capacities will be expanded nonetheless in the coming weeks. “Transmission of the virus may pick up as the temperature drops in the coming weeks, so the appropriate response would be to increase testing at this stage,” he added. As of September 26, Gurugram’s total tally of reported infections stands at 19,640. In the past 26 days, Gurugram has recorded 7,499 cases of Covid-19 (more than double the 2,942 cases reported throughout the month of August). The district has also recorded 28 deaths this month so far, up from 16 deaths in August. The number of active cases in the district currently stands at 2,658, down from 2,781 on September 19. Of these, 239 are currently hospitalised, while 2,402 are under home isolation. Another 17 cases are under observation at district Covid care centres. Ventilator and ICU bed occupancy stands at 50 percent each, while only a quarter of general oxygen beds are in use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-test-positivity-rate-dips-below-10-for-first-time-in-two-weeks/story-pEGnirAeez4LmtoZd75AuK.html
26-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Family of motorcyclist killed near Belvedere Towers demands stringent action against juvenile, parents||Family of motorcyclist 48-year-old Alok Gupta, who was killed in an accident on August 23 involving a vehicle driven by a minor near Belvedere Towers in DLF Phase-2, organised a silent march on Saturday morning demanding justice.Armed with placards and banners, around 400 people, including family, friends, and cyclists, took part in the solidarity march that started from DT Mega Mall around 7am till the accident spot near the DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro station. They demanded that the tougher section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) be invoked against the accused.The juvenile in the case had been apprehended and the car owner, his friend’s father, had been arrested. Police had registered an FIR under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 A (Death by negligence) at DLF Phase 2 police station. These are bailable offences. Later, the police had added sections 184 (driving dangerously) and 185 (for drink driving) of the Motor Vehicles Act to the FIR as the minor was allegedly inebriated.Family members said that the investigation had not progressed since the past month and that the parents of the juvenile had not been made party to the case.Mihika Wahi Gupta, Alok’s wife, said, “We have not been given any update on the investigations and have been running from pillar to post. The sections imposed by them so far are very weak. The parents of the child driving the car haven’t been booked. The co-passenger (another minor) was also not arrested. The owner of the car, who gave the keys despite the children being drunk, was also released on bail within an hour. This is no justice.”Anurag Gupta, Alok’s brother, said, “Drink driving is not a negligent act to be punished under Section 304 A. It is an act done with the knowledge of the consequences of driving under the influence of alcohol, which must ideally attract IPC section 304 (II). In the past, the Supreme Court has also said that parents of minors should be held accountable in such instances and booked.”Gaurav Pant, a family friend, said that the march was aimed at seeking justice for Alok and many others like him. Pant said that drink driving was a menace and needed to be curbed through strong deterrence. “Such accidents take place routinely and due to weak sections, the perpetrators get away easily. Strict laws need to be imposed so that such cases are not reported in future,” said Pant. Inspector Aman, station house officer (SHO), DLF Phase 2, said, “We had taken legal opinion on the matter and invoked IPC section 304A in the FIR as per law and facts of the case. If the car was registered in the name of juvenile driver’s parents, then action would have been taken against them. This is not the case here.” Karan Goyal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), DLF, said, “The juvenile and the owner of the car were booked and arrested under relevant Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act offences. The investigation is still going on in the most legal and fair manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-family-of-motorcyclist-killed-near-belvedere-towers-demands-stringent-action-against-juvenile-parents/story-z3Dg9nbBsjCPfkcD0ofwgI.html
26-09-2020||Gurugram||Haryana: New industrial policy to come into effect from November 1||The new industrial policy of Haryana with a focus on attracting investments and reserving private sector jobs for the local youth, will come into effect from November 1, said chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday. November 1 is also observed as Haryana Foundation Day.Khattar, however, reassured that in case private companies fail to find qualified local youth, they will be free to hire people from other states. “The new policy will also improve the ease of doing business in the state. We held a discussion with various industry leaders and sought their suggestions with the aim of incorporating them in the draft policy,” said Khattar after a meeting at the PWD guest house in Gurugram on Saturday.  The CM also said that the government will closely work with industry leaders to ensure that local youth are given preference in the private sector. “We have decided that, if need be, upskilling courses can be designed to impart training of soft skills and behavioural changes to the local youth so that they are absorbed in private sector jobs,” said Khattar. Khattar added that Haryana has consistently improved its ranking in the ease of doing business but due to procedural issues, its ranking fell this year. However, his government will ensure that these issues are resolved at the earliest. The CM also said that as the sizes of landholdings are shrinking, the rate of unemployment among the local youth is rising. This needs to be addressed on a priority basis. “It is because of this reason that efforts are being made to create more jobs, bring in more investment, and upskill the youth,” he said. Earlier this year, the Haryana Cabinet had moved an ordinance, reserving 75% jobs in the private sector in the state for the local people. However, the Governor referred it to the President. The reservation issue was also the poll plank of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party (JJP), which is presently in a coalition with the Bharatiya Janata Party in the state.Chautala,who was present at the meeting, said that under the new policy, the government has increased monetary incentive to industry for giving employment to locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-new-industrial-policy-to-come-into-effect-from-november-1/story-lOWy3sYdbLhME5vzZ3YjsO.html
26-09-2020||Noida||Cops raid several places in Ghaziabad’s Khoda colony to trace over 100 suspected criminals||The police from Noida, Ghaziabad and Delhi, in a joint operation on Saturday evening, raided several places in Ghaziabad’s Khoda colony to trace the location of over 100 suspected criminals. Named as ‘Prahar,’ the operation was carried out after the police from the three cities compiled a list of criminals living in Khoda, which shares its boundary with Delhi and Noida. According to the police, many criminals commit crime in the neighbouring cities and cross the border and hide themselves in the densely populated colony to evade arrest. “A combined list of 120 alleged criminals was formulated who had residential addresses in Khoda colony. They were mostly known for involvement in street crimes such as robbery, burglary, snatching, and vehicle lifting,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1 (Noida).He said that the two-hour operation was carried out from 4-6 pm. “The idea was to verify the whereabouts of these criminals and to monitor their movement to ensure that they were staying away from any criminal activities,” said Singh.From the Noida police commissionerate, about 60 police personnel were involved in the raids, while 30 from Delhi and 20 from Ghaziabad police were part of the operation.“During the raids, some of the men were found to be missing from their official addresses. A separate list of absconders is being prepared and the action will be taken separately. Some of the men were found to be abiding by laws. But there were 27 suspicious persons. These men have been detained for further questioning. We will prepare a dossier and verify the activities they have been involved in. If they are found innocent, they will be released,” said the additional DCP.The police will continue with this joint operation in coming weeks where different pockets will be chosen and whereabouts of other criminals involved in petty and serious crimes will be verified, said the officials.The Delhi police said that a similar operation was carried out in Khoda colony, along with the Ghaziabad police, a fortnight ago. “The East district (Delhi) police in coordination with Noida and Ghaziabad police carried out the operation on Saturday. This time a larger area was covered,” said Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east) .Khord colony houses nearly 42,000 homes with a population of about four lakh. The Ghaziabad police said that a team from the Khoda police station was present during the raids. “It was a joint operation of all three police forces. The idea was to monitor history sheeters and other criminals as well as a sort of confidence building exercise for police personnel to ensure they are active. We will continue such measures at border areas,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cops-raid-several-places-in-ghaziabad-s-khoda-colony-to-trace-over-100-suspected-criminals/story-Sdj9592Dht7KXc0Qh1kT5L.html
26-09-2020||Noida||Noida: District traffic police to use Google Maps to address traffic congestion||Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police said they are going to use online traffic monitoring application to keep tabs on vehicular movement and send personnel to decongest jams. Officials also issued two helpline numbers and urged people to share their complaints and feedback to improve the city’s traffic.Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said the department has set up a help desk and issued two helpline numbers – 7065100100 and 9971009001 – for people to report congestion, malfunctioning traffic lights, or other problems. “The first number is for calls as well as WhatsApp messages while the second number is only for calls. The calls and messages will be swiftly addressed,” he said.He said the department is taking several measures to improve vehicular movement in Noida and Greater Noida. “We have planned to use Google Maps to ease traffic as it is a convenient way of navigating to a destination. Traffic personnel will monitor roads on Google Map. The maps share the traffic situation live in terms of green lines (where movement is smooth) and red lines (where movement is slow). The officials will identify roads and stretches where traffic is slow and rush traffic personnel and marshals to address the problems,” he said. He further said that vehicles found stranded on the road causing congestion will be towed. “If the traffic is slow due to any other problem, the officials will take necessary steps,” Saha added. On Saturday, traffic officials held a meeting with local residents through video conference and discussed various issues to improve the situation.KK Jain, general secretary Federation of Noida Residents’ Welfare Association (FONRWA) said some traffic signals are not synchronised in the city. “At present, the traffic signals have fixed timings. They should be upgraded to dynamic signalling so that they automatically change the timing as per traffic pressure,” he said. Jain also demanded that roads and metro stations should be free from encroachment as it slows down traffic. There are over 500 personnel – four traffic inspectors, seven sub-inspectors, 103 head constables and 395 constables – in the traffic police department. In 2019, the district traffic police had issued 6,99,708 challans and collected ₹14.76 crore in fines from violators. From January to September 24, 2020, the department has issued fines to 3,39,775 violators. The department issued 55,424 fines in January and 27,245 in February this year. In March, 19,823 penalties and in April, 11,541 fines were issued, as the national lockdown was announced in wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. From May, the violations again started increasing. In May, June, and July, 19,402, 56,434 and 60,180 fines were issued. A total of 48,488 challans were issued in August and 41,238 challans till September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-district-traffic-police-to-use-google-maps-to-address-traffic-congestion/story-gUFcSRwJFTVsWL9JOpMUaP.html
26-09-2020||Noida||Noida to make compost out of STP sludge and horticulture waste||The Noida Authority on Saturday said that it has decided to make biogas and compost out of sludge produced at sewage treatment plants in the city.Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari has given in-principle approval to the project.The authority will use the compost turner to chop the horticulture waste, mix it with sludge and make compost, a process that will take 45 days. Once operational, the plant will produce at least 50 tonnes of compost daily that will be used in the city’s parks and also sold at a rate of ₹3-5 per kg, said officials.According to the Noida authority’s data, the city produces 231 million litres of sewage daily. In the absence of this compost making project, the authority has to use the sludge in earth filling or dump it at vacant plots, which is not only polluting but unhygienic as well.In the first phase, the authority will use sludge from its sector 54 sewage treatment plant (STP). “We are in the process of hiring the agency that will set up the at the sector 54 STP. Later, the compost making project will cover all our STPs located in sectors 50, 123 and 168,” said Rajiv Tyag,i general manager of the Noida authority.The first plant is expected to be made operational in the next six months and is estimated to cost ₹9 crore. It will be built on the lines of a similar project in Delhi’s Nilothi area. The authority is also seeking the details from the Delhi’s plant before it starts work at the ground.This is not the first time that the authority has decided to treat sludge to convert sludge from STPs into compost. A similar project was mooted in 2013-14, but never took off.The authority has total six STPs across the city with capacities of 34 million litres per day (MLD) and 25MLD in sector 50, 33MLD and 54MLD in sector 54, 35MLD in sector 123 and 50MLD in sector 168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-to-make-compost-out-of-stp-sludge-and-horticulture-waste/story-SBF4tHuKpmvXe6haLNJh0L.html
26-09-2020||City||Greater Noida authority wants registry office back in Gamma 2||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority has requested the Uttar Pradesh stamp and registration department to shift the property registration office back to the city’s sector Gamma-II. Authority officials said that property buyers are facing inconvenience as the new office is located about 30 km away in densely populated Dadri tehsil.On September 3, the registration department issued an order, starting execution of property registries or tripartite lease-deed in order to transfer properties, including flats, shops or plots, at the respective tehsil offices instead of offices at non-tehsil buildings. The decision came in response to a demand raised by the Dadri tehsil from the UP stamps and registration department located in Lucknow.“We have requested the commissioner (stamp), UP, to shift the registry office back to Greater Noida’s sector Gamma-II because our property buyers are facing inconvenience. We hope that the office will be soon shifted to the old place, where it was operational. The authority staff, along with property buyers, have to be present in the registry office for tripartite sub-lease deed or registry, and reaching the old office was convenient,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The registration department’s assistant inspector general in Gautam Budh Nagar, SK Tripathi, said, “The department took the decision of shifting the registry office from sector Gamma-II to Dadri Tehsil as per the rules. If the Greater Noida authority wants it back from Dadri tehsil to sector Gamma-II near its office, then it should get the decision done from the state government. We will follow that.”In 1995, the state government had set up a property registry office at sector Gamma-II so that property buyers from newly developed urban areas, including group housings, do not need to travel to Dadri tehsil for the job required to transfer the property title.“The decision to shift the registry office was contrary to the government’s plan to provide the ease to customers or the investors,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association.Developers have also requested the state government to allow registry at the old office in sector Gamma-II. “The government should shift back the registry office in sector Gamma-II because it will be in favour of the homebuyers and the real estate sector. The state government should provide as much comfort to the investors as it can to encourage the growth,” said Abhay Kumar, chairman and managing director, Griha Pravesh Buildteck Pvt Ltd, a realty firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-authority-wants-registry-office-back-in-gamma-2/story-hcieQ0f6PPfJIaWAQAcE0H.html
26-09-2020||City||UP to redefine containment zones; state officials deputed for Covid-19 monitoring in Ghaziabad||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday said that the definition of containment zones will be modified and they are likely to be more compact in the form of ‘micro containment zones.’ According to the district health department, with the new concept, it is likely that the micro containment zones will have a lesser number of houses under the perimeter control.According to the state government, the number of containment zones in the state is about 18,510 which have about 13.5 lakh houses in total. In Ghaziabad, there were 394 containment zones till September 25, as listed by the district administration.“The definition of containment zones will be modified by the government and they will become more compact and will be in the form of ‘micro containment zones’, where perimeter control and monitoring will be stricter, besides which all people in the house will be tested,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).The state government is likely to roll out more directions in this regard soon, said officials.In their July 24 directions, in which containment zones were defined, category one zones, which have one Covid-19 case, are created in a radius of 100 metres or a mohalla, whichever is less. Category two zones are those which have more than one case and created in a radius of 200 metres with additional buffer area for monitoring, which is assessed on the basis of local conditions.In a recent video conference held with the Centre, the state government had raised the issue of diversion of more resources to manage containment zones, even though many activities have opened up since the lockdown.“According to present norms, a 200 metres containment zone is estimated to have about 300 houses, and a 100 metres containment zone has about 150 houses. With the new concept of micro containment zones, it is likely that we will have a smaller number of houses under both categories – one and two. We are expecting government directions soon in this regard,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.“In case the number of houses covered under micro containment zones is reduced, it will help us take up 100% testing of all individuals, as directed by the Indian Council for Medical Research,” he added.In Ghaziabad, the state government-appointed nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, on Friday took stock of the existing containment zones and directed the district to strictly monitor and manage them.The state government has also sent four officers to Ghaziabad for monitoring coronavirus-related activities in the district. Ghaziabad is one of the 16 districts in the state which have more than 100 cases daily on an average per week. According to official figures from September 1 to September 24, the district added 4,706 cases to its tally, with an average of about 196 cases per day. During this period, the district also conducted 88,963 sampling/testing with an average of 3,706 per day. The four officials will hold review meetings with district officials and will also take up inspections and submit reports to the chief minister’s office as well as to the state administration. “The four officials have arrived and they will be taking up a review meeting on Saturday night. Once the meeting is over, we will be able to know of their suggestions and what steps will be needed to better tackle the Covid-19 situation,” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-to-redefine-containment-zones-state-officials-deputed-for-covid-19-monitoring-in-ghaziabad/story-EOhhzKPxrv4WzAYnTaB9SM.html
26-09-2020||City||25-year-old man arrested for filming, abusing two women constables in Greater Noida||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Friday for allegedly taking photographs of two women constables and abusing them in Greater Noida.According to the complaint filed by one of the constables, they were patrolling the streets in Sector Beta 1 area on Friday when the incident took place. “We found some boys sleeping at a bus stand in the afternoon. We asked them not to rest at the bus stand and advised them to go home. At the same time, the suspect, Ashish Thakur, arrived at the spot on a motorcycle and started capturing our photos,” she said. When confronted, the suspect abused the constables and then fled the spot, she added.The women police personnel informed the control room and informed them about the alleged incident. A police response vehicle (PRV) reached the spot and chased the suspect who had fled towards Sector Delta. The police said that on being apprehended, the suspect allegedly manhandled two constables from the PRV team and threatened them.The suspect, a resident of Brahmpuri mohalla in Dadri, had told the women constables that he was a reporter, but, the police said, an initial probe found the claim false.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Sector Beta 2 police had registered a case against Thakur under Sections 354 C (voyeurism), 506 (criminal intimidation), 504 (intentional insult), and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-year-old-man-arrested-for-filming-abusing-two-women-constables-in-greater-noida/story-2HJKt1LstYWUAUxlyKNqJP.html
26-09-2020||City||25 hot spots crucial to curbing air pollution in district to be identified, says state pollution regulatory body||The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) has directed district officials to identify different hotspots in Ghaziabad in areas which face issues of garbage dumping and burning, road dust, industrial emission, heavy volume of traffic and those which have construction activities, among others.The directions have been issued for 16 non-attainment cities of the state, including Ghaziabad, which have high pollution levels and need to take pollution control measures ahead of the approaching winter season. Last year, officials had identified seven hotspot areas in the district while this year, they are planning to increase the number to about 25, with active participation from residents.“The process of identifying hotspots is underway. We have also asked residents to send us a list of such areas, along with photographs, so that such areas can be included in the hotspot list. These will be closely monitored with the help of quick response teams and flying squads. We have already prepared our winter action plan which we have started implementing,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.Last year, officials had identified areas such as Sahibabad, Hindon Vihar, Pasonda, NH-9 as hotspots. This year, officials expect that the number of hotspots will be about 25 in number at district level. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), on the other hand, had in 2019 identified only Sahibabad as one of the hotspots in Ghaziabad.“This year, we have so far identified several hotspot areas where construction activity is expected. These include Raj Nagar Extension, Siddharth Vihar and Vasundhara. For industrial emissions, we have so far identified the South Side GT Road Industrial Area and Site IV Industrial area. Areas affected by dumping and burning of solid waste include BS Road Industrial Area, Anand Industrial Area and solid waste dumping sites of the municipal corporation,” Sharma added. The identification process will be completed in one week, after which the winter action plan will be implemented.Ghaziabad city, in 2019, has topped the list of the most polluted cities on several occasions during the winter months. According to UPPCB records, the city in 2019 had 31 days when the air quality spiked to ‘severe’ category in range of 401 to 500 on the air quality index (AQI), on a scale of zero to 500. For another 67 days in 2019, the AQI was recorded under the ‘poor’ category which ranges from 301 to 400.“Implementation is the major issue when it comes to regulation and enforcement against polluting factors. Steps such as preparation of action plan and identification of hotspots, etc., should have been done during the first part of the year. By this time, officials should have started with enforcement in order to tackle air pollution,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. The district at present has four Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) – at Vasundhara, Indirapuram, Sanjay Nagar and Loni. According to official records, the average PM2.5 levels at Indirapuram were 69.25 micrograms per cubic metres (mpcm) from January to August in 2019. During the same period this year, the average PM2.5 levels were 68 mpcm, both of which are higher than the standard limit of 60 mpcm. Likewise, the average PM2.5 levels during the same period last year at Vasundhara stood at 98.75 mpcm while the average during the same period was 77.29 mpcm in the current year. The average PM10 levels at the four stations were recorded in range of 137.32 mpcm to 168.18 mpcm from January to August in the current year. The standard PM10 limit is 100 mpcm. “We have written to our members to identify areas which are affected by road dust or have instances of garbage burning, etc. The list will be forwarded to UPPCB in the next two-three days. Further, we have suggested that members of civil society should also be allowed to conduct surprise inspection at sites, including industrial units, so that violations can be detected,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of the apartment owners’ federation. On September 19, Bhure Lal – the chairperson of the Environment Pollution (prevention and control) Authority (EPCA) – had visited the district for an inspection and directed officials to control fugitive dust, roadside parking, burning of solid and plastic waste, besides preparing a parking plan to prevent roadside parking of vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-hot-spots-crucial-to-curbing-air-pollution-in-district-to-be-identified-says-state-pollution-regulatory-body/story-YOAsDFouc2FryMRqPuXuLK.html
26-09-2020||City||Ram Lila, Durga Puja to pale under Covid shadow||As the coronavirus disease pandemic continues to cast its shadow over the country, the festival season in October in Ghaziabad is likely to be curtailed.Durga Puja samitis say they are going to restrict access to the pandals, and Ramlila samitis have almost dropped plans for a grand Ramlila Manchan, Ravan Dahan and the Mela . The city has about 12-15 different Durga Puja samitis that celebrate the festivities in grand style each year and people from all walks of like become part of festivities. “Usually, thousands of people arrived each day to witness the celebrations. But with the pandemic and other restrictions, it will be difficult to manage a huge gathering. So far, we have planned that the puja will be held in morning at the pandal, and only the members will join. Unlike the traditional way when people gathered in pandal to have food, this year we will send them food packets,” said Abhijit Roy, founder member of Prantic Cultural Society, Indirapuram. Cultural programmes, which used to includes artistes from different cities, will be an in-house event and will be aired online. “This year we have also curtailed our budget and have also written to the UP officials, suggesting some protocols which can be followed for Durga Puja celebrations. We are hopeful that the government will soon issue some guidelines,” Roy said. Bongotoru, another Durga Puja organisation which holds celebrations in Shipra Sun City, Indirapuram, will also restrict entry to pandals. “We have adopted the token system that will help us restrict entry to a maximum of 100 people to the pandal. We are also scaling down our celebrations by almost 80%,” said Surajit Dey Purkayastha, vice president of Bongotoru. “Unlike the previous years when we had cultural activities under the Pandal, this year the activities will be pre-recorded or streamed online. At the pandal we will follow all the health protocols and have also planned Covid testing camp.” Ramlila cancelled  “As of now, the Ramlila is not happening this year. This is happening for the first time in our 40 years of Ramlila Manchan,” said Lalid Jaiswal, president of Shri Dharmik Ramlila Samiti, Kavi Nagar. “There will no Ramliala Manchan, no Ravan Dahan. Normally, we start with preparations about two months prior to Ramlila. But no such preparation is taken up this year. Even if the government relaxes guidelines, we will not be able to arrange for vendors, artistes, craftsmen.” The Kavi Nagar Ramlila during past several years had been staging ‘digital Ramlila’ which has become famous across the city. “However, we have asked the artistes to prepare three hours of Ramlila which we can play at an auditorium in case the conditions are relaxed. In such a case, the three hours of Ramlila will be staged for 10 days,” said Jaiswal. The oldest Ramlila organised by the Sullamal Ramlila Samiti at Ghanta Ghar is stated to be around 100 years old Ramlila in the city. “We will not be having the Ramlila Manchan, Ravan Dahan and the Mela this year. We have also not engaged artistes or craftsmen this year. Still, we are waiting for the guidelines from the UP government and will see what we can do,” said Virendra Kumar who is the president of the samiti. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that soon there is a video-conferencing which will be taken up by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “So far, the restrictions are continuing and no large gatherings are allowed. Further, there is lot of stress on Covid protocols in order to curb Covid-19 infection. It is expected that the Durga Puja and Ramlila celebrations will be largely curtailed. We expect that some guidelines will be issued in coming time. Although the festivities also boost local economy and provide gainful employment opportunities to artistes, craftsmen and others, but the situation this year is different due to the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ram-lila-durga-puja-to-pale-under-covid-shadow/story-Qs9UmSYdDiqEvKOzXwYQGK.html
26-09-2020||City||Two minor boys apprehended for celebratory firing||Two minors were apprehended on Saturday for allegedly firing in the air during a birthday celebration in Jewar.The two boys, aged 14 and 15 years, were apprehended after a video of the celebratory firing had surfaced on social media platforms prompting the police to lodge a probe. Umesh Bahadur, station house officer (SHO) Jewar police station, said that on September 24, a video had surfaced in which the two boys, who are class 9 students, were seen holding a country-made gun and firing multiple rounds in the air. “Someone captured the incident on a mobile phone and the video was widely circulated on social media,” he said. The police said that two suspects were identified on Saturday and were then were picked up for questioning. “They told us that Thursday marked the birthday of the younger boy, and to celebrate it they took a country-made gun and fired multiple rounds in the backyard of his house,” the SHO said.The police said that no one was injured in the incident. “We registered a case against the two minors under the Arms Act, 1959. They were produced before the child welfare committee (CWC) and sent to juvenile home. We have seized the illegal weapon used in the crime as well,” he said. One of the suspects told the police that a country-made gun was kept in house for several years.In December 2018, a 14-year-old boy was killed in celebratory firing at an engagement ceremony in Dadri. The victim, a native of Ghodi Bacheda village, was hit by a stray bullet in the neck. He was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-minor-boys-apprehended-for-celebratory-firing/story-s88U5kCvIad9VsSpNIdyRP.html
26-09-2020||City||Plan to upgrade Ludhiana’s fire infra doused by admn neglect||Despite the administration’s claims to upgrade the city’s fire-fighting infrastructure, nothing concrete has been done in years.Due to this apathy, firefighters continue to endanger their lives. In the past, many have sustained injuries while nine had died while dousing the flames in 2017.Earlier in February, a city-level technical committee, a component of the smart city mission, had approved a project worth ₹25 crore to upgrade the fire brigade. Yet seven months later, the plan remains to be on paper only. Due to this, the ill-equipped firefighters are forced to brave the blazes without proper safety.When quizzed, the authorities said the project was still at the tendering stage and the new equipment would take some time to reach.As part of the infrastructure enhancement, the fire department is working to purchase hydraulic platform, water bowser, fire safety suits, life/heat detectors, advanced rescue tender, mini fire tender, multiple gas detectors, hydraulic combi tool, victim location camera with breaching system, quick response vehicle, inflatable lighting tower, portable fire pump and communication system at fire stations.Even as high-rise structures have mushroomed in the city over the years and factory fires take place frequently, the department has functioned without hydraulic ladders, an essential part of the fire-fighting equipment. On top of this, the firefighters have to cover their faces with wet cloth to avoid asphyxiation as they don’t have fire safety suits.“Every time we ask the authorities about the equipment, we are told that the department is working on the same and it would be provided soon. We do not even have fire safety suits to save ourselves. Apart from the equipment, the department also needs to conduct recruitment as the fire brigade is facing acute staff shortage,” said a firefighter.In October last year, a fireman had sustained injuries after the roof of a five-decade-old house collapsed due to a fire outbreak in the building near Neem Chowk in the old city area.Four firefighters had suffered burn injuries while dousing a fire in Vijay Nagar here in 2017, while nine had lost their lives on the job at a plastic factory that collapsed in November 2017. Total 16 people had died in the plastic unit blaze.Previously, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had made tall claims about upgrading the fire services, but to no avail.Municipal commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The project to upgrade the fire brigade was part of the agenda tabled in the meeting of the city-level technical committee held last week. While tenders have been floated for procurement of new equipment, there are a few items for which we need approval from the state level committee. The fire brigade would be upgraded soon.”As many as 333 fire incidents were reported in 2019, 394 in 2018, 324 in 2017, 860 in 2016, 281 in 2015 and 580 in 2014. The maximum number of fires (1,098) was reported in the year 2010, as per the data available since 2004. This year, over 135 fire incidents have been reported in the city so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plan-to-upgrade-ludhiana-s-fire-infra-doused-by-admn-neglect/story-enfhTvD0c2zq9dlWRNe6SN.html
26-09-2020||City||Ludhiana sees six more deaths, 172 new infections||Six persons succumbed to Covid-19 while 172 fresh infections were detected in the district on Saturday. The district’s cumulative count of cases has now gone up to 17, 331 while the toll stands at 708. Besides, 15, 355 patients (88.59%) have already recovered from the virus. The number of active cases stands at 1, 265.The fresh cases include 15 contacts of positive patients, three patients from the outpatient department of different hospitals, 86 patients with symptoms of influenza-like illnesses, six police personnel and five healthcare workers among others. The deceased include a 63-year-old female from Kot Mangal Singh area, a 43-year-old female from Sandhu Nagar, a 53-year-old male from Kot Mangal Singh area, a 63-year-old male from Model Town Extension, a 62-year-old male from Jhammat village and a 62-year-old male from Daresi road. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said the number recoveries is increasing with each passing day. Besides the 172 residents of Ludhiana, 37 persons hailing from other states and districts also tested positive here in the last 24 hours, the DC revealed.He added that as 3, 530 samples were sent for testing on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sees-six-more-deaths-172-new-infections/story-Q0xv8T1hRAj4l6dzBYmRWP.html
26-09-2020||City||Former assistant commissioner of Thane civic body booked for theft||After several documents and a desktop went missing from the Diva ward office, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has filed a case of theft and criminal breach of trust against the then assistant municipal commissioner of Diva, Sunil More. More allegedly took a few files and his desktop from the ward office with the help of his friend, who has also been booked, few hours after receiving his transfer order. Suspecting foul play, the civic body initially set up a departmental inquiry, following which registered a complaint against More on Saturday.Mahesh Aher, assistant municipal commissioner of Diva ward, who took charge after More, learnt about the theft on September 18 and brought it to the notice of the civic commissioner. An officer from Shildaighar police station said, “According to the complaint filed by Aher, two sets of computers were installed in the Diva ward office, one in the assistant municipal commissioner’s office and another for other clerks. On September 17, More received the transfer order around 6pm when he had left office. He returned to the office around 8.30pm, took a few documents and his office computer in his private car with the help of his friend Firoj Khan, 40.” Police said, “More and Khan have taken official files without permission out of the office, did not return it and are using it for their personal benefits. It is a clear case of theft. We have registered a case under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code.” Aher said he filed the case after consulting the civic commissioner. He told HT, “The working hours of our office is up to 6pm. More had left office at 5.30pm on September 17, after which he received his transfer order. He then came to the office along with Khan around 8-8.30pm and took his computer and a few files. When I joined on September 19, the security informed me about the issue. Suspecting foul play, I consulted the commissioner who told me to register a complaint if the desktop and documents aren’t returned.” More could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-assistant-commissioner-of-thane-civic-body-booked-for-theft/story-GZ8JT2GkHNvnFEJjjpSCMK.html
26-09-2020||Election:||Bihar elections: Recording studios are abuzz again, thanks to polls||Political parodies, audios and videos for the upcoming Bihar assembly polls may just be publicity material for parties and candidates but they’re a fresh lease of life for thousands of families in the engaged in these activities for decades. People involved in the sector had been struggling for a livelihood for the last six months since Covid-19 pandemic broke out and the lockdown rendered them jobless.This year, they remained idle in times of usual peak in business such as festivals of Holi, Chaiti Chhath and Shravani Mela because of lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions. Even the forthcoming festivals like Dussehra, Chhath and Diwali are expected to be equally dull as the pandemic continues.The announcement of assembly elections, however, have revived their hopes.Recording studios in Patna are abuzz again with Bollywood songs and popular Bhojpuri numbers which provide ready music to these artists to build on.Also read: ‘MSP not most preferred mode for farmers in Uttar Pradesh’ - NITI Aayog studyAmong the favourite numbers this year are “Vijayi Bhava” from Kangana Ranaut’s ‘Manikarnika’, “Bhar de jholi” from Bajrangi Bhaijaan and “Gali Gali Teri Lau Jali” from Baahubali. Parodies based on these songs are being composed and drafted while recording experts are testing the equipment at studios to keep them ready for the final albums.There are over 400 to 500 recording studios in the state, some of them even registered with the registration department of the state government. An estimated 5,000 families are dependent on these activities. The annual transaction of this sector is approximately Rs 7-10 crore.“Unfortunately, half the recording studios have been closed now due to the severe financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. In fact, most of these have been running in rented rooms and structures and the studio owners are now in no position to pay rent for the lockdown period,” Shahid Rafi, Patna-based poll parody writer and singer, said.These studios in Patna alone employ hundreds of people as lyricists, singers, composers, accompanists, recording technicians, editors and mixing experts.“Only recently, a folk singer in the city who used to earn high through stage shows of folk and film songs, called me up and requested to give her a chance of recording even in the chorus. This is the situation now,” Rafi said.Rajesh Kumar, who runs Pragati recording studio in Patna, said the elections have provided many much-needed relief in terms of work and payments.Also read: CM Mamata’s former confidante, Mukul Roy, made BJP vice president“Supporters of different political parties and potential candidates have started pouring in for publicity songs and tracks. But things will really look up for us when candidates are declared and file nominations and get symbols. But we have already started preparations,” Kumar stated.According to Rafi, songs like ‘Parda Hai Parda’ from film ‘Amar Akbar Anthony’ and ‘Yeh Public Hai Yeh Sab Jaanti Hai’ from film ‘Roti’ have remained the all-time favourites but some new songs are also being preferred.“We keep the tracks ready and even lyrics are drafted. When the candidates get their symbols, we just fit words into this track and get it recorded,” he explained.“Lyrics are the same and only the name of candidates and their symbols change in the poll songs. For instance, there’s a song ‘Charcha Hai Charcha Mahagathbandhan Ka’ on ‘Parda Hai Parda’. Here, the name of any party or candidate can be fitted as per requirement. Similarly, there’s a song ‘Subah Uthkar Booth Per Jaana, Teer-Kamal Chhaap Per Button Dabaana’ based on ‘Bhar Dei Jholi’ from film ‘Bajrangi Bhaijaan’. Here also the name of the candidate and party can be changed accordingly,” said Rafi.“Things have started looking up, though very slowly. Work is there, but the payment is still a long distance away,” Medha Shree, a folk singer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-elections-2020-recording-studios-are-abuzz-again-thanks-to-polls/story-om66KuZzlV4HputL7cXq1H.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER doctor awarded Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize||Dr Ritesh Agarwal, a professor at the pulmonary medicine department of PGIMER, Chandigarh, has been awarded the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology in the medical sciences category for his significant contributions in the field of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA).The award, instituted by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in honour of its founder-director late Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar, is given each year for outstanding contributions in science and technology.Dr Agarwal is the first faculty from PGIMER to be honoured with this award. He has been systematically exploring this perplexing disease over the last 10 years, with over 90 publications describing the epidemiology, diagnosis, management and several first-time descriptions to his credit. In the last five years, he has validated and proposed new criteria for the diagnosis and classification of ABPA, which are being used to diagnose the disease worldover. His most significant work is the treatment of ABPA. Before his research, there was no dosing protocol for oral glucocorticoids. His research showed that lower doses of oral steroids were sufficient in the treatment of ABPA. Moreover, two of his studies demonstrating the efficacy of antifungal drugs are practice-changing, as patients can now be spared of the serious adverse effects of glucocorticoids.Dr Agarwal has more than 500 publications in peer-reviewed national and international journals. He had also received the ICMR Kamal Satbir Award in 2009; the NASI-Scopus Young Scientist Award in 2011; and the ICMR Shakuntala Amir Chand Award in 2012, for his dedicated work in the field of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.Commending Dr Agarwal’s distinct accomplishment, PGIMER director Jagat Ram said, “It is a matter of great pride, not only for the institute, but also for the region. This rare honour won by Dr Agarwal is hugely motivational and exemplary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-doctor-awarded-shanti-swarup-bhatnagar-prize/story-KZJrL2xgC3Ylq50jJqylEP.html
26-09-2020||City||Delhi: Uprooted slum dwellers near India Gate to get houses in Dev Nagar||New Delhi: The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) will provide in-situ rehabilitation to at least 353 slum dwellers in a housing society being built for the economically weaker sections (EWS) in Central Delhi’s Karol Bagh, the government said on Saturday. The decision was taken in a Board meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held on Friday. “Slum dwellers living in Princess Park area near India Gate were displaced because of the construction of the National War Museum by the Ministry of Defence. As per a survey carried out by DUSIB, 203 families are living in that area. On eligibility determination as per the Delhi Slum & JJ Relocation and Rehabilitation Policy 2015 (Now known as the Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana), they will be allotted houses at Dwarka till houses at Dev Nagar near Karol Bagh are constructed, which will take nearly 18 months,” the government said in a statement on Saturday. Until the flats are ready, residents of Princess Park will be shifted to ready houses by DUSIB at Sector 16-B, Dwarka. Later, they will have the option to shift to the newly constructed housing premises in Dev Nagar. “Slum-dwellers from 150 jhuggis at the Dev Nagar plot will also be shifted to Dwarka to facilitate the construction of 784 houses. After allocating houses for inhabitants of Princess Park and Dev Nagar, the remaining houses will be used for in-situ rehabilitation of slums nearby,” the government said. DUSIB will construct 784 houses at a multi-storied (stilt plus 14 stories) building in Dev Nagar at a cost of Rs 102 crore. The houses will have two rooms, a kitchen, bath, and toilet with amenities such as parking space, parks, community halls, etc. The project will be completed in 18 months, a senior DUSIB official said. Salient Features of the Project: - Number of EWS flats 784 - Number of stories Stilt +14 - Carpet area of one flat: 26.47 Sqm - Super area including balcony: 42.91 Sqm - Number of units on each floor: 56 - Total plot area: 9345.00 sq m - Facilities in one unit: One living room, one bead room, one kitchen, bathroom||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-uprooted-slum-dwellers-near-india-gate-to-get-houses-in-dev-nagar/story-Gbzr7DHAGIHacfMNryH8KP.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Three held for abducting man, beating him to death and dumping body in canal||Three men have been arrested on charges of abducting a 35-year-old man, beating him to death, and throwing his body in a canal in Haryana allegedly over ₹4,000 that he owed one his killers, police said Saturday.The arrested were identified as prime accused Valik Kumar alias Bhanu,31, Pintu Kumar,27, and Anil Kumar alias Annu,26. They were arrested by a crime branch team from Bawana area Friday, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj. “A Santro car that the three had used in the crime was also recovered,” the DCP said. The man, identified by his first name as Irshad, was missing since September 2 after he left his home in outer Delhi’s Narela with Bhanu, the prime accused. Police said on September 11, Irshad’s wife filed a missing person complaint at the Narela Industrial Area police station and alleged that he was last seen on September 2 with Bhanu. A kidnapping case was registered. During the probe, the police found out that Bhanu was helping the woman search for Irshad. They collected information about Bhanu and learnt that Irshad had to pay ₹4,000 to him for meat that was supplied to Irshad’s shop. “We suspected Bhanu’s involvement in Irshad’s disappearance, and investigators kept a watch on him through physical and electronic means. Once his role was confirmed, Bhanu was arrested and his interrogation led to the arrest of his two accomplices,” said a police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity. During the interrogation, the officer said, Bhanu told the police that he was into the business of supplying raw meat. and Irshad owed him ₹4,000. On September 2, Bhanu went to Irshad’s home in his Santro and picked him up saying that Irshad should work for him if he was not in the position to repay the amount. “Bhanu took Irshad to a poultry farm in Narela’s Block B where his two associates were already present. Bhanu started beating Irshad with sticks and also punched him. When Irshad fell unconscious, the trio abandoned him and left in the car. Irshad succumbed to injuries at the spot and the trio returned the same night, transported Irshad’s body in the car and threw it into a canal near Halalpur village in Haryana’s Sonepat district,” the officer said. Two days later, on September 4, Irshad’s body was fished out from the canal in Delhi’s KN Katju Marg area . The KN Katju Marg police registered a murder case and cremated the body after 72 hours as the dead man’s identity could not be ascertained. They, however, clicked photographs and preserved the clothes which eventually were shown to Irshad’s family members, who identified the body as that of Irshad’s, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-held-for-abducting-man-beating-him-to-death-and-dumping-body-in-canal/story-QgLBUbBuQukt87LdRAhtYP.html
26-09-2020||City||Focus on RWAs in fourth week of Delhi’s anti-dengue campaign||New Delhi: The fourth week of the Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign will see the involvement of Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs), the chief minister’s office said on Saturday. The ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ anti-dengue campaign was launched on September 6 with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inspecting his residence for stagnant water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. This was followed by all MLAs in the first week and then doctors and healthcare workers in the subsequent weeks. Last year, the RWAs played a huge role in this campaign. The Delhi CM had addressed all RWAs at Talkatora Stadium where he launched a five-point action plan for the RWAs to combat dengue. “This week, the key focus of the Delhi government would be on the participation of the RWAs. Last year, through the participation of the RWAs and other organisations, only 2,036 cases and two deaths happened as against 15867 cases and 60 deaths in 2015. The first edition of the anti-dengue campaign was launched in 2019,” the government said in a statement. A special helpline has been launched by the government for the general public if they require assistance with dengue. People can call on 011-22300012 and WhatsApp on 8595920530. During the third week of the anti-dengue campaign, CM Kejriwal had tweeted, “Delhi will defeat dengue again, and for this, today, on the third Sunday of the campaign at 10 am, I checked my house and replaced the stagnant clean water. You must also check your house every Sunday and ask your 10 friends/relatives to do the same. #10Hafte10Baje10Minute Har Ravivar Dengue Par Vaar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/focus-on-rwas-in-fourth-week-of-delhi-s-anti-dengue-campaign/story-QQRIGG45neeJ0iNkTUdNQO.html
26-09-2020||City||Inequitable distribution of colleges, lack of housing among other issues raised at DDA consultation||New Delhi: Lack of educational institutes and its inequitable distribution in the city was one of the primary concerns raised by the youth during a public consultation held by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) for the preparation of the Master Plan of Delhi-2041. Nearly 450 people, aged between 18 and 30, participated in the ‘Youth Sabha’ organised by DDA and the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which has been roped in to prepare the MPD-2041. A senior DDA official said a lot of people raised the problem of lack of educational institutes in several parts of the city due to which they have to travel long distances. “The lack of accessible education institutions for some city residents is of grave concern. For some of the youth, there are no colleges for up to 10 kms. This causes a lot of problems for them,” the official said. A young man from Najafgarh mentioned how the nearest college is 25 kms away, requiring a travel time of nearly an hour one way to traverse that distance. Others said most students staying in peripheral areas of Delhi end up travelling 25-40 kms one way to reach their schools/ colleges. “This is not only time consuming, but also unsafe for young women as they don’t always get to travel by appropriate means of commute. It is only recently that Delhi Metro’s grey line is operational, which helps them to commute to other parts of Delhi, but due to Covid-19 that too was stopped for several months. In short, accessibility to these education imparting institutions has become very cumbersome, pushing the youth to drop out well before completing their courses. Most of them then settle for open universities and working side by side to sustain their home/ family,” said the DDA official. Another issue pointed out by people was the problem of housing, especially for those who come from other states to Delhi for educational purposes. DDA is holding these consultations with various stakeholders to get an idea about what residents of the city want, which can be addressed in the next MPD-2041.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inequitable-distribution-of-colleges-lack-of-housing-among-other-issues-raised-at-dda-consultation/story-cmNojdTjQffoxncsyZwxsI.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Our Take: Tricity artists need support||While the cry against nepotism in Bollywood has been loud and clear in the past few months, this week a group of artists came together to allege that parallels could be drawn in the tricity art scene too. The provocation is rooted in the dire straits that freelance artists, many of them with masters in fine arts degrees, find themselves in during the seven months of the Covid 19 pandemic. Most of them have been without work and are finding it difficult to support themselves and their families. What’s ironic is that some of them have gained recognition for their work and have even won awards. However, their careers as artists have not moved further because of alleged nepotism. Some preferred names, they say, continue to come up in workshops, camps or exhibitions. As an immediate measure, an appeal was issued on social media urging artists with government or private jobs to come to the aid of others of their ilk who were suffering. The response from a section of artists has been encouraging. While the cry against nepotism in Bollywood has been loud and clear in the past few months, this week a group of artists came together to allege that parallels could be drawn in the tricity art scene too. The provocation is rooted in the dire straits that freelance artists, many of them with masters in fine arts degrees, find themselves in during the seven months of the Covid 19 pandemic. Most of them have been without work and find it difficult to support themselves and their families. Their careers, some allege, are at a standstill because of nepotism. Some preferred names, they say, continue to come up in workshops, camps or exhibitions. The roots of the malaise go much deeper. Chandigarh has several art institutions and the Government College of Art has tutored some very talented artists, many earning fame at the national level. Today, it’s felt that art courses have to be updated to keep up with the modern times to prepare students for the competitive art market. They have to be promoted by their institutes, but often are not. Then, strong leaders can make a difference, but the Government College of Art has been without a principal. A bureaucrat is in charge and the UT home secretary does not require an arts degree. The Punjab and Haryana high court had stipulated that the principal should have teaching and administration skills.To change things, senior artists suggest that besides skilling youngsters in the arts, they should also be taught communication skills and marketing. Budding artists too must realise that this is a competitive field where talent wins. Only a handful make it to the top after a concerted struggle. Engaging in a job or business while pursuing their passion for art becomes necessary for survival.PAINT TAINTDoes nepotism exist in the tricity art scene? Do only a few artists in the tricity get promoted or is a fair chance given to everyone? Send your responses by October 2, with your photograph, to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-our-take-tricity-artists-need-support/story-PfabMhIeRLrIcDfO7AouEP.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: Raising the levels of our consciousness||Where exactly are our thoughts focused the whole day long? While the answer obviously differs for each individual, scientists believe that each of us thinks about 50,000 to 70,000 thoughts per day. Which means that we virtually think up a distinct thought each second that we are awake.Of course most of these thoughts are repetitive in nature: about work or mundane things or to-do lists. Thoughts about material acquisitions, shopping, fashion, entertainment and leisure are in reality not as manifold as one might have thought. Relationships do occupy a large portion of our thought space, as do sundry other people. But a larger number of thoughts centre around worries and fears. Most of these are needless, worthless, tensions, as we all know.Much of our time is spent in thinking about scenarios which never actually occur. We either fantasise and dream about desirable states of being, or we tend to stress over what could go wrong. Unfortunately, as life passes by, the latter tendency begins to dominate over the former. Thus, we tend to fret and fume about aspects of life which really do not deserve so much fretting and fuming.Very few people are able to concentrate on the present moment. Mind wandering has become quite an ailment these days. Our consciousness does usually not focus on the present. It wanders off into the future or starts dwelling on the past. Even when we are occupied with a pressing task such as studying for an exam or working on a project, our consciousness becomes a philanderer. It gallivants all over the place and beyond all imaginable realms.Not being able to focus on one thing is also the result of our falling prey to the tentacles of social media. There is something rather automatic about the act of picking up one’s phone after every two minutes, to check upon this and that, almost, though not quite, akin to the act of blinking or breathing. We hardly have to think twice about doing so. It has become an involuntary, compulsive, global habit.But the really damaging trend is for human beings to habitually direct their attention towards the muck and filth which the mass media and its social cousins keep raking up. As mentioned in this column a fortnight ago, a section of the media has made it its avowed business to vitiate our minds, and we the gullible of the world have willingly allowed it do go ahead and penetrate our relative purity with its vitriol.Why is our consciousness often permeated with thoughts of scoffing, berating, belittling and destroying others? It is not only the media which disturbs our peace. It could be our own doing, aided and abetted by a family member or friend who constantly criticizes everybody under the sun. The company we keep is stronger than will power, said a saint. But even the company of our own selves, being despondent or negative can be extremely unsettling.Lao Tsu said: “The key to growth is the introduction of higher dimensions of consciousness into our awareness”. It is indeed a fact that our lives and our whole beings tend to catapult themselves into zones beyond the usual and hackneyed when we start thinking of the bigger picture of life. Compassion for others, empathy for the underprivileged, caring for the elderly, being of generally cheerful mien and adding to the happiness quotient of the world, are definitely ways of raising the levels of our existence.Paramahansa Yogananda, author of Autobiography of a Yogi, in his uplifting poem, The Noble New, puts it beautifully:Sing songs that none have sung,Think thoughts that ne’er in brain have rung,Walk in paths that none have trod,Weep tears as none have shed for God,Give peace to all to whom none other gave,Claim him your own who’s everywhere disclaimed.Love all with love that none have felt, and braveThe battle of life with strength unchained.Should we able to enhance the consciousness paradigms that we have been maintaining all our lives to a different league as the years roll by? Perhaps, yes. But we have to give it our best shot!vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-raising-the-levels-of-our-consciousness/story-dczeEgFFUqWPjUXPrqNnoI.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: For whom the closing bell tolls||As if recession and the Great Indian Deathly Depression was not enough, along came the Great Global September Stock Crash Riding Re-Lockdown.Even as this week’s bear run saw many a stock see the ‘Fall’ faster than the tonne of bricks tumbling in Kangana Ranaut’s office, surprisingly some things have seen their stock rising.Nah, one isn’t talking of the soaring stock of “Schitt’s Creek” and “Succession” post Pandemmy’s, but certain sundry or secret stock piling up courtesy Lockdown.The Sound of MusicIf you too belong to that breed of a Bard born or bestirred in the time of India Quarantining, you may have noticed how with every second person (candid confession: Yours Truly included) parking their poetry on Twitterverse, the global stock of unsung and unsolicited poets has risen for better or verse.Unsung poetry, because this Lockdown verse of Lollitas, Lamba jis & Co is the articulation of deeply embedded unrealised aspirations to poet-hood that could not be sung out, it in the solitariness of the bathroom or beyond.The curious case of ‘How Bard Can It Be’.My Big Fat Grease PuddingAnother thing which is seeing its stock rise rapidly is readymade food, Parottas to Pohas, under whose soaring stockpiles the poor Lockdown refrigerator has been labouring.Nowhere are this ‘Fatten the Curve’ narrative’s side-effects more visible than on the benches or bar stools of Unlock. When Lamba ji or Lally Ji park their pyjama-ed posteriors on the Condo’s concrete benches, they unmask their stock of cellulite accumulated from readymade Parottas dripping Amulite. Or out of their boxers on bar stools at McDonald’s or KFC oozes cellulite like extra cheese spilling out of a Subway sandwich.The curious case of ‘Who Moved My Grease!’For Your Eyes OnlyIf you’re seeing too many moustaches on the Zoom grids, it’s not as if mustachioed machismo is back to give fashion a ‘bear’ hug nor as if Hercule Poirot lookalikes leapt out of the grids to flaunt their groom on Zoom. Rather, it’s to do with the rising stock of forest cover of moustaches and bodily hair, as dense as Brahmaputra Tropical Forests, mushrooming on the follicular soil of not just Lockdown’s uncultivated males but also unwaxed female Zoomers.If, more than a full face, you find a budding Tropical forest peeping from a mustachioed mouth on a Zoom grid, it’s confusing whether it is a Lollita’s unwaxed upper lip or Lamba ji’s unkempt crop.The curious case of Pandemic’s ‘Pammi Aunty’ cross-dressing syndrome.Trading PlacesWith most kabaadi-wallahs migrating to villages – Malda to Muradabad – yet another thing which has had its stock piling is Lockdown’s ‘raddi’ (newspaper junk).If Lollita was wondering when there’s no kabaadi-wallah in sight, where in the world is the raddi stock vanishing, she needn’t look far. Loo and behold, all she needs is to look in the bathroom.The loo is the haven where Lockdown’s Lamba ji & Co pursue prolonged poring over pages – sports supplements to Page Three. It is while performing excretory functions that Lamba jis & Lally jis also perform discreet-ory functions – of casting the glad eye upon cleavages and calves of the Kareenas or Serenas, or the unmasked ‘assets’ of the Rheas. Upon sighting the stock of newsprint stashed away in the bath, Lollita’s inquisition of Lamba ji across the loo door proceeds thus:“Where on earth is that stock pile of raddi?”“It’s crashed?” Lamba ji blabbers from the innards of the loo, suffering selective hearing, immersed as he is partially in matutinal ablutions and partly in the newspaper’s stock update “What changed for the market while you were sleeping”. “Crashed?” Lollita gasps nonplussed like a Cat who when scouting for fish is told they’re to be found up a tree. “Where?”“Wall ...,” Lamba ji’s prattle is paused by pressing bowel action and the levitating lexicon is released post his abdominal release, “… Street!” “The stock pile crashed into the wall?” Lollita by now is beginning to sound as befuddled as a Cat who’s not only being misinformed the fish are up a tree, but also that the fish are swimming aloft in the air.“What did the kabaadi-wallah say about coming back?” Lollita persists.“T...,” by now Lamba ji has progressed from the Shapoorji Pallonji shares’ selloff to goggling at Page Three’s tinsel town tits. Aloud he only dares to deliver a staccato, “T … T ... Tata.”“Tata?” Lollita looks even more flummoxed. “The kabaadi-wallah said ‘Tata’??!!!”The curious case of certain stocks meeting their water loo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-for-whom-the-closing-bell-tolls/story-PFl7QC42HJRzvCjcQyptHM.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Glides on moonbeams||Accomplished wildlife photographers will tell you that the pursuit of a rare, nocturnal species can be the proverbial cast of dice. Such adventurers set out to godforsaken spots at obscure hours, their hearts set on a digital hunt of a target species. They return with quite not an empty bag! It so happened with Rajive Das, a Chandigarh-based Defence Research and Development Organisation scientist, bird photographer and author of the book, Birds of Chandigarh & its Periphery. At 4 am, Das was travelling on the road to Narkanda to get a photo of the Tawny owl, which is believed not to exist outside Kashmir. But Das had earlier photographed a Tawny from the Narkanda forests and he was hoping to hear their calls and secure another photograph. It was not to be because the owls were silent that night. But he got something else, which foxed him. Two mammals were on a roadside cliff 20 km short of Narkanda (altitude 2,400 m). “I guessed they were flying squirrels but it was difficult to establish the precise species,” Das told this writer. Flying squirrels prove difficult to identify because they lead secretive and nocturnal lives, are inadequately researched and surveyed, and fewer photographs exist for comparison.To facilitate identification and put at ease a confounded Das, I sought the guidance of an assistant professor at the Amity Institute of Forestry & Wildlife, Dr. Murali Krishna Chatakonda. He is a distinguished field researcher who has conducted studies on flying squirrels in the north-east and Great Himalayan National Park (GHNP), Kullu. Chatakonda is the first to publish a PhD dissertation on the ecology and diversity of flying squirrels, thus shedding some light on the bypassed lives of Nature’s startling and wondrous manifestations. Unlike familiar garden squirrels, flying squirrels dwell beyond the pale of human imagination. Upon a considered examination of Das’s nighttime pictures, Chatakonda identified them as Kashmir Gliding squirrels (Eoglaucomys fimbriatus).India harbours an estimated 18 species of flying/gliding squirrels, of which two – Red Giant Gliding squirrel & Kashmir Gliding squirrel (KGS) – are found in the western Himalayas. Gliding is an evolutionary mechanism that allows squirrels to evade predators like civets and save energy by “long skipping” between trees rather than climb down and go up another tree. Gliding squirrels are largely nocturnal to avoid competition in foraging with daytime species.“These squirrels do not fly, which is basically achieved by birds who flap their wings for locomotion. These are more accurately squirrels that glide in the air. They have an extended skin flap between their fore and hind legs and another flap between hind legs and a long, flat tail. These skin flaps are like parachutes, the more the squirrel opens them, the greater the distance of glide achieved between trees. The tail lends stability and acts as a rudder to steer and change glide direction. When the squirrel has to glide between two trees, it judges wind speed and direction, elevation differential, height difference between trees. I have observed the KGS glide 10 to 15 m in the GHNP. Some species recorded glides of 180 to 200 m!” Chatakonda told this writer.“Researchers find it difficult to secure funds from government and non-government agencies to study squirrels because preference is to allocate funds for glamorous and popular species such as tigers/rhinos. Researching gliding squirrels in the field is a very tedious exercise as it has to be undertaken at night and by craning the neck towards the canopy (30-40 m) where squirrels dwell. Gliding squirrels are a prey base for raptors and act as seed dispersers as well as seed crushers. They eat fruits and the KGS is known to relish pine needles/seeds,” said Chatakonda. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-glides-on-moonbeams/story-rnHvy3BWBi88upLVopMddO.html
26-09-2020||City||Ban on political gatherings: No action taken against Haryana agri minister for campaigning in Baroda constituency||The Sonepat district administration has failed to take any action against Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal for violating a ban on political gatherings amid the Covid-19 pandemic as he continues to campaign in Baroda constituency of the district.On Saturday, the minister again violated the administrative orders by holding meetings in villages of the constituency. He announced establishment of an industrial model township (IMT), a rice mill, a university and ₹ 65 crore for development project works in the constituency till now. The dates for the Baroda bypolls are yet to be announced by the election commission. The seat has been vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda.Speaking at the event, Dalal said his government has announced many development projects for Baroda before the declaration of the poll dates. “We are committed to develop Baroda constituency and urge people to elect our nominee in this election,” he said.On Friday, the police had booked 90 sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) for allegedly obstructing work of the agriculture minister during his visit to Mundlana village in Baroda.The PTIs were booked after they had shown black flags to Dalal during his visit to a community health centre. The protesters said the minister had claimed that a group of 10 people had tried to stop his cavalcade. The police have, however, booked 90 people for obstructing his work during the visit.Congress Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhary also slammed the district administration and the state government for failing to implement the ban on political gatherings in Baroda. “The government had booked farmers for organising the Pipli rally due to Covid-19 whereas it has failed to register an FIR against its agriculture minister and other leaders, who have been flouting the safety norms amid the pandemic by organising village-level meetings and putting lives at risk,” she said.Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia and Gohana sub-divisional magistrate Ashish Kumar, who was appointed the nodal officer to implement a ban, could not be reached for a comment despite repeated attempts.The DC had announced a ban on political gatherings on Monday after Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepinder Hooda was found infected with the virus. He had addressed poll rallies in various parts of the constituency. Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, agricultural minister JP Dalal, power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala, Gohana MLA Jagbir Malik and a few others politicians had also addressed village-level gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ban-on-political-gatherings-no-action-taken-against-haryana-agri-minister-for-campaigning-in-baroda-constituency/story-Wh4sSD1xqIgsNpLlEyYKtL.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: How the cookie crumbles yet again in Covid times||The mind plays games all the time but the mind games that happened to the inhabitants of planet earth when a little virus believed to be resting quietly in the ugly little creature called a bat, somehow exploded in the open. Now this was not something the 21st century humans surrounded by gadgets were ready for. Of course, the people of this century loved gadgets more than anything else and in social gatherings one found people glued to their phones even as they sat together in a common parlour once in a while. Also, people had stopped visiting homes of friends, relatives and neighbours in the last quarter of the past century when the television found a place of pride in almost every home. Then came the home theatre and it all settled down to that little phone always in hand and always at one’s command.This is how a young man found himself in November 2019 traversing between heaven and hell: “Location: Celestial Parlour Place: Heaven Time: Immemorial HE is a very fine host with impeccable social etiquette. Both of us are enjoying a rich, full-bodied Chateau Mouton Rothschild, a delightful Bordeaux Red from the Garden of Paradise in the Medoc region of France, in a classy Baccarat Crystal Red Wine stemmed glassware. I tell you, this chap GOD, is a fellow of charming taste and enchanting pedigree. It was a chilled evening in November 2019, dusk was setting in after the sun had played its share of hide-n-seek”. This is how Pratip Majumdar’s story, The Cookie Crumbled Yet Again, began. However, there is no peace for him there as the phone, we will leave out the brand and its merger etcetera, keeps ringing.The caller is none other than Satan, made by God, and addressed in holy books with so many names as Lucifer Leviathan, Apollyon and Devil. Thus between Heaven and hell travels this telling story which is a part of a collection of tales of these times that we are living through, co-edited by city writer and academic Manju Jaidka and Nilak Datta: Covid Metamorphosis. It is indeed an engaging volume which has been lauded by critics as a brilliantly edited world of writing across continents, genres, economic strata as the writers explore the inner and outer worlds.The editors Jaidka and Datta, taking the cue from Ovid’s Metamorphoses, an 8 AD Latin narrative poem by the Roman poet Ovid, bring us the Covid Metamorphosis, capturing vignettes from human life as the world changes almost overnight. They say: “As the global pandemic surges and brings us to our knees, old enmities are forgotten and stale friendships are reforged as we struggle to cope with the changing world of work, life, and leisure. Such a scenario has inspired the present collection of stories.”Call me Rahman by Mahesh Sharma is indeed a gratifying story of a young man, Rohan, pursuing his English Honours in Hyderabad. He has to abruptly leave the city to go home and is trying to make sense of the strange new corona times and with his idiosyncratic young mind plays word games in his mind: “Covid, avoid… Covid, Ovid…; Corona, daro na..., maro na, karo na…” A Hindu Marwari, he is a little uncomfortable in the 3rd Class Sleeper with no reservation and so many Muslims around. He is hesitant to accept a woman’s offer for the top birth as her son Rahman could not come. Compelled by circumstance he takes the berth, only to be told by Fatima Bibi that her son could not travel as Corona snatched him away: And in his head words dance again: “Rahman… Mahmaan… Rohan… Rahman!” When the train reaches his destination, Rohan sees his friend waving out to him and calling him “Rohan…Rohan”! And Rohan replies, “Call me Rahman!” as he starts the game in his mind of associating words: “ Rahman… Insaan… Hindustan.” Enthusiastically he yells, “Main Rahman hoon, Main Insaan hoon, kyuki me bhi Hindustan hoon… Main Rahman hoon.”Jaidka herself pens a poignant story on the worst tragedies that we have witnessed in the exodus of the migrant labour on foot in the Lockdown times. Called How May Miles to Lakhimpur, the story weaves its way with the labourers walking home following the railway line. Little Asha walks exhausted with her parents Parvati and Shankar, holding her rag doll: “The rag doll, limp and sodden with grime and sweat, certainly seemed to give up the ghost. “She’s going to die,” repeated the three-year-old and the words fell on Shankar like the blow of a hammer. There was an ominous ring about them. “Don’t worry, beta, we’ll get you another pretty doll, better than this.” The next day we all saw a blurred picture of the rag doll and a few rotis scattered on the railway line in the newspapers!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-how-the-cookie-crumbles-yet-again-in-covid-times/story-N4dgzWlGyqnvp4diuQCAzI.html
26-09-2020||City||Cops used expired tear gas shells on protesters in Charkhi Dadri: Sacked PTIs||Sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) on Saturday alleged that the Haryana police had used expired tear gas shells to disperse some of them protesting against deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala in Charkhi Dadri district.Police have denied the allegations. However, the protesters had clicked photographs of the tear gas shells used on them on Friday. The police had also resorted to lathicharge and using water cannons to stop protesters from crossing the barricades outside the PWD rest house where the deputy CM was to attend a programme. The PTIs had taken out the protest march along with Khap representatives and other social activists. Sajjan Sanwar, the district president of sacked PTIs, said the police had used tear gas shells which had expired in September 2016. “Used expired tear gas shells are prohibited under the law. Many protesters had faced problems and three of our PTIs were discharged from the hospital on Saturday,” he added. However, superintendent of police Vinod Kumar said that the expired tear gas shells do not work and they were not used on the protesters. “We had used tear gas shells after some protesters tried to cross the barricade outside the PWD rest house. However, they were not expired shells,” he said. Earlier, the SP had said that they had used water cannons and lathicharge to disperse the protesters.Alleging that the government had taken away their employment due to the fault of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), the physical training instructors (PTIs) have been demanding an Ordinance to reappoint them.The Supreme Court had set aside the recruitment of 1,983 PTIs, made in 2010 by the then Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government, after some irregularities were found in the recruitment process. On August 23 this year, the HSSC had conducted a fresh recruitment exam for about 7,500 candidates, who had applied against the vacancies in 2006. Most PTIs had boycotted the fresh exam that was conducted over a decade after the posts were first advertised.The agitating PTIs have been demanding that the government should not declare the result of the fresh recruitment exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-used-expired-tear-gas-shells-on-protesters-in-charkhi-dadri-sacked-ptis/story-wMrsnUXM8G5JSDXRVqu3XO.html
26-09-2020||City||Paddy procurement to commence in Haryana from Sept 27||The procurement of paddy will start from September 27 in Haryana, officials said on Sunday.The Centre has announced commencement of paddy procurement at the minimum support price (MSP) with immediate effect in Punjab and Haryana in the wake of early arrival of the kharif crop in these two states. Otherwise, paddy procurement for the 2020-21 kharif (summer) marketing season was scheduled to begin from October 1 in all the key growing states, it said.Additional chief secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, PK Das, said the ‘PR-126’ variety of paddy has been harvested by farmers in four districts of Karnal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Kaithal. Farmers of these districts have brought their crops to the mandis. “The procurement has been advanced and the government agencies will procure the paddy from the mandis of these four districts on September 27 and 28. From September 29, procurement will start in all mandis of the state and the schedule will be prepared as per the registration of farmers on Meri Fasal Mera Byora (MFMB) portal,” the ACS said.From this year, the ACS said, the farmers will have to register themselves on the Meri-Fasal Mera Byora portal. Arrangements have also been made for on the spot registration in the mandis. He said arrangements are being made with the rice-millers for procurement of paddy that has already arrived in the mandis of the four districts. The ACS said e-Kharid portal will also start from September 29 and scheduling for the same will also be done. A senior official said the state government has also made arrangements of direct payment to farmers. He said the farmers can choose if they want the payment through arhtiya or directly in their own account.The official said this year the government is expecting to procure 58 lakh Metric Tonnes paddy against 64 lakh MT last year, following a fall in the acreage under paddy. Of the total procurement, 40%, will be done by Hafed and food and supplies department of the Haryana government, 15% by Haryana state warehousing corporation and 5% directly by the food corporation of India. The government has also decided to make its own arrangements for the transportation of the procured paddy from the mandi to the rice mill to bring more transparency. “Earlier, the rice millers used to make transportation arrangements for procured paddy but from this year the government will transport the paddy from mandi to mill to bring transparency in the process,” the official said. He said decision was taken after complaints of fake procurement. Centre approves Price Support Scheme for MoongThe Centre has approved implementation of the Price Support Scheme (PSS) for procurement of about 5,825 MT of Moong in Haryana for this Kharif season. As per the approval the procurement period will be for 90 days which will start with effect from October 1. The central nodal agency will verify the availability of scientific storage space, as per PSS guideline, arranged by the Haryana government within normal limits from the procurement centres and procurements will be limited as per the confirmed availability of scientific storage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paddy-procurement-to-commence-in-haryana-from-sept-27/story-s0sgYRZgLvkNjI4qYEpJHM.html
26-09-2020||City||Congress leaders misleading farmers: Haryana agri minister||Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal on Saturday accused the Congress leaders of misleading farmers on the agriculture legislations passed in the Parliament.Dalal said the Congress was using the farmers and spreading false information to instigate protests. He said the farmers are busy in their fields but it is the Congress which is leading the protests against the bills.He also alleged that the Congress was responsible for the plight of farmers and that it always supported the middleman and exploiters. “Despite ruling the country for several decades, the Congress did not do anything for the welfare and betterment of farmers,” he said.On whether the farmer protests will have any impact on the Baroda bypoll, Dalal said the people of Baroda are aware of everything and will vote for the BJP to ensure their share in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-leaders-misleading-farmers-haryana-agri-minister/story-cmpm3b1oiFgjZEbkup08iJ.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farm bills row: Haryana Congress to submit memorandum to governor on Sept 28||The Haryana Congress will submit a memorandum to governor SD Arya on September 28 seeking revocation of the three farm bills passed by the Parliament. In-charge of party affairs in Haryana, Vivek Bansal, who held a meeting of senior state leaders on Saturday here said a party delegation will stage a protest walk from the Congress office in Sector 9 to Haryana Raj Bhawan to submit the memorandum to the governor on September 28. “Besides, the party will observe Kisan Mazdoor Bachao Day on October 2 at all district headquarters and in assembly constituencies. A state-level kisan sammelan will also be held on October 10 and a signature campaign against these “black laws” will be held from October 2 to 31,” Bansal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-bills-row-haryana-congress-to-submit-memorandum-to-governor-on-sept-28/story-uh4zonYszdH5PHxRUKrDpN.html
26-09-2020||City||Ludhiana woman killed in hit and run||A 20-year-old woman was killed in a hit and run incident after an over-speeding vehicle ran over her when she was crossing the road near Jassiyan cut on Thursday night. The victim has been identified as Kajal of Kesri Enclave, Jassiyan road. According to the onlookers, the woman was crossing a road near Jassiyan cut on Thursday night at around 9pm to reach Basti Jodhewal when an unidentified over-speeding vehicle hit her. The passers-by rushed her to the ESIC Hospital, where she succumbed to the injuries a day after the incident took place. Gurjant Singh, the father of the victim, is a labourer. He stated that due to the family’s poor financial condition, Kajal, the eldest of his three daughters, had discontinued her studies after Class 12 and started working to support her family. For the past few months, she had been working at a petrol pump. ASI Prem Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR, under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had been lodged against the unidentified driver at Salem Tabri police station. The police have been trying to trace the vehicle, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-killed-in-hit-and-run/story-LjJ90yYyoNlA9NFR9jiKrO.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||World Tourism Day 2020: Delhiites, how about a picnic ’90s style?||Covid-19 has changed our lifestyle, and travelling preferences, too. Delhiites who used to visit hill stations on weekends, in pre-lockdown times, have turned to Dilli darshan, where they can opt for a picnic like old times. Many are visiting popular monuments, parks and other open places in Delhi, and discovering their new found love for them. On the eve of World Tourism Day (September 27) Delhiites share about their recently explored picnic spots in the city.“We can’t travel to places far away from home because of Covid-19. So, we decided to do go around the city. I went with my husband, son and mother-in-law to Humayun’s and Qutub Minar recently, over the weekend,” says Madhu Goyal, a resident of Shahdara. She adds, “These places are usually not much crowded and therefore it’s easy to maintain social distancing here. Plus it was fun to know our heritage. For hygiene concern we kept some chips and fruits, and avoided eating anything from outside. My son loved it, and is already asking where we will go next.” Many Delhiites have taken to visiting monuments, and this in turn is helping boost local tourism as well. Mani Maheshwari, a resident of Lakshmi Nagar, who whom the Capital holds a very special place in her heart, says it’s only now that she’s getting to explore it in a different light. “I’ve been living here for the past 10 years and Delhi is very close to my heart. This city has given me a good career and amazing friends, and I love its beauty and serenity. But never thought that instead of heading to Himachal Pradesh or Uttarakhand for a weekend outing I would be visiting the monuments, gardens and other popular places here,” says Maheshwari, adding, “I got so used to travelling to hill stations that I even started celebrating birthdays over there. This year, since #WFH due to coronavirus has made us hell bored, we decided to spend some time at Qutub Minar. And when we extended the visit to the dargah in Mehrauli, it was such as beautiful experience. It’s architecture is amazing. It’s a shame that I never of visiting it before! It was a nice picnic.”And when talking about picnics in Delhi, how can the one and only India Gate be missed! Sanjana Tikku, a college student and resident of Kamla Nagar, says, “We made a list of things to keep in bag, and shared it on our family WhatsApp group. When venturing out, it’s important to not forget to take precautions. We even took some games along, and it was such a fun-filled time. My dad loved it, and got reminded of his college days when he used to visit the tombs with his friends to study in peace; he found this as an opportunity to relive old memories. We spent some time at India Gate and then went to Jantar Mantar as well... watta evening!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/world-tourism-day-2020-delhiites-how-about-a-picnic-90s-style/story-5WRgFFlE2wXKtdp72cDv8M.html
26-09-2020||City||Ludhiana MC kicks off drive to clean major roads in city||Ahead of the festival season, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) on Saturday started a cleanliness drive at 34 major roads in the city.As per MC officials, similar drives would be conducted on the weekends as the civic body also aims to improve its ranking in the Swachh Survekshan-2021.Apart from the roads, green belts in the city would be cleaned as well. Rubble dumped on the roadsides would also be cleared, the officials said.The special drive was flagged off by mayor Balkar Sandhu, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, councillor Mamta Ashu and joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh near the bus stand.“The MC is already working to repair the city roads and the sanitisation staff has been told to apprise the senior officials if any more repairs are needed at any of the roads. The aim of the drive is to give the city a cleaner look,” said the mayor.Civic officials informed that cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had also directed the MC to conduct a cleanliness drive in the city.MC chief Pardeep Sabharwal said, “After covering the 34 main roads of the city, we will take the drive to the internal areas and national highways. I will keep inspecting the work frequently. The green belts would also be cleaned.”The MC is also working to streamline solid waste management in the city, the MC chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-kicks-off-drive-to-clean-major-roads-in-city/story-hcEfuBo4vDr61F7iuSSXRM.html
26-09-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Grand Alliance’s seat-sharing deal in final stages; RJD decides to contest 150||With the announcement of the three-phase assembly polls in Bihar, the Grand Alliance (GA) - comprising RJD, Congress, Left parties and smaller allies - is now inching closer to finalising a seat-sharing deal with talks now veering on seat-to-seat adjustment among the partners.A formal announcement is likely to be made in the next few days before the nomination process for the first phase of polls begins on October 1. Sources said the RJD leadership is holding talks with the allies including Congress and has broadly reached a consensus on contesting 150 seats alone. The party has decided to offer 60 seats to the Congress.This means, together, the RJD-Congress would contest 210 seats. The RJD is keen to allot around 20-25 seats to Left parties comprising the CPI-ML(liberation), CPI and CPM while the Vikasheel Insaan Party (VIP), led by Mukesh Sahni, would be allotted eight to ten seats. Insiders in the GA said the ML, which had threatened of not siding with the GA for being offered only seven seats, is expected to get 12-15 seats while the CPI and the CPM may have to be contented with five seats each.Also read: High stakes for Grand Alliance in Bihar, win could have national implications“The seat-sharing arrangement is almost final. There are certain hitches on a few seats among allies. It will be worked out soon and a formal announcement would be made in the next few days,” said a senior RJD leader. The new formula has been worked out after the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party(RLSP) led by former union minister Upendra Kushwaha indicated of leaving the coalition, a source said.However, top sources in state Congress said a decision on the seat-sharing arrangement with the RJD would be finalised by the party’s high command after the three-member screening committee for Bihar polls, led by AICC general secretary Avinash Pande who came on a two-day visit to the state on Saturday, submits its report on eligible candidates for all 243 seats to Bihar-in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil in the next few days. Pande is also chairman of the Congress screening committee for Bihar polls.“Once the screening committee submits its report, on eligible candidates after holding discussions with state leaders, to the Congress top leadership, a final decision on seat-sharing would be taken by party president Sonia Gandhi,” said a senior Congress leader, wishing not to be quoted.There are reports that leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is likely to hold talks with senior Congress leaders in New Delhi in next few days for wrapping up the seat-sharing deal. However, there is still a question mark on whether the Congress would settle for 60 seats or insist on more seats as the senior party leaders have been insistent on contesting at least 70-80 seats in alliance with the RJD in the coming polls. In the 2015 assembly polls, the Congress had contested 41 seats of which it won 27.Sources in the Congress also said the party is keen on increasing its representation in 17 districts where the grand old party had not fought in the 2015 assembly polls and is negotiating hard with the RJD to get more winnable seats, especially in West Champaran, Darbhanga, Madhubani and Patna.There are reports that the RJD has offered certain seats to the Congress where the party has a negligible base like Sheohar, Chanpatia and Bagaha (West Champaran), Belsand in Sitamarhi, Kalyanpur in Samastipur and four seats in Patna district namely Kumhrar, Digha, Bankipore and Patna Saheb.” All these seats are constituencies where the RJD lost in the last several elections and is offering them to the Congress. This will not be acceptable. We want seats where chances of winning are high,” said a senior Congress leader, wishing not to be quoted.However, state RJD president Jagdanand Singh exuded confidence that the seat-sharing arrangement in the GA would be formalised soon. “ There is no problem in the seat-sharing arrangement in the GA and things are moving in the right direction,” he said. Singh also claimed that the GA was all set to put up a united front in the coming polls against the BJP-JD(U). He wondered why was there so much of delay in the seat-sharing deal in the NDA.“Talks are progressing positively,” said Harku Jha, state Congress spokesperson when reached for comments on hitches in the seat-sharing deal between the RJD and the Congress.Meanwhile, the left parties, especially the ML, the CPI and the CPM, claimed the talks were still on with the RJD on seat adjustment, insisting they were hopeful of getting a respectable share of seats.“There is a forward movement in seat talks,” said ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya. He did not comment on whether his party had been offered 12-15 seats in the latest round of talks.CPM’s state secretary Awadesh Singh said things would be clear in next few days. “Our aim is to defeat the NDA. We want the RJD to respect our party’s base in terms of seat allotment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-grand-alliance-s-seat-sharing-deal-in-final-stages-rjd-decides-to-contest-150/story-210VSAP0mVCtsGOPbbmXJN.html
26-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Scribe asks protestors to make way for female police constable, gets beaten||The police, on Friday night, booked four persons for allegedly thrashing a scribe on his asking them to make way for a female police constable during a protest staged by them against the farm ordinances. The accused have been identified as Jassi of Bhamma Kalan, Sunny of Bhamma Khurd, Sony of Punia village, and Lovely of Khokhran village. Complainant Nirmal Singh, who is a scribe with a web channel, stated that he was covering the farmers’ protest near Hadiyan Malwa village. He stated that when the protesters were winding up in the evening, a female police constable, trying to cross the area, requested him to help her find her way to Machhiwara. Singh alleged that when he requested the protestors to make way for her, they started abusing him and thrashed him before fleeing. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harmesh Lal, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR, under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341(punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), had been lodged against the accused at the Koom Kalan police station. A hunt is on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-scribe-asks-protestors-to-make-way-for-female-police-officer-gets-beaten/story-rRWogNEQaETpXOwW2qBmKO.html
26-09-2020||City||Ajitpal Singh is DM sports for Ludhiana||The state education department has deputed district mentors (DMs) (sports) to raise the standard of sports in schools across districts under the ‘Khedo Punjab, Tandrust Punjab’ project. Ajit Pal Singh, a physical education teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar, has been appointed as the district mentor for Ludhiana.The mentor will ensure that talent hunts and annual athletic meets are organised in all schools after they reopen. He will monitor the sports activities held online and give suggestions to the sports teachers.Singh will also hold seminars and training sessions for the physical education teachers to plan various sports activities for students. Very few sports activities were conducted for students in the past five months owing to the shutdown of schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ajitpal-singh-is-dm-sports-for-ludhiana/story-FsHXnsRJiDW1DAyasBrFFP.html
26-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Two MBA students of PCTE bag top university positions||The MBA students of PCTE Group of Institutes here have brought laurels to the college by making it to the merit list of Punjab Technical University (PTU) examination.In the recently declared results of Punjab Technical University examination, Chetan Jain and Nikita Gupta of MBA (batch 2019) bagged the first and third positions with 9.57 and 9 SGPA respectively.Topper Chetan Jain said, “I am overwhelmed by securing the university position. My hard work and teachers’ guidance paid off. I thank all my mentors for their continuous motivation and efforts. I will continue with the same dedication to excel in the future as well.”The third position holder, Nikita Gupta, said “I am grateful to almighty, my parents and PCTE faculty for all the support and blessings. It is because of them that my hard work materialised into success. I can’t express my happiness.”Campus 1 director Gautam Bansal said, “All the position holders had put in a lot of effort and were totally dedicated to their studies which ultimately helped them secure university positions. He added that the students have always performed well and gave his best wishes to them.Congratulated the students, PCTE director general KNS Kang said, “Our students not only performed well academically but also excelled in extracurricular activities on campus and achieved overall development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-two-mba-students-of-pcte-bag-top-university-positions/story-lED1SvIsw9tUDPDqNMg4RK.html
26-09-2020||City||Faridkot hospital staff took 3 hours to start treatment of Abohar professor, finds inquiry||Faridkot A probe into the death of an Abohar associate professor, Parwinder Singh Kamboj, 46, at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) in Faridkot on July 23 has found that medical staff were negligent and there was a delay of three hours in starting treatment. Kamboj had been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital as a suspected covid-19 patient, but his samples tested negative a day after death. His wife Neeta Pandhu Kamboj had alleged negligence.Faridkot regional transport authority (RTA) secretary Paramdeep Singh Khaira conducted the investigation and has submitted an 84-page report to deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia. “It has been found that despite Abohar civil hospital doctors referring Kamboj when his blood oxygen saturation was 88%, which is considered low, he was not put on oxygen support. Medical staff on duty wasted three hours, demanding the patient’s file and a covid test report. They also misbehaved with family members,” the report says.It adds, “If immediate treatment would have been given to Kamboj, after making the file under emergency file management, the outcome could have been different. The patient was not handled properly in the emergency. CCTV footage shows Kamboj reaching the hospital at 5.52pm, but the first entry of the treatment has been recorded at 8.45pm in his file. This shows how poor the GGSMCH was handling the patient.”He added that there is shortage of staff and medicines at GGSMCH, which has been confirmed by statements of medical staff. “Another 45-year-old covid patient was killed after falling into a shaft meant for drainage and water pipes in a new building of the hospital. Authorities should have done a proper safety survey. The incident shows that there is shortage of ward attendants as well, as the patient went to bathroom on his own,” he added. ‘Cleanliness not maintained’“Cleanliness has not been maintained. Even the light in the room in which Kamboj was kept was not working. The medical staff has admitted to this. The lack of cleanliness in covid-19 wards and poor arrangement for biomedical waste disposal shows irresponsible GGSMCH authorities have been,” Khaira adds. Khaira also noted that the GGMCH’s then medical superintendent Dr Rajiv Joshi and then principal Dr Deepak John Bhatti neglected their duties. However, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), under whose command the hospital operates, shunted them out last month.In the report, Khaira recommends that junior doctors, assigned duties in covid wards, should take psychiatric training to improve their behaviour towards patients and their families. “Serious patients should be provided immediate treatment without demanding any file and a special cell for covid should be formed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-hospital-staff-took-3-hours-to-start-treatment-of-abohar-professor-finds-inquiry/story-G3lhFvlVzCW2B0bfW1G71N.html
26-09-2020||City||JEE (Advanced) tomorrow: Safety arrangements in place as 373 set to take exam at Ludhiana centre||As many as 373 candidates will be appearing for the Joint Entrance Exam (Advanced) at the TCS ION digital zone, the only centre in Ludhiana, on Sunday. In Punjab, the other centres have been set up at Amritsar, Mohali, Patiala, Jalandhar and Bathinda. Clearing this exam is a pre-requisite for admission to Indian Institutes of Technology across the country. At the centre in Ludhiana, authorities have put in place several measures to ensure the safety of students amid the pandemic. For starters, the authorities will not be putting up the seating plan on the notice board. This information will be given to students when they get their admit cards scanned before entry. The move has been taken to avoid any sort of crowding. Besides, authorities have already sent details, such as the time when students are expected to reach the centre, through an SMS in advance. In view of the pandemic, authorities have also done away with biometric verification of candidates. Students will undergo thermal scanning at the entrance. If the body temperature is above normal (37.5 °C/99.4 F) or if the candidate displays any Covid-19 symptom, he or she will be seated in an isolation room to take the paper. The exam will be held in two slots—Paper 1 will be from 9am to 12noon while Paper 2 will be from 2.30pm to 5.30pm. Before, the second shift begins, the computers, mouse, desk, chair, keyboard will be sanitised. As per the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi’s instructions, a candidate will be allowed to carry a mask, gloves, transparent water bottle, a small hand sanitiser and exam-related documents (admit card/lD card). Gurpreet Singh, owner of the TCS ION Digital zone, said, “We are fully prepared to conduct the exam and all arrangements have been made according to the standard operating procedure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-advanced-tomorrow-students-to-be-sent-seating-entry-timings-via-sm/story-K9Dda4oFbosiYMl4eFSqoN.html
26-09-2020||Pune||Police officer assaulted in Hinjewadi||An assistant police inspector (API) attached to the Hinjewadi traffic division was physically assaulted by two persons travelling in a car, inside the traffic division premises. The accused have been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and have been identified as Santosh Shankar Manjulkar (41), a resident of Pashangaon, and Udram Daglaram Ghachi (38), a resident of Balewadi. The victim, API Umesh Londhe, in his complaint, stated that while on duty, he took action against the driver of the car, MH 14 CS 1554. The accused then drove to the traffic division office in Hinjewadi and abused and assaulted API Londhe in the presence of other police personnel. PSI Nandraj Gabhale, the investigating officer in the case , said, “API Londhe took action against the private car under the Motor Vehicle Act for violation of traffic rules, which angered the accused. They came inside the division and engaged in unlawful behaviour. Both of them have been arrested in connection.” A case has been registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of duty); 352 (punishment for assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation ); 323 ( punishment for voluntarily causing hurt ); 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace ); 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation); and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-officer-assaulted-in-hinjewadi/story-lUVwtRjFfidLL49pAPXJkI.html
26-09-2020||Pune||SPB’s humility and kindness are after-tones that will live forever in Pune||Pune relationship with playback singer Sripathi Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam (74), also known as SP Balu or SPB, are tinged with memories of the 16th annual Pune International Film Festival in 2018. The vocal legend, who died of a cardio-respiratory arrest on September 25 at 1.04pm in Chennai, was positive for Covid-19. He was awarded the prestigious the SD Burman International Award for Creative Music and Sound at the Pune film festival. Aditi Akkalkotkar, deputy director, coordination and communication, PIFF, recalls her interaction with the music director, actor, dubbing artist and film producer, who worked in Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Hindi, and Malayalam films. “I have the sweetest memory of SP Balasubrahmanyam during 16th PIFF 2018. I was awestruck meeting him in person, but he was one of the most down-to-earth persons. I told him of me being his biggest fan and he surprised me by singing lines from the songs ‘Pushpanjali ‘ and ‘ Saathiya Tune Kya Kiya’. I shall always remember his soulful voice,” Akkalkotkar said. Pune -based music composer and playback singer, Harsshit Abhiraj, collaborated with SPB on his first Marathi album ‘Nishigandha’ in 2009. “We worked on this project for a radio channel in Marathi for which I had composed the music for Dr Balu for his first Marathi album. It was a learning experience, for he is an institution in himself. Producer and director Shantivan Todkar introduced us and all the songs were written by Ilahi Jamadar, the ghazal lyricist. This album was of Marathi bhavgeet in the ghazal format. Dr Balu’s manner with new people was very gentle and kind and he included us as part of his large family. He was also well-read and knew a great deal about Marathi literature. His favourite was GD Madgulkar and Sant Tukaram,” said Harsshit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/spb-s-humility-and-kindness-are-after-tones-that-will-live-forever-in-pune/story-KpxFcqqNods4LK3epPIibP.html
26-09-2020||Pune||SPPU to begin ‘Maratha Kingdom’ study and research centre in Pune||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to start an independent ‘Maratha kingdom’ study and research centre, through which a detailed study of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and other Maratha kings will be undertaken at the university. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “On Thursday, the SPPU’s management council meeting was held, and I tabled a proposal to start an independent centre for research and study of the Maratha kingdom at SPPU. This proposal was supported and sanctioned by all the management council members. Accordingly, financial aid has also been given to start this centre.” According to Karmalkar, there is a need for an extensive study about the Maratha kingdom, the kings who ruled Maharashtra and all other aspects of the kingdom. “There are thousands of documents in ‘Modi lipi’ which are still untouched and not yet read. So, to study and research in-depth about Maratha kingdom this centre has now been started by SPPU,” added Karmalkar. Talking about starting this new centre, city-based senior historian Pandurang Balkawade who is also a selected member on SPPU’s academic council, said, “If we look at the history for more than 200 years, the Maratha kings after Shivaji Maharaj have ruled. There are five crore Modi lipi documents available about this glorious history of Marathas. And so, starting such a centre for its study and research is an important step. I hope that other universities in the state will also start such a centre as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-to-begin-maratha-kingdom-study-and-research-centre-in-pune/story-8MSrEw3CH4EqcLJmZoSYIJ.html
26-09-2020||Pune||Applicants fail to reach on time for licence tests, crowd at Pune RTO later||Despite the Regional Transport Office (RTO) introducing learning licence tests at 7.30 am onwards, applicants not coming according to given slots has resulted in a huge rush at the RTO premises in Alandi.In a bid to reduce crowds and ensure proper social distancing, the RTO authorities had announced that from September 21, learning licence tests will be conducted from 7:30am to 6pm.Applicants will be called in seven different slots, 1.5 hours each, with 100 applicants per slot.Each day a total of 700 learning licence tests are to be conducted.Earlier, tests were conducted from 10am to 6pm.“I had got a time slot of 9am on September 23, but I was not able to reach on time. So, the test was conducted later in the day,” said Harshad Bansod, a student.“There was a lot of crowd at the department and it took more than three hours to complete the process. This new system of giving time slots to applicants cannot work as there can be an emergency during this pandemic situation. The RTO should give an appointment and fix a date and allow applicants to come and give the test anytime during the day,” he said.“This decision was taken in good intention but doesn’t seem to be working as the crowd has increased rather than reducing. Especially after lunchtime there is more crowd as people from the day’s first slot also come in the afternoon to give the test,” claimed Satosh Harale, RTO activist.“This slot wise timing system should be cancelled and regular tests should be conducted by maintaining proper social distancing,” he said.Ajit Shinde, officer, Pune regional transport, said, “The reason why we started the learning licence test from 7.30 am was to control the crowd, as after the lockdown there was a lot of rush at the RTO.From today (Thursday) onward, we have started separate waiting area for applicants to sit in after appearing for the test. The licence will be issued in another room. By doing so we will be able to check that people follow all the Covid-19 safety norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/applicants-fail-to-reach-on-time-for-licence-tests-crowd-at-pune-rto-later/story-Fe0nMtB1CdFgMUQJbN48GI.html
26-09-2020||Education||Bombay HC refuses to interfere with final-year University of Mumbai exams||The Bombay high court on Saturday refused to interfere with the schedule of the online final year examinations of BA, BCom, BSc, and Bachelor of Mass Media courses at the University of Mumbai (MU) from October 1.A bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, however, allowed two petitioners to make a representation to MU vice chancellor for their prayer of postponing the examinations to give enough time to students to prepare for them.The petitioners, Sachin Manwadkar, 43, who is pursuing BA, and Dilip Randive, 53, enrolled for a three-year LLB course, had moved the court seeking a direction to MU to grant at least a month to students to prepare.In support of their demand, the two cited a June 2019 circular issued by MU that mandated colleges to declare examination timetables at least one month in advance.Also Read: Mumbai University final year online exam begins; some colleges face technical glitches, others postpone examsAdvocate Rui Rodrigues, who represented MU, pointed out the circular was applicable to examinations held in physical mode of the first and second years of degree courses. The circular lays down the entire examination schedule for colleges, Rodrigues said.Rodrigues submitted the circular was not applicable to final year examinations. Besides, this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the examinations are being held online and will have only multiple-choice questions.He pointed out regular examinations for the last-year students are scheduled from October 1. The examinations for backlog subjects have started from Friday.The petitioners’ lawyer, advocate Sharon Patole, insisted the university should give proper time to the students to prepare. She said this year, not just the mode, but also the format of the examination has changed and even professors have not been given adequate time to prepare question papers.“Future of the students is at stake; they need time to prepare.”The court refused any relief pointing out that in academic matters, the scope of judicial interference is narrow. “Withdraw the petition and make a representation to the vice-chancellor,” the court said. “If you insist decision on merit that will damage your cause.”Patole agreed to make the representation. The vice-chancellor has been asked to decide on the matter before the examinations begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bombay-hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-final-year-university-of-mumbai-exams/story-cwkbCYuWxKzU3oXBAseZUL.html
26-09-2020||Pune||Plea to release DSK’s grandson’s bungalow moved in MPID court||An application in the name of the six-year-old grandson of jailed Pune-based realtor DS Kulkarni was moved in a special MPID court in Pune on Friday. The plea is to release a bungalow located in the city in the minor’s name that has been seized in a case registered against DSK, over accusations of duping thousands of investors and home buyers. The house is part of the immovable assets attached by the enforcement directorate (ED) of the central government, as well as by the Maharashtra police. The ED has attached assets of DSK and his related companies, worth Rs 904 crore. According to defence lawyers Pratik Rajopadhye and Ashish Patankar, representing the arrested realtor’s son Shirish Kulkarni, who is also lodged in Yerawada central jail, the bungalow in question is a property that is spread across 2,000 square feet on SB road in Pune. “The property was gifted to the minor boy in 2016, one year before the offence was registered. The land was purchased in 1996, whereas the year of the offence registered is 2017,” said advocate Rajopadhye. “The minor applicant may kindly be permitted to occupy, possess and stay in the said residential bungalow,” reads the application. “This is all a fraudulent transaction. A similar application was made in the past (before lockdown). We have already made an application challenging the plea,” said Shivaji Pawar, assistant commissioner of police, who is investigating the case. The minor boy is currently in the care of his mother. Last month, DSK’s daughter passed away due to Covid-19 and he was granted a 13-day bail to attend the last rites. DSK and his wife were arrested from a hotel in Delhi in February 2018 by the Pune police. Subsequently, his son and employees of various DSK Developers Limited (DSKDL) and related companies were arrested in the case registered at Shivajinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/plea-to-release-dsk-s-grandson-s-bungalow-moved-in-mpid-court/story-YY5F1p7vlALOtj3hhzNIjL.html
26-09-2020||City||Himachal police, IIT Mandi sign deal for sharing expertise||Shimla To establish an institutional mechanism for interaction, the Himachal Pradesh Police and the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Mandi signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for research, analysis and technology programmes on Saturday.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who was present at the signing event, said the MoU will help police personnel update their knowledge about new technologies, geographical and temporal analysis of crime and public order, prediction of crime trends, traffic management, e-challaning, beat patrolling system, threat and security analysis, cybercrime, cyber forensics and cyber security. He added that the collaboration would be based on research and development activities and capacity building which would involve police officers, IIT faculty, researchers and students. The CM added that under the agreement, IIT students will be taught about police functioning and will also be offered internships with state police units.He said that this would also facilitate interaction of students with police officers and share knowledge about trends, detection, prediction, analytics and learning about technological matters. Investigation officers will also be able to access technological advancement and its applications in practical policing. “The collaboration will lead to improved police working, especially with respect to systems, protocols, technologies and training imparted at Police Training Centre, Daroh and other units in the state police,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-police-iit-mandi-sign-deal-for-sharing-expertise/story-K7WwI8euivjeJmY1iiWDAJ.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 Unlock: #WFH is now #WFP ie Work From Pub||Bored with #WFH? Fret not, as pubs and bars in Delhi-NCR are offering #WorkFromPub where you can enjoy beers, offers on food, and chill even while you’re working. “Actually one of the guests asked us if he could bring his laptop because he’s just bored at home from the past six months, wants a nice music in the background, and wanted to work here. I said, ‘Why not?’ He was there from 1pm till 10pm, wherein he worked till 7pm, and even watched an IPL match with us. He was so happy after it, and brought more friends along the next day. They work on different tables, and in between work order a mug of beer, and food as well,” says Sandeep Pundir, general manager, Manhattan Bar & Brewery, Gurugram. “We provide guests, who want to work here, with a meal plus beverage deal at a very nominal price during their work hours. Also, to ensure social distancing, we give them separate tables, at a distance. They can bring their laptops and we have a provision of high speed Wi-Fi. They can work for as long as they want to,” says Sahil Sambhi from Molecule. Taking it one step further is restauranteur Priyank Sukhija shares that Dragonfly Experience, Aerocity, Delhi is all set to have special pods. “It’ll have tables which are fully enclosed in a pod. You just go inside and you’re surrounded on all four sides. This one is actually your own cubicle. Each pod can hold about eight to 12 people,” he says.And there are offers, too, to enjoy drinks along work. Priyanshi Dhir, owner, Pablo in Gurugram, says, “We are giving away a one plus one offer on our super delicious coffees from 1pm to 5pm everyday to make sure that you get your daily dose of caffein, just the way you like it. You know what’s the best part? We are also giving y’all free Wi-Fi. So, pack your laptops, put on your masks and get that much needed break with us!” Some like Aman Puri, food director at Duty Free-Vayu Bar in Gurugram, wants corporates to get a change in “vibe” when they visit the place, and have launched a co-working concept for the same. Puri explains, “It’s been six months that people have been locked in their houses and are working from home. So, to break the monotony and bring back some fun along with the usual work, we have launched a co-working concept called ‘Duty Se Free’ wherein we are inviting professionals to come and work from our restaurants for change of scene and vibe. Low music levels, free WiFi, on-the-house stationery, facility to print or xerox, and to top it all, a flat 20% discount (on food) are a few things that we are providing to help professionals cope up with this new normal.”Needless to say, corporates are going gaga over this new trend in town. Shiva Sai, who works for an MNC, is one such who is loving the idea of #WorkFromPub. He recently started working out of a pub, and says, “Lockdown has taken a toll on our mindset; and I wanted a change. These pubs and bars that are offering such deals are decently quiet, play mild music and spacious as well. From the hygiene perspective they are well maintained in all aspects, and have sanitisation at the door, counter, and on demand! I have started taking my laptop and go to one of the bars near my house at around 1.30pm every oterh day, and I get to work peacefully, quietly. And, if I need anything to eat, I have plenty of options to munch on. This way you get a change and see people around you, coming or going, and that rejuvenates you. It has helped me in Covid times. My friends have joined me once or twice, but yes, it will take time for people to change their mindset and be convinced about the hygiene when visiting any such place.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-unlock-wfh-is-now-wfp-ie-work-from-pub/story-9wNOGobCVPYBgO42RqiZAM.html
26-09-2020||City||HC stays elections to state handball association||Jalandhar The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed the elections of Punjab Handball Association scheduled for September 29. Seven district handball associations, including Jalandhar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Rupnagar, Mohali and Amritsar had filed the petition for this through their counsel, Rehmat Grewal. The bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill has fixed the next hearing on November 19.The petitioners told the court that Tejinder Pal Singh Sidhu and Amanbir Singh Sidhu, the present president and general secretary of the state handball association, respectively, had unilaterally announced these elections without taking the Punjab sports department and them into confidence.A former IAS officer, Sidhu is son-in-law of Akali veteran and Rajya Sabha MP, Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa; Amanbir is a close relative of former state finance minister and MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa. Parminder is son of Sukhdev.The petitioners added that both the state sports department and the Punjab Olympics Association refused to send observers for these elections, in view of the covid-19 pandemic.The petitioners had claimed that scheduling the election on September 29 was arbitrary, illegal, perverse and unconstitutional as on the current voter list, there were many members whose mobile numbers were either incorrect or they had given their defunct landline number. Members could not be informed on time, they added.It was also pleaded there was no hurry for holding elections as the present executive committee elected by the petitioners and others was already performing. The office-bearers are elected for four years.“To the knowledge of petitioners, some members of the association, as well as the department of sports, Punjab, have requested the chief minister to postpone the elections,” says the petition, also making the claim that holding elections, at this stage, would breed nepotism as no effective and transparent mechanism was in place.“When the state sports department and the state olympic association refused to send an observer to conduct elections amid a pandemic, why are the president and the general secretary, hell-bent to conduct these? This raises doubt on the election framework,” added the petitioners.Ludhiana Handball Association secretary Teja Singh Dhaliwal, who is one of the petitioners, said there was no democracy left in the association, which had also resulted in lowering of the state’s performance on the field. “The president and secretary, however, want to continue their monopoly and thus scheduled the elections in these times,” claimed Dhaliwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-stays-elections-to-state-handball-association/story-bHtKnf0MMMIvbwflSYSLLO.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: St Stephen’s to start interviews for UG admissions from Monday||Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College will start conducting interviews for admission in several undergraduate courses from Monday, the college announced on Saturday. The college has already announced that interviews will be conducted online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The college had, on Tuesday, released the cutoff list for admission to 11 undergraduate courses with the highest being 99.25% for BA (Hons) in Economics. In a notification issued Saturday, the college said interviews will be conducted between September 28 and October 27. “Applicants who fall within the cut off and whose applications are in order can view and print the interview call letter by logging in to the College admissions portal (https://ugadm.ststephens.edu/) using their unique user id and login credentials,” the notification read. Further details will be mentioned in the interview letter.Also Read: Delhi University admissions 2020-21: All you need to knowThe list of selected candidates will be issued after the DU announces its first cutoff which is scheduled on October 12. “Thereafter, the list of applicants selected for admissions will be announced after the completion of interviews for each discipline. Those whose names appear on the list of applicants selected for admissions will be given three days after the announcement of the list to complete necessary formalities and pay the fees,” the notification stated.St Stephen’s interview schedule:Those who fail to complete their admission formalities and pay their fees within three days of the announcement of the list of selected applicants will forfeit their claim to admission, it added. St Stephen’s College has its own admission process and reserves 50% seats for Christian students. This year the college is not conducting an aptitude test mandatory for admission to undergraduate courses in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-st-stephen-s-to-start-interviews-for-ug-admissions-from-monday/story-KFVa1oSfa8mMwX9RAblcbN.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ rail roko agitation spreads to Jalandhar, Tanda in Punjab’s Doaba region||Extending their rail roko agitation in Punjab against the passage of the three farm bills in Parliament, farmers began blocking rail tracks in the Doaba region of the state on Saturday afternoon. The railways had already cancelled trains across Punjab from September 24 to 26 after farmers announced their three-day blockade plans. Now that the farmers have extended their rail roko agitation till September 29, the railways will reschedule services. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee district president Salwinder Singh said that rail tracks have been blocked in Jalandhar cantonment, Tanda and Kartarpur. Women were present in large numbers at the Tanda protest on the Jammu-Pathankot-Jalandhar rail track. Ferozepur divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said a decision on resuming train operations will be taken on Saturday evening. “The farmers’ protest is ongoing so it is not possible to assess the loss yet. We will decide on services after assessing the situation later today,” he said. FARMERS DIG IN THEIR HEELS IN AMRITSAR Farmers continued their protest on rail tracks in Amritsar district with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher announcing the extension of the agitation. Pandher, who is leading the farmers on the rail track at Devidas Pura village near Amritsar to block the key Amritsar-Delhi railway route since September 24, similar protests are being held at seven places in Punjab, including Tarn Taran and Fazilka. The agitating farmers, who have been spending nights on the tracks, are being supplied food by villagers. Women participate in the agitation during the day. Criticising the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership, Pandher said the SAD leaders did not raise any slogan against Prime Minister Narendra Modi during their chakka jam (road blockade) on Friday, showing they still backed the BJP-led government at the Centre. “They are still part of the alliance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-rail-roko-agitation-spreads-to-jalandhar-tanda-in-punjab-s-doaba-region/story-mTheu9mc5X1jkxY3o0zj2J.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi to appoint consultant for 24X7 water supply, to cut leakages: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), the city’s unified water utility, has initiated the process of appointing a consultant that would give recommendations on 24x7 water supply to every household. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said Delhi consumes 930 million gallons (MGD) of water every day, which translates into a consumption of 176 litre per person per day. “This is not a lot, but it is not less either. At present, there is no accountability of this 930 MGD water in the city. A lot of it either gets stolen or is wasted through leakages. We are appointing a consultant who would recommend us steps to not just ensure not a single litre of water is wasted, but it would also suggest us the latest technology available across the globe to put in place a hi-tech, automated and real-time water management system,” he said.Kejriwal also addressed the concerns raised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which alleged that the decision of the Delhi government is a step towards privatising the DJB. The DJB is a state-run organisation in Delhi. Also Read: Delhi court directs Delhi Police to file FIR over morphed video of CM KejriwalHe also said the Delhi government is in talks with “water-rich” states such as Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand to explore the possibility of water-sharing pacts. This comes after the DJB announced the approval of a ‘One Zone-One Operator’ policy on Thursday for efficient management of water supply and sewerage network. Under this policy, the city will be divided into 7-8 zones and a private operator will be appointed to look into the works in each zone.The decision was taken in a board meeting presided over by Delhi water minister and DJB chairman Satyendar Jain.“After extensive discussions and deliberations at various levels to improve the services and bring efficient management in the water supply and sewerage system, it was decided to award the contracts to private operators for operation, maintenance and management of water supply and sewerage networks in various zones of Delhi on the lines of ‘One Zone-One Operator’,” said a statement issued by the DJB on Thursday. “The operators will be appointed for a period of 10 years under the scheme on a contract basis,” it said.Also Read: Delhi govt extends free meal plan till end of wintersAnkit Srivastava, DJB technical advisor, explained that the services are not being privatised and no layoffs will be done within the water utility. Senior officials said the powers of monitoring and supervision will rest with the DJB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-appoint-consultant-for-24x7-water-supply-cut-leakages-kejriwal/story-q3E4MBVUnvwhqjxmtZ50PL.html
26-09-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee greets Manmohan Singh on his birthday||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday greeted former prime minister Manmohan Singh on his birthday, and wished him good health.Singh, who headed the UPA coalition government between 2004 and 2014, turned 88. He had played a key role in ushering in economic reforms as the finance minister in the P V Narasimha Rao government during 1991-96.“Greetings to former Prime Minister and Economist Dr. Manmohan Singh ji on his birthday. Wishing him good health and more productive years in public life,” Banerjee tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-greets-manmohan-singh-on-his-birthday/story-oYFbyUhc1FY1hXhzgX6nAO.html
26-09-2020||City||NIA announces cash reward for info on NSCN-IM cadres involved in killing of Arunachal MLA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday announced cash rewards for information on five absconding members of the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) for their alleged involvement in the killing of Arunachal Pradesh legislator Tirong Aboh and 10 others in May 2019.The agency announced Rs 3 lakh award each for information on Absolon Tangkhul, Apem, and Victor Tangkhul. Rs 2 lakh each was announced for information on James Kiwang and Rabi Wangno.National People’s Party legislator Aboh and 10 others were killed when their convoy was ambushed near Pansum Thong village. They were on their way from Dibrugarh (Assam) to Khonsa when the incident happened. The case was handed over to NIA in June.Aboh was killed ahead of the announcement of assembly election results. Aboh was declared the winner and his widow, Chakat Aboh, won his seat in September as an Independent candidate in a by-election.Also Read: Northeast-based insurgent groups forced to relocate by Myanmar army action: Intel agenciesIn January, NIA filed a charge sheet against four members of NSCN-IM for their involvement in the killing.“Investigation has established that members of the terrorist group NSCN-IM conspired to commit the terrorist act of killing Tirong Aboh and 10 others. The terrorist act was a result of a larger conspiracy due to opposition by the MLA of anti-development and extortion activities of NSCN-IMM,” an NIA statement said.It added Absolom, Jenpi, Josaham, and Masangva allegedly carried out the killing, and another accused Jai Kishan Sharma financed the attack.NIA has arrested six accused in connection with the case so far.NSCN-IM is the biggest and oldest Naga rebel outfit. It has been in peace talks with the Centre since 1997 and signed a framework agreement in 2015. The peace talks with NSCN-IM and seven other pro-talks rebel outfits concluded in October. A formal deal to end the decades old Naga insurgency is still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nia-announces-cash-reward-for-info-on-nscn-im-cadres-involved-in-killing-of-arunachal-mla/story-RscvVYFBzKW2fspgCux9DL.html
26-09-2020||Jaipur||Section 144 imposed in Rajasthan’s Banswara as protest in Dungarpur continues||The Banswara administration on Saturday imposed Section 144 of IPC in the district, which prohibits the gathering of four or more persons at one place.District Collector Ankit Kumar Singh in an order stated that this has been done as the tension continued to prevail for the third consecutive day in nearby district Dungarpur, where hundreds of tribal youth had blocked National Highway 8 on Thursday.The order came into effect from 7 am today and will be effective till the next order.Protestors blocked National Highway 8 near Dungarpur and pelted stones on police personnel during a demonstration demanding recruitment of reserved category candidates on vacant unreserved positions for teachers from the year 2018.The tribal community is protesting to demand filling up of unreserved 1,167 teachers’ posts with Scheduled Caste candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/section-144-imposed-in-rajasthan-s-banswara-as-protest-in-dungarpur-continues/story-qbsUHDdiyAn03SAQEMBiSI.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Three fire incidents in Delhi, two factories gutted||Three fire incidents were reported from three different areas in outer Delhi between Friday night and Saturday evening. Although goods worth several lakhs of rupees were gutted, no loss of life was reported from any of the three incidents. A fireman was injured during the fire operation at one spot, senior fire officials said. The first fire broke out in a three-storey shoe manufacturing factory in Narela industrial area on Friday night. One fireman was injured while containing the blaze, fire department officials said. Cooling operation continued till Saturday afternoon. Also Read: Delhi Police arrest man who trafficked woman, abandoned her when pregnantDelhi Fire Services (DFS) director Atul Garg said that nearly 100 fire fighters and 26 fire tenders were involved in the fire fighting operation. “Our firemen managed to douse the flames by 8 am on Saturday. The cooling operation, however, continued till afternoon. Fire operator Ramesh received minor injury in his hand. He was admitted to a nearby hospital and was discharged after medical attention,” said the DFS chief. According to Garg, the fire department received a call at 10.45 pm on Friday regarding a fire in the basement of a shoe manufacturing factory in Narela industrial area. Initially and 10 fire tenders were rushed. But as the fire was spreading rapidly, 16 more fire engines were sent from the nearby fire stations. The blaze had engulfed the entire 350 square metres of the factory building. “Some workers were present inside the factory when the fire started. All of them came out safely before the blaze engulfed the factory, said a police officer from the Narela Indistrual Area police station, requesting anonymity. “As many of them had left, we are trying to know how many workers were working there. Prime facie, short-circuit appeared to be the reason behind the fire. However, the exact cause of fire will be ascertained only after the factory is inspected by our experts,” the officer said. The second incident was reported from Jwalapuri area near Nangloi, where fire broke out in a godown of plastic and other goods around Saturday noon. Sixteen fire tenders worked for nearly five hours to douse the flames and contain the situation. In the third incident, a shoe manufacturing factory in Peeragarhi Industrial area caught fire around 6 pm on Saturday. Eight fire tenders controlled the blaze within half an hour||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-outer-delhi-shoe-factory-no-casualty-reported/story-gIpj1spYLckrCyIXTkjjfL.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Over 50% respondents in a Mumbai-Nagpur survey don’t feel the need to wear a mask||Amid an emphasis on wearing of masks to control the Covid-19 pandemic, 54% of respondents to a survey conducted in Mumbai and Nagpur felt that they were not needed as maintaining social distancing is enough. Around 53% of respondents said they faced breathing problems by wearing masks. As many as 44% said they felt uncomfortable when masked.The survey was conducted as part of ‘ApnaMask’ initiative by EkDesh, an NGO, and 248 people from Mumbai and Nagpur were interviewed.The survey found 48% of the respondents were not afraid of catching the virus and 42% believed that vaccine was the only solution to controlling Covid-19.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine trial begins at Mumbai hospital today: All you need to knowAs many as 55% of respondents said masks would not control the spread of the virus. The survey found N95 masks were among the preferred ones.The compliance towards wearing masks was the highest among those in the 36-55 age group.In Mumbai, wearing of masks was made compulsory in May. The World Health Organisation has also stressed the importance of wearing masks to curb the spread of the virus.The municipal authorities in Mumbai have collected Rs 27.48 lakh as fine from 2,798 citizens, who were found without masks in public places between April 9 to August 31.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a Mumbai-based consultant, said there might be a certain discomfort because of wearing masks while on the move. “But citizens should not forget that until we do not have a vaccine, masking, and social distancing are the only available ways to fight and control the spread of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-over-50-respondents-in-a-mumbai-nagpur-survey-don-t-feel-the-need-to-wear-a-mask/story-KVtXZ4OP5a6Dfdp4p7vOlK.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Bigger precinct, light and sound show at Gateway of India soon||A clutter-free bigger precinct with seating arrangement for visitors, and the most advanced light and sound show in Mumbai will be among the new highlights as the Maharashtra government is planning to revamp the British era Gateway of India. Tourists will be able to get all the facilities required at a tourist destination. They will also get an introduction to the financial capital of the country and Maharashtra as a state.Despite being one of the most visited destinations in the country, the monument has no proper infrastructure for site management and also lacks facilities for the visitors. The new plan also envisages a proper crowd management system and security arrangements.The state has roped in Abha Lambah, a conservation architect, who has prepared three proposals. It has also formed a committee of senior officials to execute the project.Also Read: Renovations at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station to be disabled friendly with separate arrival and departure“The design has been made to integrate all the requirements such as creating the right facilities and infrastructure and at the same time ensuring visual access to a visitor so that he or she can see the Gateway of India and the sea. A facility will also be developed to [ensure] the [visibility of] imposing [nearby] statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, which is currently sort of lost in all the visual clutter,” Lambah told HT.“It will give a kind of introduction to the city and to Maharashtra as a state. The plan has been incorporated from a security point of view and risk assessment. In all, it is an endeavour to look holistically to address concerns.” The iconic monument was built in the 20th century to commemorate the arrival of King George V and Queen Mary in India in 1911. It was later used as a symbolic ceremonial entrance to India for Viceroys and the new Governors of Bombay.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine trial begins at Mumbai hospital today: All you need to knowThe jetties around the monument are used for boat rides to Elephanta Island, Alibaug and Mandwa. They are congested as 3 to 3.5 million passengers use them annually.The state tourism department plans to hold the most modern sound and light shows based on different themes weekly at the monument. The themes will be related to the history of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Marathas, freedom movement, and many more,” said Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, state tourism department.In February, state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and finance minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting on the development and conservation of 22 tourist sites, including the Gateway of India. One of the most-busiest tourist destinations — Gateway of India — is divided among various government agencies and needed an integrated approach for its face-lift. For instance, the structure and 100-meter area around it come under the archaeological department. The jetty and boating area comes under Mumbai Port Trust, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bigger-precinct-light-and-sound-show-at-gateway-of-india-soon/story-iZNlnOz23syEpj1bZOEdIO.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Consider augmenting medical facilities, instead of a jumbo Covid care centre: Bombay HC||A week after the Maharashtra government agreed to set up a 1,000-bed Covid-19 care centre in Nagpur, the Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench on Friday asked it and the municipal corporation to instead consider augmenting the existing medical facilities in the city.“After the pandemic, the facility is likely to go waste,” said the bench of justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala about the proposed centre at a stadium. The facility is estimated to come up at a cost of about Rs 78 crore will include 400 beds with ventilators.The centre was originally proposed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation, which had submitted a proposal in this regard to the government that cleared it on September 16.Also Read: Study links worsening of Covid-19 with shorter time span from symptom onset to hospitalisationThe bench came down heavily on the government for keeping the proposal pending.It said Nagpur has become a Covid-19 care hub as patients were coming to the city also from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh for treatment. The bench called upon the state government to create proper facilities and infrastructure for treatment of Covid-19 patients, but on the city’s outskirts.The bench said admitting Covid-19 patients to hospitals located in thickly populated residential areas and their movement could lead to the virus spread.The bench also expressed displeasure over the high cost of treatment at private hospitals. “The medical facilities and services in private hospitals are becoming a costly affair and those who cannot afford or fail to get timely berth in the hospital have to sacrifice the life or succumb to such inadequacies.”The bench was hearing a bunch of petitions concerning lack of infrastructure for Covid-19 patients in Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consider-augmenting-medical-facilities-instead-of-a-jumbo-covid-care-centre-bombay-hc/story-CxXfvh8Oj80mlxkNNjdYQK.html
26-09-2020||Bhopal||Farmer attempts to kill himself in Harda, district administration calls him fraudster||Authorities on Friday called a 35-year-old farmer a fraudster and said he was a part of a procurement scam busted in June a day after he attempted suicide in Madhya Pradesh’s Harda district for alleged delay in payment for his gram crop produce.The attempt came as farmers have been protesting across several states against farm reform laws passed in Parliament this week. The farmers are particularly angry over the absence of any mention of a minimum support price in the laws. The opposition Congress has thrown its weight behind the protests against the 35-year-old farmer’s alleged harassment ahead of the crucial by-polls to 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh. The by-polls are crucial to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government survival in the state as it enjoys a wafer-thin majority in the 230-member state assembly. The BJP needs to win nine out of the 28 seats. It currently has 107 seats. The Congress, which lost power in March when its 21 lawmakers resigned and paved the way for BJP’s return to power, has 88 members in the House with an effective strength of 202.Also Read: Farm bills anger spills onto highways, railwaysAdditional police superintendent Gajendra Singh said the farmer allegedly consumed poison outside a co-operative society in Harda on Thursday over the delay in payment for his 141-quintal gram produce a few months ago.The farmer allegedly attempted suicide while a group of farmers was staging a protest in front of the society over delay in payment to them. During the protest, two other farmers also fainted, said police.All three were rushed to a district hospital and later referred to Bhopal.Harda collector Sanjay Gupta cited a cooperative department inquiry in June and said discrepancies were detected in stock and records of bills of purchase related to the society. “More than 5,100 quintals gram crop was found missing from the stock. In a further inquiry, it was found that fraudulently the manager of the society cleared fake bills of 71 farmers, who had not sold any crop to the society. ...[the three farmers] are among them.”He added a fraud case was registered against the manager, who cleared the bills. “I asked the police on Tuesday to book the villagers, who were part of the fraud,” said Gupta. He added revenue department officials also cross-checked the claim of the 35-year-old and found that 141 quintal grams could not have been produced from the piece of land he owns.State agriculture minister Kamal Patel, who is from Harda, has ordered an inquiry into the alleged scam. “To check the claims of farmers, the agriculture department will conduct a separate inquiry.”Congress leader PC Sharma met the farmers at a hospital in Bhopal and accused the BJP government of being unjust to the farmers. “Congress will join the protest of farmers in Harda as BJP-led state government is doing injustice to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/farmer-attempts-to-kill-himself-in-harda-district-administration-calls-him-fraudster/story-2rxjOKFtGhCmwd9NWzy4CM.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Cong MLA from Rohru Mohan Lal Brakta, Kangra Co-op Bank chairman test positive for Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh Congress legislator Mohan Lal Brakta, 55, has tested positive for Covid-19. “I got my Covid-19 positive report on Friday night. People of my constituency need not worry as I have not attended any public function there in 12 days. However, I urge all those who came in my contact recently to isolate themselves and undergo the test,” the MLA, who represents Rohru in the assembly, wrote on his Facebook page. Brakta said that he was on the road to recovery and would be back in action soon. Kangra Central Cooperative (KCC) Bank chairman Rajeev Bhardwaj and his wife have also tested positive for Covid-19. Bhardwaj’s sample underwent the coronavirus test after he suffered mild fever. He has urged all those who came in his contact in the past one week to go into isolation. STATE SEES 123% SPIKE IN SEPTEMBER Himachal Pradesh has seen a steep spike in Covid-19 cases in September with a jump of 123%. As many as 7,563 people have tested positive so far this month. The total number of coronavirus cases in the state has reached 13,679. In one week, new infections have grown at an average rate of 2.4%. There has also been an exponential rise in the number of fatalities with 116 people succumbing to the contagion in 25 days. The death toll has reached 152 with a case fatality ratio of 1.1%. There are 3,976 active cases in the state, while 9,528 people have recovered. The recovery rate is 69.6%. The state has conducted a total of 2,80,048 tests. Solan is the worst-hit district with 2,806 cases followed by Kangra (2,036), Sirmaur (1,718), Mandi (1,555), Una (1,203), Shimla (1,107), Hamirpur (859), Chamba (787), Bilaspur (740), Kullu (554), Kinnaur (181) and Lahaul-Spiti (133).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cong-mla-from-rohru-mohan-lal-brakta-kangra-co-op-bank-chairman-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-8WNqQnS8ddesp2dBXjX8jL.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest man who trafficked woman, abandoned her when pregnant||The Delhi police have arrested a man from Jharkhand through technical surveillance on charges of rape and criminal intimidation after he allegedly abandoned a 20-year-old woman in the ninth month of her pregnancy after trafficking her. Deputy police commissioner Atul Kumar Thakur said they were informed about the matter on September 1 after the alleged trafficker abandoned the woman in a rented room and fled. He added the woman’s neighbours informed the police about the matter after finding her in pain as her condition deteriorated. Thakur said the woman was alone and had nobody to take care of her.The woman was rushed to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences after her condition worsened and doctors said she urgently needed blood.Also Read: Four Delhi cops suspended for selling 159kg of seized marijuana“Instantly, blood was donated to the pregnant woman by constables Yogesh, Rahul, and Sandeep voluntarily. She delivered a healthy baby girl on September 19 and has now been discharged. The condition of both the woman and her child is fine,” said Thakur.The rape and criminal intimidation case was registered on the woman’s complaint and the man was arrested on September 7.“The man had lured the woman to Delhi on the pretext of marriage and providing her a job. He kept her in a rented room and introduced her to neighbours as his wife,” a police officer probing the case said requesting anonymity. The man allegedly raped the woman for nearly eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-man-who-trafficked-woman-abandoned-her-when-pregnant/story-AQFk8MmVoaCFdpFysUixIL.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi cyclist killed in road mishap, truck hits cops||A 42-year-old private security guard was killed after an allegedly speeding delivery van hit his bicycle in Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin area on Friday. The van driver, Satendra Singh, has been arrested and booked for rash and negligent driving causing death.  A case under Sections 279 and 304A was registered against Singh, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said the police control room received a call around 9 pm on Friday regarding an accident near the crematorium on Lala Lajpat Rai Marg. A police team reached there and found that a cyclist was hit by a delivery van. “The cyclist died on the spot. He was identified as Ajay Kumar Singh. He worked as a security guard in a garment showroom in Connaught Place,” said DCP Meena, adding the van driver was arrested from the spot. Police said the cyclist lived in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar. He was returning home when the mishap took place. Singh is survived by his wife and three children – two sons and a daughter. While his elder son is a security guard, the other son is a Class 10 student. Singh’s daughter is married and his wife is a homemaker, the police said. In another accident, two policemen were injured when a mini truck hit a police patrolling van in northeast Delhi’s Harsh Vihar on Friday night. The truck driver,Tinku,28, was also injured as the vehicle crashed into a boundary wall after hitting the police van. All three were taken to a nearby hospital from where they were discharged after treatment. The injured policemen were identified as assistant sub-inspector Bohri Lal,55, and Constable Vikar,31. A case rash and negligent driving causing injuries was registered and Tinku was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cyclist-killed-in-road-mishap/story-W5GQjqb9Sh1EE3piig3YAP.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Relief to hotel owners as liquor licence fee in Delhi waived off during lockdown||The Delhi government has decided to waive off the liquor licence fee for restaurants and hotels during the lockdown period, announced due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Restaurant owners in the Capital had requested the Delhi government to waive off the licence fee.As per the order issued by the Delhi government’s excise department dated September 24, “Considering the requests for sympathetic view in regards to appropriation/adjustment of liquor licence fee due to Covid-19 pandemic, the competent authority, in view of the provision of Rule 49 of the Delhi Excise Rules, 2010, has decided that the lockdown period due to Covid-19 form the date of the lockdown and till the opening of the licensed premises by the Delhi government orders to be treated as deemed cancellation of licence and accordingly, the licence fee paid in advance by the licensees shall be adjusted for the corresponding future period payable for the half year beginning 1st October 2020.”A senior excise department official confirmed the development.Also Read: Delhi: SDMC allows open-air dining in restaurantsThe National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) had given multiple representations to the excise department and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in this regard.The licensees will have to pay for the period after September 9, when bars were allowed to operate in the city.The annual liquor licence fee, which is charged according to the seating capacity of a restaurant, varies between Rs 9.25 lakh and Rs 22.41 lakh. The fee has to be paid in advance before the start of the financial year. It can also be paid in two instalments: one before the start of the financial year and the second one before September 29. For instance, the licence fee for the financial year 2020-21 was paid by restaurants, either full or partially, by February 28, 2020.Welcoming the order, Manpreet Singh, the owner of Zen restaurant in Connaught Place and treasurer of NRAI, said, “We are thankful to the government for considering our demand and providing much-needed relief. We have been demanding this for a while because the licence fee was paid for this financial year, but sale of liquor started only recently. Restaurants are already bleeding as we are operating at 50% seating capacity and the turnout is also low right now.” The association has held several meetings with the excise department and met Sisodia recently.NRAI had also requested the government to permit the disposal of the expired stock. “We need space to keep the new stock. A lot of liquor has expired and we have to first dispose of it. We hope the government gives us permission soon,” said a restaurant owner.Despite repeated attempts, the Delhi government spokesperson didn’t comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-relief-to-restaurant-and-hotel-owners-as-liquor-licence-fee-waived-off-for-lockdown-period/story-S1bLnwn7Zq60pIWTUElB0J.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB starts questioning Deepika Padukone||Actor Deepika Padukone joined the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) investigation at the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) guest house in Colaba. Actors Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor have also been summoned to join the investigation on Saturday. NCB is probing the drug angle related to the death of 34-year-old actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14. Also Read: Bollywood drug probe deepens: Is this the Hindi film industry’s worst phase ever?On Friday, actor Rakul Preet Singh was questioned for around four hours and Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash was interrogated for around seven hours by NCB. Prakash, a talent manager with KWAN talent management company, has been called to join the investigation again on Saturday. Prakash’s name came up after NCB questioned Sushant’s talent manager Jaya Saha based on WhatsApp chats submitted by Enforcement Director (ED) who was conducting an investigation into the alleged financial angle of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. NCB officials said they had looked at chats in which Saha, Prakash, and Padukone had discussed drugs. Based on Saha’s statement, Prakash and Padukone were summoned, added an NCB official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-starts-questioning-deepika-padukone/story-u9CFGjpK89JiTmCoKCfEzL.html
26-09-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal floats tenders to build refreshment hubs along highways||The West Bengal government is planning to come up with multiple ‘bus hubs’ along national and state highways where long-distance travellers could get down for some refreshments and recreation. The hubs would have food courts, restaurants, tea stalls, washrooms, gift shops and retiring rooms among others for tourists looking to freshen up and relax in between journeys. “At least six such hubs would be coming up in south Bengal as a pilot project. These hubs would have all kinds of refreshments which long distance travellers can expect. These would be built on a public-private-partnership,” said a senior official of the state transport department. Also Read: West Bengal fire brigade gets 4 robotic fire fighting equipment; other vehiclesWhile one hub would be coming up along NH6 between Kolkata and East Midnapore district, another is planned along SH7 in Burdwan. The rest would be coming up along Durgapur expressway, SH14 and NH34. The tenders have been floated. Also Read: ‘Defections on the rise,’ claim TMC and BJP in poll-bound West BengalEach hub would be coming up on a five-acre land and the stall owners won’t be allowed to charge extra or exorbitant rates for the items. Even though state-operated buses would get the first priority to park at these hubs, private buses and cars would also be able to use the parking space on payment of a fee. “The state buses, carrying long distance passengers, would come and park for around 30 minutes so that travellers can refresh. Private vehicles would also be allowed if there is space after paying some charges,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-floats-tenders-to-build-refreshment-hubs-along-highways/story-lYFfL0CcvkIQXgHeOnA5zK.html
26-09-2020||Environment||Aarey: Final proposal allocates 329 ha forest soon to be part of SGNP||An area twice the size of what was excluded (165 hectare) from Aarey forest within the protected buffer zone of Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in December 2016 will soon be part of the park. A final proposal for reserved forest declaration has been vetted and submitted to the Maharashtra government for the allocation of 328.9 hectare (ha) within Aarey as a reserved forest under the Indian Forest Act. “The process to declare it is underway and should be completed over the next 15 days,” said Milind Mhaiskar, principal secretary (forests).HT has seen an unsigned draft of the final proposal along with a map of the proposed green zone. The reserved forest area encompasses 107 land parcels from Aarey (111.3 ha), Goregaon (71.6 ha), Maroshi (146 ha including area allotted originally for) villages under Andheri and Borivali talukas in Mumbai suburbs.“The idea is first to declare everything that has ecosystem characteristics [biodiversity, tree cover etc] of a forest as reserved forest area,” said Aaditya Thackeray, the state environment minister. “Based on our on-ground survey undertaken two weeks ago, we included green zones having open areas and forest-like cover while leaving out roads, built-up structures, and lands given to state agencies such as the animal husbandry department...”Also Read: MTDC to hand over 500-acre mangrove area in Manori-Gorai to Maharashtra forest departmentFollowing the declaration, a settlement officer would survey the area followed by suggestions and objections pertaining to land rights. Finally, the state would notify the forest.Thackeray said based on public hearings and ensuring rights of Aarey’s local residents are intact, the final area would be plus-minus 20 ha if at all any land rights issues arise.An area of 40.46 ha previously slotted for the zoo will be declared reserved forest first, said Mhaiskar. “To ensure continuity, the overall notification will be issued together. Subsequently, the land will be handed over to SGNP making it a part of the national park.”The total expanse of SGNP would be increased by 3.5 sq km from the existing 103 sq km, said G Mallikarjuna, the park’s conservator. “The move will enhance protection of leopards dispersing from SGNP to Aarey,” he said. Aarey has about six to seven leopards.The Centre in December 2016 excluded 165 ha of 1,287 ha of Aarey from SGNP’s eco-sensitive zone to allow construction, including a Metro car shed following a state government proposal.Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, an NGO, welcomed the state government’s latest move as superb and added it will remove 165 ha from needless destruction. “We await phase two of this protection where the entire Aarey will be preserved for future generations.”Of the 165 ha, projects slotted across 161.6 ha include Metro Bhawan, a zoological park, an encroachment rehabilitation project, a regional transport office among others.With the proposed declaration, only metro related and allied projects would remain along the peripheral areas of the green lung. “Our original proposal was for over 600 acres [242 ha],” said Mhaiskar. He added the additional 81 ha came from the area slotted for the zoo which was not needed. “A zoo is already in Byculla and cannot be established inside a reserved forest. Secondly, we found that the 90-ha area allotted for an encroachment rehabilitation project had rich biodiversity and it was not feasible to shift people there. Thus, almost 200 acres were freed up.”Mhaiskar clarified the area for the encroachment rehabilitation project was shifted towards the periphery of the green lung. “All other infrastructures or projects are outside the proposed reserved forest.’Thackeray said recognising Aarey as a forest was reclamation in a better way. “Mumbai is probably the only city in the world where we have such an area thriving with flora and fauna actively. Some lesser species are endemic. It is not just about passion, but duty and commitment to ensure that we do everything we can to protect such natural heritage we have been blessed with,” he said.Also Read: Q&A: The great green hopes of the new head of the Bombay Natural History SocietyHe thanked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for his commitment, and also dairy development minister Sunil Kedar for taking the lead in protecting Aarey.Tauseef Patel, a resident of Aarey’s Unit-9, said they have been asked to give up their home, where they have been staying for over four generations since the 1950s, and relocate to another in the same unit. “The land is being taken over for the Metro Bhawan construction,” said Patel, a dairy farmer.Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) officials confirmed they would soon commence constructions including of the 32-storey Metro Bhawan across 28.17 acres in Aarey. “We are awaiting the final environment clearance from the Centre following which construction will commence,” said BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA. “The rehabilitation for occupants is being done after an agreement with the Aarey dairy department and MMRDA will bear the construction cost of their new structures as per the agreement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/aarey-final-proposal-allocates-329-ha-forest-soon-to-be-part-of-sgnp/story-lErpezJzOJxHlwCIBZSYqN.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A poem without words||One way to experience a beautiful poem is to find it in some book. Another way is to encounter it in a tangible material form in this three dimensional world. Then, without the medium of words, this is just you and the poem.One place to be enriched by such an experience lies right here in Delhi. The poem is a half-sunken peddle boat in Hauz Khas lake, tucked between Safdarjung Enclave and Hauz Khas Village.The boat has been lying in this position for years. This evening the water is looking dark green, perhaps reflecting the densely leaved trees surrounding the lake. The white boat is lying tilted, the front portion tipped upwards, while the rear end is within the water—as if the great Titanic was just beginning to drown, but noiselessly. The middle portion is missing with the two ends joined by a pair of rusting railing. Nearby, a semi-ravaged tree, half leafy, half bare, is leaning over from the banks of the lake, parts of its branches almost touching the surface of the water—the tree appears discontented, as if wanting to leave this world for whatever exists within the lake.There’s another boat-like object stranded nearby. It is completely sunk except for a tiny part peeping out of the water. Peer carefully and you’ll see small fish vigorously swimming about the boat. Bits of garbage are floating about too, as minute as ashes, and there’s also an upturned sandal. The lake, however, is barred to visitors. The boat must belong to the authorities managing the park and waters, an evening walker says. The only things otherwise floating in the lake are fish, ducks, and reflections of birds flying above.As the evening deepens, and the day light dims, the marooned boat loses its solidity, fast turning as black as the starless sky. And now it looks like a dolphin playfully spread along the water — when suddenly cursed into becoming a stone statue.The boat evokes an indescribably sad poem yet to be transcribed into words, and so heart-touching that you might want to experience it evening after evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-poem-without-words/story-0ixwyQHlK3BlPY4nuqsYpJ.html
26-09-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government gives point by point reply to Congress on 4 issues||A day after Uttarakhand Congress MLAs called on governor Baby Rani Maurya accusing the government of not allowing them to speak in the assembly session held on Wednesday, the BJP government on Friday blamed the opposition party for creating a ruckus in the House that stopped it from replying to issues raised by the Congress.Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik, during a press conference at the state secretariat in Dehradun on Friday, said: “The government was willing to give an answer on the four issues -- inflation, Covid-19, unemployment and law & order -- raised by the Congress but it was the Congress that created a ruckus in the House exposing their groupism.”“After that, they went to meet the governor on Thursday accusing us of not allowing them to speak. It was completely wrong as we wanted them to express their opinion on the major issues. Due to the ruckus, we couldn’t put our answers but are doing it today through the media,” said Kaushik.On Covid-19 handling, he said, “At present, the government has over 35,000 beds for Covid-19 infected people, including 31,000 Covid-19 isolation beds of which only 6,000 are occupied as of now. Similarly, out of 2,759 beds with oxygen supply, 1,896 are vacant while out of 636 ICU beds, 449 are available and of the total 605 ventilators, 598 are still unused.”He also said that the state’s testing rate was 53,244 per 10 lakh people which, he claimed was “better than that of states like Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. We are way ahead than the Congress-ruled states in this”.The minister revealed that during the pandemic, the government recruited 709 health staff including doctors and paramedics to boost the health facilities.“The state has 440 Covid-19 treatment facilities at present with 10 dedicated Covid-19 facilities and the number is increasing.”On inflation, Kaushik said the price of fuel in the state was lower than the Congress-ruled states and the government has managed to control the prices of essential commodities like rice, wheat, sugar and other grocery items during this pandemic.Also Read: Uttarakhand farmers protest farm bills, say ‘leaders weren’t consulted’Accusing the Congress of not supporting the government during the pandemic in controlling it, Kaushik said, “Instead of supporting the government in its efforts to control the pandemic, the Congress during the lockdown was busy in agitating.”“Also, they didn’t contribute a single penny in the CM relief fund to help the people but were busy demanding the details of the funds collected which we even disclosed without any hesitation,” said Kaushik.The Congress, however, described the minister’s comments on the debate in the House as “ridiculous”.Also Read: Uttarakhand CM orders probe after minister claims IAS officer ‘missing’Congress MLA Qazi Nizamuddin said, “We had demanded a debate on Covid-19 issue in the House in which all the members present there could speak. But they didn’t allow it and are now presenting figures before media saying they wanted to do it during the session which is ridiculous “Nizamuddin said the debate, if allowed, would have highlighted a number of “irregularities” in handling of the pandemic by the government.“By holding the debate on the pandemic, we wanted to discuss the numerous irregularities that have come to light during its handling by the government machinery. The government could have themselves invited us to do that but they chose the other way,” said Nizamuddin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-government-gives-point-by-point-reply-to-congress-on-4-issues/story-mdWwzTj1cO5rosVLoJ7diO.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality set to worsen this week||Air quality in the national Capital is likely to plunge in the next few days, due to a gradual decrease in wind speed and an increase in the instances of stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. At 7am on Saturday the hourly average air quality index (AQI) reading according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was 155 (moderate) as against the overall recording of 134 (moderate) on Friday. On Thursday, the AQI recording of Delhi stood at 104 (moderate).Also Read: Monsoon begins withdrawing next week, above normal day temperatures likely over NW India“Throughout the next week, the AQI level is likely to remain in the ‘moderate’ range but slightly on the higher end. It all depends on how much stubble burning takes place in Punjab and Haryana,” said a senior India Meteorological Department official.The official added that wind speed in Delhi over the next few days will remain at 15-20kmph, after which it will gradually reduce. On a scale of 0-500, an AQI reading of 0-50 is considered good (minimal health risk), 51 -100 is satisfactory (minor discomfort to sensitive people), 100-200 is moderate (breathing discomfort to people with lungs and heart disease), 200-300 is poor (breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure), 300-400 is very poor (respiratory illness on prolonged exposure) and 400-500 is severe (affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-set-to-worsen-this-week/story-2Xd0rlESDmRA0uFGgwsdCP.html
26-09-2020||Dehradun||Crocodile kills 8-year-old girl in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar forest division||An eight-year-old girl was killed by a crocodile in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar forest division on Friday, said forest officials.Neeraj Sharma, divisional forest officer (DFO) Haridwar forest division said 8-years old Radhika and her sister had gone near a marshy one-and-a-half-kilometer-long water body in Kudi Baghwanpur village in Laksar area of Haridwar district to pluck some flowers. He said the water body is like a big marsh, with a thick growth of aquatic plants, which made the search challenging.“Her sister said when they went near the water body a crocodile attacked her sister and dragged her into the deep waters. She told her parents, who informed local police and forest officials,” he saidSharma said the forest officials immediately went to the spot with divers and local police and a search was started to trace the girl.“The incident had happened in the afternoon. After many hours of search, we finally found the body of the girl in the evening”, he saidGaurav Aggarwal, range officer (RO) Laksar said there were marks of a crocodile bite on her wrist.“It seems the crocodile dragged her into the water but didn’t eat her. As it is a big marshy water body, around 1.5 km in length, we couldn’t find the crocodile. We will resume our search for the crocodile on Saturday”, he said.Aggarwal said the girl hailed from Panditpur village nearby. “She and her sister had come to the water body in the nearby Kudi Bhagwanpur to pluck some flowers”, he said.Also Read: Uttarakhand CM orders probe after minister claims IAS officer ‘missing’The range officer said the police have sent the body of the girl for post-mortem.“The family of the girl will be provided compensation after the completion of the paperwork,” he said.In Uttarakhand, crocodiles are found in the Corbett landscape, Terai area, some areas of Haridwar forest division and Rajaji National Park landscape.Also Read: Uttarakhand: Man electrocuted as high-tension line falls on himAccording to the latest wildlife census released by the state forest department in June this year, crocodile numbers have increased in the state from 123 in 2008 to 451 in 2020.Of 23 crocodilian species found in the world, India has three species. Uttarakhand has two of the three - Mugger Crocodile and Gharial (in Corbett landscape). Mugger Crocodile (Crocodylus palustris), the most widespread freshwater croc species is found throughout India, except the extreme north.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/crocodile-kills-8-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-s-haridwar-forest-division/story-7PPji3eoXDyfdTm23GtgsK.html
26-09-2020||City||African swine fever hits Assam’s piggery sector; government orders culling of pigs||Assam’s piggery sector, hit due to Covid-19 lockdown, is now battling for survival with the spread of incurable African swine fever (ASF) that has killed around 18,000 pigs in the state, officials said. An ASF case was first reported in May and this week chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal ordered the culling of around 12,000 pigs by October end.Pig farm owners insist the government’s figure is conservative and insist over 100,000 pigs have died of the disease. There is no vaccine for the disease and it has a mortality rate of 90% to 100%.The farm owners have complained there has not been much help from the government in culling nor have they been compensated for the losses.Also Read: Assam reduces quarantine period from 10 days to 24 hours for passengers coming to the state“Our farm got hit by ASF virus and 95% of our stock i.e. 280 animals have died in the past month. Since the lockdown it had been very tough running our farm since we couldn’t sell our animals at an initial stage,” tweeted Diganta Saikia of Dibrugarh’s Pithubar Farms.“The government then banned the sale of pork and transport of animals due to the ASF epidemic that had killed lakhs of pigs across Assam during the lockdown. We had a huge fund crunch and ended up taking more loans from banks on top of our previous loans for operational purpose,”Like Saikia, many in districts like Tinsukia, Lakhimpur and Gohpur have suffered similar losses.According to the World Organisation for Animal Health, ASF is a severe viral disease that affects both domestic and wild pigs. The disease does not transmit from animals to humans. Its transmission can also occur via contaminated feed and objects such as shoes, clothes, vehicles, knives. Unlike Classical Swine Fever), there is no vaccine for ASF.Also Read: Assam launches 4 schemes to boost Covid-hit tea industryAnimal husbandry and veterinary department commissioner and secretary Shyam Jagannathan cited their estimates since May and said nearly 18,000 pigs have died. He added Sonowal on Wednesday ordered the culling of 12,000 affected pigs before the Durga Puja festival.As per protocol, once samples of dead pigs are tested positive for ASF in an area, the one km radius around it is declared as disease epicenter. All pigs in that area are stamped and culled.An area of one km radius outside the epicentre is called surveillance zone and a radius of 9 km outside the buffer zone. There are 33 epicentres in 13 districts of the state.Jagannathan said the Centre and state government pay 50% of compensation each as per rules. “Compensation amount is based on the weight of the animal to be culled. We are planning to launch a portal where farmers can list details of affected pigs.”He said the compensation is transferred directly into bank accounts of farmers prior to culling. “Our requirement for culling 12,000 pigs is Rs 13.63 crores. No compensation has been given to farmers yet as the culling process is yet to begin.”Farm owners are unhappy saying the government’s plans are too little too late as there is none to compensate those who have lost their animals before the culling.“As per our estimates over 1 lakh [100,000] pigs have died due to ASF, which is way higher than the government estimate of 18,000 deaths. We also do not know how they came up with the figure of 12,000 pigs to be culled,” said North East Progressive Pig Farmers Association president Manoj Basumatary.He said commercial pig farmers are keeping records of deaths and have kept the government in the loop. “The disease reached our state 4-5 months ago, but till date, not a single culling has been done and not a single rupee given as compensation.”Neighbouring states have also banned the import of pigs from the state and added to the woes of the industry.Assam had the highest pig population--2.1 million--in the country, according to the 2019 livestock census.Assam Livestock Development Agency sectoral officer Jagannath Kalita said nearly one million people are directly or indirectly involved in pig farming in Assam. “On an average, piglets and pork valued at over Rs 500 crore are bought and sold in Assam every year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/african-swine-fever-hits-assam-s-piggery-sector-government-orders-culling-of-pigs/story-V0DhJ4643hblBhyTY7UjFK.html
26-09-2020||Jaipur||Fulfilled 252 of 501 promises in public manifesto: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said the Congress government led by him in the state has fulfilled 252 of 501 promises made in the public manifesto and the work on other 173 manifesto items was under process despite some delays caused by the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.“Out of 501 announcements, 252 have been completed. In addition to the declaration, many new programs and schemes were implemented from time to time,” Gehlot said. The CM added that after accepting the public manifesto as a policy document, the government is aware of the promises made in it and is making sincere efforts to implement them.The manifesto review meeting, held at Gehlot’s residence, went for over three hours and was attended by state ministers, an MP from Punjab, Dr Amar Singh and Chhattisgarh home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, who is also the chairperson of All India Congress Committee’s manifesto implementation committee. Gehlot told the meeting that 173 promises made in the manifesto are under process. He added that the progress of some works has been partially affected by the Covid-19 epidemic but despite the adverse economic conditions, the state government is committed to complete all the announcements in a timely manner. Also Read: ADB approves USD 570 mn loans for urban projects in Rajasthan, Madhya PradeshThe CM said that the achievements of the state government should be taken to the people on a priority basis. The state government is making efforts to resolve the problem of shortage of sand (bajri) due to the ban on mining of river sand and is also attempting to make it available at a reasonable price. Also Read: Demand to fill unreserved posts with SC candidates: Violent protests continue in Dungarpur, around 30 arrestedTamradhwaj Sahu appreciated the Gehlot government’s efforts and suggested a regular review of the projects promised in the manifesto. The state ministers informed the meeting about the progress of projects, including those in the public manifesto, related to their respective departments. On October 2, the party will make a public declaration of Rajasthan government’s achievements .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/fulfilled-252-of-501-promises-in-public-manifesto-ashok-gehlot/story-9oLNLD9zFKqGzqBlSaUGcO.html
26-09-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s new cancer hospital is ready, Rajnath Singh to inaugurate: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday declared that a new cancer hospital with modern facilities was ready in Lucknow and will soon be inaugurated by defence minister Rajnath Singh.The CM’s statement was made during a review of development works in Lucknow division that comprises Lucknow, Hardoi, Lakhimpur Kheri, Rae Bareli, Sitapur and Unnao districts. He asked officials to target keeping Covid-19 positivity rate under 4 percent and death rate below 1 percent. He said there was a need to pay special attention to controlling the infection in Lucknow.“Improve recovery rate. Testing of those in high-risk groups should be prioritised. The government has appointed new senior nodal officers for 16 districts, including Lucknow. The Lucknow nodal officer would begin coordinating for Covid-19 control from Saturday. There’s a need to pay special attention to control the infection in Lucknow,” said the CM.Yogi asked for better activation of Covid Level-2 hospital in Unnao and said it should lead to an improved recovery rate. He said the state government has made an elaborate plan to provide safe drinking water to villages with high arsenic and flouride content. He asked officers to install piped water for such villages if necessary.Also Read: Migrants helping beautify Ganga ghats in 7 east UP districts The CM asked for increasing Covid surveillance in Hardoi. Talking about Lakhimpur Kheri and the Tharu tribal community, Yogi said their huts should be managed by women self-help groups.He said completing development projects in time with desired quality was important. “The quality of works should be such that they become symbols of public trust,” he said. The CM also asked for better upkeep of cow shelters and development of local spots of tourism importance. Lucknow projectsYogi said of the total 37 projects in Lucknow, each worth between Rs 10 crore and Rs 50 crore, 10 were complete and work was on a fast track for the remaining 27 projects. Also Read: Put up posters of sexual offenders at road crossings: Yogi tells copsThe development projects for the capital city include construction of a 200-room hostel for married professionals, ophthalmology block and medicine and kidney transplant centre at SGPGI; a transit hostel for nurses and a boys hostel at KGMU and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia state administration and management academy at Chak Ganjaria.Other projects include construction of a multilevel parking at the Lucknow bench of high court and a velodrome at Guru Gobind Singh Sports College apart from the development of the second phase of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-s-new-cancer-hospital-is-ready-rajnath-singh-to-inaugurate-yogi/story-v5PzAxn5roZ3IKp0SU5ssI.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||As Punjab farmers extend rail roko till Sept 29, railways to decide on trains this evening||The farmer outfit spearheading the rail blockade in Punjab to protest the passage of the farm bills has not only extended its agitation till September 29 but also brought the state’s Doaba region in its ambit. “We have extended the rail roko till September 29 and will decide on the future course during our meeting on Monday,” Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee president Satnam Singh Pannu said on Saturday. Buoyed by the response in the state’s Majha and Malwa belts, the rail blockade is being rolled out in the Doaba belt, he said. Activists will sit on rail tracks in Jalandhar, Batala, Tanda and Mukerian junctions to register their protest. Scores of committee supporters are camping at Basti Tanka Wala in Ferozepur under Pannu’s leadership since Thursday. Activists have put up tents at the protest site near Ferozepur cantonment station. The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) also announced to start protests by blocking tracks in Bathinda on Saturday. Union spokesperson Jasveer Singh said the dharna is on at Goniana, Bhai Bakhtaur, Sagat and Rampura Phul in the district. RAILWAYS TO ASSESS SITUATION The Ferozepur railway division, which cancelled 28 passenger trains in Punjab in view of the farmers’ three-day rail roko protest from September 24 to 26, will take a call on resuming services on Saturday evening. Ferozepur divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said a decision will be taken after assessing the situation. “So far, there is no report of damage to any railway property by the protesters. Any loss of business revenue can be assessed only after the railways resume services,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-punjab-farmers-extend-rail-roko-till-sept-29-railways-to-decide-on-trains-this-evening/story-4O225QbijvXsDXSGQbvH1L.html
26-09-2020||City||Ludhiana’s toll crosses 700, tally past 17k||With seven more deaths, Ludhiana’s Covid toll crossed the 700-mark on Friday even as the cumulative count of cases reached 17,159 with 185 new infections. So far, 15,033 persons have recovered from the virus while 1,421 cases are still active. The dead include a 61-year-old female from New Star City Colony, a 37-year-old male from Mohi, a 45-year-old from Dhandari Khurd, a 60-year-old male from Mundia Khurd, a 72-year-old male from Partap Chowk, a 65-year-old female from Guru Gobind Singh Road and a 60-year-old male from Doraha.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that sincere efforts are being made to keep people safe from Covid-19. He said that a total of 218 patients (185 new patients from Ludhiana and 33 from other states/districts) have tested positive in the last 24 hours. He further said that till date, a total of 2, 53, 334 samples have been taken, out of which, reports of 2, 51, 345 samples have been received, and 2, 32, 133 samples were found negative. As many as 1, 989 samples are pending, the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-toll-crosses-700-tally-past-17k/story-Ua9f1AU6B9qdn0Auprh1MN.html
26-09-2020||City||Farmers’ rage spills on to streets||Scores of farmers took to the streets on Friday to air their anger against the contentious farm legislations, passed by the Parliament earlier this week, and blocked state and national highways for over eight hours as part of a nationwide agitation. The Ladhowal Toll Plaza, on National Highway-44, which was the epicentre of the protest in Ludhiana, was blocked with tractors between 9am to 4pm, leaving the commuters hassled. Police personnel remained on their toes, trying to divert the traffic towards the Sidhwan Bet Area.Besides farmers, others involved directly or indirectly with the agricultural sector, including small businessmen and arhtiyas, joined the protest and shouted slogans against the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government.Interestingly, youngsters outnumbered the elderly, and marched through the roads, holding black flags and demanding the roll back of the new farm legislations. Many were even seen chanting “Wahe Guru Ji Khalsa, Wahe Guru Ji Fateh” as they marched on. Some others were seen serving water and tea to the elderly who had come for the protest. A sizeable number was also seen capturing photos and videos of the protest and uploading it on social media platforms.Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s nephew, Prof Jagmohan Singh, who addressing the gathering, said, “Earlier, the farmers’ protest was considered a protest by the elderly, but today, youngsters have outshined the old. If youngsters continue to support the protest, then the government will be compelled to withdraw the bill.”Rail Roko from October 1 Addressing the gathering, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Balbir Singh Rajewal announced that farmers’ unions will lay siege to the railway tracks from October 1 and stop the movement of trains for an indefinite period if the legislations are not rolled back. He said, “If the Centre does not agree to our demands, we will ask Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to call a special assembly session and pass an act in the state to stall the implementation of these draconian laws.” BKU general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said, “The country is being sold to corporate houses, which are taking over the Food Cooperation of India (FCI) also. We had asked the government to provide us a copy of the legislations but it was not shown to us. We are going to translate the legislations in Punjabi so that farmers can understand how the Centre is planning to rob them of their land.” ‘Bollywood drugs issue being raked up to divert agitators’Meanwhile, the agitators rued that the government was trying to divert attention from real issues, such as those of the farm sector, by raking up the Bollywood drug issue. Amarinder Singh of Sadhugarh village in Anandpur Sahib, who returned from United States (US) to join his father in progressive farming, said the concepts of contract farming have failed badly in the US and Europe. “Now, the same concept is being implemented in India which is going to completely ruin the farming sector of our state. As we are protesting, the government is diverting the attention by raking up the silly issue of Bollywood celebs taking drugs,” he said. Mahinder Singh Grewal, a progressive farmer who has been honoured by PAU on several occasions, said the Centre is misguiding people. “Earlier too, farmers could sell their crop anywhere in the county through National Agriculture Market (eNAM) and other methods. And many farmers are still doing contract farming. With the new Act, the corporates have got more power to hoard the crop as the law has also been made favourable for them and there is hardly anything to benefit the farmers,” said Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-rage-spills-on-to-streets/story-vFDaCGxNAOZHXHKPGtvvjI.html
26-09-2020||City||Dera Bassi building collapse: Deceased owner booked||A day after a commercial building under construction collapsed in Meera Milli Mohalla, Dera Bassi, police on Friday booked its dead owner for causing death by negligence. Police have booked Hardev Singh, 72, who, along with three labourers, had succumbed after the two-storey showroom came crumbling down.While Hardev was rescued alive, he had died during treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32.The labourers, Gopi Chand, 60; Raju, 46; and Ramesh Sardara, 45, all hailing from Bihar, however, had died by the time rescuers reached them under the rubble. The deceased showroom owner was booked on the complaint of Raju’s brother Suniya. “The owner was using old material and failed to take necessary precautions that led to the collapse of the building, killing my brother. He had come to Dera Bassi for a better life, but now I am taking back his body,” he said. The bodies of the labourers were handed over to their kin after autopsy at the Dera Bassi civil hospital on Friday. MC officials said Hardev had got the building plans approved in March. The showroom was coming up in place of a house owned by a family, hence, he had been working to get the approval to convert the house into a commercial building since 2000. ALSO READ: Beyond FIRs, probes, no action taken in similar cases in the pastA preliminary report by the Dera Bassi MC building inspector had attributed the collapse to old material and faulty sanitary fittings used in construction, while structure stability and load-bearing capacity were also ignored. A magisterial inquiry by the Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa has already been ordered by the Mohali deputy commissioner.Notice to adjacent building’s ownerThe municipal council (MC) has issued a notice to the owner of the building coming up adjacent to the collapsed structure to stop construction work till the inquiry is completed. “The owner has also been directed to get a structure stability certificate and other inspections done before resuming work,” said Jagjeet Singh Judge, MC executive officer.Besides, the owner of a house adjacent to the collapse site has also been asked to vacate the premises, as his building had developed a crack. “The owner has been directed not to stay in the house till the repairs are carried out as the structure is now unsafe,” Judge said. Survey of old buildings In the wake of the collapse, MC has decided to undertake a survey of all unsafe buildings in the town. “All buildings older than 50 years will be inspected, and demolished if found unsafe, after notices to their owners,” the EO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-bassi-building-collapse-deceased-owner-booked/story-YEhGritGIbTlCubiYxrDEI.html
26-09-2020||City||Dera Bassi building collapse: Beyond FIRs, probes, no action taken in similar cases in past||The collapse of an under-construction commercial building in Meera Milli Mohalla, Dera Bassi, that killed four persons including the owner on September 24, has once again brought to fore the failure of the authorities to act against those who take safety lightly.Aside from magisterial probes and FIRs against builders or promoters, nothing was done in similar incidents that happened over the years.On April 12, 2018, too, a three-storeyed building under construction had collapsed in which 12 flats were being constructed, with four on each floor. Former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had got an FIR lodged saying the builders did not have a valid licence for construction.ALSO READ: Owner, three labourers die in Dera Bassi building collapseNo casualties were reported. However, the matter was eventually brushed under the carpet with no progress beyond the registration of the FIR. Three employees of the Zirakpur municipal council, who had been suspended, were later reinstated.After the incident, the civic body had started preparing a list of housing projects that had not obtained completion and occupancy certificates, but nothing came of it. The builders had managed to get all requisite clearances and permissions pertaining to the construction of the building later and the construction was completed. The flats were completed at the same site and were sold, and now the owners are living in those flats.Even in the collapse of a three-storeyed building with a basement at Sante Majra village on Kharar-Landran road, in which a JCB operator was crushed to death while digging the basement, no action was taken.The seven-page inquiry report completed by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) had indicted the builder and contractor, equally, for the mishap. The inquiry report had found that the basement had been dug up beyond the permissible limit and sanctioned depth, which had exposed the foundation of the adjacent three-storey building leading to the collapse. The builder had also failed to inform the municipal council before digging up the basement.On October 19, 2019, three labourers were injured after a portion of a commercial building being constructed in violation of norms had collapsed at Peer Muchalla in Zirakpur. The building is owned by Makhan Lal Bansal, who has a shop of tyres in Sector 28, Chandigarh, and is a resident of Sector 7, Panchkula. The preliminary probe had revealed the building was to house showrooms and had permissions for just one floor, but no action was taken beyond the inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-bassi-building-collapse-beyond-firs-probes-no-action-taken-in-similar-cases-in-past/story-kmD8L3Z59LKQjJk2Bea4cP.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government plans facelift for Gateway of India||The Maharashtra government is planning to revamp one of the most popular tourist destinations in the country — the Gateway of India. In its upgradation and renovation plan, the state is looking to give an introduction of the financial capital of the country at the site. The government has roped in conservation architect Abha Lambah, who has prepared three proposals for the revamp. The revamp will include the integration of the monument’s conservation, facilities for tourists, crowd management and security upgradation.Despite being one of the most visited monuments, there is no proper infrastructure for site management or facilities for visitors at Gateway of India. “The design has been made to integrate all the requirements, such as creating right facilities and infrastructure, while ensuring visual access to visitors, so that they can see the Gateway of India, the sea and will get a chance to see the imposing statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, which is currently lost in all the visual clutter. The revamp will give a kind of introduction to the city and to Maharashtra. The plan also incorporated the security and risk assessment. In all, it is an endeavour to look holistically to all the concerns,” Lambah told HT.The maintenance of the site and area around it is divided among various agencies. For instance, the structure and the 100-metre area near it come under the state archaeological department, while the jetty and boating area is under the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT). The area outside it falls under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).To deal with the jurisdiction issues, the state government on Friday constituted a committee of senior officials from the BMC, the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB), the state archaeological department, MbPT and the police department. The committee will be headed by Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, state tourism department, and finalise the model and help in executing the revamp plan. “We will conduct a proper upgradation and renovation of the whole Gateway of India precinct. The committee has been formed because there are so many agencies involved in it and thus a unified approach was needed. It is more like an executive committee in which everyone has to pool in their resources. It will approve the plan and all the agencies will then execute the part that falls under their jurisdiction,” said Singh. Apart from the proposed make-over plan, the tourism department has also planned to hold a sound and light show at the site. “It will be the most modern sound and light show and will be based on different themes related to the history of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the Marathas, the freedom movement and many more and will keep changing every week,” she added.In February, state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray had a meeting with deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar, in which the development and conservation of 22 tourist sites, including the Gateway of India, was discussed. The finance minister had also assured requisite funds for the development and maintenance of these sites.The state government on September 7 had approved developing a jetty and passenger terminal near Radio Club in south Mumbai to facilitate boat rides to Elephanta Island, Alibag and Mandwa. The project will help in decongesting the existing jetty and passenger terminal at the Gateway of India which sees 30-35 lakh passengers every year. The MMB has said it will be start the tendering process for the ₹100-crore project soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-plans-facelift-for-gateway-of-india/story-nXE5UWHDhZwZUW2MjRspzK.html
26-09-2020||City||Chandigarh surpasses 11,000 mark, Mohali logs six Covid deaths||City’s Covid-19 tally breached the 11,000 mark on Friday with 244 residents testing positive for the virus.However, rising steadily since the advent of September, the Covid cases are showing a slight decline. While it took just three days for the tally to jump from 9,000 to 10,000 on September 20, the cases reached 11,212 on Friday after five days. Earlier, even the spike from 8,000 to 9,000 cases was recorded on September 17 within three days.In more good news, as many as 1,539 patients were discharged from hospitals, Covid care centres and home isolation over the past five days, taking the total recoveries to 8,342. This brought the number of active cases down – from the record 3,171 on September 16 to 2,390 on Friday. Since the first case was reported on March 18, September accounts for 59% (6,662) of the total cases and 61% (89) of the fatalities reported in the past six months. 55-year-old woman is UT’s 145th fatalityA 55-year-old woman from Sector 56 became Chandigarh’s 145th fatality on Friday.According to health officials, she was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, and died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Among the 244 new infections reported on Friday, 141 were males and 103 females. The maximum cases (24) surfaced in Manimajra. Mohali’s toll reaches 179; 237 test positiveAs many as six Mohali residents died from Covid-19 on Friday as 237 new cases surfaced, taking the district’s tally to 9,368.The virus has so far claimed 179 lives in the district. Friday also saw 326 patients being discharged, bringing down the active cases to 2,603. A total of 6,586 people have recovered so far. Among the deceased is a Lalru woman, aged 70, who died at GMCH, Patiala, and a Banur man, aged 50, who died at PGIMER, Chandigarh. The latter also suffered from heart disease. A 65-year-old woman from Issapur, suffering from diabetes, died at Indus Hospital, Mohali, while a 57-year-old man from Mubarikpur died at PGIMER. A 61-year-old hypertensive woman from Kharar and a 59-year-man from Nayagaon also died at PGIMER. The man was suffering from liver disease as well. The positive cases include 77 from Mohali urban, followed by 46 from Kharar, Gharuan 40, Dhakoli 37, Dera Bassi 19, Kurali 6, Lalru 5, Banur 4, while Boothgarh reported three cases. Panchkula records one fatality, 121 new casesPanchkula confirmed its 77th fatality and 121 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. The district now has 5,550 cases, of which 1,196 are active and 4,277 have been discharged. Health officials said the deceased, a 49-year-old man from Bir Ghaggar, also had diabetes and hypertension. Among the 121 new cases reported, 88 were from Panchkula city, while the remaining were from Rajiv Colony, Pinjore, Mansa Devi Complex, Marranwala, Kharak Mangoli, Karanpur, Kalka and Bir Ghaggar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-surpasses-11-000-mark-mohali-logs-six-covid-deaths/story-wuEwV9YDfgepNK72wp8QbK.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Ruling partners Congress, NCP say they will not implement farm bills in Maharashtra||Two ruling parties in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi-led government — the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — announced that they will not implement the farm laws in Maharashtra which were passed in Parliament early this week.Deputy chief minister (DyCM) and NCP leader Ajit Pawar said the farm bills, as well as the labour bills, will not be implemented in Maharashtra. State revenue minister and Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said that all ruling parties are against the newly-enacted laws and the decision of not implementing them in the state will be taken collectively after due deliberation.The Congress and NCP supported the nationwide protest by farmers to oppose the three farm bills passed by Parliament early this week. Various farmer organisations including Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, Lok Sangharsh Morcha held marches, blocked highways, burnt copies of the bills and formed human chains in at least 21 districts in Maharashtra on Friday in opposition of the bills. The farmer organisations have announced plans to intensify their protests if the bills are not withdrawn by the Central government. The third ruling party in Maharashtra, Shiv Sena is yet to clear its stand on the issue, though it has been criticising the Central government over the bills.While speaking in Pune on Friday, Pawar said that not only the farm bills but even the amendment in labour laws passed in Parliament early this week, will not be implemented in Maharashtra. “These bills were passed in haste. We are studying the legalities of the bills and will take a call to not implement them in the state,” he said. His cabinet colleague and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said that all the ruling parties are against the anti-farmer laws. “We have been opposing them tooth and nail. We will discuss the laws to take steps against their implementation in the state,” he said.Shiv Sena, the prime ally in the MVA government in Maharashtra has not yet clarified its stand on the bills. The party had invited criticism by Maharashtra BJP leaders for its “hypocritical stance” for supporting bills in the Lok Sabha and walking out of the vote in the Rajya Sabha. “The issue will be discussed in the coordination committee of the three parties. Our stand this time was similar to the one taken during the CAA debate in the Parliament early this year. But on farm issues, we would not support the bills and their implementation in Maharashtra. The stand will be clarified in due course,” said a Sena functionary, requesting anonymity. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana led by former MP Raju Shetti burnt copies of the bills in Kolhapur.“Shetkari Sanghatana has always been against the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) and our leader, the late Sharad Joshi used to call these committees ‘abattoirs’ of farmers. However, we do not endorse the way the existing system of farm produce marketing is being thrashed out by the Central government. This is nothing but an attempt to make farmers slaves in the hands of industrialists,” Shetti said. He described it as a step towards privatisation of the Food Corporation of India and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed), which purchase about 30% of the farm produce.Ajit Nawale, general secretary, ABKS said that protests were held in 21 districts of the state by farmers. “At least the farmers have some mechanism in place to market their produce at a reasonable price in the form of APMCs today. The bills passed in Parliament are the first step towards handing over farm marketing to a few industrial houses that will decide the prices of the produce. Though the Centre has been claiming these bills are a way to free farmers from the clutches of APMCs, the government has freed itself from the responsibilities of fair and remunerative prices to farmers. In Maharashtra, the Fadnavis government had brought bills to regularise APMCs, but it could not set up an alternative mechanism to the APMCs to give farmers remunerative prices for their produce. It was a failed attempt,” he said.Farmers from Thane, Palghar, Nashik held ‘rasta roko’ protests on national highways including Mumbai-Jaipur-Delhi disrupting the traffic for some time. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Congress announced a programme to be implemented over the next five weeks to oppose the farm bills. The party has announced plans to organise a drive on social media to garner support against the bills, virtual farmer rallies and to gather signatures from 1 crore farmers opposing the bills.Senior Congress leader HK Patil, who was recently appointed as Maharasthra Congress in-charge, said in a press conference in Mumbai, “Under pressure from big industries, the [Narendra] Modi government passed the farm and labour bills which will uproot and destroy farmers and workers in the country. The bills will bring back the feudal zamindari system in the country. The laws should be immediately repealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ruling-partners-congress-ncp-say-they-will-not-implement-farm-bills-in-maharashtra/story-RA4Ex3lldUSE2SrLJdQuvJ.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Special cells at Maharashtra Covid-19 facilities to deal with sexual abuse cases||The state government on Friday issued a government resolution (GR) directing authorities to set up a cell at all Covid facilities to deal with cases of sexual abuse against women. The decision has been taken in the wake of the recent string of complaints of sexual abuse at a few Covid-19 facilities in the state.The GR issued by the public health department has mandated special cells at all Covid care centres, dedicated Covid healthcare centres, dedicated Covid hospitals, jumbo centres and quarantine centres across the state. The cells will be equipped with a woman medical officer, nurse and the equipment required for preliminary tests to conduct on the victim. The authorities have also been directed to provide police assistance, legal help and counselling to the victim following the guidelines issued by the government in 2015 and 2019, according to the existing laws including Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Dr Sadhana Tayade, director, directorate, health services, has been appointed as the nodal officer for such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/special-cells-at-maharashtra-covid-19-facilities-to-deal-with-sexual-abuse-cases/story-t6eAXPA7iM8JEhW6yygisI.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education department fixes time slots for academic consultation at government schools||After the first week of schools opening for academic consultation for classes above 9, the UT education department has now issued fresh instructions for all government schools to maintain uniformity in the timings.As per the instructions, two sessions will be conducted each day Monday onwards. The first session will be held for board classes 10 and 12 between 9am and 11.30am; the second session will be held for classes 9 and 11 from 12 noon to 2.30pm.This comes after it was observed that while some schools were opening at 9am, some were opening at 10am, and there was no one guideline on how long the session had to be. Many teachers were complaining that they were having to take classes for more hours than those in other schools.All government schools will now be open from 8.30am to 2.30pm, and the principals/heads/in-charge of each school will have to come in daily, sit for the entire duration to make sure all norms are being followed. Also, 50% of the teaching staff will be called for this duration, however, the timetable will be designed in a way that teachers visit on alternative days.Teachers of middle and primary schools, however, will also have to come in even though students below Class 9 haven’t been allowed to come to school, yet. They will provide online classes when present in the school. Teachers who are unwell and take more than three holidays in a row will have to get a medical certificate.DEO asks teachers to encourage studentsAs per sources, 950 students showed up at government schools on Monday, but the number dipped to 500 over the week. Teachers have been asked to motivate more students to come in the coming days by the district education officer (DEO).The rules are meant only for government schools; private schools will remain open as per the standard operating procedures issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “From Monday onwards, students of classes 9 and 11 will be given a slot for the first time. They will be allowed to come to school with a printed copy of consent from their parents.”Chairman of Vivek High School, Sector 38, and president of the Independent Schools Association, said, “We receive only two to four students in a day, so there is no point having slots like this.” He added that students were coming to the school after 2pm after attending online classes in the morning.Director of Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, Atul Khanna said they had not received even a single student for academic consultation all week, but will wait for students to start coming before any slots are designated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-fixes-time-slots-for-academic-consultation-at-government-schools/story-YuyKWIq1NfSYkeABtFBXAP.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Centre sanctions 80 electric buses for Chandigarh||In a big push to electric mobility in the city, the central government on Friday sanctioned 80 electric buses for the city under Phase-2 of the FAME India Scheme.Under the scheme, the central government will provide a Rs 50-lakh subsidy for each bus to the seller.“Chandigarh was initially not included in this phase. But, UT administrator VPS Badnore wrote to the Centre with a request to include it. The transport department also followed this up with the government,” said Uma Shankar Gupta, director, transport, UT.The buses will give a major fillip to administration’s plan to replace all ordinary buses with electric buses. The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking has around 400 buses in its fleet, and nearly half of these are nearing the completion of their operational life.Notably, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent revenue loss, the administration last month had stalled the purchase of 40 electric buses even after floating a tender.The transport department had planned to get the buses running by September. UT had decided to purchase the buses in June 2019 after the Union government refused to finance them. “We will have to study the parameters of the scheme after we receive a formal letter from the government. We will see whether we can proceed with the tenders for the 40 buses,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/centre-sanctions-80-electric-buses-for-chandigarh/story-Ktx2DVu6S9xSTtKRWYnarM.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Worms found in patients’ dinner at Kalyan centre; contractor pulled up||Patients admitted at a Covid centre in Kalyan were shocked to find worms in their dinner on Wednesday night. After the matter came to light, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) authorities have given a notice to the food supply contractor seeking an explanation.Insects were found at the Covid centre set-up at a high-rise in Kalyan. Kamlakar Indulkar, a Kalyan resident and Shakha Pramukh of Shiv Sena was admitted at the centre on September 21 after testing positive for Covid-19.“I was not feeling well for three-four days, so I carried out the test at Rukmani Bai Hospital in Kalyan and was tested positive. The authorities themselves suggested to get admitted in the Covid centre,” Indulkar said.“On Wednesday night after we received dinner, I was shocked to see worms in it. I thought it was only on my plate. But later everyone from more than 20 wards started complaining about the same. We approach the management and complained about the contractor,” added Indulkar.Sanjay Jadhav, secretary, KDMC, said, “We had given notice to the contractor and asked him for an explanation for the bad food quality. We will take action. The dinner was distributed to around 40 patients on a single floor on Wednesday night. As soon as the insects were found, it was returned. Within an hour we re-arranged dinner for the patients. The hospital has around 700 patients and we see that proper food reaches them on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/worms-found-in-patients-dinner-at-kalyan-centre-contractor-pulled-up/story-g4Z5A3RqesikFWVEnbzYwJ.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Kangana’s office razed: Do you show same swiftness in demolishing other unauthorised structures, HC asks BMC||The Bombay high court (HC), while questioning the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on whether it has acted with the same swiftness in demolishing other unauthorised structures, asked why section 351 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, which stipulates granting sufficient time to the owner to explain about completed unauthorised work, was not invoked. The question was asked to BMC after the court was informed by actor Kangana Ranaut’s counsel that there was no ongoing work on the premise when it was detected and inspected by the BMC’s mukadam and officer on September 5 and 7, respectively, yet section 354 (A) of the Act which pertains to ongoing work was invoked. The court has further asked BMC to produce the phone of the mukadam who detected the unauthorised construction in the bungalow of actor Kangana Ranaut on September 5 to verify whether photographs of the alleged ongoing unauthorised alterations and additions were taken based on which the inspection of the bungalow was prompted on September 7. While arguing that the demolition undertaken by the civic authority was out of malice, senior counsel Dr Birendra Saraf submitted that no actual construction work was going on at the time of the inspection by the executive engineer on September 7. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice RI Chagla, while hearing the petition of Ranaut which sought a stay on the demolition undertaken by BMC at her Pali Hill bungalow on September 9 and compensation of ₹2 crore for the damage caused during the demolition, was informed by Dr Saraf that the unauthorised alterations and additions as alleged by BMC in its notice were completed in 2019. Dr Saraf submitted that the same could be proved by photographs of the pooja held by the actor at the bungalow in January 2020. He submitted that as Ranaut was a public personality, and had taken to social media to criticise the government on its handling of various issues, she was targeted by Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut. Dr Saraf added that the demolition was prompted at the behest of Raut as she countered and confronted him on social media. Pointing to various discrepancies in BMC’s September 10 and 17 affidavits filed in response to the actor’s petition on September 9, Dr Saraf submitted that there were a lot of contradictions in BMC’s stand, and hence, it should be asked to provide details of the detection, inspection and stop-work notices issued as well as show evidence of actual work going on. Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy who represented BMC along with advocate Joel Carlos, submitted that the contentions being raised by Dr Saraf were not done earlier which showed that the actor was trying to improvise as she had not denied the unauthorized alterations and additions pointed out in the BMC notice. Chinoy further said that while only two demolished toilets were open to the sky the rest of the demolition was internal. After hearing the submissions and going through the evidence submitted by the actor and BMC, the court observed that advocate Pradeep Thorat’s client (Sanjay Raut) had indeed done what he said (Ukhad Diya). The bench then sought to know why demolition was done on the ground floor when there was no ongoing work and asked the BMC to give details of the workmen who were allegedly carrying out the alterations when the premise was inspected. The court then asked both parties to argue their cases in a time-bound manner and keep their written submissions ready so that hearing could be expedited and posted the matter for hearing on Monday, September 28 at 11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-s-office-razed-do-you-show-same-swiftness-in-demolishing-other-unauthorised-structures-bombay-high-court-asks-mumbai-civic-corporation/story-9wZMUryrfgnRrFc3aK3kpJ.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Rise in toll rate by Maharashtra govt irks commuters in Thane||Commuters and residents from Thane are irked with the state government notification that toll rates will increase at Anandnagar toll plaza along the Eastern Express Highway and LBS Marg, Mulund from October 1.The one-way toll for a passenger car, which is ₹35, will increase to ₹40. In the pandemic situation, when commuters have to rely heavily on the roadways, this increase will bore a major hole in their pockets, claimed Thane residents.The state government has issued a notification revising rates for toll recovery at the entry points to Mumbai on Thursday. Shashikumar Nair, chairman of Yatra Samiti, Thane, said: “During this pandemic, when the local trains are not available for the common man to travel on a regular basis, the government should have avoided the hike in toll. It is always the residents of Thane who have to bear the pinch of the toll. Pressurising the common man seems to be the aim now.”During elections, the main agenda of all political parties was to resolve the toll issue for the residents of Thane. Residents took out various campaigns as well in the past protesting the toll.Kasber Augustine, citizen activist, said, “Thane residents have to bear these unjust tolls for a long time, it is an added burden for citizens during the pandemic. The least that they could do is to consider giving a return pass. Citizens are cooperating with the government during the pandemic. In return, these are small ways in which the government can reduce the burden, and most are travelling during this period as they do not have much option.”Jayant Mhaiskar, chairman and managing director of MEP Infra that manages the toll, said, “The toll rate revision is part of a process that takes place every three years as per ruling of the High Court in 2002. As per the notification, we will be implementing the same. It is not introduced newly but a sacrosanct rate. We have already started the process to implement RFID at Vashi toll naka. The same will be implemented at Mulund-Thane toll naka as well gradually. This will also help ease the traffic congestion caused due to toll collection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rise-in-toll-rate-by-maharashtra-govt-irks-commuters-in-thane/story-Ast2wqleKsOdFTnfzCc66H.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Testing to be increased as Covid-19 cases on the rise in Diva||In the last one week, the number of cases in Diva has been on the rise. However, only a team of 31 people are deployed to trace and track the number of positive cases here, as per the Thane Municipal Corporation data.On the request of the residents, TMC has now agreed to conduct antigen testing within housing societies in Diva as well.“Despite festivities, people were following the social distancing and isolation norms. However, since the Unlock Mission has started, we found huge crowds outside and people were also stepping out frequently. This may have led to the rise in cases this month. Moreover, unlike earlier, there are a few TMC officers visiting Diva nowadays to test or trace despite the rising number of cases,” said Adarsh Munde, 38, resident of Diva.Since the onset of the virus, till last week of June, Diva saw less than 10 cases on a regular basis. A slight spike was noticed post August and containment zones were given special attention. The cases started dipping from August second week till first week of September. A spike is noticed again now. Diva currently has a 1.5 per cent growth rate of positive cases.“We have initiated antigen testing in housing complexes in Diva. This will help us understand if there are any particular pockets that have a rising number of cases. This has been started with the aim to provide timely treatment and to be able to trace those with high risks,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner.In this initiative, the civic body is collaborating with committee members of housing complexes and providing testing facilities at the doorstep. In order to identify pockets with spike in cases or any trend, this initiative has been started by the civic body.“Initially, along with Mumbra, we focused on Diva as well. We created awareness and extensive testing, included fever clinics as well to ensure detection rate was high. As the numbers decreased, our focus remained on the containment zones. With increased movement, there could be a rise in cases. So, we are taking different methods to ensure timely treatment and tracing of high-risk contacts,” said a senior TMC officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/testing-to-be-increased-as-covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-in-diva/story-ejtGdaSjjRUIQ5MiOsLN8L.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Around 2,500 hawkers apply for loan under PM SVANidhi scheme in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has started implementing the Prime Minister’s Street Vendor Atmanirbhar (SVA) Nidhi scheme of the state government.The scheme offers up to ₹10,000 as working capital loan to hawkers. The scheme was introduced by the central government following the loss of livelihood suffered by the hawkers due to the lockdown in Covid pandemic. The scheme will be available for hawkers in the city who worked prior to March 24 when the lockdown was announced.Abhijit Bangar, NMMC commissioner, said, “Hawkers who are facing financial issues have little to spare for purchase of goods and commodities to do their business. We are promoting the scheme to help them get that amount to re-invest in business. Everyone from streets vendors, hawkers, handcart owners can benefit from the scheme. The loan is for purchase of vegetables, fruits, ready food articles, bread, eggs, tea, footwear, clothes, handicrafts, stationery, pan stalls and books among others.”NMMC officials said that around 2,500 applications have been received so far by the civic body, of which 423 have asked for recommendation letters.Hawkers who have been issued identity cards and also those whose survey have been conducted but have not been issued the licence can apply under the scheme. Those who worked as hawkers prior to March 24 but were not covered under the survey will require a recommendation letter from NMMC.As per the scheme, the loan will be given for a period of one year and has to be returned in instalments. Those who repay the loan in time will be eligible for additional loan. A grant of 7 per cent interest will also be deposited in their accounts quarterly. Online payments will attract cash back incentive for the hawkers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/around-2-500-hawkers-apply-for-loan-under-pm-svanidhi-scheme-in-navi-mumbai/story-oWo4nHzouE0D9uUdtKUkqN.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown woes: Panvel RTO suffers Rs130 crore revenue loss||With 75 per cent dip in vehicle registration, the Regional Transport Office (RTO) of Panvel, under whose jurisdiction the Deputy RTO offices of Panvel, Pen, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg come, has faced a loss of Rs130.19 crore revenue during the lockdown period.The RTO office earns its revenue from registration of vehicles, issuing licences, renewing licences and fines collected by the flying squad of the department.“During the lockdown period, the registration of vehicles went down drastically. As the automobile industry was shut, none made new purchases and hence there was no registration happening. The licence renewal and issuing new licenses had also taken a back seat due to complete lockdown,” Panvel RTO Gajanan Thombare said.From April 2019 to August 2019, 20,581 new registration of vehicles was done whereas during the same period in the year 2020, only 5,014 registrations were done taking the registration of vehicles down by 75 per cent.Thombare added, “The number of vehicle registrations are slowly increasing and we hope to get more number in coming months. With an economic crisis going on, there are chances that the registrations might not match up to last year’s monthly numbers.”In 2019, the number of two-wheelers that got registered in these five months were 12,055 and 4,261 four wheelers while this year, it came down to 2,726 and 1,860, respectively.The revenue earned by the Panvel, Pen, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg Dy RTO offices under Panvel RTO in 2019 during the five-months-period was Rs200.66 cr while this it came down to Rs70.47 cr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-woes-panvel-rto-suffers-rs130-crore-revenue-loss/story-Kjctqy3c4R3hruRcpLBUlO.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Bhiwandi police arrest AIMIM leader for extortion||The Thane Crime Branch Unit 1 have arrested Bhiwandi AIMIM (All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen) leader, Khalid Guddu, 47, from Bhiwandi, for allegedly extorting a businessman at gun point for ₹1.25 lakh. Three of his accomplices, too, have been arrested in the case.Police laid a trap and nabbed the accused red-handed. Bhiwandi city police have registered an extortion case against Guddu. According to Thane crime branch officials, the Bhiwandi-based builder is a resident of Bhiwandi. Guddu was allegedly demanding ransom to avoid any problems in his new construction projects going on in Bhiwandi.The accused allegedly kidnapped the victim in September 2019 for money for upcoming Assembly elections but he later released the victim. Guddu had allegedly taken more than Rs20 lakh from the victim.Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, R Shinde said, “According to a complaint, we laid a trap outside Guddu’s house. We arrested Guddu red-handed while accepting ₹1.25 lakh. A case is being registered at Bhiwandi City Police Station for extortion and abduction among other sections. Further investigation is going on. On Friday, he was produced in the court.” There are a total of 23 cases registered against Guddu under various police stations including cheating, forgery, attempt to murder and kidnapping amongst others. The accused Guddu was earlier a corporator and was contesting the state election from Bhiwandi (W) constituency but lost. AIMIM, general secretary, advocate Amol Kamble said, “This is completely a political trap as 2022 corporator elections are ahead. In CCTV footage, it has clearly shown that complainant himself went to the Budrunisa bunglow in Bhiwandi. He can see speaking to Guddu’s other team members as this complainant had some issue and they wanted to solve it. This is completely fake case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-police-arrest-aimim-leader-for-extortion/story-dyysyyTn3pqxYeKtNzxnHJ.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Trio arrested in Navi Mumbai for robbing pedestrians||The Rabale MIDC police busted a gang of three who robbed bikers and pedestrians, threatening them with a screwdriver. Following their arrest, police recovered a bike that the trio used in the crime along with nine stolen mobile phones worth ₹1.01 lakh.According to the police, the accused men have been identified as Abbas Shaikh, 20, Mohammed Taufiq Ansari, 20, and Tabrez Shaikh, 18, -- all residents of Mumbra, Thane. The trio were loitering in Navi Mumbai area, specifically in Panvel, Taloja and Turbhe areas, which are deserted by late evening.Taking advantage of fewer people on the road, the trio would venture out along the roads to identify unsuspecting targets in the late evening hours. The three accused would ride triples on a motorbike while one of them would often be armed with a screwdriver, said the police.The accused would target bikers and pedestrians by blocking their path with their two-wheeler.“While accosting their targets, they would brandish the screwdriver in front of the victims, threatening to hurt them and demand money and their phones. Often, the accused would also snatch pedestrians’ phones while they are using it while walking,” said Anil Patil, inspector at Rabale MIDC police station.The men had been actively robbing people in the city for the last five months, officials said. The latest incident was reported in Rabale MIDC area, where they robbed a biker after blocking his path with their two-wheeler. They then threatened him with the tool and snatched his phone and cash worth ₹11,000.The police later traced their bike to an address in Mumbra, following which the trio was nabbed from their houses. The accused were arrested last week and have been remanded in police custody.While police have recovered nine mobile phones, officials are tracing the owners and are probing to ascertain how many other phones have been robbed. Officials said the men also sold off a few phones and investigations are under way to recover the phones already sold by them.Police said one of the accused has an attempt-to-murder case against him and multiple cases of robbery. Another accused in the group has several cases of thefts against him at a few police stations in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trio-arrested-in-navi-mumbai-for-robbing-pedestrians/story-RggeMV9a1dIrla8L6DBrvK.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body begins screening at Thane-Belapur industrial belt||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has started Covid testing in the Thane-Belapur industrial belt. The initiative, taken up for the first time, will enable the testing of the thousands of workers and management personnel working in the MIDC belt. People from all over Mumbai come to work in the industries here. Limited number of employees are allowed based on the Covid norms.Civic chief, Abhijit Bangar, said, “It is very important that those who come to work here in the belt are tested for Covid. Hence, we have initiated a special drive wherein our staff will go to the premises of the industries and test the employees. We have initiated antigen tests in the past two days along with RT-PCR tests of those found symptomatic. Several persons have been found positive in the antigen test and they have been immediately isolated.”Bangar added that those industrial units that want to get their employees tested should register with the office of MIDC Navi Mumbai Regional officer Satish Bagal.“Bagal has been designated as `Incident Commander’. The information of those registered with him will be sent to NMMC health department and a special camp will then be held in the premises of that unit. All units in the industrial belt are requested to register themselves and get their employees tested to enable safer working conditions and to prevent the spread of the virus in the region,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-begins-screening-at-thane-belapur-industrial-belt/story-kUO3L6N5qmaomPZAmaUewI.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Test our residents for Covid-19, high-rises tell Thane civic body||With the increasing number of cases in plush residential complexes, many housing societies in Majiwada-Manpada ward are requesting the civic body to conduct antigen testing or RT-PCR tests within their societies.The high rises along Ghodbunder Road, Balkum and Tikujiniwadi among others are seeing increased movement with relaxation of lockdown rule. A constant 1.6 per cent growth rate of positive cases in these areas within Majiwada-Manpada ward has made the residential complexes more aware about the spread of the virus.Madhu Menon, president, Hiranandani Estates Residents Welfare Association, said, “We have around 102 buildings in our society and have detected more than 340 positive cases in 36 buildings till now. Among these, 80 per cent of the cases are in the last two months. We set up a RT-PCR testing unit within the club house for the benefit of the residents; it is a voluntary testing facility that started a month ago.”The Thane Municipal Corporation has deployed a team of 232 people within the Majiwada-Manpada ward to test and trace the rising number of cases.Sagar Malve, chairman, Haware City, said: “Although we have made provisions for a thermal gun and oximeter at all entrance gates of our society, we have requested the civic body to make provisions for antigen testing within our society as well. As many residents step out for job or business purposes and travel through public transport, we have made this request for the good health of our society members.”Since the last fortnight, the daily positive cases are above 90 in this ward. This is the highest in any ward in Thane city as of now. The highest daily number witnessed by Majiwada- Manpada ward was on August 14 at 133. The numbers had started decreasing after that but a spike has been noticed again in the cases this month.Anuradha Babar, Assistant municipal commissioner, TMC, said: “Travelling and exposure have increased among people. With many residential complexes within our ward, we have been conducting medical camps. Besides, there are many societies that come forward requesting for antigen testing. On a daily basis, we conduct around 400 antigen tests and 200 RT-PCR tests. Moreover, residents also individually visit private laboratories to conduct testing.”This ward has four containment zones as of now. “There are no particular factors or trends in these increased positive cases, the details are discreet. However, we are taking continuous efforts to ensure the chain is broken and all high risk contacts are in isolation at the earliest through tracing,” added Babar.Majiwada-Manpada ward consists of high rises and huge residential complexes that were following strict protocol since the lockdown began. It was only after the unlock mission began that people started stepping out. Dr Santosh Kadam, president, Indian Medical Association, Thane Chapter, said, “After Unlock 4 on August 31, people have started stepping out to visit malls, shops, run errands and also getting back to jobs and business. Till then, the high rises or residential complexes were well safe guarded with isolation provisions in flats. It was easier to maintain social distancing. Now, people are fearlessly stepping out and as they come in contact with others the numbers are increasing. We have most hospital beds full.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/test-our-residents-for-covid-19-high-rises-tell-thane-civic-body/story-omwwhAu5fMqqPIfEN6mMLL.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||No new construction within 100 metres of Air Force boundary wall, says Thane civic chief||The Thane civic commissioner, Dr. Vipin Sharma, has issued a notice that henceforth no new construction, developmental work or structure will be allowed 100m from the boundary wall of the Air Force premises in Kolshet. Also, a No Objection Certificate from the Air Force will be required for any civil, beautification or developmental work.The Air Force authorities had drafted a letter to the Thane civic commissioner in February this year requesting him to implement these directions as per the Government of India Gazette notification of 2010. The notice, though, will be applicable to the constructions henceforth in the Air Force area, there is still the question of those constructions that have already come up in the area all these years.The question of constructions mushrooming closer to the Air Force base in Kolshet area of Thane (W) is pending for the last many years. Though there is a rule that constructions should not be allowed 100m from the outer wall of the Air Force permises, the rule was violated in the city.In a letter addressed to the corporation, the Air Force authorities have said, “There is an Air Force base and a helipad for landing of helicopter in the premises due to which the security here needs to be tightened. With respect to this, no construction activity should be allowed in 100m from the boundary wall of the base.”The commissioner has issued a public notification banning construction activity here. Sharma said, “No building or structure shall be constructed, created or erected 100m around outer boundary wall of Air Force base in Kolshet. Activities like digging, road work, drainage work, planting trees or beautification work will also require an NOC from the Air Force.” Sharma said a plan mapping the 100m area is also released.He added, “We do not give permission to any construction activity in this restricted area, only those structures on Gaonthan land are given permission for repairs. Henceforth, the notification will also prevent any new construction in the area.”Thane-based activist Sanjeev Dutta said that the directives are delayed as most constructions have already come up in the area.He said, “I have raised the issue six to seven years ago repeatedly with the corporation. However, no action was taken. There are many constructions in the 100m area at present due to corporation’s unwillingness to implement the rule all these years. They cannot axe these constructions as most people have bought homes from their hard-earned money. This rule might just stay on paper.”Mayor raises questions Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske has drafted a letter to the corporation questioning the fate of those constructions that have already come up inside the 100m radius.He said, “The commissioner should give clarity if the rule is several years old or if it is a recent development. If the prohibitory orders are old, then the corporation needs to take a decision on the existing constructions. How were permissions to all these constructions given if this rule has already been in place for almost a decade?”Mhaske has also asked for a list of constructions that were permitted since the rule came into existence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-new-construction-within-100-metres-of-air-force-boundary-wall-says-thane-civic-chief/story-ivkrvmNfRNEIXxxkgd4DgM.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University asks students to vacate hostels amid mounting Covid cases on campus||As the number of Covid-19 cases among students and staff mount, Panjab University authorities have asked students residing in hostels to vacate the premises.A communique put out to the hostel wardens by the office of dean student welfare (DSW) states, “The situation has (is) already alarming and it is difficult to cope with it….All the hostel wardens are advised to inform the parents of students (except international students) currently staying here to call their wards back home till the situation becomes normal. There is also the problem of their safety and arranging food, and in case of any mishap, the university authorities will not be responsible.”DSW professor SK Tomar said some students and two hostel staffers had been found infected. “In such a situation, it is better for the 80-odd students living here to return back home and come back after the situation is stable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-asks-students-to-vacate-hostels-amid-mounting-covid-cases-on-campus/story-8YMTh58jEMPYZvxXvUT64K.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena’s Saamana hits out at ‘attempt’ to ‘discredit Mumbai’s film industry’||Saamana, the mouthpiece of Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena, on Friday hit out at a “systematic attempt” to “discredit the film industry” to ensure that prominent film personalities living in Mumbai leave. In an editorial, Saamana said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several states have used the same film personalities when it suited their needs. It added a “picture” was being painted to show all major film stars are drug addicts and grow ganja in their homes.“Is such an environment being created so that the cinema industry and the personalities working in it leave Mumbai? This speculation is gaining ground. In a systematic fashion, a picture is being painted that the actors, directors, cinematographers, etc have left acting and become drug addicts and leaving art, they have started farming ganja and afeem in the galleries, and balconies of their homes,” the editorial said.The editorial comes as the Narcotics Control Bureau has summoned prominent actors in connection with its probe into the case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.It said the “mudslinging” is going on to discredit the industry. “Prime Minister Modi and several states have used the artists of this film industry for [enhancing] their political status. In Gujarat, Modi and Salman Khan were flying kites. Amitabh Bachchan was the brand ambassador of Gujarat. Modi had given the responsibility of teaching people how to eat mangoes to Akshay Kumar. Vivek Oberoi has made earnings from the film made on Modi, and Anupam Kher on the film made on Manmohan Singh.”The mouthpiece said attempts were being made to “finish off” the Mumbai industry as Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced a film city in his state. It added that the idea of starting a film city is good but running it is hard as several studios in Mumbai are facing tough times.The editorial said Mumbai as a film city will always stay relevant. It said the Centre should have thought of starting a film city in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-s-saamana-hits-out-at-attempt-to-discredit-mumbai-s-film-industry/story-s4Wwgi1zZ7ht8upOKDND8M.html
26-09-2020||City||Maratha reservation: State government taking well-thought-out measures, says Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to the Maratha community to remain calm, as the government was taking “well-thought-out” measures on the reservation issue. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis has assured support to the government, stating there will be no politics on the issue. The two, Thackeray through video-conferencing and Fadnavis, were speaking at the annual Mathadi meet held to mark the 87th birth anniversary of Annasaheb Patil, the founder of the Mathadi movement. Maharashtra’s cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil, former minister and MLA Ganesh Naik and Mathadi leader Narendra Patil, who is also the chairman of Annasaheb Patil Arthik Vikas Mahamandal, among others, were also present. For the first time in the past 38 years, the meet was held in closed premises of Mathadi Bhavan with limited attendance and telecast online due to pandemic restrictions. Addressing the Mathadis, who primarily belong to the Maratha community, Thackeray said, “We have appealed to the Supreme Court on the Maratha reservation stay and deployed the best of lawyers for it. No stone will be left unturned. We have also taken some decisions in the cabinet to give relief to the community till the stay is vacated. We are taking all measures and decisions within the parameters of the court ruling so that there is no contempt of court. I appeal to the Mathadis and also the rest of the community to stay calm.” Stating that the Shiv Sena and Mathadis can together be a major force, Thackeray said, “Attempts are being made to malign Mumbai. Shiv Sena workers and Marathas fight like men and can together face it all. Balasaheb and Anna Saheb Patil couldn’t come together, but Narendra Patil and I will definitely work together always and show what our strength can do.” Fadnavis said, “The Maratha Reservation Act that we brought in was even approved by the high court, which said that the state government had the right to make the Act. We want the Maratha community to get justice and the state government should do all it can to get the stay vacated. We will fully support the government on it.” On the concerns over the farm bills, Fadnavis said, “Misinformation is being spread on the bills by vested interests. The Acts do not call for the end of APMC. They are just ensuring that it does not have a monopoly and the farmers have options to progress and there are more investments in godowns, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-reservation-state-government-taking-well-thought-out-measures-says-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray/story-yDYrIZr4OyXOfYjkelgkcP.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Andheri, Borivli, Malad are new Covid hot spots in Mumbai||Six months into the Covid-19 pandemic, the city is witnessing new hot spots with Goregaon, Borivli, Mulund, Kandivli, Dahisar and Malabar Hill reporting a growing number of cases. These areas now comprise almost 40% of the total active cases in Mumbai. Till June, G North ward (Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim) had the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Now, the hotspots have are in Borivli, Andheri (West), Malad, and Andheri (East), which have more than 11,000 cases at present. Data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows recent spikes in the Covid-19 growth rate in Bandra, Borivli, Andheri and Dahisar. H West ward, which covers Bandra (West), recorded the highest spike of 1.71%, followed by R Central ward (Borivli), with 1.55%; K West ward (Andheri), with 1.41%; and R North ward (Dahisar), with 1.34%. BMC attributes the spike to increased testing. “Cases are directly proportionate to the number of tests. So, as we aim to conduct the highest number of tests, we have ramped up testing,” said additional municipal commissioner, Suresh Kakani. For example, R Central ward is conducting around 1,000 tests daily and has tied up with private labs to collect samples for rapid antigen testing in door-to-door surveys. “Our positivity rate has gone from 21% in July to 18.2% in September, which is a good sign,” said Kakani. However, experts point to relaxation and violation lockdown norms as well as the recent gatherings for Ganeshotsav. Swapnil Tembwalkar, corporator from Goregaon, said, “Industries are opening up, which is attracting a large number of migrants from the neighbouring states. Thus, we are settling up testing facilities in several industrial areas.” BMC has conducted over 1,050,000 tests for Covid-19, including rapid antigen and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. Almost 30 lakh people who were among close contacts of infected patients have been traced. Since end-August, BMC has increased its daily testing figures from 5,000 to an average of 12,000. Rapid antigen tests, which deliver results within 30 minutes, comprise almost 50% of the total daily testing in the city. The civic body’s data suggests 60% of the new cases are from high-rise buildings. To reduce the spread of the infection from low-income areas, BMC has advised caution while allowing domestic help to return to work. With the upcoming festival season, BMC expects Mumbai will cross 2.20 lakh cases by October 2. Experts raised concerns about careless behaviour among the public. “People aren’t wearing masks or following social distancing which can cause a surge during Navratri next month,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital and chief coordinator between private hospitals and BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/andheri-borivli-malad-are-new-covid-hot-spots-in-mumbai/story-1kRe2JfPN2iXNlvY9CCjZO.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||J&K logs 21 deaths, 1, 218 virus cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 21 deaths and 1,218 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory to 69,832.As many as 576 people tested positive in Kashmir while 642 cases were reported from Jammu. As many as 1,478 people were discharged from different hospitals, taking the overall recoveries to 49,557, which account for a recovery rate of 70.9%. The UT’s recovery rate has been increasing for the past five days. Since September 21, as many as 8,600 patients have been discharged against 5,842 fresh infections.There are, at present, 19,170 active cases in J&K. A total of 15.13 lakh tests have been conducted in the UT so far.A government spokesperson said 805 people were discharged in Jammu division and 673 in Kashmir on Friday. Of the total, 34,757 were cured in Kashmir and 14,800 in Jammu division. Officials said that 21 more people have succumbed to the disease in the UT. The death toll has reached 1,105 in the UT with 811 cases in Kashmir and 294 in Jammu.So far ,402 persons have died due to the Covid in J&K in September while August recorded 326 fatalities. As many as 276 persons died in the month of July and 101 persons were claimed by the disease between March 25 and June 30. The death toll had crossed the 500-mark on August 13 and 1000-mark on September 20. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 224 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 64. In Jammu division the highest cases were recorded in Jammu district at 240 followed by 61 in Doda.Srinagar is the worst affected district with 14,024 cases and 281 deaths. Jammu district is at number two with 11,387 cases and 159 deaths. The active cases in Jammu district are 4,327 while there are 2,182 active Covid patients in Srinagar. Till date, 5.61 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 14,482 in home quarantine, 19,170 in isolation, and 48,752 under home surveillance. Besides these, 4.77 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-logs-21-deaths-1-218-virus-cases/story-Iq81XK0olLviEfVhKz2sVK.html
26-09-2020||City||Reservation row: Marathas set to take to the streets again in Maharashtra||Four years after the rape and murder of a girl from the community spurred Maratha protests in Maharashtra, leading to a separate quota for the dominant caste, it is yesterday once more in the state. Upset with the apex court’s interim stay on their reservation in education and jobs, the Maratha community has decided to take to the streets once again to protest the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government’s “apathy” in handling the litigation. In phase one, the silent Maratha morchas led by lakhs of members took the previous Fadnavis government by a storm. The Maratha protests 2.0 could similarly spook the Thackeray-led government, which is already battling the Covid-19 pandemic. The 2016 protests had culminated in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government passing a Maratha reservation bill in 2018, promising the community 16% reservation in jobs and education. The Bombay high court had upheld the state law, but sought a reduction in the quota to 12% and 13%, in jobs and education, respectively. Earlier this month, this quota was stayed just as admissions to colleges were being carried out, even as the petition was forwarded to a larger constitutional bench. Maratha community leaders have blamed the Thackeray-led government for not being alert enough to avoid the interim stay. They also suspect and claim the state government versus the Centre tussle has led to this legal face-off. “The community is angry. This government was not alert enough. To add to this, within two days, they announced the recruitment of 12,000 police constabulary. What message does that send to our community? The state education minister did not even wait for the written judgment and stayed the entire admission process following TV announcements,” said Virendra Pawar, a Maratha leader. Pawar also blamed the Central government versus MVA face-off indirectly. “They (the MVA) should take the BJP into confidence and ensure the stay on our reservation is vacated. The other promises made by them post the stay, including granting the community reservation within EWS, are problematic and not legally tenable,” he added. Meanwhile, the Maratha Kranti Morcha, umbrella organisation, which had led the protests earlier, is back in action. So far, decentralised small protests have been held across the state, including in Mumbai. On September 27, a mega protest, ‘Akrosh Andolan’, has been planned in Pune, where the community will protest outside homes of politicians across parties. The community has also threatened a state-wide agitation on October 10, if its various demands, including a stay on all recruitments and completing admissions of students already granted seats, are not fulfilled. Plans to protest have not been called off, despite a plea by Thackeray to avoid demonstrations during the pandemic. State public works minister Ashok Chavan, who also heads a ministerial sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said, “We are going to safeguard the interests of the Maratha community even while we abide by the apex court. We will accommodate them within 10% EWS quota. At the same time, we have moved for revocation of the stay by the apex court. We are also making sure various existing provisions for the community such as scholarships for higher education and seed money for Maratha entrepreneurs are strengthened.” Maratha youngsters are, however, not placated. Pooja Zole, a young Maratha activist with Maratha Kranti Morcha, said youngsters feel the community is being betrayed again. “Our community protests have been going on for 30 years. In 2014, too, we were given reservation, which got stayed. Now, just as admissions are in progress, an interim stay has been imposed. We feel our community is used for politics of vote,” said Zole. She said the community did not care about politics and would target all who made irresponsible statements against Maratha reservation. While the BJP has said it is with the government on the issue of Maratha reservation, the state unit of the party has not held back from blaming the MVA for the current scenario. Chandrakant Patil, state president of BJP, said, “We brought out a reservation bill for the community, which was endorsed by the HC. But this Aghadi failed to represent even that bill properly in the SC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reservation-row-marathas-set-to-take-to-the-streets-again-in-maharashtra/story-2hqFQxKg0aajYMxFdNe7AP.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: This Smart City has no home for people with mental health issues||Le Corbusier stated in his Statute of Land that Chandigarh would be a city offering all amenities to the poorest of the poor to lead a dignified life. It’s time we included people with mental health issues in this list and helped them lead a dignified life even when their families are not around to help them. The provision of a daycare cum home for adults is not a luxury but a necessity and as per the new Mental Health policy 2017 -- a fundamental need. We can start small in one of the under-utilised buildings with the administration. The families of residents could pool in funds, nursing students and medical interns could be employed as a part of their training. Charities, NGOs and sponsors under CSR could help families in need of financial support.Deepika Gandhi, Chandigarh A long time resident of Chandigarh, I am the father (and the only caregiver) of a person with mental illness. I am now nearly 80 years of age and suffering from multiple health problems. I know firsthand the pain and anguish of parents of persons with disability. The Chandigarh administration must pay heed to the following: UT adviser Manoj Parida has said, “In Chandigarh, we have no land,” for a home and that “one needs at least six acres of land. That will not be necessary as according to estimates the land requirement for five small group homes for 10– 15 residents each of 1,000 square yards per unit would be just one acre. The city has quite a few vacant plots in different sectors, which are designated for public use as per the Chandigarh Master Plan. These have been lying unused for the last 50 years. The administration needs to move fast. Old parents suffering from several ailments during the Covid pandemic no longer have the time for land allocation, budgetary provisions, policy formulation, building and then starting the group homes. Amitava Das, ChandigarhChandigarh has a large population of retired personnel. Being confined indoors because of the pandemic situation and having no social contact can have a negative effect on the elderly. This results in mental stress and other problems. There are numerous instances of children unable to care for their elders. One, therefore, needs an old age home in the city, with facilities for mental healthcare. HS Puri, ChandigarhI as well as my sister are married and settled in the US. Our parents live in Chandigarh with our 40-year-old sister who has mental health issues. She is stable and can function normally with some help from mental health professionals, community and our parents, who are 79 and 76 years old. Both are cancer survivors. My father has an advanced form of cancer and is currently on heavy medication. My mother also has several old age related issues. The entire family worries about my sister. I feel that the UT administration should understand the situation of families like us. We do not need any financial subsidy from the government and will be happy to pay the full monthly living and treatment expenses. What we do need is a physical setup conducive to good quality living within the city. I will also volunteer to raise money for residents who happen to be poor and can’t afford to pay.Roma Batra, USAThe Chandigarh administration should consider setting up care homes at the earliest as there are a number of families requiring urgent help. Staff for the homes, including psychiatrists, social workers and clinical psychologists can be hired from among students graduating from the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. Suitable, unused houses in the city should be identified and converted into group homes. Everything depends upon how important the problem is for the authorities. Gurpreet Singh, ChandigarhThere are many elderly persons who suffer from depression and anxiety as their families do not care for them. Living in care homes with others like them and enjoying facilities and entertainment options will definitely bring them happiness. These facilities should be run under government supervision for better maintenance. Youngsters and others from the city can also volunteer to provide services here and help the inmates. Sumindar Kaur Saini, MohaliAddressing the needs of marginalised groups and ensuring their well being reflects a supportive social structure, which addresses everyone’s needs when it comes to providing equity and accessibility. Adults having mental health problems need to be taken care of. The needs of such individuals can be ascertained by the caregivers and the administration. Dr Guneet Singh Assi, ChandigarhAdults with mental disorders need round-the-clock care and support, which can be very taxing for a caregiver such as an elderly parent. Often, people suffering from Alzheimer’s, dementia, autism, obsessive compulsive disorders etc go missing from home and keep wandering around as they are not able to recognise the dangers of the outside world. Sadly, in many such cases they are unable to tell their names and addresses to people wanting to help them. Families too often abandon people with mental health issues. To provide care to such people the UT must get medically equipped sheltered homes with trained caregivers to provide a happy and healthy environment to them.Sangita Rai, PanchkulaThe administration should provide spacious, clean, comfortable and assisted living for a collective family (connected by pain) of people with various mental health challenges and ensure they live a dignified life. Every kind of assistance should be provided to the inmates to help them with day to day living, medical treatment, health and wellness programmes and also recreational facilities like sports, indoor games, movies and books. A spacious home with facilities for exercising should be available and trained paramedics, psychiatrists and experts in psychosocial behaviour should be on call. Compassion and empathy without judgement should be available in abundance in such homes.AartiChandigarh is home to more than 13% population above the age of 18 years of age that’s suffering from various mental disorders such as depression, anxiety, alcohol abuse, OCD and stress. However, the problem is that this percentage is likely to be higher considering the fact that there is no proper system of diagnosing mental health issues, especially among the lower strata of the population. Whatever care homes are available in the UT are already overwhelmed due the recent Covid-19 pandemic as many more people are being gripped by depression and other socio-psychological illnesses. The UT administration should take the help of professional agencies in running the existing care homes and also increase the capacity to accommodate more persons with different types of mental health issues.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhUT adviser Manoj Parida has done well to identify the building of Cheshire Home in Sector 21 for setting up a group care home and DART building in Sector 32 as half-way home for the mentally challenged. These facilities can be looked after, initially, through a public-private partnership with NGOs and subsequently handed over to them. An advisory committee comprising eminent citizens and representatives of the stakeholders should also be constituted to supervise all work. Local citizens can organise a volunteer corps to look after the needs of the inmates. Local businesses can be co-opted to donate money for operations of the homes. People associated with Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and ASHA can go to the homes to teach inmates. Streamlining the provision of health insurance and income for the occupants through government legislation will also lessen the financial burden on such homes.Lt Col GS Bedi (retd)I am the caretaker of an adult woman with mental health issues. I feel the city should have a home where persons with mental illness and intellectual disability can be housed on campus along with all the support staff such as social workers and counsellors. We must take into consideration the different care needs of the residents as also their paying capacity. There should be various categories of assisted living facilities taking into account the variation in socio-economic capacities of families. A team of mental health professionals from prominent hospitals in the city and social workers/ NGOs can be formed to chalk out a management plan. Funds can be raised through individual donations and CSR.Balvir Kaur Grewal, ChandigarhSomething can be done along the lines of the Arche communities, “a worldwide federation of people, with and without learning disabilities, working together for a world where all belong.” It started in 1964 in France, when the founder welcomed in his home two men with disabilities, and has grown into a network of 153 communities, spread over 38 countries and five continents. It’s not a political or religious movement and even less a commercial undertaking. Parents-carers, young volunteers with an ideal, retired nurses or social workers help the sick and weak. Forty to 50 members live together and share everything: Chores, meals, production of objects in workshops. There’s no separation between patients and medical staff; everybody helps according to his capacity and accepts the other as he is, and if love is patience, it must abound in these homes. Eric ArnaudI am the mother of a 50-year-old son with mental health challenges who is totally dependent on me and my husband. We are worried about his future. Last year I was one of the signatories in the list of 70 persons given to the UT administrator for assisted living care homes in the city. We have been requesting the administration to consider accommodating us in Indira Holiday Home. These challenged adults who have suffered so much in life. They need help and succour in their middle and old age.Pammi Lamba, ChandigarhThere is definitely a need for a home for those facing mental and emotional challenges. As humans we express our dharma or creed of belief though opportunities of support for the vulnerable. Many places in Chandigarh are under utilised and face neglect. There are several community centres, some designated as banquet halls, areas demarcated for commercial activity that have not been used, and several places that are open if a new building is to be set up. The administration should look at more options for setting up a home. Kamal Malhi, ChandigarhAs a modern, post-Independence city, Chandigarh is uniquely placed to move beyond individual silos and uphold the spirit of healthy community living. It has been blessed with adequate open spaces and best of civic amenities to accommodate those with special needs. The administration can rope in non-profit organisations such as YMCA and Servants of the People Society which have large premises comprising buildings and lawns. Manu MoudgilThe population of seniors living by themselves is increasing in the city. The hospitals send you home after surgery. For the rehabilitation period a person needs assisted living. In the absence of such facilities (which people are happily willing to pay for), one is left at the mercy of domestic helpers and semi-trained attendants, even give them access to their homes. If we have medium-term rehabilitation facilities for adults, and long-term assisted living for early dementia patients, even daycare, people can enjoy a better quality of life and safety for much longer and their families can get some relief. The administration should focus on recruitment, training, and management of the staff for a network of such facilities across the city, not just one.Unita Vasishta, ChandigarhA state-of-the-art facility should be developed where a lot hands-on work/craft etc should be developed so these adults can enrol in various different vocations as per their choice. Other basic requirements are: Structured schedule, which includes self-care and house maintenance activities at fixed times of the day, leisure time utilisation and money management. A homely atmosphere to make the residents feel comfortable is essential. Residents can also do domestic chores if they want. There should be medication compliance, relapse prevention and crisis management. Emphasis should also be laid on improvement of mental and physical health. Activities such as gardening, reading, writing, nature walks and yoga should be encouraged. Recreational activities such as sports, films, music and group excursions should be organised.Gagan (Liza) Chawla If today a five star hotel is to be built, the administration will have enough space for it even at the cost of green belts, but for care homes the authorities will come up with a hundred and one excuses. Adults with mental problems too have the right to live. If there is no one left to take care of them, then it is the duty of the government to look after them. When officials can spend lakhs of rupees on renovation of their government bungalows then why can’t they spare funds for the welfare of persons with mental problems and other senior citizens?Inderjit Singh Sidhu, MohaliA person with mental challenges could have other co-morbidities too and might get violent or become unmanageable. To rehabilitate such a person is a real need. However, starting the process to remove physically challenged persons to accommodate the mentally challenged (as happening in a home in the city) shows the callous and limited thinking of the administration and social welfare department. And then to label the national and international wheel chair cricketers as “encroachers” – the very same people who have been fending for themselves for years with the help of NGOs and donors is a reflection of the state’s attitude toward special ability. Sharmita Bhinder||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-this-smart-city-has-no-home-for-people-with-mental-health-issues/story-827b53e1iaQSvvNgOH65gK.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kargil war hero’s kin set up hospital in his memory||The family of Captain Saurabh Kalia, who was killed in the Kargil war, has built a multi-specialty hospital at Dadh, around 15 kilometers from Dharamshala, in memory of the fallen solider.The hospital, Capt Saurabh Kalia Memorial Kaydee Hospital, was inaugurated on Friday. The family collaborated with Dr Vivek Gautam, whose father was also an officer in the Indian Army, to set up the hospital. Captain Kalia’s father, NK Kalia, said the hospital will cater to the needs of villages within a radius of 10-12 kilometers of the Chamunda Shrine.People in the area have to go to Palampur, Dharmshala, Kangra or Tanda Medical College in case of an emergency. The hospital aims to provide affordable treatment at par with quality standards. The medical team will be headed by Dr Vivek Gautam.“Initially, the out patient department (OPD) and facilities such as general and laparoscopic surgery and urology OPD, along with radiology services, including ultrasound and x-ray, have been made functional. A basic well-equipped medium-level laboratory and 24-hour emergency services are also available,” said NK KaliaTo provide holistic care and promote the traditional and scientific Indian system of medicine, a full-fledged ayurveda and panchkarma unit has also been set up. There are 18 inpatient beds and inclusive special private Rooms for post-operative care.Gradually, more services will be added with focus on orthopaedics, obstetrics and gynaecology and paediatrics, apart from upgrading the diagnostic facilities such as, CT Scan and mammography. The number of in-patient beds will also be increased, he said, adding that they intended to add super-specialty services such as neurosurgery and cardiology at the later stages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kargil-war-hero-s-kin-set-up-hospital-in-his-memory/story-qfStGEhYJKznW9HbmEw9hK.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Is Covid-19 pandemic over, Shiv Sena asks after Bihar poll date announcement||Shiv Sena parliamentarian and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut questioned the Election Commission’s (EC) decision to announce the dates for the Bihar Assembly elections amid the Covid-19 outbreak. On Friday afternoon, EC announced that the Bihar polls will be held in three phases – on October 28, November 3 and November 7 – and the counting of the votes will take place on November 10. He also alleged that the Centre and the Bihar government “directed” and “wrote the script” of politicising the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to use it in Bihar election. “The dates of elections are announced for a state like Bihar. So does it mean that the coronavirus [pandemic] has ended? If the rulers there and the EC think that coronavirus has ended and have thus announced the election dates, then they should tell so to everybody. I think this is the government’s decision; they will say that the EC is an independent body and elections will happen,” Raut told reporters on Friday. The Sena MP said that the country is facing an “unprecedented” situation owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and needs help from the government, not “black [indelible] ink on their fingers.” He added that if the decision to hold election during the Covid-19 outbreak was taken to get a government within a stipulated time, then the President’s Rule should have been imposed, like it was done in Maharashtra in 2019. “I do not think it is a hurried announcement, but they should have thought if the situation is suitable for elections,” said the senior party leader. When he was asked if the Sushant Singh Rajput case will be used by Bihar’s ruling partners, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal (United) in their campaign, Raut said that the coalition does not have issues of development to campaign on and therefore they will use the actor’s death. “The manner in which the Centre and the state government dragged the Sushant Singh Rajput case and practiced politics over it, the case will definitely be an election issue. Janata Dal (United) has already printed posters of Sushant Singh Rajput for campaigning. It is important to be seen that this is done because they do not have anything to say on development and good governance. Therefore, forcibly such issues are being used,” he said, adding that there is a sense of “anger” against the Nitish Kumar government. “In Bihar, the main political party is Lalu [Prasad] Yadav’s (Rashtriya Janata Dal). He is serving a sentence and is currently at a hospital for treatment. Congress party does not have a lot of presence in the state. In this scenario, will Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United and BJP contest one-sided elections? Nitish Kumar has been the CM (chief minister) for 24 years now and there is sense of anger against his government, which we know as anti-incumbency. But these things depend on how effectively the Opposition party stands against them in the election,” he said. Shiv Sena is expected to field a candidate in the Bihar polls and a decision on it will be made by Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray by Saturday, Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/is-coronavirus-pandemic-over-shiv-sena-asks-after-bihar-poll-date-announcement/story-t6mqwCEnnecg2PikbiP3oM.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB quizzes Rakul Preet Singh and Deepika’s manager in Mumbai||Actor Rakul Preet Singh as well as Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash on Friday joined the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) investigation at the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) guest house in Colaba. The agency is probing into the drug angle related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14. Singh was questioned for around four hours, while Prakash was at the NCB office for seven hours. Singh’s name cropped up during the interrogation of actor Rhea Chakraborty. Prakash was summoned after her name came up during the questioning of Rajput’s talent manager Jaya Saha, on the basis of chats submitted by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing the financial angle in the 34-year-old actor’s death.NCB deputy director KPS Malhotra said, “Singh and Prakash joined the investigation on Friday. NCB has summoned Prakash again for questioning again on Saturday”. Meanwhile, film executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad was taken for questioning to the agency’s office. Till the time of going to press, the agency had not concluded the questioning of Prasad and assistant director Anubhav Chopra. Prasad and Chopra’s name came up during the interrogation of Powai hotelier Ankush Arneja, an alleged drug peddler, who was arrested by NCB on September 13. NCB had recovered 42 grams of hashish and cash ₹1.12 lakh from his Powai home. Arneja is accused of selling drugs to high-profile individuals.One of the chats found by NCB revealed that Saha, Prakash and Padukone had allegedly discussed about procuring drugs, said officers. Padukone has been summoned for investigation on Saturday, added an officer. Actors Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan will also join the investigation on Saturday after their names cropped up in Chakraborty’s statements, the officer added. Meanwhile, WhatsApp has clarified on the “chats” being leaked for investigations and doing the rounds on social media and news channels.“WhatsApp protects your messages with end-to-end encryption so that only you and the person you’re communicating with can read what is sent, and nobody in between can access it, not even WhatsApp. It’s important to remember that people sign up on WhatsApp using only a phone number, and WhatsApp doesn’t have access to your message content. WhatsApp follows guidance provided by operating system manufacturers for on-device storage and we encourage people to take advantage of all the security features provided by operating systems such as strong passwords or biometric IDs to prevent third parties from accessing content stored on the device,” said a WhatsApp spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-quizzes-rakul-preet-singh-and-deepika-s-manager-in-mumbai/story-jfPISyvPnlffnvUJjenXeI.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-based private firm gives ‘discount’ on school fees, vigilant parents raise red flag||MumbaiSeveral parents from private schools across the city on Friday wrote to the state education department complaining against a private company which offered them “discounts” on school fees. Parents said they were approached by Pride Group, a private company that claimed to have tied up with the state government and promised to pay 50% of the fees on the behalf of parents. “The company said they would give us discounts depending on the fee that our school charged. In return, we were asked to pay ₹2,500 to the personal account of one of their heads,” said the parent of a Vile Parle-based school. Parents were also asked to submit several documents like the Aadhaar card, copies of their child’s school calendar, photographs, etc. Anil Sabale, deputy director of education for the Mumbai region, said the education department would give out a disclaimer on all its websites stating that it had nothing to do with this company. “We will do so after we see the complaints filed by parents. Meanwhile, we urge parents not to fall for such traps,” Sabale said. When HT contacted, Soni Shelar, a representative who had approached a few parents asked the reporter to speak to her office staff. An employee named Nazim, who identified herself as the manager of the company, said, “We do not have any recognition from the Central or state government. We are not an NGO or trust even and are only a private firm.” When asked about their funding model, Nazim said, “We have a mediator who does this work for us and parents are thus charged a processing fee.” She refused to comment when asked about the norms under which the company made such arrangements. As per the company’s website, it claims to be an “education centre in Mumbai” with its office based out of Bhendi Bazaar. As per the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fees) Act, 2011, private unaided schools can fix their fees. While the government has set a cap on extent of fee hike, there is no such provision for private companies to tie up with the government and schools to waive off students’ fees. Even scholarships offered by the Central and state government are for students from socially and economically backward classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-based-private-firm-gives-discount-on-school-fees-vigilant-parents-raise-red-flag/story-KBZLiphhGcE6cM0ThL08eO.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Over 800 DIET employees in Maharashtra await salaries since May||More than 800 employees working under the District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) have not received their salaries from the Maharashtra government since May. On Thursday, many such employees staged a silent protest in their respective offices.“We have not received our well-deserved salaries despite working throughout the lockdown. Many of us have EMIs to pay and bills to clear, but the government is not considering our situation. Despite making several representations, our file is still pending,” said a DIET employee.Officials from the state education department did not respond to calls and messages. A source from the state government said the delay in payments was owing to the delay in disbursal of funds from the Central government. DIET works with state governments in the area of curriculum development, teacher trainings etc. While 60% of the funding for its functioning comes from the Central government, the remaining 40% is from the state government. “Usually, the state would pool its own funds if there was a delay from the Centre. However, this time due to several decisions of the government with respect to capping of expenditures due to Covid-19 related costs, it has not done so,” said an official from the government.Most employees of DIET who are appointed through the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) said they have not heard from the government since the past two months. “A letter has gone to the government from the education department but there is no response,” added an employee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-800-diet-employees-in-maharashtra-await-salaries-since-may/story-p6BXCFrwTDLjvOXWcifIhI.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Fraudster uses Sonu Sood’s name to cheat; actor appeals to not believe such calls||Bollywood actor Vishal Lamba has lodged a complaint at Oshiwara police station against unknown cyber fraudster for allegedly cheating people in the name of actor Sonu Sood. Lamba, who is close to Sood, in his complaint, said that a person received a call from a fraudster who claimed to be Sood’s manager. The accused allegedly said if the person wanted help from Sood, he would have to deposit ₹1,700 into a bank account as processing fees. However, the fraudster stopped receiving calls after the man deposited the money, said Lamba. Sood said, “We are getting several complaints where such frauds are targeting the needy. They are taking anywhere between ₹800 to ₹10,000 in the name of helping them out. I have always been posting on my social media asking people to not believe such calls.” “I have even told these fraudsters, through my social media account, that if they are in need of money they can contact me and I will arrange a good job for them, and asked them not cheat the needy. In one such incident, a woman who was in need of an ambulance for her mother was asked to deposit ₹8,000 to ₹10,000 by someone who said that he was from my team. The woman deposited the money but did not get an ambulance, because of which her mother died. I came to know about it after the incident, and later we helped her,” said Sood. Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector from Oshiwara police station, said, “We have registered a case against the unknown person and started the investigation.” The case has been registered under section 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fraudster-uses-sonu-sood-s-name-to-cheat-actor-appeals-to-not-believe-such-calls/story-npHiymZuFLhfzqJzisPZGM.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Attendance of principals, vice-principals must till results: University of Mumbai||Days after the Maharashtra department of higher and technical education clarified that the 100% attendance rule for teaching and non-teaching staff of colleges is not compulsory, the University of Mumbai (MU) released a circular this week stating that staff involved in the upcoming examination session should be present in college as and when required. The circular dated September 22 also states that the principals and vice-principals shall be present every day from the date of commencement of exams till results of final-year (summer 2020) examination are declared.“During exams until the declaration of results, principals and vice-principals should not take leave, and teachers and other non-teaching staff involved in the exam and result process should be present at their respective institutes,” states the circular. It further reiterates the need for setting up a helpdesk at colleges to help the students solve their problems before and during the exams. “Every college will also upload sample question papers on their websites and conduct mock tests for students in order to ease them into the online examination pattern,” states the MU circular.On September 18, the state government released a government resolution (GR) asking for 100% attendance from all teaching and non-teaching staff of colleges to conduct the upcoming online exams for final-year students and ensure that results are declared in time. Teacher organisations from across the state shared their discontent with this move by the state government in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. Following complaints by several stakeholders including colleges, the government released a clarification on September 21 stating that 100% attendance is not binding on the entire staff, and that respective colleges or universities can decide how many of the staff, especially from the examination department, need to be present in order to ensure smooth functioning of online exams for final-year students.“The latest circular only reiterates the examination process to the affiliated colleges in case of any doubts. Though colleges have informed us that the examination process is running smoothly at present,” said Vinod Patil, director, board of examinations and evaluation, MU.While online exam for students with backlogs/allowed to keep term (ATKT) start from Friday, final-year exams for fresh candidates will take place between October 1 and 17. The government has stated that results for these exams would be declared by the first week of November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/attendance-of-principals-vice-principals-must-till-results-university-of-mumbai/story-35FzEMIFopz5I5Sbie8wsL.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Final-year ATKT exam begins; some colleges face technical glitches, others postpone exams||The much-awaited online exams for backlogs/allowed to keep term (ATKT) candidates commenced on September 25 in several city colleges. While the process was smooth-sailing for several institutes, a host of institutes experienced teething troubles and technical errors which eventually pushed them to delay the examination process by a few days. A suburban college had to suddenly postpone ATKT exams on Friday after experiencing technical trouble just before the exams began. “The format of the exam on the software was not as we had originally decided, so the papers had to be reformatted. Therefore, we decided to postpone the exams by a couple of days,” said the vice-principal of the college on condition of anonymity. She added that the postponement of exam was also suggested by the institute in order to avoid any form of technical glitches once the exams begin. Some colleges also chose to use more time to train teachers and students on the new format of exams that will be conducted online, and start exams for ATKT students next week. “Online exams is new for teachers as well as students, so we want them to be thoroughly prepared for the same before the exams begin,” said Sobhana Vasudevan, principal, RA Podar College, Matunga. She added that the college is currently busy conducting mock tests in every subject for their students before the exams begin. A circular released by the University of Mumbai (MU) in September specified that colleges would conduct the exams online in multiple-choice questions (MCQ) format. Another circular has also highlighted that all exams should be conducted by October 31 while the results for the same should be announced by the first week of November. All colleges affiliated to MU have been divided under cluster/lead colleges according to their geographical location, but there has been no clarity on part of the university on the software that colleges should use in order to conduct online exams. “This has created more confusion for colleges because under the same cluster, all colleges have been asked to use the same software for their exams. In our case, we are already using a different software which the other colleges don’t want to opt for. We are still trying to work around this before we start final exams,” said a senior professor from a south Mumbai college. “Since this is the first time that an exam of this level is being held online, that too in a new format, some colleges have faced technical glitches. We are in touch with them and have found out that most of them have managed to solve the errors and hope to conduct exams smoothly henceforth,” said Vinod Patil, director, board of examinations and evaluation, MU.Patil added that the university has created 94 groups of faculty-wise colleges in order to ensure smooth functioning of the backlog exams. “Students who cannot sit for the exams due to some unavoidable or technical reasons, will be given another chance to sit for the examination,” added Patil.Members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Friday carried out a protest at MU’s Kalina campus demanding better coordination and communication between the university and all affiliated colleges in order to ensure smooth functioning of online exams.Some colleges, however, managed to conduct ATKT exams as per schedule on Friday. St Xavier’s College at Dhobi Talao conducted the exams using Google Forms and also managed to ensure proctoring during the exam through the application Zoom. “The exam was conducted successfully, and we hope to continue rest of the exams in similar format,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal of the college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-atkt-exam-begins-some-colleges-face-technical-glitches-others-postpone-exams/story-7lKvmIgN7kw7wIV8YkdJ2L.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases past 1,300,000 in Maharashtra, fatalities near 35,000||Maharashtra on Friday went past 1,300,000 Covid-19 cases, with 17,794 fresh infections taking the tally to 1,300,757. The latest 100,000 cases came in five days, after the state had moved from 1,100,000 to 1,200,000 cases in four days — fastest rise of 100,000 infections so far — on September 20. The state also reported 416 Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking its toll to 34,761. According to the state health department, of the 416 deaths, 228 were from the past 48 hours, 106 are from last week and 82 from the period before last week.While the active cases in Maharashtra rose to 272,775, Friday witnessed 19,592 people recovering, taking the total number of recoveries to 992,806. The state’s recovery rate stands at 76.33%.Mumbai, meanwhile, repo-rted 1,876 fresh infections as its case count rose to 194,303, and an addition of 48 fatalities took the city’s toll to 8,706. Mumbai has 28,395 active Covid-19 cases.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who held a review meeting to assess the Covid-19 situation in Pune division and Konkan region, said easing of lockdown restrictions increased the threat of the virus spreading. Thackeray asked people to ensure they wear masks and maintain social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19.The Konkan region, which comprises of Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, has witnessed a surge in cases and fatalities in the past month. Senior health department officials said the movement of people from hotspots to Konkan region during Ganeshotsav in August was the primary reason for the increase in cases.Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg saw a rise of 78%, 124% and 237% in cases, respectively, between August 25 and September 24. During the same period, fatalities rose by 48% in Raigad, 163% in Ratnagiri and 331% in Sindhudurg. In terms of active cases, Sindhudurg had 463 active cases on August 25, which rose by 186% to 1,324 on September 24. In Ratnagiri, the active cases rose from 1,502 to 2,736, while Raigad saw a rise from 4,872 to 7,920.“We had anticipated a rise in cases after Ganeshotsav, but so far the increase is not so much that the districts would have difficulties in managing its patients. The district administration has been told to carry out rigorous contact tracing. As the region has poor connectivity, if the spike goes out of hand, it would lead to an increase in deaths,” said a bureaucrat, who was present at the CM’s meeting.Pune division, which includes Pune, Satara and Solapur districts, too, has seen a spike in cases during the past month. Pune district witnessed a 77% rise from 155,039 infections on August 25 to 274,421 on September 24. While Satara saw a whopping 213.18% jump in cases and Solapur had a 90.54% rise. “Keeping in mind the unlock process due to which the movement of people has increased and regular activities of people have started, the transmission is expected to increase,” said Thackeray, during the meeting, adding that public campaigns are needed to make people wear masks, sanitise their hands and maintain social distance.Thackeray also directed district officials to take assistance and guidance from the Covid task force members while treating critical patients. He said the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign will help create a “health map” of Maharashtra and make its people fit. The campaign, which was kicked-off on September 15, aims to survey and screen households in the state to detect Covid-19 patients as well as those with comorbidities. Volunteers were compiling data of those who had been detected with the infection, those who had recovered and their post-coronavirus situation, Thackeray said. “In Konkan, 10.63 lakh families have been surveyed. In Pune, they have surveyed 182 villages and 13 municipal councils,” the CM said, adding that the campaign was being extended in Pune to include factories, housing societies and civic wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-past-1-300-000-in-maharashtra-fatalities-near-35-000/story-rHVoxKanajvsmdcxZSJOYO.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine trial begins at Mumbai’s KEM Hospital today; three volunteers to be given first dose||The King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital will administer the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the Oxford University and AstraZeneca on three volunteers on Saturday, while another 10 volunteers have been selected for the clinical trial. The other city hospital, BYL Nair, to conduct the clinical trial will begin the process from Monday.All three volunteers have been screened to rule out any underlying health issues, said KEM Hospital officials, adding that they have also undergone RT-PCR and antibody testing. “The three participants have been screened after their consent and they don’t have any comorbidity. As per randomisation, out of every four participants, one will receive placebo (false drug),” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, Dean, KEM Hospital. As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, each of the volunteers has been covered with ₹1-crore life insurance if they die owing to any side effect during the trial. Also, they have ₹50lakh for medical insurance if they develop any adverse effect from the vaccine. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said the ethics committee on Tuesday gave its nod to the hospital to start the screening of registered volunteers. After which, till Friday, 13 volunteers have been screened, of which three volunteers have been found completely fit for the clinical trials. “We will administer the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the three volunteers on Saturday, following which they have to stay at the hospital for two hours to check if they are having any complications,” he said. Kakani said the volunteers given the vaccine dose will be checked regularly and within 29 days a second dose will be given to them. Meanwhile, 10 more people will be screened on September 26, taking the number of volunteers to 23. “We will check how they respond after the inoculation and test them for antibodies,” said Kakani.The vaccine induces a strong immune response. It provokes a T cell (white blood cells that can attack cells infected with the coronavirus) response within 14 days of the dose, and an antibody response within 28 days. “We are screening volunteers at present. By Monday, we will start the trial and provide the first dosage at our hospital,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair Hospital. In the second week of September, both KEM and Nair Hospitals had to halt the trial process after a participant developed an adverse event in the United Kingdom (UK). Later, Drug Control General of India (DCGI) gave its nod to conduct the second and third phase of the trial. However, both civic hospitals had to get the final approval from their ethics committees before starting with the screening of volunteers.Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines in terms of volume, and British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca partnered together to manufacture the vaccine candidate formulated at the University of Oxford.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-vaccine-trial-begins-at-mumbai-s-kem-hospital-today-three-volunteers-to-be-given-first-dose/story-NozpqBGBkeglJMfGVHNKgO.html
26-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s share in Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases drops to 14% from 60% in April||Even though the city has seen a surge in reported Covid-19 cases in September, Mumbai’s share in Maharashtra’s overall Covid tally is down to 14%. In terms of the state’s active cases, Mumbai constitutes only 10%. In March and April, the city’s Covid count made up the majority of the state’s active cases. As of Thursday, Mumbai has a total of 192,427 Covid-positive cases, of which 27,741 are active. The city’s recovery rate is 81%. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is 12,82,963, of which 2,74,993 are active. In September, the city has seen a surge, with 1,500 to 2,300 new cases daily. However, the city’s share in the total number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra has dipped to 25.2%. In March and April, Mumbai contributed to over 60% of Maharashtra’s total deaths due to Covid-19. However, urban Mumbai still has a high case fatality rate due to a larger population of senior citizens and the prevalence of hypertension and diabetes. While Mumbai’s share has decreased, there has been sharp rise in the number of cases reported from satellite cities like Thane, Navi Mumbai, Bhiwandi, Kalyan, and Mira Bhayander, as well as tier-two and tier-three cities in Maharashtra. Pune city, which has 11% of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases, recorded 147,634 cases as of Thursday. Thane has 34,698 total Covid-19 cases and Navi Mumbai has 37,569 cases. Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation has recorded 44,094 cases, while Mira Bhayander has 18,028 cases. A senior officer with the government of Maharashtra said, “The virus came into Mumbai due to international travellers. Then strict lockdown protected other parts of the state for a bit, but with unlock plans, all transportation services have begun. In the rest of Maharashtra we are also testing more now.” Pune district has surpassed Mumbai and now comprises 21% of Maharashtra’s Covid total in terms of both active and asymptomatic cases. As of Thursday, Pune district has 274,492 cases of Covid-19, of which 60,146 are active. Nashik district has 69,099 cases in total, of which 14,748 are active. Nagpur district has 70,414 cases, of which 18,762. “The larger contributor to Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases in the month of April, May, and June was only Mumbai. Mumbai drastically crashed in September in terms of its contribution to the state. There has been a lot of localised transmission in Mumbai and Maharashtra. This is also because other cities, such as Pune beat Mumbai. Mumbai peaked earlier, and other cities are peaking now. As unlock happened, positivity rate went up, and cities like Pune took over. Once transportation is opened up, this is expected,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. According to Dr Joshi, the increased number of cases is reflective of Maharashtra rapidly scaling up testing facilities. “Though, looking at the population, we should be testing 5 lakh to 7 lakh a day, at least we have made a commitment to testing 1.5 lakh a day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-share-in-maharashtra-s-covid-19-cases-drops-to-14-from-60-in-april/story-bFyDSZVPi7fPAYYVFfvisN.html
26-09-2020||Pune||Don’t take Covid lightly, be responsible, says Ajit Pawar||Deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday cautioned people about taking the pandemic lightly and requested every resident to be responsible and use masks while stepping out of the house and follow all safety precautions amid the spike in Covid-19 cases.Pawar took a review meeting about the Covid-19 situation in the city at Council Hall.Pawar said, “Even as the virus cases are on a rise in the city and Pune district, many people are taking it lightly. The government and administration are making all efforts to increase the health care facility and it is observed that people are not following safety norms.”“It is my sincere request to all to take responsibility for themselves and their family. We are executing the programme ‘My family, My responsibility’ under which government machinery plans to cover each home in the state. Residents should co-operate with the government agencies and provide proper information,” he said.”This initiative will help in early detection of the virus and provide necessary medical aid,” he said.Pawar said that though there are fewer complaints now about patients being overcharged at private hospitals, district administration must keep a check on private hospitals charging patients.“The administration must ensure that there is no black market of medicines in the city,” he said.Pawar also instructed the administration to guide people who have been cured of the virus to take necessary measures to stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-take-covid-lightly-be-responsible-says-ajit-pawar/story-ZMipweVAPnOtxx6AeblRVI.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||As DDA focus shifts, private firms to gain||With the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) gradually shifting towards the role of a planner and regulator from that of a developer, the land-owning agency is likely to go slow on construction of housing projects and allow private developers to do it instead. The recent organisational restructuring proposed by DDA is an indication towards a change in its profile.While urban planners say it is a good move, they say the agency shouldn’t completely give up on developing housing, especially for the economically weaker sections, in the Capital.Though policies such as land pooling, auctioning of residential plots for group housing, etc., are a step towards encouraging private developers, senior DDA officials say it will continue to develop housing, though on a smaller scale.A senior DDA official aware of the development said, “No decision regarding not developing housing at all has been taken so far. DDA will continue to develop as per requirement. But it will definitely be less as compared to what we used to. DDA is moving towards the role of a regulator and planner.”Since its inception in 1957, DDA has been the main player to meet Delhi’s growing housing requirements. It constructed 4.25 lakh flats till last year, and another 40,000-45,000 are ready or in various stages of construction. DDA has also provided housing to lakhs of people by selling plots to individuals and group housing societies.Several residential colonies such as Alaknanda, Vasant Kunj, Dwarka Vikaspuri, Mayur Vihar, etc., came up over the years where DDA constructed flats and developed the neighbourhoods. “But we might not see DDA developing more areas such as Vasant Kunj, etc,” said Balvinder Kumar, former DDA vice-chairman and Uttar Pradesh RERA member. It was during Kumar’s tenure the land pooling policy was approved and the exercise to restructure DDA was undertaken.Kumar added, “It is important for DDA to move on from its role as a developer to regulator and planner. The land is limited and its acquisition is difficult under the present land acquisition Act. Therefore, it is important to allow private firms to develop and DDA should regulate and ensure planned development in the Capital. There was also a conflict of interest as DDA is both the developer and the regulator.”The agency has also registered a decline in demand for its flats, as the last three housing schemes received a tepid response. “This wasn’t the case before 2014. All our schemes have been a huge success. But the past few schemes have not done well. One of the main reasons is the location of these flats. A majority of flats are in Narela and in the absence of a proper transport system, there is little demand for these flats,” said a senior DDA official, requesting anonymity. DDA had received one million applications for its housing scheme in 2014 in which 25,000-odd houses were put on sale. The agency has over 10,000 flats lying vacant and another 30,000-odd flats in various stages of construction.Amit Aggarwal, who had bought a DDA flat in sector A, pocket B and C in Vasant Kunj in 1988, said the planning and quality of construction of old DDA flats is very good. “These areas are well developed and the houses are very good. But over the years, the demand has gone down as one can find a bigger flat in the NCR region at the same cost. The cost of the middle income group flats is very high. Earlier, people were keen on a DDA flat because it used to be cheaper than the market rate,” said Agarwal, a member of URJA.Experts say DDA should continue to construct housing. AK Jain, former planning commissioner, said, “DDA shouldn’t completely give up on constructing housing. They should come up with a policy to ensure private players will provide adequate EWS housing. DDA should continue to construct EWS housing.”Private developers say DDA’s monopoly was one of the reasons for the shortage of housing in Delhi. Pankaj Bajaj, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI)- National Capital Region and CMD Eldeco group, said, “DDA is making the long overdue transition from a developer to a planner. DDA’s monopoly over development in Delhi was the single biggest factor for the housing shortage and the mushrooming of unauthorised colonies in the last five decades. It led to the rise of Gurugram and Noida, as in the absence of supply in Delhi, development moved to these suburbs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-dda-focus-shifts-private-firms-to-gain/story-Kr2QywVB8ZIq0iYguyK34I.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||30% patients in Delhi hospitals in ICUs, says govt data||One of every three Covid-19 patients admitted in a Delhi hospital was in intensive care unit (ICU), data provided by the Delhi government, which HT has seen, said.The data, which was submitted by the health department to minister Satyendar Jain’s office on Tuesday (September 22), said 7,242 Covid patients were admitted in hospitals across the city as on that date, of which 2,173 (30.02%) were in ICUs and 278 on ventilator support.Currently, Delhi has around 15,800 Covid beds and around 2,980 ICU beds – of which 1,319 have ventilator facilities, the government’s hospital beds database showed. As on Friday, 6,935 of the total beds and 2,115 of ICU beds were occupied.On Friday, 3,827 new Covid cases were recorded in Delhi.The data submitted to Jain’s office further said that one out of every four general as well as ICU beds in the city was occupied by a patient who was not from Delhi.Of the 7,242 beds occupied as on September 22, at least 1,756 were booked by people from other states. Similarly, 556 of the 2,173 occupied ICU beds and 99 of the 278 occupied ventilator beds as on September 22 accommodated people from other states, the data showed.Delhi government spokespersons refused to comment on the matter.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital said, “ICU beds in Delhi have higher occupancy rates because hospitals are largely catering to patients with severe symptoms. However, people from other states coming to Delhi for better treatment is a routine affair. The government should rather look at the present pandemic as a wake-up call and increase ICU beds and ventilator support facilities in hospitals.” In June, the Delhi government had issued directions suggesting that covid-19 beds in Delhi government hospitals and those in private hospitals in the Capital should be reserved for patients who reside in Delhi. The order, however, was later struck down by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.Delhi has witnessed a second spike in Covid cases since mid-August, which subsequently also triggered an increase in the rate of occupancy of hospital beds.Before the resurgence of cases, the seven-day average of daily cases in the Capital peaked at 3,446 on June 26 before falling to 983 on August 4. In the last seven days, Delhi has seen an average of more than 3,700 new cases surfacing every day.As on August 4, the city had 13,578 total hospital beds, of which 21.76% (2,954) beds were occupied as against the current occupancy rate of 43.89% (6,935 out of 15,800 as on Friday), government data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/30-patients-in-delhi-hospitals-in-icus-says-govt-data/story-A8RIYnam1l1QpgCHkOk3JI.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Kasturba Gandhi nursing staff protest for 12th day||The agitation by the nursing staff of North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Kasturba Hospital — to demand pending salaries — entered into its 12th day on Friday, with over 100 staffers sitting under shade within the hospital premises to register a silent protest.The nursing staff have been abstaining from work for two hours daily since September 14 to demand pending salaries, which they claim have been due since June this year. Earlier this week, the nursing staff were joined by paramedics and sanitation staff in their agitation. “We last got paid in May. Many people have taken loans from moneylenders to pay the education fees of their children or to clear their EMIs. In so many months, we haven’t got a single assurance from either the administration or the political wing. How long can we survive like this?” said BL Sharma, president, Nursing Staff Union, Kasturba Hospital. Saroj Bala, a senior nursing staff, working at the hospital for the last 15 years said that this is the first time — and that too in the middle of a raging pandemic — that the staff has not been paid for so long. “Many people have gone into depression, as they are finding it difficult to make ends meet. We sit in protest for just two hours so that patients do not have to suffer,s,” said Bala. Earlier in July, the hospital staff had called a strike over delay in payment of salaries and later called it off after the civic body assured that their dues will be cleared soon. In May, the doctors too had protested the non-payment of salaries and had approached the Delhi High Court on the same after which their salaries were paid till June. Salaries of the sanitation workers too were last paid in June. The 450-bed Kasturba Hospital is a maternity and child specialty hospital of the North corporation located near Jama Masjid.Contacted, North corporation mayor Jai Prakash admitted that there was a delay in payment of dues and he had called a meeting with the agitating staff on Monday.“I will ask them for some more time to resolve the problem. I have already approached the Central government to help us with this situation. Also we have requested Delhi government for disbursal of funds to pay the salary of staff . We will find a solution to this problem soon,” said Prakash.He added that the Delhi government has to release funds to the tune of Rs 1200 crore taht is due to the civic body, which has been pending for long. “At present, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the finances of the corporation have been drastically hit and in absence of funds being released by the Delhi government, it has become difficult to pay off the salaries of employees,” he said, adding, that the corporation needs at least Rs 350 crore to pay its 58,000 employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kasturba-gandhi-nursing-staff-protest-for-12th-day/story-IWEUoDdpD4kEgawwo4qTWJ.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Hundreds rendered homeless as DDA demolishes slum near Dhobi Ghat in Delhi||Hundreds of people living in Jamia Nagar’s Dhobi Ghat slum cluster lost their homes to a demolition drive by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Thursday.Residents said around 50 to 70 huts were demolished. Senior DDA officials said there are around 200 temporary structures on DDA land and Thursday’s drive helped free up 2.5 acres. Nazmi Begum, 26, a widow and mother of two young boys, Friday said the demolition drive was carried out without giving residents time to even remove their money and documents from the tenements.“I pleaded with officials to at least let me take my documents and my savings of around ₹2,000. They did not heed our pleas. Women police officers hit us when we tried to raise our voice. At least four of us were detained as well,” Begum, who has a bruise at the corner of her right eye, said.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said the demolition was an incident-free process.“Everyone was informed in advance and the drive went smoothly. There was no detention or any manhandling as reported by some slum residents,” Meena said.“When we went back to take stock of our belongings, I realised that my money had been stolen and now I don’t even have money to buy food or go back to our village in Bihar. I have no idea how I’ll feed my children because I can’t leave them in the open while I go to work during this pandemic,” she said.Sitting atop the rubble of her house with her five-month-old son, Sajda Parween, 22, questioned the decision to raze the houses during the pandemic. “The government asked us not to step out of our home to restrict the spread of Covid-19 and then they demolished our houses. Where do we go? All our savings are exhausted after the lockdown and we don’t have money to even return to our village or rent a place,” she said, adding that they slept in the open on Thursday night and had no idea how long they would be able to continue like this. On Friday, residents managed to repair some of the broken cots and arranged makeshift structures near their razed homes to make do till they found a place they could go to.Rehan Khan, 38, a daily wage earner, said, “There was no work for the past five months and we had just started earning a little. How can we rent homes when we don’t have the money?”Other residents also alleged that they were not given time to collect their belongings. Fifty-year-old Iqrar Hussain was inside his house when it was demolished. “My wife and daughters kept saying that I was inside and they should stop till I came out. But they continued anyway. The almirah and a mirror in our room fell on me injuring me,” he said, pointing towards his bandaged hand and foot.DDA said the demolition drive was necessary to remove encroachments from the Yamuna floodplains and that it was done on the directions of the National Green Tribunal. “The DDA has carried out the demolition to remove encroachments in the form of jhuggis on the Yamuna floodplain at Dhobi Ghat. Approximately, 2.5 acres were freed up after the drive. This land is owned by the DDA. The encroachers made jhuggis on government land over the past few months in spite of instructions displayed at the site, prohibiting them from doing so,” a DDA official, on condition of anonymity, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hundreds-rendered-homeless-as-dda-demolishes-slum-near-dhobi-ghat/story-MOxD1WgCBU98cMZLv2sBQP.html
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||CITCO incurred ₹8.27 crore loss for running canteen at UT Secretariat, reveals CAG report||Even as the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) struggles to generate revenue, it has incurred a deficit of Rs 8.27 crore for running the canteen at the UT Secretariat, said Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in its latest report.CITCO also suffered a loss of Rs 1.52 crore on account of operating a guest house in New Delhi.CITCO has been managing and operating a canteen at the UT Secretariat and a guest house at New Delhi on behalf of the Chandigarh administration since 1983 and 1990 respectively.A draft agreement for the UT guest house at Delhi was sent by CITCO to UT administration for execution only in May 2016, which is yet to be formalised (July 2019).“CITCO did not seek any agreement in respect of the UT Secretariat canteen in Chandigarh. CITCO operated a similar guest house in Chandigarh on behalf of the administration, where an agreement for defraying the expenses was available,” observed the CAG.“In view of financial constraints and declining profitability faced by CITCO, it took up the matter with UT administration for reimbursement of the expenditure only in February 2014, but to no avail, in the absence of any agreement or even an understanding,” reads the report.The audit further noted that the administration had agreed (February 1995) for a grant of ₹50,000 per month to CITCO for subsidising the eatables served in the canteen.However, the administration has neither released the subsidy of Rs 50,000 per month to CITCO nor did CITCO made a formal claim for the same, which amounted to Rs 1.38 crore as on March 2018.“In the absence of any agreement with the UT administration, expenditure incurred by CITCO on these two establishments, to the tune of Rs 9.79 crore till March 2018 is irregular,” notes CAG report.The management replied (August 2018) to CAG objections that these activities were taken up as ‘a social function on non-commercial basis’. It added that the issue of reimbursement of expenses with the administration has also been followed up periodically.The administration replied (August 2019) that a meeting was held on July 29, 2019, to discuss the issue of reimbursement of expenses in running the canteen and it was decided that CITCO and the hospitality department will send a proposal to the finance department, which is still awaited from CITCO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/citco-incurred-8-27-crore-loss-for-running-canteen-at-ut-secretariat-reveals-cag-report/story-wAdJhY7ve3bh6WdwQFtP2J.html
26-09-2020||Delhi||Partially clothed body of woman found stuffed in bed box in Delhi’s Chhawla||The semi-naked body of a 26-year-old woman, an employee of a multinational company in Gurugram, was found stuffed in a bed box at a house in Chhawla on Friday morning. Police said the house where the body was found is rented out to a 27-year-old man from Jind, Haryana, who is currently on the run. A search is on for the man, who is the prime suspect in the case, senior officers said.The possibility of the woman being sexual assaulted before the murder has not been ruled out and, hence, her identity has been withheld, police said.Police said the woman hailed from Jharkhand and worked in Gurugram. The murder came to fore on Friday morning when neighbours noticed a foul smell from the house and reported the matter to the police around 9.30am. A police team arrived at the house, broke open the main door and found the semi-decomposed body stuffed inside a bed box in one of the rooms.“A crime and forensics team was called to the spot. It seems that she was killed two days ago. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the house was rented to a 27-year-old man, who also works with a private company in Gurugram. When we tried to reach out to the man, he couldn’t be located. It looks like he is on the run and he is our prime suspect as of now,” an officer, who wished not to be named, said. Police said the woman’s family has been informed and her body has been sent for a post-mortem examination. Clothes on the upper part of the body were missing. The autopsy report will be able to ascertain whether she was sexually assaulted before being killed. Since the body was decomposed, no visible injury mark could be spotted on the body, police said.Locals and neighbours told police that the woman used to often visit the man who lived there. “It was, however, not clear if they were friends or relatives. The woman also lived nearby at a rented accommodation. Her family members have been contacted to find out more details,” the officer quoted above said.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said multiple teams have been formed to track the man. “Call detail records of the woman are being checked to see whom was she in contact with until two days ago. A case of murder has been registered and raids are on to nab the suspect,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/partially-clothed-body-of-woman-found-stuffed-in-bed-box-in-delhi-s-chhawla/story-4cbqvzCjefAF0awjKd5r6L.html
26-09-2020||City||Ludhiana shopkeepers down shutters in solidarity with farmers||The bandh call by farmers protesting the Centre’s three contentious legislations earned a mixed response in the major retail markets here as quite a few shops opened on Friday.Even so, it was far from business as usual with patrons staying indoors while the agitated farmers claimed the city streets.Towards the afternoon, as farm unions marched past Chaura Bazaar, Model Town, Dugri and Ghumar Mandi,where most shops were open early in the day, these markets started to look more deserted. Traders stated that slight tension was witnessed at these markets when protesters asked them to down their shutters, but they opened their shops again in the evening.While wholesale garment stores, including those in Akalgarh and AC markets, were closed the whole day, majority of the shops on Gill Road too remained shut in support of the farmers.Other shopkeepers who had to close down said they did it on the request of the farmers and no scuffle was reported over the same.One of the shopkeepers in Ghumar mandi market, Taranjit Singh, said, “Retailers followed the normal routine and opened their shops in the morning. But they had to close down around 2pm after protesting farm union members came by and asked to keep the market shut to avoid any untoward incidents. Later in the evening, however, a section of the traders again opened their stores.”Similar scenes were witnessed in the Model Town area.Amarjit Singh, the president of Model Town market body, said, “Traders had to shut shops after the members of farmers’ bodies came to the market and requested to do so. We support the farmers, but shopkeepers too need to earn a living in these tough financial times.”However, shopkeepers at AC and Akalgarh markets showed solidarity with the ongoing farm bills protest by keeping their shutters down for the day. Gurcharan Singh and Manpreet Singh Bunti, the heads of respective market associations, said shops remained closed in their trading domain as a mark of support to the farmers.As per Model Town SHO Amritpal Singh and Division 8 SHO Jarnail Singh, no police complaints were reported from shopkeepers who were asked to close their stores by farm unions.Low footfall adds to traders’ woes The markets which opened on Friday wore a deserted look with city residents staying indoors amid the farmers’ protest on Friday. Shopkeepers rued that they were already reeling under losses and the protests further decreased the customer footfall.President of Chaura Bazar shopkeepers’ association, Parampal Singh, said, “The markets are already witnessing low footfall due to the ongoing pandemic and shopkeepers on Friday received only 5-10 percent response.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mixed-response-to-bandh-call-in-ludhiana-markets-as-some-shops-open/story-AkTLEg5fdVXMWGS5rMR8jP.html
26-09-2020||Pune||3,521 fresh Covid cases, 56 deaths reported in Pune district on September 25||On Friday, Pune district reported 3,521 fresh Covid-19 cases, with 56 deaths related to the infection, as per the state health department. Currently, Pune district has a total of 2.77 lakh Covid cases, with 59,461 active cases. A total of 2.12 lakh patients have recovered, with the death toll for the district at 5,535. Pune rural reported 1,162 new cases taking the final count to 57,068. As per the state health department, Pune rural recorded 27 deaths on Friday, taking the death toll to 1,157. As per the Pune municipal corporation’s data released on Friday, Pune city reported 1,553 new cases, taking its total count to 1,49,187. A total of 19 virus-related deaths takes the PMC death toll to 3,374. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation reported 806 new cases and 10 virus-related deaths on Friday, taking its final count to 71,687, with the death toll at 1,003. The state health department reported that 19,592 patients were discharged across the state on Friday, taking the final discharged count to 9,92,806. The state’s recovery rate is 76.33%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.67%. Currently, 19,29,572 persons are in home quarantine and 32,747 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-521-fresh-covid-cases-56-deaths-reported-in-pune-district-on-wednesday/story-1ItFNyw7Ti9pSVvE9I10vI.html
26-09-2020||Pune||As cases surge in rural Pune, Ajit Pawar hands over 51 ambulances to zilla parishad||During a public event on Friday morning, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar handed over 51 ambulances dedicated to Covid-19 patients from rural areas. The ambulances are supported by oxygen supply and will be controlled at the taluka control room. On Friday, 16 of these ambulances were registered with the regional transport office (RTO) while 46 more ambulances are expected to be added to the fleet by next week. The ambulances will be dedicated to the rural primary health centres and hospitals. Pawar said, “We must tone down celebrations for any festivals this year considering the Covid-19.” Zilla parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “The initiative is unique in more than one way. It is the first time in the country that the gram panchayat have joint ownership with other gram panchayats of a public property and also the unspent money was used for this purpose. A total of 97 ambulances were purchased out of which 51 were handed over. All the ambulances will be controlled by the taluka control room and can be contacted by the designated nodal officers. The ambulances have been supported by oxygen cylinders and will be controlled from the control room” The 97 ambulances have been purchased by MP funds and gram panchayat funds out of which 92 were purchased for primary health care centres and ZP hospitals. Rural Pune is reporting over 1,000 cases on a daily basis. Currently, the total number of cases has gone up to 49,411 in nagar parishad and gram panchayats of which 32,369 have recovered and discharged. Out of the total number of active cases, 15,785 are active cases of which 11,270 are in hospital isolation and 4,515 in home isolation. A total of 1,257 deaths has been reported till date. Over 1.76 lakh samples have been tested till date in rural Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-cases-surge-in-rural-pune-ajit-pawar-hands-over-51-ambulances-to-zilla-parishad/story-DhwGxjsRjJE3jxykSLgpTO.html
26-09-2020||Pune||Return of migrants will speed up metro work in Pune, says Ajit Pawar||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday morning visited the Pune metro project and inspected its progress. He reviewed the underground and elevated corridor works before taking a trial metro ride. The Pune guardian minister began the metro review work by arriving at the site near Pune railway station at 6 am. Brijesh Dixit, managing director, Maharashtra Metro Rail Metro Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) was present along with Pawar to brief the progress of the project. Pawar assured officials that the metro plan would get enough funding. “As finance minister, I would ensure that the metro project gets adequate funds to complete it as early as possible. The work will speed up as labourers from other states will join the project with easing of lockdown restrictions.” The minister visited the metro tunnel work at Shivajinagar College campus. The metro underground line runs from Shivajinagar to Swargate or about 8.2 kilometres and includes 5 stations. About 1.4 kilometre of the stretch is complete. Dixit said, “About 43 per cent work of Pune metro has been completed. Underground work is in progress. Pawar visited the tunnel work site and was updated about the plan’s progress carried out with the help of gigantic tunnel boring machine. He also reviewed the progress of multi-modal hub project at Swargate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pawar-inspects-underground-metro-work-in-pune/story-Nk5JcNntgDrs1WeaEz8ixM.html
26-09-2020||Pune||Pune doc tests +ve again, 3 months after first infection; samples at NIV for virus genome sequencing||A resident doctor at the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital has tested positive for Covid-19 “a second time” in a three-month period, according to the hospital administration. The practising doctor had tested negative for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection, twice, after his first infection, the hospital said. The doctor’s samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for a genome sequencing and antibodies test. Dr Parikshit Prayag, the consulting doctor for Covid-19 at Deenanath Mangeshkar, said, “The doctor had tested positive in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, on June 12 through the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. During discharge on June 22, he was tested again and he was negative. The test was repeated 24 hours later, and he tested negative again. All these tests were RT-PCR. After that, the doctor continued his work. However, a few days ago, the doctor felt uneasy and complained of body ache. We tested him through an antigen test on Friday and he tested positive for the infection.” Dr Prayag added: “We have had patients complain about Covid-19 like symptoms even after recovery and they do test positive again, even weeks later, but these have never tested negative for the infection. In this case, however, the patient tested negative twice through RT-PCR, which is the highest standard of testing and is known for its accuracy.”Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman of the state technical committee on communicable diseases, said, “If the doctor has tested negative twice in an RT-PCR and then tests positive again, it seems like a possible case of Covid-19 reinfection. There have been a few cases wherein the patient has tested positive twice, however, it is yet to be known if it is truly a reinfection, or a relapse, or just the shredding of the dead virus. Since this virus is completely new there is very limited information available. We do not even know how long the antibodies stay in the person’s system once they have recovered from the virus. In this case, the person tested negative twice in an RT-PCR which is considered the gold standard for testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-doc-tests-ve-again-3-months-after-first-infection-samples-at-niv-for-virus-genome-sequencing/story-tG4KjB4bkXnMYJydSrZLJN.html
26-09-2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar directs officials to put Chandani Chowk flyover work in Pune on top gear||Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday instructed the officials to speed up the multilevel flyover work at Chandani Chowk. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is executing the project even as it falls within PMC limits.NHAI project director SD Chitnis, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, defence officials and other officers were present at the meeting.According to officials, work on the flyover project is getting delayed due to land acquisition issues.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The Maharashtra government had decided to provide a funding of ₹184 crore for the project giving it the status of a special plan. PMC was to take up the flyover plan, but union minister Nitin Gadkari approved funds for the project.”Mohol said of the ₹184 crore allocated by the state, PMC has received ₹134 crore. “I have appealed to Ajit Pawar to release the remaining ₹50 crore as it will help in the completion of the project,” the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pawar-directs-officials-to-put-chandani-chowk-flyover-work-on-top-gear/story-dsJFwESamilH2tRPSjmt8L.html
