27-09-2020||Gurugram||Man shot at by an acquaintance in Manesar||A man suffered a wound after he was allegedly shot at by an acquaintance following an altercation in the IMT Manesar area on Saturday night. The police said the victim was rushed to a private hospital in Manesar, where his condition is said to be stable. The accused person was arrested by the police late on Saturday. According to the police, the victim, who is identified by first name as Inderpal, is a resident of Naharpur Kasan. He had gone to a tempo stand in Sector 6, IMT Manesar, to purchase some essentials. The police said he ran into an acquaintance, Krishna, at the tempo stand and the two had a discussion over tea regarding some trivial matter. Nitika Gahlaut, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Manesar, said, “The argument escalated into a fight and the accused man pulled out a countrymade pistol and shot at the victim. The victim suffered a gunshot wound in the upper chest area and was admitted to a private hospital, where his condition is presently stable. The accused man was arrested by the police.” The police said the countrymade gun has been confiscated from the possession of the accused man and they are checking his criminal record. A case was registered against the accused man under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code(IPC) and the Arms Act at IMT Manesar police station on Saturday. He was produced in a district court and sent to judicial custody, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-shot-at-by-an-acquaintance-in-manesar/story-2ft2ry2UTF55H7IU5KO42H.html
27-09-2020||City||Haryana: Study to assess sources of pollution in four cities to begin this winter||A study to comprehensively assess the sources of air and noise pollution in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Panipat is likely to commence this winter. The exercise, known as a source apportionment study, is expected to last at least 18 months from the date of commencement. The study is being commissioned by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board(HSPCB) under the aegis of the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP).While an expression of interest (EOI) for the same was floated by the HSPCB in November last year, the outbreak of Covid-19 and the ensuing lockdown resulted in the delayed evaluation of the proposals received. “We have so far received a proposal from a Delhi-based research institute for all four cities. A committee has been formed to comb through the finer details. The committee will convene on September 28 and make a decision,” said Jai Bhagwan Sharma, senior scientist, HSPCB, who is overseeing the study.While such studies have been earlier commissioned by the Delhi government, they have not yet been carried out in its satellite towns. “In Delhi, there are two official studies, which were conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur and by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri). We are aiming to engage an institution of similar repute for our subject cities,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB)Officials added that the study is being undertaken pursuant to the ‘Comprehensive Action Plan for Clean Air for Cities of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Panipat in Haryana’, drafted earlier last year, and is a part of the NCAP. Gurugram and Faridabad were added to the list of initial 102 non-attainment cities covered under the NCAP in July 2019. A non-attainment city is one where the prescribed National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) are not followed. “Since implementation of same interventions in two cities, having different meteorology, topography and different typology of air polluting sources, is unlikely to give same results, the choice of interventions to control urban air pollution has to be city specific, drawn on the basis of scientific study (sic),” states the EOI by the HSPCB. The EOI further states, “The aim of the study is to promote and demonstrate a more rational & proactive approach to air quality management in urban areas (sic).” The study, officials explained, will be based largely on 90 days of ambient air quality monitoring conducted over the summer, monsoon and winter, to demonstrate and quantify the seasonal variations in air pollution. The daily sampling times will further be divided into three eight-hour sessions (06.00 hours to 14.00 hours, 14.00 hours to 22.00 hours, and 22.00 hours to 06.00 hours), which will capture the diurnal variation in sources and meteorology of air pollution. This study will also involve a systematic survey of vehicle population to be undertaken in the city, with an emphasis on vehicles older than 20 years. The aim is to find cost-effective solutions to curb their emissions as these represent a major portion of the city’s total vehicular population.“On completion of data collection, validation and interpretation of the assimilated information, a detailed road map will be drawn considering all possible measures for air quality improvement. These measures will be classified into short and long term with due priority to low cost measures that give maximum benefit,” the HSPCB’s EOI goes on to state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-study-to-assess-sources-of-pollution-in-four-cities-to-begin-this-winter/story-CNZ1HC8ooW6zRXvYe1jtXO.html
27-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Representatives of 38 villages meet deputy CM over takeover move||A delegation from 38 villages proposed to be included under the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) met Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday and apprised him of their concerns over the move.They told him that they were satisfied with their panchayats and did not wish to be under the MCG. According to the delegation, Chautala told them to draft a resolution in this regard and submit it to him for necessary actionThe delegation comprised sarpanches, ex-sarpanches and prominent residents of these villages. Rishiraj Rana, newly appointed district president of Jannayak Janata Party (JJP), which Chautala co-founded, led the delegation to meet the deputy CM in Delhi. Rana said over 80 percent of land in these 38 villages was still under agriculture and the villages had a rural character. An urban local body to take this area under its control would not benefit them, he added.“The villagers are still living a rural life and they are opposed to a takeover by the MCG as this would affect their activities like dairy, agriculture and other activities,” he said.Among the 38 villages are 27 in Gurugram, seven in Sohna and the rest in Farruknagar block. These villages have around 300,000 to 400,000 people each, and the panchayats have enough funds, said Rana.The delegation also told the deputy CM that the condition of other villages taken over by the MCG was not very encouraging. “These villages had to give up their land and money to the civic agency, but the development which was promised did not come and now the residents there are not happy,” said Virender Singh ‘Beeru sarpanch’, who is head of the joint action committee of 38 villages.Singh also said that with government removing the concept of ‘Lal Dora’ in the villages, locals who are living outside its limits would be treated as unauthorized, which would become a major problem if the MCG takes over.The Lal Dora is a land in every village and city of the state, which is used for residential purposes without any revenue record.The ownership of the land depends on possession. If a person wants to sell the land, it could only be sold on mutual consent between the buyer and seller without registration. Earlier this year, the government had launched a scheme to eliminate this system.Rana said that the deputy CM patiently heard them out and asked for the resolution. “We will get the resolutions passed, and in the first week of October, a delegation will go to Chandigarh and submit the same to deputy CM for necessary action,” said Rana.Earlier this week, the joint action committee had submitted a memorandum in this regard to the district administration. The villagers also said that they have adequate health, education and other infrastructure in their villages and there was no need for intervention by another government agency.“I heard the matter raised by delegation and have asked them to pass resolutions if they don’t want MCG to take over. We will consider their demands on merit,” said Chautala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-representatives-of-38-villages-meet-deputy-cm-over-takeover-move/story-m5sdbiS8iPQoal9AWV9ghK.html
27-09-2020||Kolkata||Rahul Sinha’s removal, Mukul Roy’s induction spells out BJP’s message to Bengal unit and TMC||By dropping former Bengal unit president Rahul Sinha from the national committee and inducting two former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) central leadership has sent a strong message to its leaders as well as the ruling party in the poll-bound state, said state leaders. The reshuffle was announced by BJP president J P Nadda in Delhi on Saturday. “Sinha was dropped as part of an ongoing exercise. The national leadership wants to project new and younger leaders. The leadership was not happy with Sinha’s performance as a national secretary. Also, the fact that he could never win an election becomes crucial when the BJP has set a target to overthrow the TMC government in 2021,” a senior state BJP leader told HT on Sunday evening on condition of anonymity. “Sinha was not the only one to be dropped. More senior and prominent leaders such as Ram Madhav, Anil Jain and Muralidhar Rao were dropped as well,” the leader added. Significantly, it was not Sinha’s exit but the new inductions from the ruling TMC that seemed to bother old BJP leaders and party workers. Sinha was replaced by former TMC Lok Sabha member Anupam Hazra as national secretary and Mukul Roy, the BJP national executive member who helped the saffron camp break into the TMC’s vote bank, was made a national vice-president. Roy had resigned from the Rajya Sabha in 2017 and joined the BJP. Also read: Mukul Roy, CM Mamata’s former confidante made BJP vice president ahead of crucial Bengal pollsSinha voiced his dissent, saying, after serving the party for 40 years he had to make way for leaders from the TMC. As Sinha’s emphasis on entry of TMC leaders came under focus, Bengal BJP leaders maintained official silence to avoid controversy. “I served the party as a soldier since its birth and this is how I was rewarded. Nothing can be more unfortunate. I do not want to say anything on this reward. I will make a statement in 10 or 12 days and decide my future course of action,” Sinha said in a video message that went viral. “What Sinha did is somewhat unprecedented in our regimented structure. The leadership had plans to entrust him with an important role. But he spoke too strongly,” said another BJP leader who was in touch with two central leaders on Sunday. “There was a growing feeling among TMC workers and leaders who joined the BJP in recent years that there was no scope for them to go up the hierarchy since they do not have a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) background. This is a common perception among people in other parties. The reshuffle will counter this perception and may encourage more people from TMC to defect,” said another state BJP leader who was involved in managing the Lok Sabha poll preparations in 2019. Amid the rumblings, dissent and factionalism came out in the open on Sunday.Hazra was gheraoed by a section of BJP workers at Baruipur in the South 24 Parganas district where he went to attend a meeting of party workers on Sunday afternoon. The disgruntled workers, who defected from the TMC, demanded before Hazra that district unit president Hari Krishna Dutta, an old-timer in the BJP, be replaced. Several people were injured when the rival groups clashed after Hazra left Baruipur. In North 24 Parganas district, on the other hand, BJP workers ransacked chairs at a meeting organised by loyalists of the Basirhat unit president Tarak Ghosh. They alleged that the local unit was not organizing any movement against the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/rahul-sinha-s-removal-mukul-roy-s-induction-spells-out-bjp-s-message-to-bengal-unit-and-tmc/story-gwRMHQEK60jyeBJepQklYJ.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Development will not be at the cost of Maharashtra’s environment, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||Development in the state will not be at the cost of destroying the environment and nature, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday, while inaugurating two projects of the tourism department headed by his son and state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray. The CM launched two hotels, one in Nashik and the other in Kharghar, of the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), on the occasion of World Tourism Day on Sunday. He also inaugurated Grape Park resort in Nashik near Gangapur dam, which has a boat club. Thackeray has, in the past too, stressed the need to conserve the nature and environment while approving development projects in the state. When his party was in the government with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) between 2014 and 2019, the Sena opposed the mega oil refinery project in Nanar, Ratnagiri. “Many a times, it happens that for development we destroy the nature and environment that we have. We want development. Definitely, we want it, but not by destroying what we have. We have shown that development can happen while conserving what we have,” the CM said. “Earlier, an issue had raged about a refinery. Where should such projects come up? Where should railway routes come up? We had a railway route, so where can we provide an alternate route?… Our cabinet has decided that we will conserve what we have and provide what is needed. If we follow this, we will have complete development. I don’t consider losing what we have and taking what we did not want as development,” the CM said. Aaditya added the state government is chalking out plans to make Maharashtra an appealing destination to tourists. He said the department was taking steps to make tourists stay longer in Mumbai and Maharashtra. “Mumbai gets two types of tourists – financial or business tourists who stay for 36 hours and tourists who come for 20-25 days. Of the 25 days, they stay in Maharashtra for three or four days and leave for Goa, Jaipur etc. Our effort is to make the tourists who come for 36 hours stay for two-three days, and those who come for three days stay for a week,” Aaditya said. The tourism minister added the department has planned to introduce more tourist spots in Mumbai, including developing Gateway of India precinct, tours at BMC headquarters, etc. He added the department was developing Alibag, Manori and Erangal. looking at Matheran and Mahabaleshwar as tourist spots for international tourists as well. “We are starting the boat club, which is of an international standard. It has various types of boats, including speed boat, banana boats, barge, etc,” Aaditya said. He later tweeted, “It was envisioned by the then Tourism Minister and now Nashik Guardian Minister @ChhaganCBhujbal ji. Glad to have launched it today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/development-will-not-be-at-the-cost-of-maharashtra-s-environment-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-OhgruoKzky6lfDdXxrewtN.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Pune man gives triple talaq to wife over phone, booked alongside family members||Pydhonie police have booked a Pune man for allegedly giving triple talaq to his wife over a phone call. The family members of the man have also been booked for dowry harassment and subjecting the woman to cruelty. According to police, the complainant Aaysha Latif Chhatriwala, 22, in her complaint has stated that she was married to Pune resident Mohsin Chhagla on May 27, 2016, in Pydhonie. Mohsin had a small footwear business earlier but now works as a delivery man with a pharmaceutical company. The complainant has alleged that before marriage, the Chhagla family had demanded ₹5 lakh as dowry from her parents, but after talks, they agreed to ₹3 lakh, which was subsequently paid to them through cash and cheque. However, a week after the wedding, her mother-in-law Sultana Chhagla and sister-in-law Zarin started taunting for giving a smaller dowry. In her complaint, Chhatriwala claimed her in-laws made her work as a maid. Due to the stress, Chhatriwala, who underwent open-heart surgery as a child, in 2017 started suffering from health issues and was asked to take treatment. She also stated that her husband assaulted her while she was pregnant in December 2016. In May 2020, Chhatriwala had come to her parent’s home in Mumbai for some medical treatment. Her husband would often call her and tell her to bring the pending ₹2 lakh dowry from her parents or else he would divorce her. On June 12, when the complainant phoned to tell him that she wanted them to live separate from his parents he pronounced talaq four times. Chhagla’s relatives tried to settle the dispute, but she refused their offer of Nikah Halala (a practice in which a woman after being divorced by talaq, marries another man, consummates the marriage, and gets divorced again to be able to remarry her former husband). However, Chhagla has refuted all the allegations, terming them false and baseless. “I admit that I said Talaq over the phone, but I was angry at the time and did it by mistake. Such talaq is not valid. I regret it and I still believe that I have not divorced her. There is no question of asking her for Halala. My wife and her parents want to take advantage of my mistake as she wishes to separate from me,” he said. On Chhatriwala’s complaint, police on Friday booked her husband and his family members under relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, and Indian Penal Code (IPC). Chhatriwala did not respond to HT’s calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pune-man-gives-triple-talaq-to-wife-over-phone-booked-alongside-family-members/story-wKWubxooMub8InR6kgLT0K.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man who raped minor daughter confesses to filming act on mobile phone||Andheri police have recovered seven videos from the mobile phone of a 34-year-old man accused of raping his 16-year-old daughter. During the interrogation, the accused confessed that he had filmed his repeated acts of sexually assault on his minor daughter. On September 24, police arrested the accused of raping his daughter. According to the survivor, on September 14, her father assaulted her when nobody was at home. He allegedly threatened to set her on fire if she revealed the incident to anyone. An officer from Andheri police station said, “Soon after the accused was arrested, we seized his mobile phone and while scanning it, we found seven video clips which he had recorded while raping his daughter. The video evidence proved that the accused repeatedly sexually assaulted her. We are now checking if he had uploaded these videos anywhere or shared them with anybody.” Vijay Belge, senior inspector from Andheri police station, said, “We have arrested the accused and he is currently in police custody. We have asked the relatives of the survivor to take custody of her for the sake of her safety.” Sources also revealed that police are planning to add section 67 (B) (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act, etc) of the Information Technology Act to the first information report (FIR). The survivor, in her statement, said that her mother had died in 2016 and she stayed with her father and 18-year-old brother. She further said that after her mother’s death, her father molested her multiple times. Fearful of her father, the survivor narrated the ordeal to a neighbour, who took her to the police station to register a complaint, said an officer. Police booked her father under section 376 (2) (F) (being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354 (A) (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment] of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault),8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-who-raped-minor-daughter-confesses-to-filming-act-on-mobile-phone/story-oSEME5pJirBrdxpuaJc36H.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s MVA government will complete 5-year term: Shiv Sena MP Raut after meeting BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis||A day after meeting former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the “equation” in the state politics will not change and that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete its full five-year term.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday at the CM’s official residence Varsha. Maharashtra Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat was also present at the meeting.The meeting comes a day after Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Raut met former Fadnavis, which sparked political speculations. However, Sena insiders denied any connection between the two meetings.Speaking to reporters, the Sena Member of Parliament (MP) clarified that he met Fadnavis to plan an interview for the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’. He added that even Thackeray was aware of their meeting.“The government is functioning smoothly. There is excellent coordination between Sharad Pawar, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Uddhav Thackeray, Ajit Pawar… there will be no change in the equations,” he said.Raut said that Maharashtra politics is unlike “politics of the north” where, when there is an ideological difference, they stop speaking to each other. “There can be ideological differences but we [Fadnavis] are not enemies. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was aware of our meeting. We were not sitting in a bunker, it was an open meeting,” he added.Fadnavis also clarified that the meeting was not political. The former CM said that the BJP is not in a hurry to come to power and will not compromise to get in power. “The manner in which the government has handled the Covid crisis, there is a lot of anger due to it. We will continue to work as a strong opposition party to point out where they falter. The government will collapse due to their actions; when it happens, then we will see. I am in no haste to form the government,” he said.Raut on Sunday also welcomed the decision of the Akali Dal to break away from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). He added that there can be no NDA without Akali Dal and Shiv Sena, which were the “two strong pillars” of the Alliance. He said that Shiv Sena quit the NDA out of no choice. In late 2019, the party decided to join hands with the NCP and Congress to form the state government.“The two strong pillars of the NDA were the Shiv Sena and Akali Dal. Shiv Sena moved out of the NDA out of no choice. We did not wish to. Now Akali Dal also left NDA on the farmers’ issues. BJP has got some new partners in the NDA, I wish them the best. Without Shiv Sena and Akali Dal, there can be no NDA. The three parties – BJP, Sena, and Akali Dal – have stuck together for several years… whether in power or opposition. Now with new parties, it is not the NDA, but a new coalition,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-mva-government-will-complete-5-year-term-shiv-sena-mp-raut-after-meeting-bjp-s-devendra-fadnavis/story-6pj4GqCX96uL4WR3dTZieN.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||96% of JEE-Adv candidates appear for exam, find math section tough||The Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced (JEE-Adv) was conducted across the country on Sunday in two slots, and almost 96% of the 1.6 lakh registered candidates appeared for the exam this year. Most students found the paper moderate to difficult compared to last year, especially the math section.As per information shared by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi, which organised the exam, JEE-Adv 2020 was held across 222 cities and 1,001 exam centres. “Paper 1 was attempted by 151,311 students and paper 2 was attempted by 150,900 registered students,” mentioned a statement released by IIT-Delhi on Sunday evening.The exam was conducted in two slots – 9am to noon and 2.30pm to 5.30pm. Most candidates said that while a large part of the question papers was from within the curriculum, the maths section was particularly difficult.“The chemistry section was easy, and the physics section was a little difficult, but most faced trouble solving the Maths section. This made the paper lengthy, and some students did not manage to complete it,” said Ayush Chheda, one of the candidates.To avoid overcrowding and to ensure implementation of other safety norms, the examination authority had asked students to report to their respective centres in a staggered manner. The same format was followed during the JEE-Main (paper 2) exam that was conducted earlier this month.HT had previously reported that only 64% of the students eligible to appear for the JEE-Advanced registered for the examination in 2020. While the top 2.5 lakh students who cleared JEE-Main were eligible for the examination this year, only 160,831 finished the registration process.The results for this exam are scheduled to be announced on October 5, following which the admissions process to 23 IITs will commence by the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/96-of-jee-adv-candidates-appear-for-exam-find-math-section-tough/story-k0wNedNPrjKIY04PdRINZO.html
27-09-2020||Lucknow||Wanted criminal devises unique way to surrender to police in UP||A criminal carrying a reward of Rs 15,000 on his arrest surrendered to the police here on Sunday with a confession placard saying “don’t shoot me” hanging around his neck, officials said.गैंगस्टर एक्ट में वांछित ₹15,000 के इनामी बदमाश ने आज दिनांक 27.09.2020 को थाना नखासा पर स्वयं चलकर गले में आत्मसमर्पण की तख्ती डालकर आत्मसमर्पण किया।@Uppolice @dgpup @CMOfficeUP @KPGBJP pic.twitter.com/1hbiEiH4WbThe criminal, identified as Naeem, arrived at the Nakhasa police station in the afternoon.“I feel afraid of Sambhal Police. I confess my mistakes. I am surrendering. Please do not shoot me,” the placard read. Station House Officer Dharmpal Singh said Naeem has also been booked under the Gangsters Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/wanted-criminal-devises-unique-way-to-surrender-to-police-in-up/story-bx4FrtihWbPvfesemVl2EO.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||As Covid-19 cases breach the 2,000-mark in prisons across Maharashtra, lawyers to press for changes in high-power panel’s guidelines||As the number of Covid-19 cases in jails across the state has breached the 2,000-mark, advocates who have filed various petitions in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking emergency bail or parole for inmates, have said that they would be pressing for changes in the May guidelines issued by the high-power committee (HPC), pertaining to the release of inmates, including undertrials and convicts serving sentences of more than seven years. The HPC was constituted by the state to regulate and oversee the release of prisoners on a temporary basis to decongest the jails amid the outbreak. As on September 23, 2,061 inmates across and 421 jail staffers have tested positive for Covid-19 across 43 central and district prisons in Maharashtra. Advocate Satish Talekar, whose letter to the HC chief justice was converted into a public interest litigation (PIL), said that the HPC’s guidelines were issued in May, when there were only 34 Covid-19 cases in jails. However, the contagion has spread unabated and there is an urgent need for a review of the guidelines. “The HPC guidelines are contrary to the recommendations of the state government and jail authorities, as the classification of prisoners, which by itself is unconstitutional, has made it almost impossible for the courts to release the prisoners on emergency bail or parole,” said Talekar, adding that though the petitions challenging the HPC guidelines were rejected by the HC and the Supreme Court (SC), there was a need to revisit its guidelines. The first case in jails was detected from Mumbai Central Prison (Arthur Road jail) after a 45-year-old inmate, who had suffered a paralytic attack on May 2, was taken to JJ Hospital. He had developed the symptoms of the virus and had intermittent high fever since April 30. According to the hospital records, the patient was admitted at 1.55 pm on May 2 and a swab test was taken, which came positive on May 5. Following this, 182 inmates and 46 staffers of the prison were also found positive for the virus. NB Vyachal, superintendent of police at Arthur Road prison, had foreseen the problems which the contagion could cause in an extremely congested jail. In a letter written to the chief metropolitan magistrate on March 23, Vyachal had said that Arthur Road was housing 3,700 inmates as against the capacity of 800 and had called for the court to grant regular bail to undertrials in minor and moderate offences, and temporary bail to those booked in serious offences to decongest the prison. He had also pointed out in the letter that Arthur Road prison was located only 100 metres away from Kasturba Hospital, where hundreds of patients were being tested and treated for Covid-19 on a daily basis, which was violation of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) norms, mandating that a radius of 3 kilometres be declared a buffer zone from any hospital treating infected patients. The influx of inmates contracting Covid-19 at Arthur Road jail saw a slew of petitions being filed in the HC, seeking various reliefs for the inmates as well as implementing the SC directions issued on March 23 to decongest jails. The petitioners included non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and individuals who sought the intervention of the court to ascertain the status of the inmates, post the discovery of the infection, as neither the jail authorities nor the state was forthcoming with any information. The PIL filed by NGO People’s Unity for Civil Liberty saw senior advocate Mihir Desai seeking directions to the jail authorities to give the status of inmates (infected and non-infected ones), how social distancing norms were being maintained in overcrowded jails, the precautionary measures being taken by jail authorities to safeguard the inmates and to establish contact between inmates and their lawyers and relatives. After the court directed the jail authorities to take immediate steps to safeguard the non-infected inmates, the authorities started regular thermal screening and sanitisation of the jail premises and barracks, creation of isolation bays and providing cellular and video-calling facilities to the inmates. Another bunch of petitions pertaining to undertrials and convicts were also moved before the HC, in which the issue of releasing prisoners on interim bail/parole or furlough as per the SC directions were raised. The petitions challenged the decision of the HPC. The challenges in the petition were to the May 11 and 18 decisions of the HPC to classify prisoners based on the crime and duration of the punishment they were to undergo. While undertrials and convicts booked and convicted only under the Indian Penal Code with a sentence less than seven years were considered for temporary or interim bail/parole or furlough, the HPC denied the benefit those booked or convicted under special acts such as Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositers (In Financial Establishments) Act (MPID), Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso), Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca), Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) and Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). In order to curb the contagion and to decongest the prisons, a government resolution dated May 15 empowered the district collectors to declare any private or public building premises a temporary jail. All newly-admitted prisoners (2,767) are now being confined in such 37 temporary jails in the state, said jail authorities in response to the petition. “We have opened 37 temporary centres for new admissions and to quarantine those who are tested positive. Most of the Covid-19 infected prisoners are asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment at quarantined centres. Only those who show symptoms are sent to hospitals,” additionaldirector general of prison department, Maharashtra, Sunil Ramanand, said. The prison authorities also stated in an affidavit filed before the HC that in order to curb the contagion, overcrowded prisons such as Yerawada, Mumbai, Thane, Byculla, Kalyan, Nashik Road, Aurangabad and Nagpur jails have been locked down completely. However, in June and July, reports of cases started coming in from others prisons, with Nagpur Central Prison being the worst affected. As on September 23, around 219 inmates and 62 jail staffers have been tested positive in Nagpur Central Prison, while 171 inmates and 21 staffers have tested positive at Chandrapur District Prison. The central prison at Yerawada in Pune saw 261 cases among inmates and 43 among the staff, while Aurangabad Central Prison had 52 infected inmates and 35 staffers. Another district prison at Solapur has 69 and 13 cases among its prisoners and jail staff, respectively. Advocate NN Gavankar, who had moved for parole and furlough for prisoners owing to the increasing number of cases in Kolhapur jail, criticised the HPC guidelines and said that they were absurd. “While an April 2018 government notification permits those convicted in most serious crimes such as bomb blasts to avail emergency bail or parole for attending a marriage or funeral in the family, the HPC guidelines denies them the benefit for Covid-19 outbreak. The HPC guidelines are contrary to the constitutional rights available to prisoners, as their lives are put in jeopardy due to the classification made in the guidelines,” said Gavankar. Meanwhile, despite the fact that prisons in Maharashtra could possibly be the worst-hit due to Covid-19 across the country, little seems to have been done by the state in terms of decongesting the prisons or conducting enough number of tests. This is despite the HC having asked prison authorities to conduct random testing of inmates and to scrupulously follow the guidelines issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). According to jail authorities, 14,597 inmates and 2,543 staffers have been tested for Covid-19 across prisons in Maharashtra. But the statistics released by the prisons department shows that no tests have been conducted in six of the 43 prisons across the state. Ramanand said, “I believe we are conducting sufficient testing. We have around 27,000 prisoners and have conducted more than 14,000 tests so far and the process is on.” As on September 23, prisons across Maharashtra houses 27,255 inmates against the total capacity of 23,217, said jail authorities. The number of inmates inside the prison continues to be staggering, despite prison authorities claiming that a total of 10,608 inmates have either been released on bail or parole since March 23. As per the prison manual, an inmate has to be provided a space of 3.71 square metres (five feet width). And according to jail authorities, to ensure social distancing, the capacity of the jails will have to be reduced by two-third, which means that prisons across Maharashtra can house only about 16,000 inmates. “All possible efforts for de-congestion of prisons are being taken, but still we have some central prisons which are overcrowded. However, we also have to understand that granting bail to a prisoner is decided by the court. The most important thing here to notice is that we have been able to successfully curb the Covid-related deaths in prisons. There are only six Covid-19 deaths among 36,000 prisoners. We have successfully achieved the lowest mortality rate [in the country],” said Ramanand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/as-covid-19-cases-breach-the-2-000-mark-in-prisons-across-maharashtra-lawyers-to-press-for-changes-in-high-power-panel-s-guidelines/story-d0pZBLWUuP1nlQB7lF80MK.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||India will get two VVIP hi-tech aircraft on October 1||India’s wait for two of its dedicated VVIP aircraft is about to get over as the specially made hi-tech aircraft is set to land in Delhi on October 1. Top airline sources said the aircraft will be handed over by Boeing after conducting test flights and teams have already flown to Boeing headquarters at Chicago to take delivery of these special aircraft. The arrival of Air India One from the United States (US), which will be used exclusively for the prime minister, president and vice-president, went through a series of delays. It will be accompanied by a team comprising Air India’s engineers and pilots and the Indian Air Force. “The test flights are expected to be completed by September 25, after which the aircraft manufacturer will hand over the two aircraft to us. The two aircraft will take off by September 30 and will land in Delhi by October 1. Both aircraft are expected to take-off with a gap of around 20 minutes on September 30,” said a highly placed source on conditions of anonymity. Air India did not comment on the development.The first delivery of these VVIP aircraft was scheduled in July but was delayed due to the ongoing pandemic. It was then scheduled to be delivered around mid- September. While one of the two aircraft was to be delivered mid-September, the second aircraft was to be delivered by September end. These aircraft deliveries were however delayed after a team from Air India that had flown to the US for taking the aircraft’s delivery made some technical suggestions. These Boeing 777 aircraft will have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self Protection Suites (SPS). The customised aircraft will be operated by the Indian Air Force pilots while flying VVIPs. For this, Air India has trained four IAF pilots. In May this year, around 15 shortlisted senior-most Air India pilots were deputed for two years to operate these ‘special extra section flights’ which refers to these VVIP flights. As the national carrier’s pilots are well experienced to operate B777, initially they will be flying along with IAF pilots and later IAF pilots will take over the complete flying operations. In 2018, these two aircraft that were sent to the Boeing facility for the retrofitting purpose were a part of the airline’s commercial fleet.Currently, Air India operates its Boeing 747 aircraft for the VVIP travel. However, these aircraft are not exclusively used to fly dignitaries. They have been utilised for commercial purposes when they are not flying VVIPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/india-will-get-two-vvip-hi-tech-aircraft-on-october-1/story-oAXxVfXXmMfggfoSHLGKUP.html
27-09-2020||City||Mumbai civic corporation collected fines worth ₹52.76 lakh from 14K citizens for not wearing masks at public places||The civic body has fined 14,207 citizens in the city since August for not wearing masks and collected ₹52.76 lakh as fines for violating the rule until Saturday. Of this, fines worth ₹19 lakh were collected from 9,218 defaulters between September 13 and 26 alone.As the lockdown restrictions have been gradually lifted, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to further ramp up the surveillance to ensure citizens mandatorily wear masks while stepping out of their homes.“We have instructed ward officers to increase their surveillance and soon, we will give them a higher daily target rate to collect fines,” said ,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.The highest amount (₹6.15 lakh) for the violation was collected from K West ward that covers Andheri (West), followed by R South (Dahisar), where ₹6.07 lakh was collected from 1,331 defaulters. The third highest amount was collected from C ward (Kalbadevi) where 1,169 citizens were fine ₹5.60 lakh, followed by R Central ward where ₹2.63-lakh fines were collected in 1,084 cases.People need to develop the habit of wearing a mask. Residents in slums are more responsible than those at in non-slum areas. We could control the infection spread in slums because of proper implementation of safety measures,” said Kakani.“People have been at home for almost seven months. So now with the relaxation in the lockdown, people are coming out of their homes but many aren’t following basic precautionary measures such as wearing masks. Earlier, we were fining only 10-12 people each day, but now it has increased to over 70 fines,” said Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer, R Central ward (Borivli).In the last week of June, BMC made it mandatory to wear masks while stepping out of homes. The mask may be either three-ply or plain cloth mask which are available at chemists. Citizens can also wear homemade, washable masks which can be reused after properly washing and disinfecting them.As per the order, anybody violating the order will be punishable under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and a fine will be imposed for each such offence by the police officer or the officers appointed by assistant commissioners of the corporation.In the first week of September, BMC decreased the fine from ₹1,000 to ₹200. The solid waste management department has been entrusted with penalising people for not wearing masks. In each ward, a team of 25 inspectors has been formed to ensure rules are followed. The vigilance is likely to increase in the coming days.“Masks help to trap the droplets that are released while talking, sneezing and coughing. It is an integral part of the mechanism to curb the spread of the infection among others. For people above 50 years with comorbidities, it is the primary safety guard against the virus,” said medical officer Dr Gulnar Khan from K West ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-civic-corporation-collected-fines-worth-52-76-lakh-from-14k-citizens-for-not-wearing-masks-at-public-places/story-BAMQNO8WG87p6og7i31KTI.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Access hierarchy around Mumbai’s Metro stations: Walking, cycling to be prioritised||Covid-19 is radically changing the way people live, work and travel across cities. With walking and cycling gaining importance across global cities, Mumbai’s infrastructure proposals are also taking a few steps to prioritise non-motorised transport.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has created an “access hierarchy” for the upcoming metro stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). According to which, development and planning of access to metro stations will mean giving highest priority to pedestrians, cyclists, buses and shared-rickshaws followed by drop-off by private vehicles, two-wheelers and cars. RA Rajeev, metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA said, “World over, cities are giving more prominence to enabling walking and cycling infrastructure for commuters, especially during the pandemic. Our multi-modal integration plan around upcoming metro stations will also aim to prioritise pedestrians and cyclists.”The plan is a part of the multi-modal integration project being undertaken by the authority for all upcoming metro stations. As per which, a minimum of 500-meter radius around every station will be exclusive for last-mile users. It will include bus-bays, parking area, seating arrangement and cycle docks.While MMRDA has already approved the plans for 30 metro stations of metro line 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E), it has recently also invited proposals for planning and design of multi-modal integration around 17 stations of Metro 4 (Wadala-Kasarwadaval) and 4A (line 4 extension till Gaimukh).While first and last-mile connectivity continues to be poor in the city, the authority is taking some steps in that direction. It recently launched an e-bike initiative in the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) to ease connectivity from the suburban stations of Bandra and Kurla to BKC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/access-hierarchy-around-mumbai-s-metro-stations-walking-cycling-to-be-prioritised/story-oYd8Mt8MlunlmAK3j6Ff2L.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s tribal schools make offline learning accessible to students||With a large number of tribal schools’ students in the state having no access to online education, the state government’s tribal development department has been working with school authorities to make several offline learning tools available for these students. Nearly 4.74 lakh students are studying in various tribal schools across the state. With the Covid-19 situation and the resultant lockdown, students are now in their homes, most of which are located in remote areas across the state. As schools began their new academic year online in June this year, tribal schools have a set of challenges ahead of them. “Most students studying in these schools have no access to the internet and a basic phone even. So, ensuring that their education continues was important and for this, we came up with a comprehensive plan,” said Kiran Kulkarni, former commissioner of the tribal development department. The department has recently come up with a document titled ‘Unlock Learning’ listing out all the initiatives that it took up over the last 4 months to ensure that offline learning reaches students even as schools remain shut. An important initiative that has been taken as part of the strategy is the appointment of local resource persons to facilitate learning.“To make sure that students continue learning and get the necessary help and support to do so constantly, educated students, anganwadi workers and government employees in the vicinity are appointed as resource persons voluntarily. They have a list of students in their locality and are in a position to play the role of mediators between teachers and students,” states the 54-page long document compiled by the department. Students have also been given workbooks and activity books specially designed for offline learning outside of schools. Teachers from ashram schools have been allotted 20-25 students each and have been doing home visits once every week to the homes of these students. Teachers have also been encouraged to remain sensitive to the cultural and social contexts of students. “Some homes might not have enough light and the children might be in old clothes. Teachers should be empathetic towards their need,” states the document. Wardens of tribal hostels have been asked to keep a check on students from time to time. Teachers have also shot short videos in the local context to make learning more interesting for students. Shaila Thakur, a teacher at an aided tribal school in Chikhale, Panvel said, “We go to the localities of students with teaching aids and teach them in small groups. Every day, teachers visit different localities, so once every week, every child gets personal guidance. On the remaining days, we stay in touch through phones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-tribal-schools-make-offline-learning-accessible-to-students/story-sGf2EIiFIMgZcM1fOXsw5H.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown: 62-year-old donates smartphones to Palghar zilla parishad school students||Students of the zilla parishad school in Baliwali, Palghar, visited the school after months of lockdown on Friday to collect the smartphones that were donated by a 62-year-old retired reinsurance consultant Venkatesh Chakravarty.HT had reported on September 14 about assistant teacher Pralhad Kathole’s efforts to keep students engaged during the lockdown. The report further said that since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, online classes were not an option for the students in Baliwali as only two students’ parents had smartphones in a class of 44. So, Kathole had scanned a range of currency notes and arranged them on a sheet of paper so that his pupils from Class 3 and 4 could learn basic mathematical concepts of addition and subtraction.Moved by the plight of the students, Chakravarty, donated 15 smartphones with prepaid internet connection for three months. The smartphones and the internet will be shared among the students, said Kathole.“During the lockdown, those who are privileged are continuing with online education but some sections of the society are facing huge disadvantages. We can’t just leave it to somebody else to solve the problems,” said Chakravarty, a Mulund resident.“I was impressed by Pralhad’s passion for his students’ education,” Chakravarty added. After working out the details with Kathole, he paid ₹95,000 for the devices as well as the internet connection.On Friday, students, accompanied by their parents reached the school to receive the devices as Chakravarty joined them via a video call. “I contacted science educators from Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education for mobile applications to be installed on the phone for self-learning. I feel one-on-one meeting with children is important, so I will be working in a blended mode with kids which is partly offline and partly online,” Kathole said.Located around 100km northeast of Mumbai, Baliwali is a cluster of hamlets spread across the forests in the Wada taluka of Palghar. Most students at the zilla parishad school belong to the scheduled tribe community and four girls belong to other backward classes. While most of these families live off small pieces of land, many parents migrate seasonally to work in brick kilns in nearby Kalyan, Bhiwandi and Vasai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lockdown-62-year-old-donates-smartphones-to-palghar-zilla-parishad-school-students/story-k6LyMJXN2o4ysCRYksrS2M.html
27-09-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: No free RT-PCR testing kits for Mumbai after September 30||Come September 30, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will stop getting RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) testing kits for Covid-19 testing for free from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In August, ICMR informed state governments that they will no longer give RT-PCR test kits for free. This month, BMC conducted upto 15,000 Covid tests daily. Currently, 60%-80% of the daily tests conducted in Mumbai are through the RT-PCR method, while the rest are rapid antigen tests. The current stock of RT-PCR kits can suffice till October 31. The civic body has initiated the tendering process to procure new kits. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the civic health department, said, “We asked ICMR for an extension till September 30. Our stock will last till October 31. After the due process, we will procure RT-PCR kits from the market, from private and government agencies presently providing these kits to the Central government.” When asked how much will it cost BMC, Kakani said, “We are working out the cost. Proper procedure will be followed, and tenders will be floated.” The civic body is already facing a financial crunch, from losses due to lockdown and unforseen Covid relief expenditure. Earlier this month, BMC slashed ₹2,500 crore from funds for infrastructure projects and has asked its administrative departments to cut revenue expenditure by 20%. BMC is also accumulating RT-PCR kits week on week to ensure the stock lasts maximum number of days. “We will not face any shortage,” Kakani said. RT-PCR test results to detect Covid-19 are considered accurate, in comparison to antigen tests which have a higher chance of producing a false negative. So far, BMC has procured 2 lakh rapid antigen testing kits from the market, and has placed an order to procure 1 lakh more. BMC has so far conducted 10.57 lakh tests, with a positivity percentage of 18.18%. Mumbai on Sunday recorded 2,261 new Covid-19 cases, and 44 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 1,98,864, and deaths to 8,794. There are 26,716 active cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-no-free-rt-pcr-testing-kits-for-mumbai-after-september-30/story-ECJMT5RfRul27qpaoT6njL.html
27-09-2020||City||Increase Covid-19 testing across Thane, says district collector||Thane district collector, Rajesh Narvekar plans to increase the number of Covid-19 tests across the district. Orders will be given to all municipal corporations to identify containment zones and organise testing camps. This comes a day after an online meeting was held by the chief minister to conduct a status check of the Covid situation within Thane district.“We were told to focus on rural areas within the district as well. Shahapur is already under curfew with the increasing number of cases. We plan to increase testing across municipal corporations, panchayat samiti and municipal councils within the district. Increased testing will ensure timely treatment is provided with early detection,” said Narvekar.The recovery rate in Thane district is 86.60% and the mortality rate is 2.58% with more than 1.7lakh cases recorded till now. At present, the district has more than 18,000 active cases. The focus is increasing towards rural areas as well, more than 600 teams are deployed as part of the- my family my responsibility survey only in rural areas of Thane district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/increase-covid-19-testing-across-thane-says-district-collector/story-UmhYq8aW8X9H7Li11ySMXO.html
27-09-2020||City||Navi Mumbai police constable succumbs to Covid-19||A 51-year-old Navi Mumbai police constable succumbed to Covid-19 early on Sunday after over a week-long battle with the infection. Constable Rajendra Khot was posted as a driver at Vashi police station. The constable was admitted at DY Patil Hospital on September 18 after he complained of breathlessness. He tested positive for Covid-19 and his health worsened over the weekend, an officer said.“Khot had previously undergone angioplasty which put him under a high-risk category. He succumbed to the virus during his treatment on Sunday morning. He is survived by his wife and two children,” the officer from Navi Mumbai police station said.Khot is the 10th police personnel from the city police to have lost his battle with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-police-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-2BwR6NClrfhvIbDOE5IYGL.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Their reasons for quitting alliance weren’t sufficient’: Punjab BJP on SAD’s exit||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma said on Sunday the reasons given by the Shiromani Akali Dal for snapping ties with the NDA were “very surprising”, but also mentioned that he “felt sad” over their decision.The SAD on Saturday night announced to quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the farm bills issue. The party’s chief had also expressed anguish over the non-inclusion of Punjabi in the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020.In the wake of this development, the Punjab unit of the BJP held a meeting of its core group core on Sunday.Addressing reporters after the meeting, Sharma said, “The BJP has always given respect to every party associated with the NDA. But the SAD is a political party and they chose another line. Surely I felt sad as they were the oldest ally.” “But the two reasons they (Akalis) gave (for snapping ties) were very surprising,” he said.On the issue of farm bills, the Akalis alleged that the BJP was not pro-farmer. But, ever since Narendra Modi became prime minister, several decisions have been taken by the farming community, Sharma said.He cited the support of Rs 6,000 given to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sammann Nidhi scheme, supplying neem-coated urea, Kisan Bima and Fasal Bima schemes among others.Strongly defending the three farm bills, Sharma said the prime minister had assured the minimum support price system and government purchase would continue.The Punjab BJP chief said the Akali Dal also raised the issue of non-inclusion of Punjabi language in Jammu and Kashmir.“Under a new clause 4, which has been inserted in the new law (Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020), a provision has been made to promote the Punjabi language in Jammu and Kashmir,” Sharma claimed.He said the BJP is accountable to Punjab, Punjabiyat and the people of Punjab.“Therefore, the reasons they (Akalis) gave (for leaving alliance) are not sufficient,” he said.Sharma also accused the Congress and the AAP of trying to mislead the farmers.Taking on Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the state BJP chief accused him of using the shoulder of farmers in a bid to hide his government’s failures and rampant corruption and existence of liquor and mining mafias.He lashed out at the Congress, alleging that it ruled the country for 60 years and gave false hopes to the poor and the farmers and never took any decision to raise their standard of living.Reacting to the SAD’s decision of breaking ties, BJP’s senior leader Manoranjan Kalia said it was unfortunate that they broke a long association.He said there was a generational change in the Akali Dal as several senior leaders like Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Sewa Singh Sekhawan, who used to work with Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal, have left the SAD.“Now, the second generation has taken over and some leaders are more reactive now,” said Kalia.Another BJP leader Master Mohan Lal described the Akalis’ move of pulling out of the NDA as a “decision taken in haste”. He said the Akalis should have held a meeting with BJP’s core group.“I do not understand what were Akalis’ compulsions and why they took this decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/their-reasons-for-quitting-alliance-weren-t-sufficient-punjab-bjp-on-sad-s-exit/story-z3DAL6LSBfuggNCc4DdJsJ.html
27-09-2020||City||Online pig farming training starts at GADVASU||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences, University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, started the first of its kind two-week online pig farming training. Pig farming is gaining popularity in the state in all social strata of the society because of its good profitability.Dr PS Brar, director extension education, GADVASU revealed that the university regularly organises different training programmes on livestock farming on and off-campus. But now due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the university decided to start an online training programme.He added that though the extension wing is regularly organising free knowledge disseminating webinars for livestock farmers, this is the first training programme where the trainee will get the certificate after successful completion of the programme.Dr SK Kansal, professor-cum-head of the department of veterinary and animal husbandry extension education, revealed that the department is doing its best to disseminate the knowledge even during the pandemic through webinars, tele-consultancy, apps, online seasonal advisories on livestock farming through text/SMS service and its monthly magazine.Dr Jaswinder Singh, assistant professor, coordinator of this training revealed that from now online training programmes will be a regular feature. He said that the university has developed an android based mobile app “Pig Farming” both in Punjabi and Hindi.One can watch the livestock farming-related videos on the university’s YouTube channel “GADVASU farmer’s friendly e-extension”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-pig-farming-training-starts-at-gadvasu/story-sinTShDFvytrOV9IKgJM1I.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two 14-year-olds held for raping girl, 7, sent to juvenile home||Two 14-year-old boys held for raping a seven-year-old girl were produced before the juvenile justice board and sent to a juvenile home on Sunday. The case was registered on the complaint of the girl’s mother, an employee in a private committee.As she was fighting a divorce case, the mother said she left the child alone at home due to Covid-19 when she went to work.The mother said the child appeared to be stressed and, when questioned, said a teenaged boy living in the house they had rented earlier and his friend had raped her.She said they had been sexually exploiting her since June 2019 and had threatened to kill her if she told anyone about it.A case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and sections 376(d) and 506 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Mataur police station on the complaint of the girl’s mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-14-year-olds-held-for-raping-girl-7-sent-to-juvenile-home/story-2BY2JvrhfvBB8h4rj5xyaL.html
27-09-2020||City||National Teachers’ Awards: Punjab education department asks teachers to apply before Oct 15||To felicitate teachers who have enhanced student learning by effectively and innovatively integrating technology supported learning into the school curriculum and subject teaching (including the creation of e-content), the state education department has asked teachers to apply for National ICT Awards. The last date to send details is October 15. Teachers can directly apply at www.ictaward.ncert.gov.in.The NCERT has stated that as Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has become one of the basic building blocks of modern society so to strengthen the use of ICT in almost every sphere including the education sector, the government introduced these awards for the innovative teachers.As per the guidelines, teachers have to submit their portfolio along with the entry form. The portfolio should include evidence of the teacher’s awareness and use of ICT in their own professional development, in improving their teaching-learning, and enhancing the overall quality of education in schools and communities. It should include relevant supporting documents, tools, reports of activities, field visits, photographs, audios or videos.District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “I have asked teachers to apply for this award as many are using information and communication technology for enhancing teaching-learning and are eligible to apply for this award.”The selected awardee will get an ICT Kit, a laptop and a commendation certificate. The awardees would be encouraged to function as mentors (resource persons) for their area to motivate and train other teachers. All the awardees will form a community of resource persons through networking. Selected initiatives would be shared as best practices across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/national-teachers-awards-punjab-education-department-asks-teachers-to-apply-before-oct-15/story-2jN1nOd1UREnrBEWloZ2GP.html
27-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Govt College building (east) work progressing at snail’s pace||The ongoing construction of the new building of Government College Ludhiana (East), situated opposite Vardhman Mill on the Chandigarh Road here, has been going on at a snail’s pace after the authorities released only Rs 1 crore instead of Rs 3 crore to the contractor this month.A visit to the site revealed that work of the administrative, arts and science blocks have been started but the installation of doors, whitewash of the two blocks is yet to begin. As per sources, these works require huge funds and with the finance department releasing only Rs 1 crore, the contractor has decided to complete the work of two blocks until more funds are released.Executive engineer of the public works department (PWD), Adesh Gupta said, “We have received a sum of around Rs 1 crore from the state higher education department but we had sent a requirement of Rs 3 crore. Before that, the funds had been released in November last year. To expedite the work, the authorities need to release the pending funds. The project is worth Rs 12 crore.”The construction on the five-acre land started on November 3, 2018, and is expected to be completed by January next year. In June, the work on the construction of the new building of the third government college in the city came to a halt due to the paucity of funds.Sanjay Talwar, member of legislative assembly (MLA) said, “Funds of Rs 1 crore have been released to the contractor and the rest will be released soon. I will be going to Chandigarh next week to assure that the required funds will be released soon to the contractor by the finance department. The classes for the BA course will be conducted in the new premises from January.”The foundation stone of the building was laid at the site on January 28, 2018. On April 11, 2018, a team comprising the director, public instructions (colleges), former deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and other officers inspected a community centre at Jamalpur to start BA part 1 and part 2 classes temporarily from there. Students of these classes were supposed to be later shifted to the new college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-govt-college-building-east-work-progressing-at-snail-s-pace/story-oCCgAO1Zih1R36kIt3vHaN.html
27-09-2020||City||Post-matric SC scholarship scam: MLA now, ex-bureaucrat writes to CM, says there is no discrepancy||Patiala Congress MLA and former IAS officer Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal in a letter to the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has clarified his position in the alleged post-matric SC scholarship scam.Before being elected as an MLA, Dhaliwal had served as director in the social justice and welfare department and the report of additional chief secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj had pointed out the alleged financial irregularities during his tenure.Dhaliwal, who had served under Saroj, has now as an MLA accused him of misrepresenting the facts and bringing disrepute to the government. In the three-page letter to the CM, Dhaliwal said: “It’s quite strange that ACS/director had prepared the report on the basis of findings of a tainted officer. The fact and figures in the report are false and beyond the knowledge and meant to tarnish the image of government. The department officials have already submitted that there is no misuse of funds, and no payment was made to any ghost institution. ACS intentionally ignored these facts, while preparing the report,” Dhaliwal said in his demi-official letter to the CM.To buttress his point, Dhaliwal even submitted the financial statement and report made by deputy finance controller and auditor of the department, who on August 25 submitted that there is no mismatch in funds drawn from treasury and disbursed to colleges. Meanwhile, the three-member panel led by principal secretary (finance) KAP Sinha that was tasked with to look into the matter has reportedly submitted its report to chief secretary Vini Mahajan, which she is likely to take up the CM next week.Social welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot’s role in the disbursal of funds under the said scheme is under scanner even as he has refuted all the allegations of any wrong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/post-matric-sc-scholarship-scam-mla-now-ex-bureaucrat-writes-to-cm-says-there-is-no-discrepancy/story-3bWRJDsa9J4JVWOk9ySHPJ.html
27-09-2020||City||JEE Advanced 2020: Aspirants find maths lengthy, physics difficult||The candidates who have appeared in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced on Sunday rated the paper as moderate with the maths section relatively lengthy and physics portion difficult. The examination was conducted at TCS ION digital zone, near Sherpur Chowk here. The examination was held keeping in mind with all Covid-19 precautions.Around 343 of 373 students appeared for the examination in the first slot from 9 am to 12 noon and 29 remained absent in the second slot from 2.30 pm to 5.30 pm. There were two papers, Paper 1 and Paper 2. Each paper had three parts- Physics, Chemistry and MathematicsA huge rush was witnessed outside the centre. The staff asked the candidates to stand at a distance of 2 feet from each other to maintain social distancing, but many were found flouting the Covid norms. Long queues were witnessed outside the centre and staff was asking the parents to leave to avoid crowding.The candidates had to appear in the exams with face masks, hand sanitisers. Near the examination building, all candidates had to undergo a thermal screening process.The majority of aspirants who appeared in paper 1 found the physics section difficult. The paper comprises of 54 questions, 18 in each subject.An examinee, Anurag Gupta, who scored 99.96 percentile in JEE (Main) said, “I found the physics portion difficult as it took me plenty of time to answer all questions which were a little calculative. The chemistry section was balanced and the mathematics portion was a little lengthy.”“In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, IIT Delhi has taken extra precautions to ensure the safety of students,” said, Mukul Anand, a resident of Subhash Nagar who appeared in the entrance exam at TCS ION digital zone here today. He said, “Of the three sections, I found the physics section tricky and mathematics calculative, lengthy and time-consuming. The chemistry section was easy and the physical chemistry had a little higher percentage of questions as compared to organic and inorganic chemistry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jee-advanced-2020-aspirants-find-maths-lengthy-physics-difficult/story-eP3m0EYdmx330w2C5Yi8RP.html
27-09-2020||Bangalore||Mangaluru cops catch thieves who stole 11 cellphones within 105 minutes||The city police cracked a theft case within 105 minutes of the occurrence of the crime.The thieves had stolen 11 mobile phones of labourers who were having an afternoon nap in an under-construction building at Karangalpady here on Saturday, police said.The workers filed a complaint with the police at 5 pm and a team, led by inspector B Govindraju, caught the the three culprits at 6.45 pm from a lodge in the city and recovered the mobile phones.Two bikes were also confiscated from them, the ownership of which is being probed into, they said.City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash commended the team for solving the case quickly by using advanced technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/mangaluru-cops-catch-thieves-who-stole-11-cellphones-within-105-minutes/story-FeSWq2uVFgqwfJgRHQrTaP.html
27-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: 19-year-old killed after chase ends in crash||A 19-year-old man was killed in an accident after his bike rammed into a truck near Samrala Chowk, police said on Sunday. The victim along with his brothers was being chased by workers of a roadside eatery following a clash. The victim has been identified as Nakul Mehra, 19 of Mayapuri. However, the victim’s kin has accused the eatery workers of beating him to death.The victim’s kin visited Dharampura police station and demanded a murder case to be registered against workers of the eatery.The victim’s maternal uncle Harish Kumar said that on Saturday Nakul and his two elder brothers Karan and Arjun, had gone to a dhaba to have dinner. At around 11.30 pm they called their family members to inform them that they have landed in a scuffle with the workers of the eatery who brutally thrashed them.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-1) Deepak Pareek said that the trio landed in a scuffle with the workers of the eatery and later fled the spot. They returned with bricks and stones and attacked the dhaba workers and escaped on their bikes. The workers gave them a chase. In an attempt to escape, Nakul rammed his motorcycle into a truck, while his brothers Karan and Arjun were riding on another bike.The passersby took the victim to the hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival.The ADCP added that the mishap has been captured in the CCTVs installed in the area. However, the police will lodge an FIR of accidental death against the dhaba workers, as they were chasing Nakul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-19-year-old-killed-after-chase-ends-in-crash/story-IQzBMSqmySomRG2omR8C3N.html
27-09-2020||City||Pune dist reports 3,268 fresh Covid-19 cases, 46 deaths||PUNE Pune district has reported 3,268 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, with 46 infection-related fatalities, the state health department said on Sunday. Currently, Pune district has a total of 2.85 lakh Covid cases, of which 2.20 lakh have recovered, 5,671 is the death toll and 58,932 is the active case count. Pune rural, according to the state health department, reported 948 new cases, taking the final count to 59,406. Nine deaths on Sunday puts the rural death toll at 1,189. Pune city, as per the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), reported 1,557 fresh cases on Sunday, taking its total count to 1,52,540 Thirty-two virus—related deaths were also reported, putting the death toll at 3,469. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 763 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its total count to 73,588. Five deaths were also reported which puts the PCMC death toll at 1,012. The state health department reported that 13,565 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the discharged count to 10,30,015. The recovery rate in the state is 76.91%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.66%. Currently, 19,64,644 persons are in home quarantine and 30,467 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-dist-reports-3-268-fresh-covid-19-cases-46-deaths/story-oMB041jEzwmIFZCEhWHXuI.html
27-09-2020||Pune||PMPML shoots letters to PMC, PCMC to recover dues worth Rs 183 cr||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal (PMPML) has written letters to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to seek dues from the civic bodies and recover financial losses that the transport utility faced over the past six months. According to PMPML authorities, the total amount of dues pending with both the governing bodies is around Rs 183 crore for the period between March 23 and August 31. The PMC owes Rs 110 crore to PMPML while PCMC has dues amounting to Rs 73 crore. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, for around five months PMPML bus service was operating only for emergency service people. Now since the bus service has started for common public, the daily income of the organisation has reduced to around Rs 15 lakh which was earlier Rs 1.5 crore daily on an average. If the dues are not paid immediately then there is a fear that PMPML bus service might come to stand still soon. “As we all know that Covid-19 pandemic has affected all fields economically and it has affected our daily revenue as well over the last six months. As we come under financial deficit every year, which is paid by both the municipal corporations as per the state government order. During this Covid period, the PMPML daily revenue has drastically come down, we were shut down for almost 160 days and its total loss has gone up to Rs 183 crore. This period is from March 23 to August 31, this is all about immediate expenses which needs to be paid on immediate basis. It includes our diesel expenses, maintenance and repairing of buses which needs to be paid as early as possible,” said PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap. “We have written letters to both the municipal corporations demanding the pending dues, as it is a matter of survival for us now. They can pay the dues in phases, but they should at least start giving us financial help as early as possible. If the payments are not given on time then slowly the services will come down and we might have to stop it completely soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-shoots-letters-to-pmc-pcmc-to-recover-dues-worth-rs-183-cr/story-anSFSvFBmklytNjVPImCQO.html
27-09-2020||Bangalore||‘Our farmer leaders clear about govt’s intentions, no scope for agitation’: Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday asserted his government was pro-farmers and sought to brush aside the state-wide bandh called by various farmers outfits on Monday over amendments to the APMC and land reforms act, saying there was no ‘scope’ for the agitation.Assuring that the people can carry on with their day-to- day activities normally without any fear, the state government warned against any move to forcefully enforce the bandh.“I had called leaders of farmers organisations and discussed with them the stand of our government and the desire of the Prime Minister (which) is pro-farmer,” Yediyurappa told reporters here.The state government had brought the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill with an intention give freedom to farmers to sell their produce in any part of the state or country, he said, claiming 90 per cent of the royts have welcomed the move as they can sell either at APMCs or outside which is their right.“...we have fulfilled the long-standing demand of the farmers. Our farmers’ leaders at least now have to understand the intention, and should drop the bandh call and stop creating unnecessary confusion. There will be no scope for it (bandh),” he added.Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who was present, also said there would be no scope for the bandh from the government side and steps would be taken to ensure normal life remained unaffected.Noting that there were clear court orders regarding such bandhs, he said, all necessary arrangements have been made for government offices, hospitals, shops and establishments, taxis and bus to operate smoothly.There was no need for people to fear about bandh and they can carry on with their day-to-day activities normally, he said, warning of stern action by police against anyone enforcing the bandh forcefully or indulging in incidents like stone pelting on Monday.Despite the stiff opposition from the opposition parties, especially Congress, the Yediyurappa government was successful in getting the APMC bill and also the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill passed in the assembly on Saturday.While the amendments to land reform act liberalises farmland ownership, the APMC bill curtails the powers of local agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) and allows private individuals to start agricultural trading, if they hold a permanent account number (PAN).The bandh is also supported by several labour organisations who are protesting against amendments to certain labour laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-bandh-our-farmer-leaders-clear-about-govt-s-intentions-no-scope-for-agitation-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa/story-BGJlxOWrlSAyjJYiQDrFJL.html
27-09-2020||City||Bird threat to aircraft: Meat shops, dumping of waste banned near IAF station in Mohali||District magistrate Girish Dayalan has ordered a ban on meat shops within a radius of 1,000 metres from the Air Force Station. The magistrate has also banned garbage dumping in the area to keep birds away. The orders were issued after the Indian Air Force (IAF) had contacted the District Magistrate’s Office informing it about various food stalls having come up around the air base and waste being dumped in the open. As a result, birds continue to fly in the area, posing a risk of a collision with aircraft.The orders, issued in exercise of his powers under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), will remain in force till November 21. The sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), tehsildar and naib tehsildar concerned will ensure compliance and promulgation of the orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bird-threat-to-aircraft-meat-shops-dumping-of-waste-banned-near-iaf-station-in-mohali/story-I2i9DiqtmzSfDGt8i3jGIL.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar lauds SAD’s Badals for their strong pro-farmer stance||NCP chief Sharad Pawar applauded Shiromani Akali Dal for breaking away from the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA over the disagreement regarding the farm bills on Sunday. The Nationalist Congress Party chief took to Twitter to applaud the Badals for exiting the National Democratic Alliance almost after two decades. He wrote on Twitter, “Congratulations to Shri Sukhbir Singh Badal, President of @Akali_Dal_ and MP @HarsimratBadal_ who under the leadership of Hon. Shri Prakash Singh Badal pulled out of NDA in a protest to Farmers’ Bills. Thanks for firmly standing with the Farmers! @officeofssbadal.”The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) quit the NDA on Saturday over the passage of the farm bills accusing the Centre of jeopardizing farmers’ ambitions. They also cited that the Centre has not paid adequate attention to the issues of Punjab. The decision to quit the NDA was taken by the SAD after party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal after he presided over a core committee meeting. NCP in Maharashtra along with its coalition partner Congress has also decided not to implement the farm laws in Maharashtra. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said that the farm bills will not be implemented in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-lauds-sad-s-badals-for-their-strong-pro-farmer-stance/story-hUCaJqJuukfkguptHcSmjP.html
27-09-2020||City||Inflated bills: Shimla residents to gherao civic body today||The members of Shimla Nagrik Sabha (SNS) will gherao the municipal corporation (MC) on Monday for charging inflated water and garbage collection bills and property taxes, among other issues.The SNS will also submit a memorandum of demands to the mayor, deputy mayor, municipal commissioner, joint commissioner and all councillors of the MC.Other demands of the SNS include rationalisation of civic bills of paying guests, gymnasium, street vendors and other small shopkeepers; no hiking of garbage and water bills by 10% every year; no 10% late charges for water bills; slashing parking charges; withdrawal of property tax rates for municipal shops, stalls, warehouses owing to coronavirus; waiver of garbage collection and water bills from landlords whose tenants have left to their native places; 20,000 litres of water should be provided free on the lines of Delhi.SNS president Vijendra Mehra said the state government and Shimla MC have not given any relief to the people who were financially affected during the Covid pandemic. “The hotel and restaurant businesses in Shimla have come to a standstill. Due to this, about 5,000 labourers working directly with the industry have lost their jobs,” he said.Mehra added that in such a difficult situation, it was expected of the state government and the MC to provide financial help, but both have remained indifferent towards the public.“Thousands of garbage bills have been handed over to the residents. Every month, litter and water bills of closed quarters are being forcibly collected from the landlords,” he rued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inflated-bills-shimla-residents-to-gherao-civic-body-today/story-6zGzginnfBmSc6sffYE93L.html
27-09-2020||City||Farmers in Una village reaping benefits of crop diversification project||The Himachal government’s crop diversification promotion project, which is being implemented with the help of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), has started to set the farmers of Badsala village in Una district on the path of prosperity.The farmers who were once purchasing foodgrains from the market are now selling their produce and earning a profitable income.It was in May 2017 that the facility of irrigation was provided to farmlands in Badsal from a tubewell installed under JICA’s supervision.An area of 14.37 hectares was brought under the irrigation project, constructed at a cost of about ₹46 lakh, which recorded an unprecedented increase in the yield of wheat and maize in the area.State agriculture minister Virendra Kanwar said that the first phase of the JICA-led project is going to close by December this year. In this phase, a ₹321-crore project was implemented in five districts —Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kangra, Mandi and Una.“Farmers were given training on vegetable and cereal growing and post-harvest management techniques. Basic facilities like irrigation and road access to the fields were developed under the project,” said Kanwar.For the second phase, the proposed outlay of the project would be ₹1,104 crore. A memorandum of understanding in this regard is likely to be signed with JICA in March 2021.“Before the implementation of the project in Badsala, the average yield per hectare was 18 quintals in the kharif season. But, after introducing the irrigation facility, the yield rose to 32 quintals per hectare in the corresponding period last year,” the minister revealed.This rabi season, 41 quintal wheat was produced per hectare. Earlier, the yield would be around 15 quintals per hectare only, said Kanwar.Farmers also started growing vegetables on 2.4 hectares of land during the kharif season and 4.55-hectare area in the rabi season, he added.Under the sub-project, JICA block project manager Kulbhushan Dhiman said Badsala farmers were provided with irrigation, seeds, equipment and training.“All these measures helped in raising their income by almost five times. Earlier, a farmer used to earn ₹52,552 per hectare; which increased to ₹2,71,197 per hectare in the year 2019-20,” Dhiman informed.Farmers from the village are elated about the financial benefits of the project.Mukesh Kumar said because of the crop diversification project in the village, farmers have started growing potatoes and other vegetables and are earning huge profits. “Besides the irrigation facilities, seeds, equipment and training are also being provided to us.”Another farmer, Sodhi Ram, said the entire village has been benefited by this initiative. The training provided as part of the project has helped farmers understand the modern techniques of agriculture, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-in-una-village-reaping-benefits-of-crop-diversification-project/story-Gp2bmcXdetOhzy97mIj8jO.html
27-09-2020||City||Early procurement a tactic to appease and divide us: Protesting farmers||AMRITSAR A day after the Union government ordered early procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana at minimum support price (MSP) amid protests against farm laws, agitating farmers on Sunday stated that this was an attempt to appease and divide them. The Centre’s move is widely seen as being aimed at reassuring agitating farmers about the sanctity of the procurement system through notified market yards run by agricultural produce market committees (APMC). In a statement issued here, leaders of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said, “This order is untimely as the crop will come to the mandis after 10 days. Secondly, the procurement arrangements have not been made yet in the mandis. This is a tactic of the BJP to create rift among the farmers. This kind of tactics and propaganda being spread in favour of the laws by the Modi government will not pacify the farmers.” A large number of women from peasant families took part in the rail rook agitation on the Amritsar-Delhi rail route at Devidas Pura village in the district. They reached there with saffron ‘dupattas’ on their heads and holding flags of the organisation. They sat there throughout the day and raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “This is a good sign for the farmer struggle that the women have decided to be a part of it,” said Sarwan Singh Pandher, state general secretary of the organisation, who is leading the agitators at Devidas Pura village. Meanwhile, a delegation of Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal on Sunday called on Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh with a memorandum seeking an all-party meeting to pave the way for adopting legislation to counter the new laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/early-procurement-a-tactic-to-appease-and-divide-us-protesting-farmers/story-JOD3KZ6iKIxXz0fvQlSVEP.html
27-09-2020||City||Posters in Ambala villages warn BJP-JJP leaders to stay away||Farmers associated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spearheading the protests against the three agricultural bills that received President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent on Sunday have been putting up posters asking leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) alliance to stay away.In Baroula village, nearly a dozen farmers associated with the union called for a “complete boycott” of the parties.“We won’t allow the entry of leaders from the ruling government to enter our village till our demands are met. We also want proper and timely procurement of paddy,” said Hardev Singh, BKU member and local resident.He was among the farmers who had put up a poster near the Panchayat Ghar.Earlier on Friday, during the Bharat Bandh, farmers of Anandpur Jalbera village had banned the politicians’ entry.“If our demand to scrap the three farm bills is met, we will not just allow the politicians to enter our villages, we will also welcome them,” Dilpreet from Jalbera village, said.Nearly a hundred villagers, mostly associated with BKU, had put up posters at the entry points. These included Mohra, Matheri Jattan and Panjokhra, said Rajeev Sharma, BKU leader and Ambala media in-charge .in Farouli village, images of a poster is doing the rounds on social media, with a warning: “Gaon mein ghusne parr lath fera jaa sakta hai, jaise sarkaar ne Pipli mein kisano par fera tha, yaad hai na? (Those entering the village might have to face the stick, as was done with farmers in Pipli. Do you remember?).”Police resorted to a mild lathicharge on farmers at Pipli Chowk near Kurukshetra on September 10 for defying prohibitory orders as they were headed to the grain market to take part in a rally against the farm bills.However, this poster has no mention of BKU or any other union.Village sarpanch Sunil Kumar said he had seen the poster on Facebook, but was unable to confirm who had put it up.“Protests have been continuing for the last few days, so someone must have placed it overnight. I have not seen it, but was told that it was put up near the bus stop here,” Kumar told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/posters-banning-entry-of-bjp-jjp-leaders-put-up-in-ambala-villages/story-c0G1nAy48CQhRR1mxDz5GK.html
27-09-2020||City||190-quintal paddy purchased in two Amritsar mandis on Day 1||AMRITSAR A day after the Centre directed the Punjab and Haryana governments to start advance paddy procurement, two government agencies — Food Corporation of India and Pungrain — purchased 190 quintal of the grain in Rayya and Attari grain markets of the district, Amritsar’s district mandi officer (DMO) Amandeep Singh said.He said the procurement in other grain markets of the district was likely to begin from Monday. He said till now, 77,533 metric tonnes of paddy — mostly Basmati — has already arrived in the grain markets of the district.According to Amritsar chief agriculture officer (CAO) Dr Gurdial Singh Ball, farmers had started harvesting paddy in the district from September 15.Meanwhile, no government purchase started in Tarn Taran district on Sunday. Tarn Taran mandi officer Ajay Pal Singh said most of the grain markets of the district remained closed on Sunday. “The purchase will begin from Monday,” he said.Similarly, the procurement in Gurdaspur district’s grain markets is expected to begin on Tuesday. The officials of the district said the arrival of paddy is expected from Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/190-quintal-paddy-purchased-in-two-amritsar-mandis-on-day-1/story-1Y7qK65zMvXAswdqFaY8lO.html
27-09-2020||City||Early procurement: No paddy purchase on first day in south Malwa||BATHINDA: Paddy procurement, which officially began in the state from Sunday, did not witness purchase in the south Malwa districts.Information from various districts says the identified purchase centres bore a deserted look on the first day of the procurement season. Officials in agriculture department said paddy harvesting in the region is likely to commence from October 5.District food supplies controller Jaspreet Singh Kahlon said paddy arrival is expected from next week as harvesting has yet not started in Bathinda district.There are 416 purchase points at various rice mills and mandis in Bathinda. Kahlon said traditionally Goniana mandi sees the first arrival but so far no mandi has registered crop.Similarly, Moga, Mansa, Fazilka and Ferozepur also did not record any arrival on the first day. Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hansa said an estimated 13 lakh quintal procurement is expected this year.In Muktsar, 20 metric tonnes of early sown crop arrived earlier this week that was purchased by private millers. Sources said as the procurement by the government agencies started from today, an earlier lot was bought by traders at up to ₹1,200 quintal that is less than the MSP.Faridkot DFSC Raj Rishi Mehra said district authorities will ensure that paddy is purchased strictly at MSP.“Farmers have started arriving in mandis with small quantities of the early sown crop but the moisture content of grains is much higher than the prescribed 17%. On the first day of procurement, no purchase was reported. We expect the purchase to begin next week as per norms laid down by the government procurement agencies,” said Mehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/early-procurement-no-paddy-purchase-on-first-day-in-south-malwa/story-LVI2TAo2xbOWTAya0WCegL.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||After 9% surplus rainfall, monsoon to withdraw from Chandigarh in three days||The southwest monsoon is expected to withdraw from Chandigarh on Wednesday after its retreat from west Rajasthan on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) “Withdrawal is declared when no rain is recorded for four to five days in a row and an anti-cyclonic movement starts to form over the region. It’s expected sooner this year as compared to the first week of October in 2019,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD Chandigarh, adding that monsoon movement had mostly remained inactive in September due to unfavourable conditions over the Bay of Bengal.Around 920mm rain was recorded during the rainy season between June and September this year, against the 845.7mm showers considered normal for this duration – a surplus of 9%.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature of the city reduced from 35.4°C on Saturday to 34.4°C on Sunday and the minimum from 23.1°C to 21°C. In the next three days, the day temperature will remain around 35°C, while the night temperature will hover around 20°C and 21°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-9-surplus-rainfall-monsoon-to-withdraw-from-chandigarh-in-three-days/story-S9XtQFM9q4QOm0yir59KKL.html
27-09-2020||City||Man shot dead in Jind||A 28-year-old man was shot dead in Jind’s Sedha Majra late on Saturday night, police said. The victim Manoj Kumar was working as a mechanic.In her complaint to the police, his mother Birmati Devi said her son was allegedly killed by Suresh alias Kala of their village as he had illicit relations with her daughter-in-law. “My son Manoj had objected to his wife’s relationship with Suresh. My son and his wife also had marital disputes. We suspect that Manoj’s wife Pooja and Suresh hatched a conspiracy to kill my son,” she said. Uchana police station in-charge Krishan Kumar said Manoj was shot dead on his way back home from work. “He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. We have registered a case of murder and criminal conspiracy against Suresh and the victim’s wife,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shot-dead-in-jind/story-6zswfbr6l3MJTQUymwr43M.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sever ties with NDA over anti-farmer bills: Selja to Dushyant||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Sunday asked JJP leader and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala to snap ties with BJP-led national democratic alliance (NDA) on the issue of enactment of three ‘anti-farmer’ legislations by the Parliament. While addressing a press conference, Selja said Dushyant should wake up from his slumber and act now. “Please do not wait for the minimum support price (MSP) to be done away with. The entire farming community is looking at you and your stance on the issue. How can you sit quiet and support a government which is anti-farmer? This is an unholy alliance (between the BJP and JJP),’’ the state Congress chief said. Referring to the breaking of ties by Shiromani Akal Dal (SAD) with the NDA, Selja said it was a ‘drama’ staged by the SAD leadership. “The SAD did not say anything initially when the three farm ordinances were promulgated. However, they woke up when they saw that farmers in Punjab have taken to streets,’’ she said, adding that Dushyant should also follow in the Akali Dal’s footsteps by listening to protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sever-ties-with-nda-over-anti-farmer-bills-selja-to-dushyant/story-cgSOCWs6S5HuyCEHJD5QzM.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to stage ‘dharna’ against farm bills on Bhagat Singh’s birth anniversary||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will stage a dharna against the controversial farm bills on Monday at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of freedom fighter Shaheed Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary. Others participating in the protest are state affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, all state Congress MPs and MLAs, said party chief Sunil Jakhar on Sunday.This will be Amarinder Singh’s first protest against the farm bills. Former Uttarakhand chief minister and Congress general secretary Rawat will also be visiting Punjab for the first time since taking charge of state affairs.Elaborating on Monday’s plans, Satbir Singh Palli Jhikki, chairman of SBS Nagar district planning commission and Halqa in-charge of Banga constituency, said the CM and other leaders were expected to pay floral tributes to Bhagat Singh at his memorial at Khatkar Kalan on the occasion. Punjab cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh visited the memorial on Sunday to oversee arrangements for Monday.The SBS Nagar district administration also held review meetings to discuss the CM’s itinerary.Channi said the Congress was on the verge of a long-term agitation against the Central government over the farm bills from Bhagat Singh’s village, with more plans expected to be announced by the CM to compel the Centre to withdraw its legislation. On Akali Dal snapping ties from BJP, Channi said it was an alliance for the personal benefits as SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union cabinet minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal failed to protect the farmers’ rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-to-stage-dharna-against-farm-bills-on-bhagat-singh-s-birth-anniversary/story-ChdkQsrPek7fmhegfmWJOL.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal directorate of higher education to hold Class 9-12 second term exams in December||Second term examinations for Classes 9 to 12 will be held in all Himachal government schools in December. Higher education director Amarjeet Kumar Sharma has directed all district officials to start preparation for conducting these examinations. The first term examinations for the said Classes had been held online between September 7 to 17. The results were declared on September 30. The Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission has asked all colleges and universities to ensure students who are unable to attend online classes receive notes. Private colleges have also been asked to extend the date of admission and not to charge late fees.Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission chairperson major general Atul Kaushik (retired) said private institutions can also provide the facility through pen drives. “Staring into a computer, laptop or smartphone for long hours can lead to vision problems. Therefore, to ensure students get breaks between online classes, private educational institutions have been asked to limit online classes to two-to-two-and-a-half hours only,” Kaushik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-directorate-of-higher-education-to-hold-class-9-12-second-term-exams-in-december/story-NCCAhTovsIWiLfq6hhsUMM.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Crops not ready for harvesting in parts of Punjab as paddy procurement begins||Even though the Central government directed the Punjab and Haryana governments on Saturday to advance paddy procurement, the crop is likely to be ready for harvesting only in about 10 days.The state was instructed at the last minute on Saturday to go ahead with procurement on Sunday even though the process usually starts from October 1.Farmers who are almost done reaping the crops will start bringing in the yield by October 5, sources said.According to agriculture experts, the procurement season will gain momentum in the second week of October as some varieties, including PR 121, 122,128, 129 and 140, will be ready for harvesting by then.Agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi said at present only around 1% of advance varieties of paddy, mainly basmati, are ready for harvesting and procurement in parts of Majha in Punjab.‘Most varieties still unripe’“The main crop will start reaching the grain markets by October 5. After gathering reports from field surveys it was found that most varieties are still unripe, at the last stages of reaping. It will take over 10 days for these varieties to be ready for harvest,” Airi said.Procurement is likely to gain momentum in the second week of the October as farmers have been advised not to carry out harvesting in haste.The state government had earlier due to labour shortage advanced paddy sowing season by 10 days — from June 20 to June 10.At least 26.6 lakh metric tonne paddy yield is expected this year across the state, while paddy production is estimated at 170 lakh metric tones. In this Kharif season, the department has managed to shift 3 lakh hectare area from under water guzzling paddy cultivation to cotton and maize crops, which require minimal irrigation.Release of crash credit limit to take timePunjab food minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said though the formal procurement season began from Sunday, it would take another four to five days for the Central government to release cash credit limit (CCL) for payments to the farmers.“We have already written to the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and distribution to allocate the CCL advance worth Rs 35,500 crore so that payment can be made to the farmers on time. We are hopeful of getting an advance by the time the procurement gains momentum,” Ashu added.Meanwhile, with an increase of Rs 53 this year, the Minimum support price (MSP) of paddy (common) has been revised from Rs 1,815 to Rs 1,868 per quintal, while grade-A paddy will be bought for Rs 1,888 as compared to last year’s Rs 1,835 per quintal.With no CCL, farmers question moveFarmer unions across the state, however, have questioned the Centre’s move to advance procurement.“The Centre is yet to announce the CCL for the state procuring agencies. The farmers who have brought early varieties to grain markets have to wait longer for their payments,” said Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda).The unions believe that the decision is aimed to quell protests launched by farmers against the Central government over farm ordinances.“The Centre wants farmers to get busy in the harvesting process to end the controversy over the ordinances. But we will continue our struggle and 31 farmer organisations will go ahead with our rail roko programme across the from October 1 onwards,” said Darshan Pal, state president, Krantikari Kisan Union.Farmer leaders said the Centre was attempting to play divide and rule politics among farmers by projecting that the MSP and mandi systems would continue.“However, it is other way round with implementation of these bills as both the mandi system and MSP will be abolished,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/crops-not-ready-in-parts-of-punjab-as-paddy-procurement-begins/story-iRf18OmnksGZZGedCm2EiL.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||‘He asked for interview, I agreed’: Devendra Fadnavis on meeting Sanjay Raut||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday asserted that the BJP has no intention of joining hands with the Shiv Sena or to bring down the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government.Talking to reporters here, Fadnavis claimed people of the state are “unhappy” with the performance of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and it “would collapse due to its own inactions”.The senior BJP leader also said his meeting with Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday, which prompted speculation in political circles, was regarding an interview for the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’.The Shiv Sena snapped ties with the BJP last year after the Maharashtra Assembly polls over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post.The Uddhav Thackeray-led party then joined hands with the NCP and the Congress to form MVA government in the state.“We have no intention of joining hands with the Shiv Sena or to bring down the government. When it falls on its own, we will see,” said Fadnavis, who is the leader of opposition in the state Assembly.“My meeting with Raut had no political connotations.He asked me for an interview to ‘Saamana’, to which I agreed.But, I had put my conditions- like the interview should be unedited and I should get to put my own camera during the interview. So we met to discuss its nitty-gritties,” he said.Meanwhile, Raut, who also spoke to reporters here separately, said he and Fadnavis are not enemies and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was aware of the meeting which was pre-planned to discuss the interview schedule.However, Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam criticised Raut, alleging that he was in a hurry to grab headlines.“When that happens, political careers end. This is not my ill-wish for Raut, but a reality,” the former Mumbai Congress chief told PTI.Nirupam, who has been sulking since his removal from the post of Mumbai Congress chief ahead of the Lok Sabha polls last year, said if the party is serious about opposing the new farm bills passed by Parliament,it should first ask the ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra to spell out its stand.The Congress and the NCP say they will not allow implementation of the new laws in Maharashtra, while Chief Minister Thackeray hasn’t uttered a word on it, he said.“The Shiv Sena supported the farm bills in the Lok Sabha,while it staged a walkout from the RajyaSabha when other opposition parties were demanding a vote on it,” Nirupam said, adding that farmers in Maharashtra are confused (over the state government’s stand).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/meeting-with-sanjay-raut-had-no-political-connotation-fadnavis/story-rNClBybOerYZbpQG87BafP.html
27-09-2020||Pune||Shops selling funeral kits witness dull business||Shops selling kits for final rites (antim-kriya vidhi) continue to witness a dull business even though death rate has increased in the city due to the Covid-19 pandemic.As of Friday Pune district’s death toll was 5,535 as per the state health department. While according to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data the death toll was 3,374. In Pimpri-Chinchwad, the death toll was 1,003.Restrictions due to the pandemic situation and fear in the mind of people are the two major hurdles to the business for people as they are not able to give respected last farewells to their loved ones.“Those patients who have died due to the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection are directly cremated in furnaces and relatives not allowed to handle the body. So in such cases, the final rites kits are not required. In case of non-Covid-19 deaths, people are taking kits,” said a shopkeeper on condition of anonymity. He runs a shop of Shamsan fund Committee Pune at Mandai.“These days hardly one-two people come to buy the kits in a week. Earlier, at least three to four people used to come in a week,” he said.Due to the surge in the number of deaths, the administration has increased crematorium centres to 11 from two and now pyre cremation for Covid bodies is allowed.“We have all stock piled up and there has been no shortage of any material but the rush of people remains the same as it was the pre-Covid situation,” added a shopkeeper from Shamsan fund Committee, Pune. However, in cases of burial, the carpet and wooden plank are allowed.“The rate of carpet which was 100 earlier have gone up to Rs 130 now and wood plank which was sold at Rs 300 each has now gone up to 500,” explained Rahima Iqbal Shaikh, who runs Dattu Hakim Clothes and General Store.“Other things like demand for cloth which is also used to wrap the body is also on the decline these days,” added Shaikh.For Shaikh, dealing with customers is also a challenge while maintaining social distance and all other safety norms.“We don’t allow customers to come inside the shop, even the money which we take is sanitised. We can’t keep our shop closed as we provide an essential service,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shops-selling-funeral-kits-witness-dull-business/story-V0v1y9yOGhFwpLsViGWu1H.html
27-09-2020||Pune||People overcome fear of virus; start collecting urns with ashes||Initially the fear of Sars-Cov-2 virus which cases the Covid-19 infection had gripped people’s minds so much that they did not even want to collect urns with ashes from crematoriums. However, with pandemic entering into the seventh month and awareness programmes by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have helped people overcome the fear of the spread of the virus and they have started collecting urns which have ashes of the deceased. According to Hindu rituals, ashes have to be immersed post-cremation. “We did a mass awareness drive and explained to people that after the body is cremated at a temperature of 650 to 750 degree Celsius, the virus does not exist. People took time to understand, but now people collect urn with ashes without any fear,” said Arun Jangam, body disposal officer, PMC. During March and April, the situation was so grim that people did not visit crematorium for last rites as a result of which PMC staff had to carry out cremation along with post-death rites. Inability to perform after-death rituals for departed loved ones due to curbs compounded the pain of many families during the Covid pandemic as urns containing ashes piled up in crematoriums across the city. From July, people have started visiting crematoriums while also collecting urns containing ashes of deceased who died due to Covid-19 or non-Covid reasons. Along with the fear of the virus, rumours regarding the effects of the virus made things worse for people. “Explaining to people when they are already grieving made things hard for us. Few agreed in one-time explanation while others needed it repeatedly,” added Jangam. In the cases where the complete family is suffering from a virus, the urns with ashes are kept in the lockers with the name label. “After cremation, we keep track of urns with ashes, and after it is delivered to relatives, an entry is made in the register,” added Jangam. “We are praised by the society for the work which we are doing,” added Jangam. Ashish Patil, whose grandmother died due to virus collected ashes after 14 days since the family of four was home quarantined. “It was safely kept in a locker and after my quarantine period was over, I collected it. In hard times PMC is doing a good job,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/people-overcome-fear-of-virus-start-collecting-urns-with-ashes/story-5MYQcKHDxYXPCIH3ukDwFM.html
27-09-2020||Dehradun||Twin protests in Uttarakhand on Monday over farm bills and labour issues||Amid the widespread protests by farmers against the recently passed agriculture bills in the Parliament, the Opposition Congress will hold a protest march towards the governor house on Monday. The march to be led by state unit president Pritam Singh has been organised on the call of the national leadership. Singh, while lashing out at the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre, said, “The bills passed in the Parliament by sidelining all the parliamentary procedures have just exposed the anti-farmer face of PM Modi.” “With those anti-farmer bills, PM Modi’s eyes are now on the crops grown by the farmers with their sweat and blood. He now wants to hand over them to capitalists in the country,” said Singh. He accused the government of “caging crores of farmers in the hands of a few capitalists for which the government is working”. Meanwhile, the labour unions in the state are also up in arms against the Centre and state government over the decisions pertaining to labour reforms, taken in the last few days. Many unions have planned protests on Monday, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Bhagat Singh. Dinesh Tiwari, president of state industrial development corporation of Uttarakhand limited (SIDCUL) and labour sanyukt morcha, a labour rights body in US Nagar district, said that they will hold a protest on Monday. Also Read: Over 70 hot springs identified in Uttarakhand and HP for power generation“The governments at both the Centre and the state have taken decisions against the labourers amidst the ongoing pandemic. On the pretext of ease of doing business and boosting the economy, they have taken decisions which are completely against labourers,” said Tiwari. “On Monday, members of the labour union which includes 65 other small labour unions in the state will take a pledge to protest against these anti-labour moves. We won’t sit idle, and raise our voice,” he said.Secretary, centre of Indian trade union (CITU) Uttarakhand, Lekhraj (only uses first name) too, lashed out at the BJP led governments and said, “They are working for the capitalists by strangling the labourers and marginalised class.” “We are making a strategy to soon hold a large scale state-wide protest against the government over the labour issues,” he said. Also Read: Pullout won’t help SAD in state polls: Sukhdev Singh DhindsaThe BJP however, termed the Congress’s decision to hold a protest march as a mere political gimmick. “They are just misleading the farmers and provoking them to protest. They never thought of working for the welfare of the farmers and now when our government is working for them, they can’t tolerate it and are misleading the farmers with such protests and marches,” said BJP state vice-president Devendra Bhasin. On the protests planned by labour unions on the labour reform decisions, he said, “The decisions taken by the state and Central governments in that regard is to end the exploitation of labourers which was going on for the last 70 years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/twin-protests-in-uttarakhand-on-monday-over-farm-bills-and-labour-issues/story-GhexS2tJ4b4x2aZ82yj08J.html
27-09-2020||Pune||Tests go down despite rising Covid cases in Pune||Pune city has been recording rising number of Covid positive cases over the past month. Even though the tally of fresh cases is unrelenting, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not increased the number of swabs being tested each day. Pune’s positivity ratio has also gone up to 30%, which was around 23% during the first week of August. This means for every 100 people tested, 30 turn out to be positive. While experts believe that with each case, the number of contacts and infectivity rises. However, the PMC claims that it is following all ICMR protocols for testing and that due to lesser movement, fewer people come in close contact with the positive patient. According to the data from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department, the average positivity rate during September for the city stands at 30.58% with 5,924 average tests conducted in 24 hours for which 1,749 new positives were recorded. The city saw its highest positivity rate of 61.21% on September 7, which was a Monday and included pending test reports of Sunday, a public holiday. On that day, Pune witnessed 2,053 new positives - 1,144 through RT-PCR and 909 through rapid antigen detection kits - and 3,354 samples were collected. Compared to September, PMC conducted more tests - in the range of 6,000 to 7,000 - during the Ganesh festival. This took the August average testing to 5,643. The positivity rate stood at 23.50% for August. Experts say that with every new positive case, further contact tracing would lead to more number of cases. Dr Abhijit More, state co-convener of Jan Aarogya Abhiyan, said, “Such a high positivity rate only means that there is a high prevalence of the infection in the area. About 30% of the samples of those tested are positive. To break the chain it is necessary that every contact is tested. The civic body should increase testing through rapid antigen detection kits even though there could be false negatives, at least those who test positive must be isolated properly. Also, the civic body refuses to provide a soft copy to all the patients to give them assurance and reduce panic among patients. Otherwise, if the patients are not assured they would not help in contact tracing which is crucial in containing the spread of the virus.” Additional commissioner Shatanu Goel, said, “We are trying to utilise maximum capacity of testing. However, the maximum capacity of RT-PCR for government labs in Pune is 1,950 per day and private labs is 3,000-3,500 per day. We are also using rapid antigen detection kits for about 1,500 samples, but we cannot do too many tests due to the technical aspect of it. We are testing about -4 high risk contacts for every individual which again is subjective to if the contacts are symptomatic or asymptomatic.” The ICMR guidelines, according to Goel, state that asymptomatic contacts should be tested on 5th and 10th day only if they show symptoms. “Most of the patients are isolated at homes as more cases are being reported from societies and when we inquire them for contact tracing they only report about their family members who are tested as per the guidelines,” he said. Goel also said that there is less movement of people as most private offices are shut and people venture out only to get groceries or vegetables for only a few hours. He also added that there is no shortage of staff, but only the limited capacity of testing in various labs is restricting the number. “Pune is definitely one of the highest testing cities in the state and one of the highest in the country too, when it comes to tests per million. We are also talking to government labs including NIV, Sassoon and IISER and also private labs to increase testing capacity for the city,” said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/tests-go-down-despite-rising-covid-cases-in-pune/story-0A2jUDlcKLcAMnzZSyfaTM.html
27-09-2020||Pune||Woman missing from jumbo hospital found in Pirangut||The 33-year-old Covid19 patient who went missing after her stay in the jumbo hospital in Shivajinagar, Pune, was found in Pirangut on Saturday.The woman has been identified as Priya Gaikwad who lives with her parents in Pune. She was admitted to the facility on August 29 and was discharged on September 5. However, the family was not informed about the discharge, according to her mother. The parents alleged that it was the responsibility of the hospital to inform them about the release. Instead, they had met with misinformation about the discharge date of the woman.“We had spread the information and description about her. A friend of a distant family member was passing through the ghats in Pirangut when they came across her while she was along the road. Now, how she reached the spot and her whereabouts for the past two weeks is a part of our investigation,” said police sub-inspector Anil Binawade of Shivajinagar police station.“One man found her in Pirangut. He is not a relative. We are yet to speak with him at length to understand how he found her. She has also been with the police ever since she was brought back. We are yet to speak with her at length too,” said Rupali Kamble, cousin sister of Priya Gaikwad.A missing persons case had been registered at Shivajinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/woman-missing-from-jumbo-hospital-found-in-pirangut/story-Spn7r9PVE2v1Vc0bCpmmcJ.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Pullout won’t help SAD in state polls: Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa||Pressure from farmers forced Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to pull out of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), but the move would not help the party in the assembly elections, SAD (Democratic) chief and rebel Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said on Sunday.“Punjab reacted strongly to the new farm bills and criticised SAD’s role in the government. Besides, when Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union ministry the Badals also did not expect it (resignation) to be accepted. The SAD chief was under pressure and had no other option,” Dhindsa said.The decision, however, would not help the party in the upcoming state assembly elections,” he added.The veteran Akali leader said he would not support any political party until the farmers’ demands were fulfilled. However, he said he would try to forge an alliance with regional parties instead of the BJP to save the federal structure.“Farmers are our priority. We will fight for their rights. The federal system has been damaged in India. I will talk to the regional parties for a political alliance instead of the BJP or Congress for more powers to states,” he added. SAD has ruined Punjab: Sangrur BJP chiefMeanwhile Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Singh Deol slammed the SAD, saying the Akalis had ruined Punjab during their 10-year rule.“Punjabi youth were known for their health but the Akalis brought drugs. The sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib took place during their regime. We will ask our senior leadership for a quick probe in old cases and investigations in other cases against the SAD,” Deol added.SAD spokesman Winnerjit Singh Khadial said that the party quit the alliance for Punjab’s interests but the BJP made anti-farmer policies. “We quit the alliance for a reason. We know the BJP will make such allegations in the future too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pullout-won-t-help-sad-in-state-polls-sukhdev-singh-dhindsa/story-Gjv3XplYkGl0mVa5sYsbAL.html
27-09-2020||Pune||Construction company partners booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for duping two of ₹60 lakh||Two separate cases were registered by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Friday against three people of a construction company for duping people with a false promise of flats in an under-construction building in Thergaon.The cases were registered based on a court order issued by a local judge under Section 156(3) of code of criminal procedure to do so.Complaints in the respective cases were lodged by Vishal Sampat Khude (38), a resident of Venunagar in Wakad, and Sandeep Kashinath Kardile (37), a resident of Thergaon, according to police.Khude had paid ₹28,80,000 in 2016 while Kardile had paid ₹30,00,000 in 2017 to the construction company.“We have registered the case based on the court order. It appears to be a small project of six-seven flats. No other person had come forward yet. The accused are partners in the construction company,” said assistant police inspector Tanaji Bhogam of Wakad police station who is investigating the case.Two separate cases under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 418 (cheating with knowledge that wrongful loss may ensue to person whose interest offender is bound to protect), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) and 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal code along with Section 13 of Maharashtra Ownership of Flat Act, 1963 were registered at Wakad police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/construction-company-partners-booked-by-pimpri-chinchwad-police-for-duping-two-of-60-lakh/story-K7GTG9o5Eqp82flTIDMquL.html
27-09-2020||Pune||Pune police yet to collect ₹50 crore fine from traffic violators||The Covid-19 situation has impacted the fine collection drive of Pune traffic branch as only ₹8 crore has been recovered from the total amount of ₹41.48 crore, including unpaid fines from previous years, between January and September 15 this year. The traffic branch has taken action against 12.80 lakh vehicles for different violations in 2020. The pandemic situation left the staff to shift focus from managing vehicular movement to Covid-19 related tasks. Some were also tasked with the responsibility of issuing challans for violations of coronavirus-related regulations In 2019, the traffic police had issued 27.59 lakh challans amounting to fine of ₹111 crore. However, the recovery had been around 55 per cent, traffic branch officials said. Towards the end of 2017, the traffic police had unpaid dues, including backlog, of ₹18.40 crore. A total of 673,982 violations were recorded in 2017. In 2018, of the total unpaid violations of 2017, 15,778 violations were paid for and the unpaid amount was reduced by ₹38.50 lakh. However, the unpaid dues stood at ₹15 crore from 658,204 violations. Before the coronavirus outbreak, the traffic police carried out special drives to collect unpaid dues from traffic violators through “nakabandi” (barricades) application, which helps to instantly know if a person has traffic violation cases registered against his or her vehicle. The e-traffic police track violators through traffic policemen deployed on the city roads as well as CCTV camera system which feeds live updates to a control room at the traffic department at police commissioner’s office through its 1,200 cameras. The unpaid dues are majorly from CCTV camera cases as police personnel can collect fine immediately. However, the CCTV system notifies the violators through SMS facility on their mobiles. During the tenure of the former Pune police commission K Venkatesham, the e-challan system was extensively used to collect fines. Since the CCTV cameras have been linked with the e-challan system, a rise in traffic violations was recorded. However, there has also been a pendency of fine recovery since the introduction of the system as offenders do not pay penalty despite sending SMSes and reminders, a traffic official said. In February 2019, the traffic control branch had released a list of 100 vehicles with the most pending traffic violations recorded by CCTV cameras and e-challan machines and digital system. The traffic police had stated that the details of vehicles and the owners found violating the traffic violations repeatedly and not paying fines would be uploaded on punepolice.gov.in and punetrafwatch.com websites and on social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter. DCP Prasad Akkanouru could not be reached for his comments. His office informed that the DCP had proceeded on training course. Additional commissioner (admin ) Sanjay Shinde when contacted replied that he would be revert with the details. According to a traffic official, recovery from local vehicle owners in an uphill task despite sending SMSes and reminders. Joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve said, “Will be able to comment only after checking the details.” Caught on the wrong side of the law Pune traffic police have been unable to recover fines as violators do not respond to SMSes and reminders, and lockdown restrictions due to coronavirus pandemic. 2020 Violators: 12.80 lakh Fine collection backlog: ₹41 crore Total fine: ₹49.48 crore Recovery: ₹8 crore 2019 Violators: 27.59 lakh Fine collection backlog: ₹50 crore Total fine: ₹111 crore Recovered: ₹61 crore 2018 Violators: 7 lakh Fine collection backlog: ₹15 crore Total fine: ₹30 crore Recovered: ₹15 crore 2017 Violators: 6.73 lakh Fine collection backlog: ₹13 crore Total fine: ₹19 crore Recovered: ₹6 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-police-yet-to-collect-50-crore-fine-from-traffic-violators/story-yzopbEQSgC8ipSQxi3z35O.html
27-09-2020||Pune||Four people trying to buy an educational society in Konkan duped of ₹15 lakh||A group of four men from Pune were duped of ₹15 lakh by people who offered them help with a loan of ₹10 crore.The police are looking for two people, including a woman, in the case. The two suspects allegedly made the complainant believe in 2018 that they could get the loan approved within 30-45 days for a price, according to the complainant. The dealings began in September 2018 and lasted until July 2020 when the men realised they had been duped, according to their complaint. The money transaction began in March 2019 and ended in April 2019. While some amount was paid in cash, some was paid through a bank transfer, according to police.A complaint has been lodged by Fareed Shaikh (51), a resident of Ghorpade peth who owns a fair price shop.“They learned about a Konkan-based education society that was up for sale. They decided to buy it and then use to make further educational institutes. For the purchase, they were looking for loan money. One of the complainant’s friend put them in touch with one accused. The friend who recommended the suspect is now a witness in the case,” said police inspector Shabbir Sayyed of Swargate police station who is investigating the case.The witness, who helped the complainants find the accused, worked in the district bank previously.The complainant realised that they had been duped after the accused stopped answering their calls.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Swargate police station against unidentified two people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-people-trying-to-buy-an-educational-society-in-konkan-duped-of-15-lakh/story-6PqohcHlyj9zV9acqhjWJL.html
27-09-2020||Pune||43-year-old IT professional duped of ₹8.4 lakh in Pune||A 43-year-old IT professional was duped of ₹8.6 lakh by a caller who claimed to be an employee of a recruitment agency and offered her a job in a multi-national company (MNC).The people who called the woman laid out an elaborate plan and had her speak with multiple people, each of whom identified themselves as Shruti Nair, Rohit Gupta, Pratik Verma, Anand, and Sudhanshu Mishra, according to the complainant.“She had uploaded her data on an online portal. They probably got her data from there. She is currently working as an IT professional in a Pune-based MNC,” said police inspector (crime) HT Kumbhar of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case.The accused approached the woman with a job offer and told her that the processing of her application to the potential employer company would require ₹11,99,611 in the form of processing fee, according to her complaint.She paid the amount in full through online transaction and received a refund of ₹3,39,014, according to her complaint. However, the callers from the recruitment agency stopped answering her communication as she sought a refund of the remaining amount.A case has been lodged under Sections 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 669(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act at the Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/43-year-old-it-professional-duped-of-8-4-lakh-in-pune/story-sk6z6IvbZPP0BgofdzOlFI.html
27-09-2020||Kolkata||NIA arrests Al-Qaeda operative from Bengal’s Murshidabad||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) authorities have arrested Samim Ansari, a resident of West Bengal’s Jalangi village in Murshidabad district, in connection with a probe into a suspected Al-Qaeda module operating in the state, officials said on Sunday. Ansari was arrested with the help of West Bengal Police’s Special Task Force (STF) from his residence on Saturday and was produced the same day before the chief judicial magistrate, Murshidabad, for transit remand . Also read: NIA announces cash reward for info on NSCN-IM cadres involved in killing of Arunachal MLAOn September 19, NIA teams had conducted simultaneous raids at several locations in central Kerala’s Ernakulam and Bengal’s Murshidabad districts and arrested nine men allegedly associated with a Pakistan-sponsored module of Al-Qaeda. Ansari’s wife Chandtara Bibi said that her husband was innocent. “He used to work as a construction labourer in Kerala until a year and a half ago. He came back home and started selling vegetables at a local market. He had no connection with any terror outfit. He has been framed,” she said. NIA officials said Ansari would be taken to Delhi for interrogation alongside the nine others. “We have found his involvement with those arrested earlier. We have seized his mobile phone. He is being interrogated,” a senior official said.Earlier, the three men arrested in Kerala were identified as Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen while Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman were arrested from Murshidabad district. Ansari was a friend of Kamal’s, STF officers said. NIA authorities said they came to know about an inter-state module of Al-Qaeda operatives at various locations in India, including Bengal and Kerala. The group was planning to carry out terrorist attacks in Delhi and at vital installations in the country in a bid to kill innocent people, the agency said. NIA authorities are trying to ascertain if the arrested men were recruiting people from other districts in Bengal, especially Birbhum, where gelatin sticks stolen from stone quarries were smuggled in large quantities in recent years. NIA officials said incriminating materials such as digital devices, documents, literature, weapons, country-made firearms, a locally fabricated body armour, articles and literature on making home-made explosive devices were seized from the arrested men. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/nia-arrests-al-qaeda-operative-from-bengal-s-murshidabad/story-4G8ExjI50dXS7zHgWE9tyH.html
27-09-2020||Noida||Under-construction building in Greater Noida catches fire, effort on to control blaze||Fire broke out in an under construction building in Kasna area of Greater Noida on Sunday, according to news agency ANI. Operation to bring the blaze under control is ongoing as fire tenders have reached the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/under-construction-building-in-greater-noida-catches-fire-effort-on-to-control-blaze/story-92Wbx3PUxH1qFbF1a6ud3H.html
27-09-2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot condoles death of Jaswant Singh||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday condoled the death of former union minister Jaswant Singh.Singh died early today at a hospital in Delhi.“My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of senior leader from Rajasthan and former union minister, shri Jaswant Singhji,” Gehlot tweeted.He prayed for the peace of the departed soul and strength to his family members and supporters.Singh held defence, finance and external affairs portfolios in the Vajpayee government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/ashok-gehlot-condoles-death-of-jaswant-singh/story-KbYlAnHiw6Q4jIJDhl9TWP.html
27-09-2020||City||Woman gangraped by ex-army personnel, his friend in Meerut: Police||A woman (35) was allegedly gangraped by an ex-armyman and his friend at a house in Devlok colony in Meerut on Friday night, the police said.The rape survivor was found lying unconscious by passersby near the Mewla flyover at Brahmpuri neighbourhood in Meerut early on Saturday morning.Passersby informed the police, who admitted her to district hospital in Meerut. Also read: Two railway employees accused of rape on Bhopal station premisesOn Saturday, the husband of the woman filed a first information report (FIR) at the Brahmpuri police station in connection with the alleged gang rape. Iraj Raja, assistant superintendent of police (ASP), Meerut, said that on the basis of mobile phone call details of the rape survivor, the ex-armyman, Sunil Choudhary, was arrested late at night on Saturday.Raja said Choudhary confessed to his crime and claimed that the woman was in touch with him for over a year. Choudhary told the police that the woman had telephoned her on Friday evening from a local bus station.Later, Choudhary, along with his friend Arvind, who goes by one name, took her to a house in Devlok colony, where they initially consumed liquor and raped her before leaving her near the Mewla flyover at Brahmpuri neighbourhood, Raja added.“Raids are in progress in Ghaziabad district to locate Arvind,” the ASP said. Choudhary “runs a bus, which is in contract with the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) authorities,” the ASP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-gangraped-by-ex-army-personnel-his-friend-in-meerut/story-0CZxAT4vRx6oxzlnHl4B6N.html
27-09-2020||Lifestyle||#Viral hula hoop dancer Eshna Kutty: Wanted to show, saree doesn’t limit your moves||Dressed in a saree and sneakers, Delhi-based hula hoop dancer Eshna Kutty recorded a video of herself dancing to the popular song Genda Phool (Delhi-6; 2009), simply out of nostalgia. Little did she know that her #SareeFlow would end up creating waves on social media, making the 24-year-old a Twitter sensation, within hours of joining fellow tweeples! This alumna of Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University is in “disbelief” over the sudden appreciation that has come her way. “I had no idea how far this video would go. It was a practise video I made, dancing to a song I love, and I absolutely wasn’t expecting it to make it to Twitter. I wasn’t on Twitter till a day ago,” says Kutty, who has more than 4k followers within a day or two of her making a Twitter account.  Joining twitter today to find you tweet this is enough motivation to not let #sareeflow fizzle out :) Thank You 🌻 https://t.co/Udm3jLD6JfThe empowerment quotient is what twitterati is loving in the #SareeFlow. “The video combines two things — a saree which is so integral to the Indian society, and hooping that is relatively alien to us,” says the flow artiste, adding, “Our generation is more free with their expression and I wanted to show that a saree, in no way, limits your moves!” And though it’s now that the youngster became viral, but “saree hooping” is something that she has been at since a long time. She has been even teaching hula hooping for five years now! “I’ve been bullied by my friends to perform at weddings in a saree... Actually, I wanted #DesiFlow instead of #SareeFlow (to trend) because I wanted it to accommodate all traditional attires, and want even men to take up this art since hula hooping is still perceived as feminine flow form,” she adds. Homebound like most of us since March, Kutty says her tryst with movement therapy is quite interesting. “I had wanted to pursue both Psychology and dance, but I wasn’t great at the latter. In a gap year that I took after college, while I was feeling my ground, I was acquainted with dance, drama and movement therapy. I pursued it and eventually found myself going back to hooping,” she says, adding that she is completely self taught. “Hooping as a flow art form is relatively new to the world, not just India. I used to watch videos on YouTube about 10 years ago, and play them in slow motion in order to decipher the movement,” she recalls.  Aww this is amazing.Thank you @Namrata_Joshi for sharing this with me.I do have danced wearing a saree n sneakers but this.A Treat to watch her graceful dance with Hoop with such aesthetics #EshnaKutty is amazing.Will have2 learn 2 hoop from her @Rachnakanwar @ndcnn #GendaPhool https://t.co/rkxW5ig5NVAmong the many prominent admirers that Kutty has gained over the last couple of days, is playback singer Rekha Bhardwaj — the original voice behind the song Sarural Genda Phool. “Rekha ma’am reached out to me on social media, and she has expressed her interest in joining my program. It’s just amazing, I’m kind of numb! My friends are elated that it has happened, but they rate my performance as a 4 on 10 for this video. To them, this is my most average video so far! They want more of my ‘real dance videos’ to make it to social media now,” she shares laughing. The hoop instructor, who has been hosting online classes for last six months, says, “I have a few endorsement opportunities lined up so I’ll be looking at those. But for now, I can really just call myself a hoop instructor! All my career hula hoops have been looked at as a child’s play; people would ask me ‘acha hooping is fine, but what do you really do?’. For the first time, I feel validated. This is what I do!” Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/viral-hula-hoop-dancer-eshna-kutty-wanted-to-show-saree-doesn-t-limit-your-moves/story-yv0BpqGDaLFcNcwpC8evgL.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Western Railway to introduce six new local trains in Mumbai from Monday||The Western Railway will introduce six new local train services from Monday, two of which will operate as ladies special during peak office hours, it said in a statement.Around 506 local train services will operate daily between Churchgate and Virar railway stations. “Six more special suburban services including two ladies special during peak hours will be introduced. Besides easing commute, it will further ensure social distancing by notified essential staff, who are travelling by these services,” the Western Railway statement said.The decision to operate additional local trains comes after a video of Wednesday of an overcrowded compartment of Borivali railway station went viral on social media.Passengers were seen hanging outside the compartment of a local train at platform number three of Borivali railway station. The train had run from Churchgate to Virar after services were suspended on the Western Railway for over 11 hours due to waterlogging on tracks due to heavy rain. Services were suspended on the Harbour line for around 24 hours, while Central Railway had to suspend services for 14 hours. Western Railway had earlier introduced 150 new services on September 21, of which 59 are operated during peak hours. On September 24, Central Railway on Thursday introduced 68 new train services, of which 46 were introduced on the mainline, while 22 were for the Harbour line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railway-to-introduce-six-new-local-trains-in-mumbai-from-monday/story-flXIvrOfJIIgZNe5Ft7TGI.html
27-09-2020||City||BSF foils infiltration bid by armed Pak terrorists in Jammu’s Samba||Alert Border Security Force (BSF) personnel foiled a major infiltration bid by five armed Pakistani terrorists along the 198-kilometre (km) International Border (IB) in the Union Territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir’s (J&K) Samba sector on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. “Alert BSF troops foiled another major infiltration bid from Pakistani side in the Samba sector on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The movement of a group of five terrorists was noticed on the Pakistani side of the IB in the Samba sector by alert BSF troops. It was the second such attempt through the Samba sector. Earlier, terrorists from Pakistan had tried to intrude on the intervening night of September 14 and 15,” said a BSF spokesperson. Both the attempts were foiled. “Five heavily armed terrorists tried to enter into Indian territory at the dead of night, but were engaged by the alert BSF troops,” said the spokesperson.They had reached close to the IB taking advantage of dense growth of Sarkanda, a variety of wild grass. “The BSF personnel ordered the terrorists to stop, but they started firing at the troops. Pakistan Rangers personnel provided cover fire to these terrorists. However, the alert BSF troops started retaliatory firing at the terrorists,” he said. The terrorists retreated to the Pakistani soil following the exchange of fire.NS Jamwal, inspector-general (I-G), Jammu Frontier, BSF, said, “We foiled another possible infiltration bid of armed terrorists from the Pakistani side, who were well supported by Pakistan Rangers.”He added: “From 11.45 pm on Saturday to 12.15 am on Sunday, the jawans of 173 Battalion deployed at Mangu Chak post in Ghagwal sector observed suspicious movements between pillar number 132 and 133 in the opposite Pakistani post called Pir Bunker. The BSF troops fired around 180 rounds of small arms towards the Pakistani side because of the suspicious movements. Pakistan Rangers also retaliated with around 80 rounds of small arms fire. The suspected persons ran back towards the Pakistani side following the firing by Indian troops.” BSF personnel recently shot down an arms-laden Pakistani drone in Hiranagar sector of Jammu’s Kathua district and also detected a trans-border tunnel in the Samba sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-foils-infiltration-bid-by-armed-pak-terrorists-in-jammu-s-samba/story-YstrNmOaup9u0wsxOtCALO.html
27-09-2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party banking on past record as it readies for UP bypolls||Samajwadi Party has intensified preparations for the forthcoming bypolls for eight UP assembly seats that are being billed as ‘mini-assembly elections’ and is banking on its impressive record in bypolls since 2017.SP had held the two seats of Malhani (Jaunpur) and Suar (Rampur) that will see elections while the remaining six-- Tundla (Firozabad), Bunaldshahr, Naugawan Sadat (Amroha), Ghatampur (Kanpur City), Bangarmau (Unnao), and Deoria were previously held by BJP. In 2018 bypolls, SP won three Lok Sabha seats of Gorakhpur--vacated by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Phulpur, which was vacated by deputy chief minister Keshav Maurya, and Kairana apart from the Noorpur assembly seat.SP ally (Rashtriya Lok Dal) won the Kairana assembly seat. In the 2019 assembly bypolls on eleven seats, SP had been the only gainer, winning three seats. It retained its Rampur seat and gained one each from the BJP and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).“Samajwadi Party did well in the bypolls and it will win seats in the forthcoming bypolls too. People are agitated, and want SP back,” said SP state spokesperson, Rajendra Chaudhary. “We had invited applications for the eight seats. Applications came and now the national president would finalise candidates,” he said. The election commission has declared the schedule for Bihar assembly polls and is likely to soon announce one for UP assembly bypolls as well. “One of the reasons why Samajwadi Party is not contesting Bihar assembly polls is to remain focused on UP bypolls,” said a party leader. Last week SP declared that it won’t contest Bihar polls and will instead support Rashtriya Janata Dal. Also Read: Truck driver arrested for issuing threat to CM Yogi AdityanathSP state president Naresh Uttam Patel has completed a round of virtual meetings with the party outfits and sector in-charges in seven of the eight constituencies. Patel has asked the party outfits in the eight constituencies to take the bypolls, happening ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls, very seriously. “The bypolls are crucial and would have a far-reaching impact,” he asserted.He has also asked the party outfit in the eight constituencies to intensively campaign, both virtually as well as by conducting door-to-door campaigns while maintaining Covid safety protocols. Also Read: Suit filed in Mathura court for reclamation of Shri Krishna Janmasthan land“Our performance in bypolls has been spectacular since 2017. And we will win the forthcoming bypolls on the image and performance of Akhilesh Yadav ji. People are upset with the non-performance of the BJP led government in UP. When people compare the present government’s scorecard with the previous SP led government, they feel cheated by the BJP,” said SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi.Political analyst SK Dwivedi predicts a tough contest between the BJP and the SP in coming bypolls. “Both parties are evenly poised. On Ram temple or China issue, people are with the BJP but on issues like unemployment, price rise, law and order they are against it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/samajwadi-party-banking-on-past-record-as-it-readies-for-up-bypolls/story-lc3Jw6s99SdQIvZMwrKtWP.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||DDA to tweak rules; CGHS housing plots to be auctioned to private developers||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will amend the rules that will enable the agency to auction land to private developers for residential projects, in a proposal aimed at meeting the growing demand for housing in the capital city. The proposal, was approved last year, permits the amendment in the DDA (Disposal of Developed Nazul Land) Rules, 1981.In a meeting chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal in August 2019, the DDA had approved the proposal to auction residential plots meant for allotment to Cooperative Group Housing Societies (CGHS) to private developers. It was a first-of-its-kind effort by the DDA, which is the main developer in Delhi, to allow private players to develop housing in the national capital.Also read: DDA in for a major overhaul, to downsize sanctioned workforce by halfIn January and May, the land-owning agency had advertised for auctioning of seven and nine group housing plots, respectively. The plots were withdrawn from the auction list following an order issued on July 28. These plots were located in areas such as Rohini, Dwarka and Narela, and measured up to three acres or over 5,000 square (sq) metres (m).According to a DDA official, who didn’t wish to be named, “These plots couldn’t be auctioned, as this needs a change in the DDA (Disposal of Developed Nazul Land) Rules, 1981 and Master Plan of Delhi (MPD)-2021.”Nazul land refers to the land acquired by the government that is placed at the disposal of the DDA for development as “approved under various development schemes”. The land-owning agency has to approve a proposal of changing the mode of disposal of Nazul land from allotment to auction by an amendment in the DDA (Disposal of Developed Nazul Land) Rules, 1981.Anurag Jain, vice-chairman, DDA, said that the process to amend the rules is in progress and these plots would be auctioned in November.“There is a need to amend the Nazul rules. We had sent the proposal to the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), which had pointed out some changes. We have made these changes and prepared a proposal that will be tabled in the next meeting of the DDA. Once approved, it will be sent to the ministry for notification. We expect to include these plots in the auction slated for November,” Jain said.The idea behind the decision was to gradually allow private developers or CGHS to develop housing projects in Delhi. Private developers, who are allotted land after auctions, will be required to construct housing facilities in keeping with the MPD, 2021, which earmarks 15% of the developed area for people who belong to the economically weaker sections (EWS) of the society.The land-owning agency has not been able to meet the housing needs of the city, despite undertaking large-scale housing projects at Narela, Dwarka and Rohini. Though DDA has been allotting plots to individuals for the construction of houses, it hasn’t given any to CGHS after a fraud was uncovered in the early 2000s.According to a DDA official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, only one CGHS plot has been allotted on the basis of court orders since 2005. DDA has allotted 884 plots to CGHS to date.“This land can’t be auctioned until the ministry notified the changes in the rules. But this is a good move, as it will ensure better construction quality and at competitive pricing,” said Sabyasachi Das, former planning commission, DDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-to-tweak-rules-cghs-housing-plots-to-be-auctioned-to-private-developers/story-2H92YuJpRMy5GtimUsYraP.html
27-09-2020||Jaipur||Interstate fraudsters’ held in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur, they posed as army men||Rajasthan police on Saturday busted 11 members of an interstate fraudsters gang with tentacles in 14 states and recovered Rs 2.63 lakh in cash, a car, 19 mobile phones, 16 ATM cards, 19 bank passbooks, eight cheque books and 200 fake army gate passes from their possession in Bharatpur. Bharatpur superintendent of police Dr Amandeep Singh Kapoor said the fraudsters posed as army personnel to cheat people.“These people offered vehicles for sale through online platforms. They made fake Indian Army identity cards and gate passes to lure people. They also posted their photos in army uniform,” the SP said.“They called people using SIM cards procured with fake documents and switched them off after prospective buyers had deposited money in their account,” Kapoor added explaining their modus operandi.He said the accused had confessed to have committed fraud in the states of Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Delhi. Also Read: Rajasthan violence leaves 1 dead, five injured; state seeks RAF from Centre“They did not cheat people in Rajasthan for the fear of getting caught,” Kapoor said and added that the police in these 14 states would be informed about the arrests. The arrested men are from Padla, Kavan Ka Bas, Hingota, Samvler and other villages in Bharatpur.From duping people in the name of selling gold bricks and coins, the local conmen have now changed their modus operandi to offering things for sale on platforms such as OLX. Police records show that most of these conmen live in the villages in Kaman sub-division of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/interstate-fraudsters-held-in-rajasthan-s-bharatpur-they-posed-as-army-men/story-xmjCqmsSuH3xZ7Z1GaJ9HI.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||World Tourism Day 2020: Delhiites, get back to exploring the heart of the city||Are you too missing packing your bags and going for a holiday? Well, the pandemic has surely turned the travel and tourism industry upside down. Many are grappling with the aftermath of the lockdown, and trying their best to let Unlock bring in some business for them. On World Tourism Day, September 27, we speak to those people in Delhi-NCR whose livelihood has been impacted the most, and how they aim to bounce back. “Our wholesale business is gone, online is the only route,” says Saurabh Monga, the third-generation from his family who has been running Monga Handicrafts Corner in Janpath. Last six months have been one of the toughest periods for their family, like most others in the country. “We used to see foreigners frequent our small shop so often. Now we just open the shop and sit idle all day. There are no sales, or customers,” says Monga, adding, “We had to pay the standard 10% hike in rent inspite of no business during the lockdown. We had to even fire some workers due to lack of funds... Though there are limitations, retail and online sales are the sources of income we will have to eventually depend on. And interstate tourism surely drive our growth.” Can tales from the past help people heal in tough times like these? “Absolutely,” says Asif Khan Dehlvi, founder, Delhi Karavan that organises heritage tour walks. Walk conductors like Dehlvi have been feeling the financial pinch in absence of any business. Busy cooking and tending to his parrots, Dehlvi says, “I didn’t conduct heritage walks online because it felt like we are giving up any hope of things getting normal. After monuments reopened, I started getting requests for walks... since August. But the situation wasn’t conducive. Now, I feel people need fresh air, and stories!” All set to bounce back to the scene in the month of October, Dehlvi adds, “I plan to regroup with my team and start taking socially distanced tours in open areas like Mehrauli Archaeological Park, and Sanjay Van.” Vishal Bhaskar, a Delhi-based tourist guide, says, “Business would have been at its peak in these months, had it not been for Covid-19. Places like the Qutub Minar and Humayun’s Tomb have now started seeing people return to their fold, but many are scared of hiring us because they are unsure of our health and safety. Well, had we been unwell, why would we be at work?” “I used to be on assignments for nine months a year, but since last six months I’ve been at home,” says Bhaskar, adding, “Tour guides across the Capital have taken up safety measures. Socially distanced tours can be undertaken, and we are ensuring all safety measures even in buses run by tour operators such as regular sanitisation, provision of sealed water bottles, sanitisers and wet wipes on seats, etc. Our primary income was from international tourists, but for that to resume we have little hope this year. So locals must get to exploring the city,” Bhaskar concludes.  Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/world-tourism-day-2020-delhiites-get-back-to-exploring-the-heart-of-the-city/story-K7gbxFdCD3wdR4G3J9rJ7H.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lathi-wielding constable saves man from attackers armed with knife||A 32-year-old man escaped an attack when a group of at least five men armed with a knife, sticks and cooking utensils was thwarted by a policeman carrying just a lathi in central Delhi’s Anand Parbat on Saturday night, police said.The attack and the subsequent intervention by the policeman, head constable Damodar, was captured by a CCTV camera installed in the neighbourhood.Also read: Senior Chhattisgarh journalist beaten up in Kanker district of Bastar regionThe victim, Gaurav, sustained stab wounds to his head and other body parts, but he was out of danger, said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central).The attack took place around 9.30pm on Saturday when Gaurav and his friend Prem Sagar visited a dhaba in Anand Parbat’s Nayi Basti for dinner.“Since the service was slow, it led to an argument between the two friends and the dhaba owners. The two men decided to leave the dhaba, but they were attacked from behind,” the DCP said.Neelesh and Akash -- the two brothers who run the dhaba -- and three-four of their associates allegedly attacked the duo with a big knife, stick and cooking utensils in the street.“The local beat policeman, Damodar, and constable Vijay were passing by on a motorcycle just then. When they heard the commotion, Damodar hopped off the motorcycle and got into the middle of the fight with a lathi in his hand,” the DCP said.Damodar was able to thwart the attack, but not before Gaurav was stabbed multiple times. The policemen, however, held both the attackers.The DCP said that an FIR is being registered in this case and the role of other people seen in the footage is also being verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-lathi-wielding-constable-rescues-man-from-fatal-knife-attack/story-WjRRWs0Z6M4fe8mLWUFfrK.html
27-09-2020||Lucknow||Durga Puja set to be low key in Uttar Pradesh, guidelines awaited||Majority of Durga puja committees across the state of Uttar Pradesh are in a fix about how to celebrate the festival this year in absence of specific directions from the government.Although the state government on Thursday said people should celebrate festivals at their homes as no public gatherings would be allowed, Durga puja committees said they could take a final call only after the government issued clear guidelines pertaining to Durga puja.Many Durga puja committees said they were writing to the district administration to issue guidelines for Durga puja festivities, beginning from October 22 and concluding on October 26 this year.“The government should clarify how Durga Puja rituals will be carried out this year,” said Arun Banerjee, the president of over 105-year-old Bengali Club in Lucknow.Meanwhile, a number of Durga puja committees in Lucknow have decided to go for ‘ghot puja’ (worshipping an urn symbolising the goddess) without any idols of goddess Durga. Also, there will neither be any distribution of ‘prasad bhog’ nor conduct of cultural programmes to avoid mass gathering.“We are waiting for proper guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) from the district administration. However, we have decided that there will be no distribution of ‘bhog’. Nobody will be allowed to get into the Durga mandap. Rituals like Pushpanjali will be held but without flowers,” Banerjee said.Also Read: Political activities gain momentum ahead of bypolls in Uttar Pradesh “Maybe by the month end, we are expecting detailed ‘Unlock 5’ guidelines, following which, we will take a final decision on how to go about conducting Durga puja, which is less than a month away,” he added.Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said the matter of SOPs pertaining to Durga puja will be looked into. “We will discuss the matter with police too,” he said.Bondhu Mahal Durga puja committee in Lucknow has decided to organise a low-key puja because of the prevailing pandemic.“We have decided to go for ‘ghot puja’ sans any idol of Maa Durga. There would not be any general bhog and cultural programmes to avoid mass gathering. But we will take a call about Pushpanjali once the guidelines are issued,” said Manoj Bhadra, president, Bondhu Mahal Durga puja committee.Also Read: ‘MSP not most preferred mode for farmers in Uttar Pradesh’: NITI Aayog studySahara Estate, Jankipuram, is also not organising puja at the park.“There will be no pandal. Just a simple ritual will be held in a covered area,” said Saurav Bandhopadhyay of the puja committee.Sudip Sanyal of La Touche Road Durga puja committee said there will be no pandal, no illumination and no distribution of bhog. “We have ordered a small idol for the rituals,” he said.However, Ramakrishna Math, which has been organising ‘Durga Puja’ for nearly 40 years now, is going ahead with the rituals. “We will follow all Covid-19 curb guidelines, including social distancing and limited gathering,” said Swami Muktinathananda, president of the math.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/durga-puja-set-to-be-low-key-in-uttar-pradesh-guidelines-awaited/story-tQdOLCRA3wxPich8EsTwWL.html
27-09-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal allows cinema halls to operate from Oct 1 with Covid-19 restrictions||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has allowed theatres and cinema halls to function in state from October 1. Adherence to social distancing norms and other Covid-19 guidelines is mandatory for them, the chief minister said. A maximum of 50 people will be allowed to participate in these gatherings, Banerjee tweeted on Saturday evening.These relaxations were announced ahead of Durga Puja celebrations, which will begin from October 22.On Thursday, Banerjee announced guidelines for the upcoming festival. The pandal needs to be open from all four sides for proper ventilation. Hand sanitisers will have to be mandatorily placed at entry points of pandals, and wearing of face masks will be binding, the guidelines dictated.“To return to normalcy, jatras, plays, open air theatres, cinemas and all musical, dance, recital and magic shows shall be allowed to function with 50 participants or less from 1 October, subject to adherence to physical distancing norms, wearing of masks and compliance to precautionary protocols,” Banerjee tweeted.On the other hand, the ministry of home affairs has so far denied reopening permits to movie theatres that have been shut since the middle of March. However, cinema is a state subject in India.Multiplex and single screen owners have run social media campaigns throughout September in protest against the denial of reopening permits to them. In over six months that the cinema halls have been shut, the Indian film industry has incurred losses of around Rs 3,000 crore, according to the financial daily newspaper Mint. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases in India neared the six million-mark on Sunday with 88,600 people getting infected with the virus in 24 hours. As many as 94,503 people have died due to the virus in the country. Covid-19 cases in West Bengal have gone over 2,44,240 and the death toll has crossed 4,721.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-allows-cinema-halls-to-operate-from-oct-1-with-covid-19-restrictions/story-YCGE4t7vfNLiPwJzE0MY3O.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon withdrawal from Mumbai, Maharashtra by October 2nd week: IMD||One of the wettest-ever monsoons for Mumbai can be expected to withdraw between October 9 and 15 from the state, according to the weather department.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in June this year, revised the date of southwest monsoon’s withdrawal from Mumbai by nine days. The new withdrawal date is October 9 against the previous one, predicted for September 29. This means the monsoon will linger a bit more than its normal schedule.“Withdrawal from Rajasthan and surrounding areas of northwest India is expected by September 28 onwards. Going by the visible trend, a sharp decline in rain activity over central India can be expected from October second week onwards, and withdrawal over Mumbai first and (then) rest of Maharashtra can probably be expected by mid-October,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD said, “As per our extended rainfall forecast till October 22, there is significant rainfall reduction expected between October 9 and 15, indicative of monsoon withdrawal symptoms. There is a possibility of withdrawal starting around that time.”Independent meteorologists said larger global weather factors were responsible for the marginally late withdrawal over the west coast and central India such as La Niña conditions - a phenomenon when the western Pacific Ocean warms up creating a low pressure area near Australia pulling winds from the Indian Ocean strengthening equatorial dynamics keeping southwest monsoon circulation active.“Unseasonal showers during the first week of October can lead to crop damages along interior Maharashtra that farmers need to be wary about,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP climate studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.Meanwhile, Maharashtra has recorded 18% excess rain so far this monsoon. Among weather stations along the Konkan coast, Mumbai suburbs have witnessed the second wettest monsoon ever with 3,681.4 mm rain between June 1 and September 27.Also Read: Things will get worse before it gets better. It might be the music industry next: Sukhwinder Singh on drug probeMumbai suburbs have recorded 70% excess rain so far this season-- over 1,507.2 mm more rain than the Santacruz weather station generally receives over four months (June-September).Similarly, all stations along Konkan have recorded excess rain with south Mumbai receiving 61% additional rain, Sindhudurg 54%, Ratangiri 25%, Thane 20%, Raigad 17%, and Palghar 14%.Also Read: Bombay HC refuses to interfere with final-year University of Mumbai examsIn other parts of the state, central Maharashtra received 32% excess rain with Ahmednagar recording a large excess of 82%. Marathwada, which had witnessed deficient rain in 2017 and 2018, received 31% excess rain this season. Across Maharashtra, only two districts have witnessed deficient rain – Akola (26% deficient) and Yavatmal (23% deficient) – both in Vidarbha district.The monsoon withdrawal date for other prominent Maharashtra cities ranges between October 6 and October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-withdrawal-from-mumbai-maharashtra-by-october-2nd-week-imd/story-PV9tDvbIhatRd5jqlZNiUL.html
27-09-2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP’s top guns counter TMC’s offensive on farms bills||A day after the ruling Trinamool Congress’ farmers’ wing hit the streets in protest against the contentious farm bills, Bharatiya Janata Party’s top guns in West Bengal launched a counter offensive against the TMC with a series of public meetings on Saturday. On Friday, members of the Kisaan Khet Mazdoor, affiliated to the TMC, took out protest rallies across the state. A sit-in demonstration was also held in central Kolkata. The Left Front and Congress also took out a joint rally. On Saturday, some senior leaders of the BJP’s Bengal unit including Mukul Roy, national executive member, Sayantan Basu, state general secretary, Locket Chatterjee, BJP MP and Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury, state vice president among others, held meetings in the districts to clarify on the alleged misgivings on the three farm bills passed by Parliament. “The TMC is spreading all lies. The bills will allow the farmers to sell their products wherever they want and to any person they wish. The TMC, however, doesn’t want this. This is because TMC backed middlemen buy the products from farmers and sell them at exorbitant rates in the cities. The farmers get nothing,” said Sayantan Basu, who held a meeting at Siliguri in north Bengal. West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) helmswoman Mamata Banerjee had earlier condemned the bills and said that the bills would lead to an epidemic comparable to the Bengal famine of 1943 which claimed more than two million lives. Also Read: Dropped in reshuffle, Bengal BJP leader Rahul Sinha says defectors from TMC favouredThe three bills passed by Parliament are the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Centre has asserted that the proposed laws will be beneficial for farmers and increase their income. The Left Front and the Congress had earlier sent a letter to Mamata Banerjee urging her to convene a special session of the state assembly soon to discuss the “anti-worker and anti- farmer” bills. The BJP meanwhile has launched a massive campaign on the social networking and micro-blogging sites to spread awareness on the bills and bust the alleged propaganda of the ruling TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bjp-s-top-guns-counter-tmc-s-offensive-on-farms-bills/story-Tl2uj3Kh5VP6Gw2tIqIfNN.html
27-09-2020||Bhopal||Two railway employees accused of rape on Bhopal station premises||A 22-year-old woman hailing from Uttar Pradesh was on Saturday allegedly raped by two railway employees at the Bhopal main station here, the police said.“We have arrested prime accused Rajesh Tiwari (age around 45), security counselor and in-charge of disaster management with Bhopal division and detained another railway employee,” Bhopal Superintendent of Railway Police (SRP) Hitesh Choudhary told PTI.The woman, resident of Mahoba, UP, told the police that Tiwari befriended her on Facebook, and invited her to Bhopal promising to get a job for her.When she arrived, Tiwari put her up in a room on the first floor of the West Central Railways’ office at Bhopal main station.He and his friend - another railway employee - gave her a drink laced with drugs and raped her, she said in the complaint.After she regained consciousness, she approached the Government Railway Police who registered a case of gangrape against the duo and arrested Tiwari.“We have detained the other railway employe but we are waiting for the woman to identify him after which he would be arrested,” the SRP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/two-railway-employees-accused-of-rape-on-bhopal-station-premises/story-1sXl3eyNPPkWjDCD8hsiIP.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||15-year-old Chandigarh girl found pregnant: Brother’s friend, former tenant also held for raping minor||Not only her brother, two more men had sexually exploited the 15-year-old girl, who was found eight months pregnant on September 23.Apart from her 19-year-old drug addict brother, who was arrested on September 23, police have also nabbed his friend, aged 25, and a former tenant of the victim’s family, aged 51.During her counseling, the Class 9 student revealed that the 25-year-old man, who was a friend of her brother, was a regular visitor to their house, and repeatedly raped her since January this year.The 51-year-old man had rented a room in the victim’s house for three months, when he also raped her multiple times. The duo will be produced in court on Sunday.The girl’s pregnancy had come to fore when she complained of abdominal pain and was rushed to the Sector 22 civil hospital.In her statement to the police, she had said that her brother, the sole earning member of the family, raped her for the first time in December 2019, under the influence of drugs. He continued to sexually abuse her for several months, but her mother remained oblivious to her plight as she was visually impaired.She is under the care of the 181 helpline and social welfare department and is being counselled, with focus on her mental and physical well-being.The case under Section 376 (3) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered on the complaint of her elder sister, who got married in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15-year-old-chandigarh-girl-found-pregnant-brother-s-friend-former-tenant-also-held-for-raping-minor/story-unx8Pv0ZIsRchqZh6FJ88L.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Six journalists among 207 test positive in Chandigarh||As many as six journalists were among the 207 people, who were found positive for Covid-19, in Chandigarh on Saturday.The journalists and their seven family members tested positive during a two-day camp organised by the UT administration at the Chandigarh Press Club. Majority of the cases were asymptomatic at the time of testing. On September 19, in a similar initiative, 24 journalists and their six family members were found positive. Chandigarh now has 11,380 Covid cases, of which 8,937 patients have recovered and 145 have died. As many as 2,298 people are still infected.MAYOR UNDER OBSERVATION IN ICUMayor Raj Bala Malik continues to be under observation in an ICU at PGIMER. Found positive on September 16, she was admitted to the hospital due to Covid-related complications on Thursday. Doctors said she was stable and on oxygen support, and showing positive signs of early recovery.  I had tested corona positive last week and was in home isolation.Although I am stable and recovering, as a precautionary measure I have got admitted in the PGI for better management.64-YEAR-OLD WOMAN IS MOHALI’S 180TH FATALITYMohali A 64-year-old woman from Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur, became Mohali’s 180th casualty on Saturday, even as 152 new cases also cropped up.However, the recoveries out-numbered the positive cases, as 359 patients were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 72.95%. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the deceased was a patient of diabetes and hypertension. Of the 9,520 positive cases in Mohali so far, 2,396 are active, while 6,586 have been discharged. TWO DEAD IN PANCHKULA, 113 FOUND POSITIVEPanchkula Two people succumbed to Covid-19 in Panchkula district, taking the toll to 79. The patient tally also rose to 5,663, with 113 new cases.The deceased included an 84-year-old man from Chownki village. He also had hypertension. The other deceased was a 62-year-old woman from Sector 19. She suffered from hypertension, diabetes and coronary artery disease as well.While 1,086 cases remain active in the district, 4,498 people have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-journalists-among-207-test-positive-in-chandigarh/story-ocrlm2Q8nu4AlBKL4yIMsJ.html
27-09-2020||City||Mumbai’s KEM Hospital starts Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine trial, 3 volunteers administered dosage on Day 1||After days of delay, Parel’s King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital finally on Saturday started the clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccination produced by the University of Oxford. On Day 1, three volunteers between 20 and 45 years of age were administered the first dosage of the drug. According to hospital sources, two of the volunteers are businessmen, while the third is a researcher with a government body. None of them have any comorbidity. They underwent reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test to ascertain if they are infected with Covid-19. Their antibody test revealed that they were exposed to the virus. “The volunteers were given the dosage in the afternoon, following which they rested in the hospital for an hour. Later, they were discharged from the hospital, but we will keep a close check on their health,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean, KEM Hospital. “As per randomisation, out of every four participants, one will receive a placebo (false drug),” he said. The hospital has selected 20 more volunteers for the trials. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), each of the volunteers has been covered under ₹1-crore life insurance, in case they die due to any side-effect during the trial. Also, they have been given a medical insurance of ₹50 lakh, in case they develop any adverse effect from the vaccination. The vaccine induces a strong immune response. It provokes a T cell (white blood cells that can attack cells infected with coronavirus) response within 14 days of vaccination and an antibody response within 28 days. Meanwhile, BYL Nair Hospital has selected three women volunteers for the clinical trial, which is likely to start from Monday. In the second week of September, KEM and Nair hospitals had to halt the trial after a participant developed an adverse condition in the United Kingdom (UK). Later, the Drug Control General of India (DCGI) gave its nod to run the second and third phases of the trial. However, both the civic hospitals had to get the final approval from their ethics committees before starting with the screening of the volunteers. Meanwhile, Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) – which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines in terms of volume – partnered with British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate, formulated at the University of Oxford.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-kem-hospital-starts-oxford-s-covid-19-vaccine-trial-3-volunteers-administered-dosage-on-day-1/story-d4rBBjz8GDjpIAHhkJ1cuI.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Meeting between Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis in Mumbai sparks off speculation||A meeting between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut at a five-star suburban hotel on Saturday sparked off speculation in the political circles over whether the two sides are trying to mend their relations amid the slugfest between the two in the past few months. The meeting assumes significance, as the Sena-led state government is facing flak over the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput as well as amid the frosty relationship between the ruling party allies after right-wing trolls have targeted Aaditya Thackeray who is a Sena minister and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son. The BJP dismissed any political motive behind the meeting. “Sanjay Raut wanted to meet Devendra Fadnavis to take his interview [for Sena mouthpiece] Saamana]. As Fadnavis wanted the interview to be published unedited, the two decided to meet once before the interview work on the modalities. The interview will take place after Fadnavis returns from Bihar,” said BJP leader Pravin Darekar. Raut, a strong critic of the BJP, did not react to the media reports on the meeting. Political analysts have pointed out that there is more to the meeting than what meets the eye. “No one will just meet to discuss an interview. This seems more of a message by the Shiv Sena to its allies Congress-NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) that it still shares good relationship with the BJP,” said political commentator Hemant Desai.Sena and BJP were ruling allies in state till 2019 and contested Assembly polls together. However, the two had differences over sharing the CM’s post after winning the majority. Thackeray then forged an alliance with Congress and NCP to form a government under him. Sena and BJP have been involved in a bitter tussle since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/meeting-between-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-and-bjp-s-devendra-fadnavis-in-mumbai-sparks-off-speculation/story-FYfeMdzDafiTy0WdkPgphJ.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Thermal scanning sporadic, social distancing missing on Panjab University campus: Panel||A monitoring committee of Panjab University has found several discrepancies on the varsity campus with respect to the adherence of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to contain the spread of Covid-19.The panel, which was formed earlier this month, in view of rising Covid cases at PU, recently filed its report.As per the committee, all departments were not recording the temperature of visitors and staff, and adherence to protective measures, such as masks and social distancing, was missing, both by visitors as well as staff, an official notice by the dean university instruction (DUI) stated.The panel found that most departments lacked a proper sanitisation schedule, besides sanitiser bottles were empty and sanitiser dispensers non-functional.DUI RK Singla in a communication to all departments has directed them to follow the SOPs released by the government and the varsity from time to time.PU senator Rajat Sandhir, a member of the panel that constituted the monitoring committee, said, “As the number of cases among the teaching and non-teaching staff is increasing every day, we cannot afford to lower our guard against the deadly virus. We need to ensure that SOPs are adhered to strictly to build the confidence of parents and students to return to the campus.”On September 23, PU had to close all of its examination branches and single-window enquiry after its staffers had tested positive for Covid-19.Besides, in a recent circular by the PU registrar, the department and branch heads were asked to prepare and submit a list of contacts of the positive employees to the office of the chief medical officer of the university.Discrepancies galoreStaff not wearing masks at all times at workSeveral visitors also present on campus without masksProper sanitisation schedule missing in most departmentsSanitiser bottles found emptySanitiser dispensers non-functional||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/thermal-scanning-sporadic-social-distancing-missing-on-campus-pu-panel/story-swGa2RzkwUvLjKySTpCKDP.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh court directs private university to release former professor’s salary||Stating that the salary and security amount of an assistant professor had been “illegally withheld”, an additional district and sessions court has directed a private university to release her salary amounting to ₹86,000.Twinkle Manhas of Sector 21D, Chandigarh, said that on January 22, 2018, she had joined as an assistant professor in psychology at the University School of Social Sciences, at a consolidated salary of ₹21,600 per month. She was again hired for one more semester up to December 31, 2018.Manhas alleged that the university did not pay her salary from March to June 2018, amounting to ₹75,600, and the security amount of ₹10,800. As defendants (university and senior administrative officers) did not appear, case proceeded ex-parte. And on February 3, 2020, the civil suit was dismissed by the trial court after which she appealed.The court of additional district and sessions judge Rajesh Sharma observed: “There is no reason as to why oral and documentary evidence produced by a plaintiff must not be relied and acted upon. So there was no reason for the trial court to decline relief of recovery along with interest being arrears of salary and security amount lying with the defendants, which has been illegally withheld by them.”The court accepted the appeal, thus setting aside the trial court’s order.The varsity and the administration have been ordered to pay Manhas ₹86,400 at 6% interest per annum from the date of filing the suit till its realisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-directs-private-university-to-release-former-professor-s-salary/story-gykCPAwCmgwzKXkUyazXOP.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||2 Navi Mumbai hospitals fined for treating Covid patients without permission||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on two more private hospitals for flouting the ICMR guidelines and treating Covid-19 patients without authorisation.On September 23, the civic body issued an order of suspension of license to a hospital at Sector 28 in Vashi for treating Covid patients without authorisation.Sanjay Kakade, assistant municipal commissioner of NMMC, said, “In case of the Vashi Hospital, it was a second complaint and hence we suspended the licence. Meanwhile, in the case of the other two hospitals, it was the first complaint and hence we have penalised them and not suspended the licence.”The two hospitals penalised are from Sector 9 in Vashi and Sector 16 in Airoli. “Complaints against a total of four private hospitals were made to us. Of the four, only three were found to be having no authority to treat Covid-19 patients. The fourth one had permission from us to treat Covid patients. We are now verifying the bills issued by the fourth hospital if they were as per the guidelines,” Kakade said.NMMC had issued a show-cause notice to the three hospitals on September 19. Failing to provide timely response to the civic body, NMMC issued orders to the hospitals. The civic body has appealed to the public to approach them in case any hospital was found flouting any guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-navi-mumbai-hospitals-fined-for-treating-covid-patients-without-permission/story-BgexpYYpkMueAePrOOsDfL.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||2-year-old boy rescued and returned to mother in Ambernath, 5 held||The Ambernath police have arrested five persons on Thursday in connection with child trafficking and kidnapping case.The five kidnapped a two-and-a-half year old boy from Circus Maidan area in Ambernath and sold him for ₹70,000. The boy’s mother had registered a missing complaint report on September 15. The toddler was rescued by Ambernath police and handed over to the mother.The five accused, which include three women, Puja Shettiyar, (28), Jaynatabi Khan, (33), Sheru Saroj, (45), Mukesh Kharwa, 36 and Maya Kale, 30, are allegedly small-time thieves and drug addicts, claimed the police.The boy, Vikas Mandal, is the son of Vijaya Mandal, 30. She stays in a slum near Circus Maidan. According to police, Kale has a small pan shop in the area and sees Vikas regularly when he used to come and play on the ground near her shop.Shettiyar was the customer to whom the remaining four tried to sell the toddler. She works as a labourer.A police official requesting anonymity said, “As per Shettiyar’s statement, her husband left her three years ago when she was pregnant. She was unwell after her delivery and unable to take care of the baby, so she sold him to someone in Mumbai. Her in-laws recently told her that they were ready to accept her and the child, so she wanted a child around Vikas’s age to show them as her own. In her statement, she told us that she mortgaged her house and could afford to pay ₹70,000 for a child that age.”Shettiyar circulated the message that she was looking for a child. Saroj and Khan, along with Kharwa, devised a plan to kidnap Vikas and took Kale’s help for the same. They took him on September 15 when he was playing outside his house.Senior police inspector, S Dhumal, said, “After the child’s mother lodged a complaint, we conducted a search in the same area. We found no trace of the child. Later, we asked all the auto rickshaw drivers and shopkeepers about the boy. We came to know that Kale was seen with the boy and arrested her and the remaining accused. We also found the boy with Shettiyar, who also resides in Ambernath.”Dhumal said that the accused have being changing their statements constantly and they were still verifying the claim that the baby was taken for Shettiyar, as the police suspect that Shettiyar might be further selling him to someone else.Dhumal said, “All the accused have been booked for kidnapping and child trafficking, and remanded in police custody till October 2.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-year-old-boy-rescued-and-returned-to-mother-in-ambernath-5-held/story-NK8pGieCRk3v6zK3WNTMDM.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||3 dangerous buildings razed in Ulhasnagar||After Bhiwandi building collapsed killing 38 people, the Ulhasanagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) has started demolition of dilapidated buildings in its jurisdiction. On Saturday, the UMC demolished three buildings after the court vacated the stay on demolition of dangerous buildings.The civic body has a total of 153 structures in dangerous condition, out of which 33 are extremely dangerous. All the 33 buildings have been vacated, claimed the authorities. The corporation, on Saturday, had demolished three out of the 33 extremely dangerous structures including Humlog Apartment near Jhulelal Mandir in Ulhasnagar 1, Shanti Palace Apartment behind Yatri Niwas, Ulhasnagar 2 and Om Shiv Ganga Apartment near Venus Lal Chakki Road, Ulhasnagar 4.Ganesh Shimpi, assistant municipal commissioner of UMC, said, “In the first phase, we carried out a demolition of three buildings. After a while, the others buildings will be demolished soon. All the dangerous buildings were given prior notice. Even if the buildings are vacant, the lives of residences in the neighbouring buildings are at risk. Ulhasnagar being densely populated, in case any of the dangerous building collapses, it will risk the lives of people staying nearby.”The UMC had also appealed to the citizens to carry out the structural audit of their buildings at the earliest and carry out the necessary repair work if any.Shashikant Dyma, 52, a social activist from Ulhasnagar, claimed that around 27 to 28 people died in building collapse incidents in the last 10 years. Dyma said, “The authorities don’t take any effort in carrying out a survey of dangerous buildings. If an incident of wall or plaster collapse takes place in a building, only then it is declared dangerous. All the 33 buildings have been declared dangerous for the same reason. No building is declared dangerous on the basis of structural audit.”He alleged that despite the claims of the corporation that all buildings have been evacuated, residents still continue to stay in three or four such structures “as the city does not have transit camps to rehabilitate the residents”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-dangerous-buildings-razed-in-ulhasnagar/story-TXpJoWUMy2HRleBuB9QfVP.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Warmer days, cooler nights on the cards in Chandigarh||The weather department has forecast clear skies for the next few days, with the possibility of increase in the day temperature by a couple of degrees.An official at India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chandigarh, said, “In the coming days, sky will remain clear and maximum temperature can rise up to 37°C. The current temperature, at 35°C, is also two degrees above normal.”“However, with clear skies during the day, the night temperature is likely to take a dip, as cloudy nights are warmer than clear nights,” the official added.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature went up from 34.4°C on Friday to 35.4°C on Saturday. But, the minimum temperature reduced from 25.1°C on Friday to 23.1°C on Saturday. In the next three days, the highs are expected to remain between 35°C and 36°C and the lows around 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/warmer-days-cooler-nights-on-the-cards/story-2tqCuEM0CnknG9KTTHlbgN.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||₹18 lakh relief for kin of Bihar man killed in 2019 mishap||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has awarded compensation of Rs 18 lakh to the family of a Bihar man who was killed in a road accident in December 2019.The claim was filed by Rambha Devi, 42, wife of the deceased, Rameshwar Sah, his five children, and parents, Dhuniya Devi, 59, and Shankar Sah, 59. The family had complained that Rameshwar Sah died due to the negligent and rash driving of truck owner and driver Ashok Kumar, resident of Hamirpur district, Himachal Pradesh. However, as the truck’s insurer, National Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh, agreed to pay a compensation of Rs 18 lakh to the claimants within 30 days, the petition was allowed partly.“A sum of Rs 18 lakh is hereby awarded as compensation in favour of the claimants, which shall be paid by the insurance company within 30 days from today, failing which the compensation amount shall carry interest @9% per annum from the date of filing of petition till actual payment,” the court observed.“Compensation amount shall be shared by the claimants – the deceased’s wife, five children and parents – in the ratio of 30:10:10:10:10:10:10:10,” it added.on amount shall be shared by the claimants in the ratio of 30:10:10:10:10:10:10:10,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/18-lakh-relief-for-kin-of-bihar-man-killed-in-2019-mishap/story-6fKgvMZreljzvvuMaH2Z6H.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC dismisses Chandigarh eye institute’s plea against consumer panel order||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed a plea by Grewal Eye Institute, Sector 9, against a February order of the Chandigarh State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. Upholding an order of the district consumer forum, the commission had directed the institute to pay Rs 1 lakh to a Chandigarh resident.The institute had filed a plea in March arguing that it can entertain petitions in certain categories of cases against consumer panel orders. However, the bench of justice HS Madaan observed that the institute, itself having approached the commission, cannot now say that it lacked jurisdiction. It added that the institute, under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, can approach the national commission.The complainant, Shabnam Khunger, a Chandigarh resident, had approached the consumer forum, stating that she had visited the Sector-9 institute for an eye check-up in October 2017 and was advised a cataract surgery. She was informed about two kinds of surgeries –Phaco or Robolazr – worth Rs 1.49 lakh. For this, she contacted her insurance firm for cashless treatment, but was allowed treatment worth only Rs 48,000 and her claim of Rs 1 lakh was rejected. This prompted her to approach the consumer forum. The insurance firm was of the view that there was no need for a robotic surgery. Hence, the remaining amount was repudiated. The institute had argued that it was the patient who opted for it. The forum had then ordered that the insurance firm was liable to pay the entire amount, and penalised the eye institute for “unfair trade practices” by directing it to pay the complainant Rs 1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-dismisses-eye-institute-s-plea-against-consumer-panel-order/story-GTzDYeGV510rDjzy5FJ91J.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Business gains momentum, but bars in Chandigarh stare at long road to recovery||With the Chandigarh administration’s order allowing local bars to reopen from September 1, their business slightly improved, but owners say they’re only seeing 20%-30% customers of what they used to witness earlier. Proprietor of Pyramid lounge and bar at Elante mall, Sunveer Sondhi, who is also the city head of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said, “Clubs are learning how to handle people as per the SOPs issued by the administration. Even if the 50% cap on the number of people inside is lifted, we will still be able to manage the crowd and ensure that social distancing is maintained. It would help us with our business also.” The administration’s decision to allow events with up to 100 people at banquet halls has also been received positively by some of the bar and banquet owners here. President of the Chandigarh Hospitality Association, Ankit Gupta, who also runs Himani’s Vertigo lounge in Sector 35, said, “The opening of banquet halls is good news for the hotel owners. However, no relaxation has been extended to bars. Business is improving, but it is still nowhere near the point it used to be before corona times.” Sector-26 outlets bounce back The Sector-26 market on the Madhya Marg, which houses some of the city’s famous bars, lounges, and clubs, had suffered a major setback during the lockdown. The business, however, has started to flourish again, owners of various establishments say. Inderjit Singh Banga, proprietor of Sector 26’s Prankster and head of NRAI’s Gurugram chapter, said the situation in their market is improving every day. “When we couldn’t serve alcohol, our business dropped to just 10%. But now, it has climbed by 30%-35%. Weekend is the best time for us. We are gradually regaining our confidence,” he added. Director of Social in Sector 7, Manish Goel, who also runs Swagath hotel in Sector 26, said the situation has greatly improved for both these markets. “We have been able to get the youth segment back, but families and middle-aged patrons still avoid visiting us,” he said. However, a bar owner, on the condition of anonymity, said in the absence of proper checks and surveillance, many illegal activities were going on. “In Sector 26, various outlets have started serving hookah, which is not allowed. They have also started hosting live band performances, which are not allowed as per the SOPs. But there is no one to monitor,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/business-gains-momentum-but-bars-in-chandigarh-stare-at-long-road-to-recovery/story-JO1aFSvtrP7m8QpmuJVd7K.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 case tally rises to 1,321,176||The state on Saturday reported 20,419 Covid-19 infections and 430 deaths, taking the tally and toll to 1,321,176 and 35,191 respectively. Mumbai logged 2,282 new infections and 44 deaths, taking the case count to 196,585 and toll to 8,750. The overall case fatality rate (CFR) of the state stood at 2.66%, second-highest in the country after Punjab, and much higher than the national rate of 1.59%. Of the 430 deaths on Saturday, 227 were from the past two days, 110 from over the past week and remaining 93 were from the period before it, according to the health department. Across the state, number of cases dropped to 133,161 this week (September 20-26), from 150,250 last week (September 13-19). The fatalities have come down to 2,520 from 3,101. The case fatality rate (CFR), too, dropped to 1.89% this week from 2.06% last week. However, 30,778 fewer Covid-19 tests had been conducted this week. From 6,21,307 tests between September 13 and 19, the number of tests reduced to 5,90,529 in the week ending September 26.Pune remained on top of the daily caseload list by reporting 3,324 cases (1,796 in city, 1,390 in rural parts and 1,138 in Pimpri-Chinchwad) and 90 deaths.Nashik clocked 1,595 new cases and 17 deaths, while the state’s second capital, Nagpur, reported 1,635 new cases and 15 fatalities. Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur, three western Maharashtra districts, continued with high number of cases with 779, 678 and 703 new cases respectively. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) clocked 4,819 (23.6% of total state cases) new cases and saw 110 deaths (25.58% of deaths in the state). On the heels of the spike in Covid-19 cases over the Past few weeks and a day after state crossed its grim 1.3 million mark, Maharashtra crossed the mark of 1 million recovered patients after 23,644 new recoveries were reported on Saturday. At the recovery rate of 76.94%, after the total recoveries of 10,16,450 till date, the state has 2,69,119 active patients across the state. Further, as of Saturday, 158,749 patients have been recovered and discharged post Covid-19 treatment in Mumbai. The city’s recovery rate is 80.75%. There are 28,691 active cases in Mumbai and fatality rate is 4.45%. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded 14 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Dharavi’s tally is 3,123, of which 2,662 have been discharged.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held review meetings with officials from various districts with a high number of Covid cases. District authorities were told to strictly implement lockdown norms and personal hygiene protocols. He has also directed district authorities to increase testing and early detection of patients to ensure arrest of the spread and keeping the fatality rate low. “My Family, My Responsibility’ drive is being implemented effectively across the state. This will help us in tracing the patients early and treat them without wasting time. Countries like United Kingdom are witnessing emergence of the second wave of the infection after rolling out unlocking measures. Youngsters have started moving out freely in the process of earning their bread and butter and for their families. This has led to the risk of infection for elderly people at home. The appropriate Covid-19 behaviour, which includes use of masks and social distancing, should be strictly followed. The administration can impose heavy fine for the violations of such protocols,” Thackeray said.Thackeray held review meetings with the districts in Marathwada, Vidarbha and north Maharashtra. The district collectors and municipal commissioners have been directed to increase number of tests and trace high/low-risk contacts of cases early to contain the spread. He said while the state’s test rate per million population was more than 45,000 in some of the districts it is much low. Thackeray had held review meetings with officials from other two divisions — Konkan and Pune — on Friday. “About 93% of the state’s caseload is from 20 districts, which have been identified by the Centre. The districts are being focused upon by the state government. If the cases and fatalities in these districts are arrested, the overall state percentage will automatically improve,” said an official from the health department.Water supply and sanitation minister Gulabrao Patil, who is also the guardian minister of Jalgaon, said that the aggressive tracing of contacts in his district has helped them in treating patients early. “During the ‘My Family My Responsibility ‘drive we have identified 8,000 infected people who are being treated according to the protocol. Our case fatality rate (CFR) has now reduced to 2.47%, which used to be over 6% two months ago and even the caseload has reduced significantly over the past from their doorsteps,” he said. After announcing to increase the daily testing rate to 1.5 lakh, state tested 95,888 samples in last 24 hours with a positivity rate of 21.29%. State has 1,945,758 people in home quarantine, while 30,571 are institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-case-tally-rises-to-1-321-176/story-52rdzqnmhLIGBoeQm4PffN.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Survey finds over 50% respondents in Mumbai, Nagpur don’t feel the need to wear a mask||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, 54% of respondents of a survey conducted in Mumbai and Nagpur felt that it was not necessary to wear masks, and that maintaining social distancing is enough to prevent contracting the virus. Around 53% of respondents said they faced breathing problems when wearing masks. As many as 44% said they felt uncomfortable when masked.The World Health Organization has stressed the importance of wearing masks to curb the spread of the virus.The survey was conducted as part of ‘ApnaMask’ initiative by EkDesh, an NGO, and 248 people from Mumbai and Nagpur were interviewed.The survey found 48% of the respondents were not afraid of catching the virus and 42% believed that vaccine was the only solution to controlling Covid-19.As many as 55% of respondents said masks would not control the spread of the virus. The survey found N95 masks were among the preferred ones.The compliance towards wearing masks was the highest among those in the 36-55 age group.In Mumbai, it is mandatory to wear masks at public places. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which was levying fines up to ₹1,000 for violations, brought down the amount to ₹200 recently. The municipal authorities in Mumbai have collected fines worth ₹27.48 lakh from 2,798 citizens, who were found without masks in public places between April 9 and August 31.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a Mumbai-based consultant, said there might be a certain discomfort because of wearing masks while on the move. “But citizens should not forget that until we do not have a vaccine, masking, and social distancing are the only available ways to fight and control the spread of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-survey-finds-over-50-respondents-in-mumbai-nagpur-don-t-feel-the-need-to-wear-a-mask/story-xAcQG0RPAp6nCeRtthWupL.html
27-09-2020||City||Mohali microbrewery fined ₹19,000 for overcharging on liquor bottle ‘served as it is’||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a Mohali microbrewery to pay a “punitive cost” of ₹15,000 for overcharging on a liquor bottle “served as it is”.“In order to stop this malpractice prevailing in restaurants of charging exorbitant amounts from the consumers by totally ignoring the rules and law, to make huge profits, it is important to put a punitive cost,” ruled the Commission, while disposing of a complaint filed by one Gursharan Preet Singh of Sector 49C, Chandigarh. The fine will be deposited in the legal aid account set up by the Commission.In May 2017, Gursharan had moved the Commission, alleging that The Brewmaster, a microbrewery in Phase 5, Mohali, had “arbitrarily and by adopting unethical practice overcharged the amount over the MRP on the liquor bottle which was served as it is to them”. In April 2017, he had visited the restaurant and ordered a bottle of Black and White whiskey. The MRP mentioned on the bottle was ₹1,364, but in the final bill, he had been charged ₹2,395 for it. He further said that even though he had objected to paying more than the MRP, the manager had forced him to pay the entire bill.In February 2019, a notice was issued to The Brewmaster, but as no one appeared on their behalf, the case had proceeded ex-parte.The consumer commission held that “It is incumbent upon them (The Brewmaster) to charge MRP mentioned on the bottle, since the bottle was served as it is to the consumer. It is not the case that the liquor was served from the bottle in different quantities or served in glasses by opening the same along with other things.”Stating that “putting a punitive cost will send a clear message that restaurant owners cannot exploit consumers”, the Commission also directed The Brewmaster to refund ₹1,031 (difference in the MRP and price charged) along with 12% interest per annum, along with a compensation of ₹3,000 to the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-microbrewery-fined-19-000-for-overcharging-on-liquor-bottle-served-as-it-is/story-HJX4HWvdmDF7lK57kFfjqL.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Not many takers for Chinese language course at Panjab University||The Chinese language certificate course which is offered by the department of Chinese and Tibetan languages at Panjab University has failed to attract any linguaphiles this year.Only seven students have applied for admission to the course against the 57 seats available. According to the information provided by the university, last year 38 students were admitted in the one-year certificate course.The drop in the number of students has pressed the department to offer offline admissions as well. However, on September 26, the last date for admission to the courses in Chinese and Tibetan languages, no new takers showed up.What’s more, not a single application has been received for admission in the certificate course in Tibetan language this year. Last year, 38 students were admitted in the course, which offers 57 seats. Admissions in diploma and advance diploma courses at the department are yet to be carried out.Established in 1964 at PU, the erstwhile Department of Central Asian Studies was renamed ‘Department of Chinese and Tibetan Languages’ in 2003.A faculty member of the department, on the condition of anonymity, said, “There could be various reasons for the drop in students this year, including the delay in admissions. Also, the impression among the people may have been affected due to the worsening ties between India and China.”Dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla said, “Certificate courses get less response sometimes. Class 12 passouts have a lot of other options as well. We have asked the department to offer offline admissions, too.”On the other hand, the department of French and Francophone studies has received around 400 applications against 200 total seats for admission in the certificate course in French language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-many-takers-for-chinese-language-course-at-panjab-university/story-VUNwYBNRo3A5nQad8uLS8H.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||J&K’s Covid count crosses 70,000||The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on Saturday reported 1,217 fresh Covid infections, taking the Covid infections to 71,049. Twenty people succumbed to the virus - 12 in Jammu division and eight in Kashmir. So far,1125 deaths have been reported in the UT, of which 819 deaths were recorded in Kashmir division. As many as 1,936 patients recovered in different districts, leaving 18,430 active cases in the UT. So far, 51,494 people have recovered in J&K.Around 301 positive cases were reported in Jammu, taking the total number of cases in the district to 11,688. In Srinagar, 180 fresh cases were reported, taking the number of positive cases in the district to 14,204. With 2,158 cumulative Covid cases, Srinagar has the highest number of positive cases in the UT. However, Jammu has the most active cases (3,868). With 285 deaths, Srinagar has the highest fatality numbers, followed by Jammu which has reported 164 deaths. Baramulla, too, has recorded 121 deaths. For the last two weeks, Jammu district has been observing a spike in new cases and deaths. So far, 15,39,284 tests have been conducted across J&K and 5,66,602 people enlisted for observation, of which 4,80,004 people have completed surveillance. As many as 50,232 people are under home surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-s-covid-count-crosses-70-000/story-dsBzNWopIaaltvwf0KQ4iL.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||With positive mindset, doctors’ efforts, comorbid patients admitted in Chandigarh are overcoming Covid||Gurpal Singh, 40, returned home after defeating Covid-19 even though he is a patient of diabetes. Though his condition had worsened and he had to be put on oxygen therapy, he said his dedication and resolve to beat the virus proved beneficial.A kidney recipient, Aditya Kaushal, 32, contracted Covid and was admitted, but even with complications, he defeated Covid-19 in 11 days.“Covid-19 started affecting my kidneys and I started having problems in passing urine. When I got admitted into PGIMER, I used to ask doctors if I will survive. They just asked me to keep a positive mindset and it helped. A team of nephrologists continuously monitored me and I recovered in no time,” he said.Dr SK Singh, 55, had also developed pneumonia due to Covid-19 and was shifted to the ICU in a critical condition with oxygen saturation levels decreasing at an alarming rate. He, too, survived and is back to his daily routine.A 13-year-old boy after undergoing heart transplant surgery had also contracted Covid-19. He, too, survived with the standard protocol treatment.Even though patients with pre-existing diseases are at a higher risk of contracting the coronavirus and developing complications, there are growing examples of how such patients have survived the ordeal.305 comorbid patients admitted at PGIMER At the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), which caters to the critically-ill patients of the region, 305 such patients have so far been admitted who required aggressive treatment in the intensive care units. Of them, 177 have recovered and have been discharged so far, while 27 patients are still undergoing treatment.Doctors treating such patients say the line of treatment includes targeting the existing conditions and strict monitoring of vitals. A management plan for patients is designed, customised to every patient’s needs.Dr GD Puri, dean academics and head, department of anaesthesia and intensive care, said, “Doctors from all specialties take rounds of the Covid-19 wards and treatment is provided to patients as per their comorbidity.”“The target is to keep the vitals in check. Endocrinologists take care of the patients who have diabetes; a team of nephrologists has been deputed for patients with kidney ailments. In a day, 40 doctors from the anesthesia department perform duties in different Covid-19 wards, ICUs, and dedicated operation theatres. Many patients survive due to such efforts,” Dr Puri said.Dr Vipin Kaushal, additional medical superintendent of the Covid-19 hospital, said not just clinically, but patients were also being provided psychological support. “It is team effort that leads to recoveries. We work on patients who develop serious complications and who require mental support as well. In isolation, patients are away from family, so providing extra support is important in such cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-positive-mindset-doctors-efforts-comorbid-patients-admitted-in-chandigarh-are-surviving-covid/story-AQHt2P4I7jMKnoS91Tl4QI.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amid Sino-India stand-off 131 young soldiers join Ladakh Scouts Regiment||Amid the protracted Sino-India stand-off in eastern Ladakh, 131 young soldiers joined the prestigious Ladakh Scouts regiment in Leh on Saturday. A defence spokesperson said, “An attestation parade was held on Saturday at the Ladakh Scouts Regimental Centre, Leh, to mark the entry of 131 well trained recruits into the Ladakh Scouts Regiment. Due to the ongoing pandemic, the ceremony was conducted without the presence of the recruits’ parents and in accordance all norms and advisories. Leh sub-area deputy general officer commanding Brig Arun CG reviewed the attestation parade,” the defence spokesperson said. The soldiers, hailing from all regions of Ladakh, took an oath to serve the nation. Congratulating the soldiers, Brig Arun CG said, ““He exhorted young soldiers to continue to strive hard in pursuit of excellence in all spheres of profession and take a solemn vow to uphold the sovereignty of the nation against all odds in the true spirit, signified by the ethos of the Indian Army,” said the spokesperson.The young riflemen were awarded medals for their outstanding performance during training. On June 15, at least 20 Indian soldiers had laid down their life in the line of duty while combating Chinese troops at Galwan valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-sino-india-stand-off-131-young-soldiers-join-ladakh-scouts-regiment/story-znjWsCXIWXLen77mV6yX1N.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal cabinet restores MLALAD fund||The Himachal cabinet on Saturday approved the restoration of the member of legislative assembly local area development scheme (MLALAD) fund, which had been discontinued in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Of the ₹50 lakh due to each constituency, ₹25 lakh will be released in October, and the second instalment will be released after the Panchayati Raj Institution polls. The Prime Minister’s proposed visit to inaugurate the Atal Tunnel, in Rohtang, on October 3 was also discussed. The Cabinet agreed to hold an event on the occasion as per Covid guidelines, which will be telecast at all district headquarters. The ministers also agreed to install a statue of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on The Ridge. The work will be alloted to award-winning sculptors Ram V Sutar and Anil Sutar under the Himachal Pradesh Finance Rule-104 as proposed by the language, art and culture department. ITIs to resume activity on October 1 The cabinet also approved resumption of training activities at Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) from October 1. The ITIs will complete the training schedule before the exams in November. These institutes will open in strict compliance with the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs, ministry of health and family welfare and ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship (MSDE). The cabinet gave its nod for drafting a memorandum of understanding that will be executed and entered between the state government and Temple Trust Chamunda regarding the transfer of land for the Lower Terminal Point of Himani-Chamundaji Ropeway Project in Kangra. 7 posts to be filled in sainik welfare departmentIt also gave its approval to fill seven posts of deputy director in the sainik welfare department on contract basis. The ministers agreed create and fill up 35 posts of panchakarma masseur in the Ayurveda department on daily wage basis. It also decided to rename the ayurveda department as Ayush Vibhag. The cabinet approved an MoU between the director ayurveda and HLL Lifecare Limited, a Government of India enterpriseto upgrade the Ayurvedic Health Centre to Ayush Health and Wellness Centres. It gave its approval to fill up eight posts for different categories in the planning department through direct recruitment. Key decisions 1) MLALAD fund restored: ₹50 lakh per constituency to be released in two instalments 2) Even to be held for the inauguration of Atal Tunnel 3) Statue of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to be installed on The Ridge4) Industrial Training Institutes to reopen on October 1 5) Ayurveda department to be called Auysh Vibhag 6) 35 posts for panchakarma masseur at the Ayush Vibhag and seven posts of deputy director at Sainik Welfare department to be filled||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cabinet-restores-mlalad-fund/story-b3DXYMyXvp59ZF084ndaRK.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University senator asks V-C to extend senate’s term till next elections||A Panjab University (PU) senator, HS Dua, who is also a member of the PU syndicate, has written to vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar proposing that the term of the PU senate be extended till the constitution of a new senate.The 91-member senate is the apex governing body of the varsity, while the syndicate is the highest executive body of the varsity. The polls that were to constitute a new senate, after the term of the present senate ends on October 31, were postponed on August 15 for two months due to the pandemic.Batting for extension in the present senate’s term for smooth running of the varsity and its affiliated colleges, senator Dua in his letter to the V-C has said, “The students and their parents have no proper information. Everything is vague to them. This is due to lack of governance, as no proper meetings of the senate and syndicate are being held.”Permission sought from DC for PUTA pollsThe Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Saturday wrote to the deputy commissioner, UT, requesting to expedite the permission for holding the teachers’ body elections at Panjab University.The polls scheduled for September 25 and 26 were postponed by returning officer Vijay Nagpal due to the pandemic. Nagpal said he had not received a response from the DC office when the decision to postpone the polls was taken.On Saturday, PUTA president Rajesh Gill and secretary JK Goswami in their letter to the deputy commissioner said that as teachers of a prestigious university, they were conscious of their responsibility of ensuring the safety of the voters, and at the same time were committed to putting in place a democratically elected PUTA. Citing the Apex Court’s green signal to Bihar elections in view of the import of democratic structures, they have sought to meet the DC in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-senator-asks-v-c-to-extend-senate-s-term-till-next-elections/story-NyK2wrMnHVKTSp6G2C3nsM.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Chandigarh needs a parallel private healthcare system’||Dr G Dewan, director, health and family welfare, who retires next week after 35 years of service, spoke to Amanjeet Singh Salyal on Saturday about the challenges thrown up by the Covid-19 outbreak, non-communicable diseases in the city, and his career with the UT health department. Excerpts:How has the health infrastructure in Chandigarh evolved since you joined as a medical officer in 1985?When I joined services in Chandigarh the population was around 3.5 lakh. It’s now estimated at 12 lakh. Thus, there’s need for creating more public health infrastructure as well as services. The Government Medical College (GMCH) came into existence in the late ’90s. Earlier, there was less influx of patients as well as the population from the adjoining states in the UT. The General Hospital in Sector 16 has been upgraded to a multispecialty unit (GMSH). Other healthcare facilities have been upgraded too.It’s felt in the medical fraternity that while the three UT run hospitals are underutilised, PGIMER is overloaded. Your take?You cannot compare apples with bananas. PGIMER is a top-tertiary care hospital with huge responsibility, infrastructure, and workforce. We, too, have our role to play. There is equal burden on every hospital.How have GMSH-16 and GMCH-32 kept pace with new standards in patient care?Upgrading the health sector will always remain a challenge as new technology comes up every day. You have to upgrade it on a timely basis. This in turn helps set a benchmark for keeping up patient care standards. We keep hearing about novel procedures being conducted in UT run hospitals. These are great achievements.What changes in disease patterns and patient loads have you seen as health administrator?Earlier the burden of waterborne diseases was huge. We have improved, but new challenges have emerged in non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. We have a huge burden of diabetes in the city. We will have to set up a system to study the patterns of disease and work out how our education and information systems have to be developed for intervention. This will help in the treatment of dengue and Covid-19.Unlike Mohali and Panchkula, Chandigarh does not have private healthcare providers of repute? Is that required?Yes, we need a parallel private healthcare system. Though there are issues regarding availability of land and viability of that industry, it has to be looked at. But, I feel that the public health sector cannot provide top-class living facilities that few patients want. Priority areas of the government health sector in Chandigarh?We need to rethink the model of healthcare delivery through aggressive preventive medical care. The importance of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme has increased manifold. We need to strengthen it to understand the epidemiology of diseases. Outbreaks in future have to be contained quickly.Chandigarh is the country’s best planned city, yet it saw widespread Covid-19 infections. Were there any missteps?I disagree. You cannot treat Chandigarh as an isolated city even if it is planned. We have huge mobility of persons from Chandigarh to the tricity suburbs. The number of infections started to increase as the lockdown restrictions were lifted in phases. However, we have kept infection numbers in check and are seeing a gradual decrease. The ratio of fatalities is less or equal to that of neighbouring states and less than the national average. Our goal is to bring it below 1% from 1.3%.How do you reflect upon your career since 1985?I served in eight different positions in the Chandigarh administration and the municipal corporation during my tenure. I am happy to share that I have ideated in many innovations in the department that focused on improving health indicators.Your post-retirement plans?After the delightful privilege of serving my city, I am passing on the baton to the new generation with a lot of confidence and assurance. This gives me a chance to spend more time with my family and also take up social welfare work in the field of education and health through new forums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-needs-a-parallel-private-healthcare-system/story-I0hUNAhjY2FT35pd8F0TBJ.html
27-09-2020||Mumbai||Maratha outfits turn down Maharashtra government’s decision to extend EWS quota to community, vow to intensify protests||Maratha outfits have decided to intensify their ongoing protest, demanding the restoration of reservation for its community members in jobs and education. Protests will be staged from today onwards in different parts of Maharashtra and will continue into the first week of October. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court (SC) had stayed the implementation of the law granting reservation to Marathas and referred the matter to a larger constitutional bench. Turning down the state government’s decision to bring Marathas under the 10% quota for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), community leaders have decided to raise the issue politically and stage protests outside residences of members of Parliament (MPs) and legislators. On Saturday, dozens of Maratha outfits under the aegis of Sakal Maratha Kranti Morcha held a day-long conference in Nashik. Among those who spoke were Bharatiya Janata Party MP and Maratha leader Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje; former member of legislative council (MLC) Narendra Patil; Maratha Mahasangh’s Rajendra Kondhare and legal experts. Starting today, Maratha outfits will stage a dharna outside the offices of all prominent political parties in Pune. Between October 5 and October 10, protests will be held outside residences of legislators and at the offices of tehsil and district collectors. Kondhare said, “We have decided to turn down the government’s decision to bring us under the EWS quota as it does not serve any purpose. Our immediate demand is that the state government should immediately safeguard the interest of our youths who have secured admissions or government jobs under SEBC reservation stayed by the top court. Secondly, the schemes which are being shown as earmarked for the community are old ones and meant for other communities too. The state government can add 12% more seats in admissions to secure the quota for students from the community.” Karan Gaykar of Sakala Maratha Kranti Morcha said, “We want MLAs [members of the legislative assembly] and MPs from the state to raise this issue at the appropriate forum by writing to the President, Prime Minister, Governor and chief minister. It is the responsibility of the state and Central government to ensure the stay on the reservation is vacated at the earliest. We are also planning to hold a protest rally in Delhi if we do not get the expected response.” The Maratha community has said the government’s decision to extend the EWS quota to them – announced on Tuesday – to them serves no purpose. The state has also announced other socio-economic schemes that would be made available to the community once Marathas were diverted to the EWS category. State minister Ashok Chavan, who heads a Cabinet sub-committee on the Maratha reservation issue, said the state government is fighting the legal battle and Maratha outfits should appreciate its efforts. “Bringing the community under EWS was the only option readily available before the state government. The community should understand this is a temporary arrangement done by us until the stay is vacated by the Apex Court. The protests cannot be against the government as the decision was given by the court and various Maratha outfits too were interveners in the petition against reservation, which was stayed. We have been taking all the outfits, political parties and their leaders into confidence in our battle. We expect the stay to be vacated by the SC at the earliest,” said Chavan. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act 2018 gives reservation of 12% and 13% in employment and admissions respectively to the Maratha community. On September 9, a three-judge bench of SC stayed the implementation of this reservation for the year 2020-21 and transferred the matter to a five-judge constitutional bench. Following this, on Tuesday, the state Cabinet allowed the Maratha community to be eligible for the EWS quota of 10 %, which was implemented by the Central government last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maratha-outfits-turn-down-maharashtra-government-s-decision-to-extend-ews-quota-to-community-vow-to-intesify-protests/story-s292J0kx3sFTQpERPRYYGL.html
27-09-2020||City||Panchkula traffic cops issue 2,300 challans, recover ₹7.9 lakh fine in a week||The traffic police have issued 2,302 challans to traffic violators in the last week and recovered ₹7,95,500 as fines from them.According to a statement released by the Panchkula police, “In the last week, the police have challaned 2,302 vehicles and imposed a fine of ₹21, 37,000 on violators. Of the total challans issued, 1,315 persons have deposited ₹7,95,500.”“In Kalka and Pinjore, 805 vehicles were challaned and the police imposed a fine of ₹4,37,300,” it added.Traffic in charge, SHO Sukhdev Kumar said: “We had started an awareness drive over three months ago, where we are educating people about traffic rules as well as issuing challans to violators.”He said: “The most common violations include riding without a helmet, driving on the wrong side and not wearing a seat belt. People don’t even follow basic traffic rules. Now, we are issuing challans for every violation, be it drunken driving or overspeeding.”The traffic wing of the police asked people to get the HSRP (High-Security Registration Plate) number plate on their vehicles. “They should quickly get the HSRP number plates on their two-wheelers or cars; else they will be challaned,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-traffic-cops-issue-2-300-challans-recover-79-5l-fine-in-a-week/story-o4NChQNhtPObaRrYoEMPcK.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||Over 3/4th special educator posts in Delhi MCD schools vacant, HC told||Over 75% posts of special educators — who cater to students with disabilities — are lying vacant in schools run by the Capital’s three civic bodies, according to an affidavit the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) submitted in the high court on Friday. The SDMC — a nodal agency for the recruitment of teachers in the three civic bodies — submitted that 1,192 special educator posts, of the 1,540 notified, in civic body schools are vacant.The affidavit was submitted in response to a contempt petition filed by advocate Ashok Agarwal of NGO Social Jurist against the civic bodies and others for not filling up the vacant posts. “After the last hearing, the SDMC had sent requests to the other municipal corporations in order to calculate the amount of vacancies available in the post... it has come to light that there are 1,192 (239 are in east MCD, 561 in north MCD and 392 in south MCD) vacancies to be filled in the post of special educator (primary) in the municipal corporation schools,” the affidavit stated. The north, east and south corporations run 712, 399, and 592 schools respectively for children up to class 5, all of which cater to around 600,000 students. Of these, around 3,500 are students with disabilities.Officials at several schools run by the civic bodies said they have been struggling in the absence of special educators. “The situation has become even more difficult during the Covid-19 lockdown when schools are closed and classes have been shifted online. We can’t expect children with disabilities to study using WhatsApp links and YouTube videos... They need attention, and a regular special educator is required to call them and engage them for some hours every day till schools reopen,” a principal of an east MCD school said. Similarly, principals in schools run by the south and north MCDs said they are facing issues due to the unavailability of an adequate number of special educators. The principal of a south MCD school said, “We do not have any special educator at present, due to which we have to seek help from other schools to help children with disabilities enrolled with us. The contract of the guest teacher who was teaching these children at our school till last March, has also not been renewed as of now.” Alka Shama, additional east MCD commissioner said, “We have already sent the requisition for the vacancies of special educators to the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB). Presently, we have around 70 special educators and we have divided them into the groups according to the need of students. They have been in regular touch of all students with special needs during the lockdown,” she said. The DSSSB conducts recruitment exams for government or civic body run schools in Delhi. The chairperson of the south civic body’s education committee Mukesh Suryan said the contract of all guest special educators will be resumed soon. “We have also sent our requisition for the vacant posts to the DSSSB. We are regularly sending study material to children with special needs and our teachers are also in regular touch with their parents,” he said. A north MCD official, who asked not to be named, said the civic agency has also sent their requisition for the vacant posts to the board. “We also conduct regular training for our other teachers and principals in handling children with special abilities.” Agarwal said the posts of special educators were first created both in MCD and government-run schools in 2011 after a high court order. “It is very sad that till date the posts have not been filled up in civic bodies run schools. Hiring guest teachers or sharing teachers is against the nature of the court’s judgement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-3-4th-special-educator-posts-in-delhi-mcd-schools-vacant-hc-told/story-gwvtAIW1wDsTxmvf20cctI.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||Process to provide 24X7 water to Delhi households has begun: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has begun the process to appoint a consultant to make water available 24x7 to every household in the next five years. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said Delhi consumes 930 million gallons (MGD) of water every day or 176 litre per person per day. This includes water use of all kinds, including industrial, swimming pools, for farm fields and so on, he said. “This is not a lot, but it is not less either. At present, there is no accountability. A lot of water is either stolen or goes waste due to leakages. We are appointing a consultant who would recommend us steps to ensure not a single litre of water goes waste. It would also suggest us the technologies available across the globe to put in place a hi-tech, automated, and real-time water management system,” the chief minister said.  Clean water availability round-the-clock was one of the 10 promises made by Kejriwal in his 10-point guarantee card during the 2020 Assembly elections. “Delhi is the national capital of the country. If you visit any capital city across the world such as London, Tokyo, Paris, you will receive 24x7 clean tap water supply. In Delhi, the water pressure is low and people have to install pumps, and if one person installs a pump, it causes a problem for neighbours. Every household has to install water tanks to store water. We have to bring all of this to an end. Just like the citizens living in the national capitals of other countries receive 24x7 water with full pressure, without the need for a water tank and any water pump, we will do the same in Delhi,” the chief minister said.To enhance the availability of water in Delhi, he said the Delhi government is in talks with “water-rich” states such as Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand to explore the possibility of water-sharing pacts. Kejriwal addressed the concerns raised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which alleged that the decision of Delhi government ‘One Zone-One Operator’ policy is a step towards privatising the DJB. The DJB is a state-run organisation in Delhi. “No privatisation of water is happening, I am myself against privatisation of water. There can be no privatisation of water at any cost,” said the CM. The DJB on Thursday had announced ‘One Zone-One Operator’ policy under which the city will be divided into 7-8 zones and a private operator will be appointed to look into the works in each zone. The decision was taken in a board meeting presided over by Delhi water minister and DJB chairman Satyendar Jain. “After extensive discussions and deliberations at various levels to improve the services and bring efficient management in the water supply and sewerage system, it was decided to award the contracts to private operators for the operation, maintenance, and management of water supply and sewerage networks in various zones of Delhi on the lines of ‘One Zone-One Operator’,” said a statement issued by the DJB on Thursday. “The operators will be appointed for a period of 10 years under the scheme on a contract basis,” it said. Ankit Srivastava, DJB technical advisor, explained that the services are not being privatised and no layoffs will be done within the water utility. Senior officials said the powers of monitoring and supervision will rest with the DJB. “We are still living in old times, where if we have to transfer the availability of water from one area to another, we have to send a valve in those areas. We have a technology in DJB, where one can operate a valve through a remote control sitting in a control room at the click of a button. The central control room has full information on which pipeline and which area has how much water, and full information on the availability of water is available on a real-time basis. This is also called a SCADA system. The consultant will tell us about this technology. Now, we are moving towards providing a 24x7 supply of water to Delhiites,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/process-to-provide-24x7-water-to-delhi-households-has-begun-kejriwal/story-EYsotyRq8v9c2DBhnds7fM.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||4th sero survey likely to be delayed: Delhi govt||The fourth round of the serological survey, due to be conducted in the Capital next month, is likely to be delayed by a week to 10 days, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday, because of a high court order that requires the government to submit the September report to the court first. “The court had directed that the results of the September sero survey has to be submitted in the court first, and only then we can take a decision on the next sero survey. The survey for October is likely to get delayed; the report will be submitted in court on the 30th of this month, so it is unlikely we will be able to begin the next round of the survey from October 1. It is likely to be delayed by a week to 10 days,” Jain said during a media interaction on Saturday. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The prevalence of antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, increased from 29.1% in August to 33% in September, according to the initial findings of the third round of sero survey, as reported by HT earlier this month. The first sero survey of 20,000 people in Delhi was conducted in collaboration with the National Centre for Disease Control between June 27 and July 10 that found 22.9% to have antibodies. The government then announced that a similar survey would be conducted by it during the first week of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/4th-sero-survey-likely-to-be-delayed-delhi-govt/story-Ziljz64QpxRgdk7882jfBN.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||AAP leaders hit out at MCDs for Green Park gate demolitions||Senior Aam Aadmi Party senior leader Durgesh Pathak and Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti on Saturday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations for demolishing eight gates of the Green Park Extension RWA without any prior notice.“These gates were built by the RWA for the safety and security of the residents. The Delhi police is also under the BJP ruled central government and if the Delhi police was competent enough to secure the residents of the RWAs then there would not have any necessity to build these gates. The BJP-led MCDs could have suggested some other ways to deal with the situation. But instead of taking any constructive measure the BJP just demolished 8 gates with bulldozers,” said Bharti in a press conference. AAP’s Pathak said the Delhi Police should immediately deploy constables on all those gates to secure the area. “No person should be allowed in from those gates without proper ID. If the BJP believes they can continue this destructive attitude across Delhi then they are wrong,” he said.The Delhi BJP said the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) demolished the gates only after receiving multiple complaints from the residents there. “If the AAP feels the gates were wrongly removed, then why wasn’t area MLA Somnath Bharti or AAP’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak present when the action was being taken?” said Praveen Shankar Kapoor, Delhi BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-leaders-hit-out-at-mcds-for-green-park-gate-demolitions/story-YANXWzauRq1wVRs21IC2kI.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||Air quality on the decline in Delhi, expect worse in coming week||Delhi’s air quality has been witnessing a steady dip over the last three days. On Saturday, the city’s air quality index settled at 172, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The overall AQI at 4pm was 172, considered to be in the ‘moderate’ category. On Friday, the average air quality was 134, also in the ‘moderate’ zone. CPCB’s hourly average air quality data, however, shows that from Saturday early morning, pollution levels started rising in the city. Data shows that the hourly average levels have been gradually deteriorating from 152 at 6am to 155 at 7am and then by 12 pm it went down to 169. From 2pm, the levels have remained over 170. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the city at present is getting north-westerly winds from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, where crop stubble burning has already begun. However, since the wind speed has remained between 15-20kmph, the dispersion of pollution particles is happening at a faster rate. “The wind speed has been on the higher side, which is keeping the pollution levels in the ‘moderate’ zone. But in the coming weeks, the wind speed will slow down and with crop residue burning increasing in Punjab and Haryana things are expected to get worse,” said a senior IMD scientist. He said that on Friday and Saturday, around 60 to 70 ‘red dots’, which are symbolic of farm fires, were observed around Punjab and Haryana in satellite imagery. He said most burning instances were seen from the districts of Amritsar and Tarn Taran. Every year at the onset of winters, Delhi’s air quality is severely affected by large-scale stubble burning activities in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. Government data shows that in 2019, 44% of the city’s pollution was contributed by stubble burning. Looking for solutions for this annual occurrence, Delhi, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday wrote a letter to union environment minister Prakash Javdekar, proposing the use of Indian Agricultural Research Institute’s (IARI) innovation, which decomposes the stubble in the field itself and converts it to manure, which can be used by farmers to prepare their fields for the next crop. “Our scientists seem to be have developed an effective solution. I know we are late for this season. But let’s put all efforts to prevent as many fires as we can in the available time,” Kejriwal tweeted. Data collated by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shows that on Friday, over 250 cases of crop residue burning were spotted in Punjab. Out of this, nearly 170 cases were from Amritsar. Pawan Gupta, research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association, said that apart from the smoke from these fires, Delhi is also likely to experience a spell of dust coming in from the west. “Dust transport from the west is also expected to affect the air quality in northern-central India over the next two to three days,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-on-the-decline-in-delhi-expect-worse-in-coming-week/story-KZnqRJPWOu5zAdV2GJM26N.html
27-09-2020||Delhi||Gang rape in Shangri-La: Two more arrested from Andhra Pradesh||Two more persons have been arrested from Andhra Pradesh in connection with the alleged gang rape of a woman in her twenties by five men in front in a room at Delhi’s Shangri-La Hotel on Ashoka Road-Janpath on September 18, the police said on Saturday. With the duo’s arrest, the investigating team has arrested all the six accused persons, including a 33-year-old woman, the police said. Those arrested from Andhra Pradesh were identified by the police as Sri Niwas,50, who works as manager in a pharmaceutical company, and Shekhar Babu,55, who deals in real estate. The duo was caught on Thursday from their respective homes by a Delhi Police team that has brought them to Delhi on Saturday on transit remand, said senior police officers associated with the case. “The hotel room where the alleged gang rape took place was booked in the name of Niwas and Babu. The booking and payment was done by Niwas through a website. The duo had come to meet Manoj Sharma, the alleged prime accused in the case, to get personal loan from him. Like the duo, the rape survivor had also met Sharma for getting a loan of R18 lakh,” said an investigator, quoting the duo’s disclosure statement and requesting anonymity. According to the officer, Sharma was arrested on September 20, a day after the rape survivor filed a case against the five men and alleged that the woman who was in the room had instigated and provoked them to assault her. Two more men -- Sanjay Chaudhary,46, a bailiff in Saket Court, and Jagdeep Singh,60, a businessman – were arrested on September 21. The woman was caught a day later, the officer said. The survivor, the officer said, in her statement to the police said she met Sharma in the first week of September through a common friend. She contacted Sharma on September 18 for a loan of Rs 18 lakh. “The Delhi Police is currently looking into an incident which allegedly took place at the hotel. We are unable to provide any details as this is an ongoing investigation. The hotel is extending its full support to the authorities,” a spokesperson for Shangri-La Hotel had said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-rape-in-shangri-la-two-more-arrested-from-andhra-pradesh/story-wgdmeGlL435bnC0pRhuxyH.html
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt turning blind eye to plight of farmers: Abhay Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala on Saturday accused the Haryana government of turning a blind eye to the plight of farmers and demanded a judicial enquiry into the lathicharge on farmers at Kurukshetra’s Pipli a few days ago.Chautala, who led a protest of the INLD against the three agriculture legislations, said the bills passed by the Centre are anti-farmer and will benefit the big corporation houses. He also demanded an investigation into the lathicharge on farmers during the Pipli rally on September 10.“The farmers were not allowed to express their views on the bills and the government used police force on the protesters. The government is not even ready to admit that the farmers were lathicharged,” he said, while demanding that the government should immediately withdraw the cases registered against the farmers for holding peaceful protests. Also read: Snapping over two-decades-long ties, SAD pulls out of NDA over farm billsHe said the Union government should not impose its laws on farmers and ensure that they get the benefit of the minimum support price. He said the government should talk to the farmers and address their grievances instead of ignoring their concerns. Chautala also demanded that the government should implement the recommendations of Swaminathan commission as per C2 formula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-turning-blind-eye-to-plight-of-farmers-abhay-chautala/story-KFjrimhywOonFHzrgapWoL.html
27-09-2020||Arts||Homing in on the hate: are pigeons pals or pests?||I’m ambivalent about pigeons. Growing up, I ignored them while neighbours fed hundreds on the pavement. I figured as an adult I’d ignore them as they flew past (and often into) the glass walls of my workplace too. What I didn’t anticipate was how much hate I’d see around me for the bird, how quickly and casually they’d be dismissed as stupid, and how gleefully people would refer to them as ‘sky rats’. Was it always like this? In cave paintings dating from 4500 BCE Iraq, humans seem quite at peace with pigeons. At the Olympics, they still release doves to honour the trained pigeons that once carried race results across Ancient Greece. In 1850, when the news service Reuters was launched, they had on their staff 45 pigeons trained to transmit headlines and stock updates. Britain had a National Pigeon Service during WWII. Before satellites, pigeons flew into enemy zones with tiny cameras. In 2016, American performance artist Duke Riley trained 2,000 of them to fly, their legs fitted with tiny LEDs, in choreographed formation over Brooklyn, for 30 minutes. Scientists are fascinated by them. Pigeons mate for life, co-parent equally and recognise expressions and remember faces for years. They have been trained to play table-tennis, understand space and time (though they’ll still fly into glass windows), and distinguish Monet’s style from Picasso’s. A decade ago, they proved they could be faster than broadband. In one experiment, USB-strapped pigeons flew 100 km to a destination, quicker than data files could be transmitted across the same path. The hate is relatively recent. Combing through a century of news reports, sociologist Colin Jerolmack found that as our cities rose upwards, so did our intolerance for anything that threatened the dream of orderly sanitised urbanisation. In 1966, a New York City parks commissioner called pigeons “rats with wings” and the term stuck. Pigeons are no worse than other birds, just the most visible ‘enemy’. The truth is, they have more to fear from us. Over the last century, North Americans hunted the fleshy passenger pigeon, which once numbered 3 to 5 billion, to extinction. There is a conspiracy theory that we drove all birds extinct. Since 2017, Peter McIndoe’s cult website BirdsArentReal.com has claimed that the CIA eradicated all birds in 2001. What we see now, he claims, are feathered surveillance bots. It doesn’t explain all the poop, but McIndoe has 276k followers on Instagram. A related meme, that the lockdown was a global ruse to get people to stay home so the pigeons’ batteries could be changed, went viral in March. Ours in now a world in which it’s easier to argue that the birds are drones than to get office-goers to stop hating the real thing. What a coo.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/homing-in-on-the-hate-are-pigeons-pals-or-pests/story-MQEUyUEd9tp72PzyWp4mfK.html
