29-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad completes three lakh tests, plans to test 6,000 daily in October||The Ghaziabad district on Monday completed 300,00 Covid-19 since the first case was reported on March 5. Health department officials said that they have increased the daily testing to 5,000 and will scale it further to 6000 per day. The district at present has a test positivity rate (TPR, or number of positive results per 100 tests) of about 4.6% according to official records. Of the total 302,608 tests till September 28, almost 58% were done through rapid antigen kits, a less accurate but faster test than the “gold standard” molecular testing RT-PCR. “The testing has gone above 300,000 and we are now planning to ramp up daily testing to 6000 and above. For the purpose, we have approved 20 new lab technicians for more extensive testing across the district,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The district is now testing 332 per million of population per day. The World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) recommendation is of 140 tests per million residents a day. “We have 20 different testing centres in the district where anyone can walk in and get a test conducted free of cost. This is why we have about 90% of our testing conducted at our sampling centres. As per state government directions we will be taking up the testing to 6000 per day and we have started our efforts in this direction. Our teams conducted 5124 tests on Monday,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “As per directions, we will now be focussing on conducting at least one-third of total tests with the help of RT-PCR method which is ‘gold standard’ and more reliable than the rapid antigen kit test,” he added. With increased testing, the number of new cases coming in has also increased, crossing 14,000, according to state control room figures of September 29. The district achieved 10000 cases on September 10 and thereafter, every subsequent lot of 1000 cases till September 29 have come in a gap of four to six days. The experts said that with the increased testing, the district should now focus on conducting more tests in containment zones. “The number of cases has seen a spike in the month of September. If the testing capabilities are growing, it would be advisable to conduct 100% testing in containment zones. This will largely help to find out suspected cases in vulnerable areas and also help in checking spread of infection,” said Dr VB Jindal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. Overall, in the month of September, the Ghaziabad district conducted 105015 tests during the first 28 days which is the highest figure achieved in any month since March. During September, the average daily rate of testing is about 3750 tests conducted in 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-completes-three-lakh-tests-plans-to-test-6-000-daily-in-october/story-q35i3TFH4ro3fTpEpgQnDJ.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Entrance test for five-year law course: PU to reconsider its decision in three days||Panjab University (PU) has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it will reconsider its decision of not holding the entrance test for admission to the five-year integrated law course run by University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS).The statement in this regard was made before the bench of Chief Justice RS Jha and Justice Arun Palli on the plea of a course aspirant, Chiraag Malli, who had challenged PU’s decision of scrapping the exam. The petitioner had argued that court’s observations on importance of the exam while disposing of a plea on the issue were not considered by PU while making the decision. The petitioner had also alleged that PU’s act was contemptuous. The decision to scrap the exam was taken on August 11 in view of Covid-19 outbreak, and was initially challenged by two law course aspirants, who argued that the premise not to hold the entrance was invalid when PU was conducting such exams for other courses. Class 12 marks as a sole criterion for determining the suitability of a candidate for admission to the course would neither be reasonable nor reliable, they had argued. Following the plea, the high court had asked PU to reconsider its decision by September 15. However, PU again decided against holding the exam, which resulted in the second round of litigation. The petition has been disposed of now with PU undertaking that it will take a fresh decision within three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/entrance-test-for-five-year-law-course-pu-to-reconsider-its-decision-in-three-days/story-OBjKKTV8JCSimvsLah2tpL.html
29-09-2020||Gurugram||Number of containment zones in Gurugram down from 115 to 96||The district administration on Tuesday released a revised order regarding the number of containment zones in the district to restrict the spread of Covid-19. As of September 29, there are 96 such containment zones in Gurugram, where public mobility continues to be restricted, and where testing camps continue to administer antigen tests to the community at large. Three weeks ago, on September 8, there were 115 containment zones. Once declared a containment zone by the deputy commissioner (who also serves as the chairperson of the district disaster management authority) under the Haryana Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and the Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020, an area may be denotified after a period of two weeks, if no new positive cases are detected in the area. “During these two weeks, we typically scale up surveillance by administering antigen tests at large, conducting door-to-door screening camps and reserving a larger share of RT PCR tests for PHCs in these areas,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram.Tigra and Khandsa localities, with clusters of densely populated and often informal housing settlements, have the highest number of containment zones in the district at 23 and 12, respectively. However, improvements were seen in areas, such as Chanderlok, Badshahpur and Patel Nagar. While the former two now have under five containment zones each, Patel Nagar (a long-standing hotspot) has been denotified as a containment zone, as per the deputy commissioner’s latest order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/number-of-containment-zones-in-gurugram-down-from-115-to-96/story-leBV1wwS1IGH9HuEZCJWzM.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra bans dandiya, garba, processions in navratri||There will be no garba or dandiya events during Navratri this year, as part of the state government’s efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19. The state home department issued guidelines on Tuesday for the celebration of Navratri, banning these community events and restricting the height of the idols to four feet in pandals and two feet in domestic celebrations. The guidelines also banned processions on the first and last day of Navratri, which begins on October 17. Ravan Dahan, which is usually celebrated on the last day of the festival and sees large crowds, will not be permitted. Gathering of more than five people in pandals and serving food or beverages are also prohibited. Organisers have been asked to make use of the digital medium for rituals like darshan, to avoid crowding in pandals. “These are the guidelines along the lines of those issued for Ganeshotsav and Bakri Eid. The responsibility of enforcing the restrictions will be on local authorities, including municipal corporations, police and collectors,” said an official from the home department. The state has also mandated that instead of idols made of plaster of Paris (PoP), organisers should opt for either clay or permanent idols. For immersion, artificial ponds should be constructed by local bodies near pandals as immersion at public places will not be allowed. Local police have been directed to issue orders on immersion day to avoid people gathering. Ganesh Naidu, who organise dandiya events at Kora Kendra in Borivli, said, “We are not against restrictions, but we should be allowed to organise orchestra at the pandal and telecast it so that people can play dandiya sitting at their home. In the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, people are fed up sitting at homes for the past six months and need some sort of entertainment and religious celebration,” he said. Dandiya and garba are particularly popular among the Gujarati community during Navratri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bans-dandiya-garba-processions-in-navratri/story-mj0qQOB3rvnKAq0MMMb0yH.html
29-09-2020||Gurugram||DTCP forms state-level teams to monitor illegal constructions, unauthorised colonies||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has formed multiple state-level teams to monitor illegal construction, development of unauthorised colonies across Haryana.The department has formed four monitoring teams—for Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Rohtak and Hisar (to be monitored by the same team) circles. The team that would oversee such activities in Gurugram would be headed by the director of the department, read the order issued by DTCP on Friday.Makrand Pandurang, director, town and country planning department, who issued the order said these teams will visit the actual sites in their respective jurisdiction to assess the quantum of action taken against illegal colonies, hold regular meetings with the task force and maintain a record as per standard operating measures.“These teams will also hold meetings with concerned district administration officials such as deputy commissioner (DC) superintendents of police (SP) . They will also get warning boards installed at illegal colonies and take other necessary actions as required,” he said.The objective of this move, officials said, is to prevent development of illegal colonies across Haryana and particularly in Gurugram, where, according to DTCP’s estimates, more than 100 colonies came up in the past two years illegally. The officials, however, said that large scale demolition drives have been carried out illegal colonies in the last six months and this was an ongoing process.As per the order, the DTPC director will head the Gurugram circle team, while chief town planner, Haryana will head the Faridabad circle, and the Rohtak-Hisar and Panchkula circles will be headed by senior DTCP officials.In a related development the district town planner has also constituted a team to look into the violations in houses that are carried out by owners after obtaining the Occupation Certificate (OC).RS Bhath, district town planner, said that five teams headed by respective junior engineers have been formed and they would conduct inspection of sites for which occupation certificates have been issued. “These inspections would be conducted preferably within 45 days after an OC is issued, as it has been found that a number of house owners have violated construction norms after getting the certificate,” he said.Bhath also said that large demolition drives have been carried out in the city against illegal colonies and more will be carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-forms-state-level-teams-to-monitor-illegal-constructions-unauthorised-colonies/story-9S5B24vTmjXvvw9HzO05fO.html
29-09-2020||Gurugram||District administration proposes pedestrian-friendly changes for Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway||To ensure smooth and safe movement of pedestrians at six major intersections on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, the district administration has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to make changes, including installation of mandatory traffic signage, creation of pathways for pedestrians, refuge islands and introduction of speed-calming measures for safety of road users. These six stretches include Hero Honda Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Khandsa cut, Sidhrawali cut and Bilaspur Chowk. The district road safety committee has also recommended that speed limit on certain road stretches that is currently limited to 60 to 70 kmph should be further reduced to 40 to 45 kmph. These locations in the past three years have seen several road accidents and fatalities and a study conducted by a road safety organisation working with district administration made these recommendations, said officials privy to the matter.Anurag Kulshreshtha, president, Trax, an NGO working with the district administration, said that facilities for pedestrian are minimal at these intersections and there is need for redesigning these stretches to create a safer environment for pedestrians. “The maximum number of people who are dying on the roads are pedestrians, cyclists and motorcycle riders. The main reason is speeding and poor road design. We are preparing a detailed report on these stretches that shall be submitted soon,” he said. As per the road safety committee, the key flaws at Rajiv Chowk are lack of pedestrian crossing, no refuge island and lack of speed-calming measures. At Hero Honda Chowk, the experts found rampant wrong-side driving, no pedestrian infrastructure, lack of signage and a need for stricter enforcement. Khandsa Cut also lacks pedestrian infrastructure, has no waiting space for pedestrians and speed calming measures. Shankar Chowk, on the other hand, witnesses random movement of pedestrians, lack of pedestrian-friendly infrastructure and has high number of conflict points. The Sidhrawali Cut and Bilaspur Chowk on the NH 48 also suffer from similar issues apart from no road markings, open drainage and lack of speed-calming measures, the committee said. Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road transport expert, said that these traffic intersections have a number of structural flaws, which need to be corrected. “We have done a comprehensive study for the redesigning of some of the major intersections in the city and the authorities need to take action on this soon,” she said. Apart from changes at major intersections, the road safety committee has also proposed that speed limit on certain roads, such as MG Road, Golf Course Road, Manesar to Bilaspur Road, Rampura to Manesar Road,, Subash Chowk to Sohna Road, Rajiv Chowk to Kherkidaula toll plaza, Sidhrawali to Kapriwas, Netaji Subash Marg and Pataudi to Haily Mandi should be reduced between 40 to 45 kmph. Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, Gurugram, who is also the member secretary of district road safety committee, said that the objective of this exercise is to reduce fatalities to a bare minimum and prevent road accidents. “Remedial measures would be taken to make it safer for pedestrians to cross roads and prevent accidents. This will be done through changes in road designs and other interventions. The issue of reducing speed on roads is being studied by GMDA, which will take a call on this matter,” he said, adding these measures would be taken before the onset of winter.The NHAI on its part said that it will actively works with district administration to ensure road safety and implement the measures recommended by it. Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, Gurugram, when asked about the proposed changes, said that they are studying the recommendations made by the road safety committee. “A final decision on the changes can be taken only after a joint visit to the spot with the stakeholders and traffic experts. We will need to know the exact signage and spots where these need to be fixed,” said Mittal. Referring to the proposed visit to these spots, Kulshreshta said that a visit to these spots has been scheduled on October 5. “Experts from Trax, along with officials from concerned departments, will visit these spots and take a final decision,” he said. As far as reducing the speed on different roads is concerned, the GMDA said that the proposal is under consideration but since it involves multiple stakeholders, feedback from them is required before implementing the changes. JS Sindhu, engineer, traffic management, GMDA, said that this matter was under consideration of Committee on Traffic Managament formed by the GMDA and decision in this regard would be taken after obtaining feedback from different agencies and road users. “Each road has a different character and an analysis would be conducted by experts and traffic police department after which a decision will be taken. Feedback from different stakeholders including road users and residents would also be factored in,” said Sindhu. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that all efforts are being made to identify the traffic blind spots and find solutions to minimise road accidents and fatalities. “This is an ongoing process and multiple agencies are involved for better results,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-administration-proposes-pedestrian-friendly-changes-for-delhi-gurgaon-expressway/story-jzaYjWeSiqlFXsO2VngYlJ.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 14,976 Covid-19 cases, 430 more deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported fewer than 20,000 Covid-19 cases for a third day in a row, with 14,976 infections taking the tally to 1,366,129. With 430 more fatalities, the death toll of the state reached 36,181. A day after Mumbai breached the grim mark of 200,000 cases, the daily caseload, which was hovering between 2,000 and 2,300 lately, dropped to 1,713, taking the tally to 202,614 The city’s death toll touched 8,883 with 49 new fatalities reported on Tuesday. Like Mumbai, Pune district, too, clocked fewer cases on Tuesday. Pune saw 2,359 cases, including 1,005 in the city, 726 in rural parts and 628 in Pimpri-Chinchwad, and 44 deaths (25 in city, 17 in rural parts and two in Pimpri-Chichwad). Nagpur saw 1,045 cases and 49 fatalities, while Nashik clocked 1,301 cases and 14 deaths. Sangli and Kolhapur reported 478 and 318 cases, along with nine deaths each respectively. Of the 430 fatalities, 232 were from past 48 hours, 108 were from the past week and remaining 90 were from the period before it, according to the state health department. The cases in the state witnessed a decline over the past 10 days after reporting a daily addition of more than 20,000 cases over the major part of the past two months. Last 10 days (September 20-29) saw the addition of 178,114 cases and 3,965 deaths, against 220,666 cases and 4,429 fatalities in 10 days (September 10-19) before it. State conducted 91,1877 tests in the past 10 days, as opposed to 903,141 tests during September 10-19. State conducted 75,640 tests at a positivity rate of 19.79%. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.65%. The state government is planning to open up more activities, including restaurants and gymnasiums in next few weeks as part of its Mission Begin Again. Authorities are, however, wary about the rise in the cases because of the unlocking. “After the interdistrict restrictions on movement were lifted from September 2, a surge in cases was witnessed in the first two weeks of the month. Though there are similar possibilities after unlocking on the cards in the next few weeks, we have ramped up our machinery to contain the spread. The ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ drive will help us identify susceptible people and treat them early. Restrictions on commercial, industrial activities cannot remain in place for too long, but at the same time due care at all levels is required to be taken,” said an official from the health department. State government is expected to issue its notification to extend the ongoing lockdown by a month and opening up of certain activities from beginning of October. Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the state committee appointed to recommend steps to curb the spread, said that while easing curbs, the government should have more community participation. “The state is planning to allow restaurants to open and also suburban railway services. Restaurants starting at 40% of their capacity should not cause the spread, but for suburban railway service, I think, the government should continue with restricted entry and go for more number of services. More participation of people and community will help in educating and bringing awareness, commitment, involvement in the drive to keep the spread at the bay,” he said. Dr Supe said, “By end of October, there will be beginning of the decline in the cases and by December, the cases will see a drastic fall. “Mumbai should see the decline early as the spread was seen first in the city. At state level, the decline may begin by Diwali. More cases should not be the cause of worry unless the mortality is under control. The rise in the cases is because of the opening of activities and more number of tests,” he said. Dr Ravi Warkhedkar, former national president of Indian Medical Association, said that state authorities should focus on reducing mortality rate, which is still high in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-14-976-covid-19-cases-430-more-deaths/story-KDDiQJagyKLa3sfiT55uVK.html
29-09-2020||Gurugram||One booked for extortion bid in Bilaspur||Police on Monday booked a man for allegedly attempting to extort ₹50 lakh from a businessman and threatening to kill him in Bilaspur area. The suspect is yet to be arrested, they said.According to the police, the incident took place earlier last week when the victim, Balwan Singh, who runs a mobile phone business at Bilaspur chowk, received a phone call from one Somvir (identified by first name in police records). Singh told the police that the suspect threatened him and told him that he was a notorious criminal.“On Friday around 8.30 pm, I received a phone call from an unknown number. The caller identified himself as Somvir and asked me to pay him ₹50 lakh or face dire consequences. On an earlier occasion too, in December last year, he had called me from a different phone number and threatened to kill me if I did not pay the money. I recorded the phone call this time. He said he has links with gangsters and threatened me,” Singh told the police.Police said the victim had submitted an audio recording of the alleged extortion call along with the complaint.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “A probe has been initiated. We are verifying the contents of the complaint. A preliminary probe has found that the suspect is from Jhajjar and he has been involved in several criminal crimes. Several teams are conducting raids to arrest him.”A case has been registered against the suspect under section 384 (punishment for extortion) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Bilaspur police station on Monday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-booked-for-extortion-bid-in-bilaspur/story-PblFHZnejXMlW50oGuzsZL.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid impact: PU suspends employees’ LTC for 2020-21||The Covid-19 pandemic has pushed Panjab University (PU) into financial crises and forced its management to implement cuts under various budget heads this financial year. PU, in a recent communication to the heads of teaching and non-teaching departments, regional centres, and principals of constituent colleges, has informed about the downsizing. A special panel constituted for the austerity measures to curtail the spending has already made several recommendations to the university. According to the communication, the varsity has informed the stakeholders about the various steps approved by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.Key decisionsBesides the suspension of leave travel concession/ home town concession and budget provisions under the seminar and field work head for financial year 2020-21, there will be trimming of 20% on the budget provisions of office and other general administrative expenditure. Also, the budget provisions for repair, maintenance and minor improvements will be reduced by 10% and those of the hostels by 40%. The budget for sport activities will be scaled back by 40% as well. It has also been decided that the overtime to employees will be discouraged, except in case of ‘C’ class employees, services of whom may be required for Covid-19 prevention activities. “The university should follow the system of job and process outsourcing instead of manpower outsourcing,” it has been recommended. What are expected lossesAs the classes are being held online for the first semester of 2020-21 session, the university will not earn any income from its hostels. According to the budget for 2020-21 approved by the PU senate in its December 2019 meeting, the estimated revenue for the year from hostels was pegged at ₹11 crore.The annual fee hike has already been put on hold this year and a concession of 5% in semester fee for all students means losses to the tune of ₹2 crore for PU. As per the estimates made by the university last year, the income from the traditional teaching departments was slated to increase by 16% in 2020-21 as compared to 2019-20. Major cutbacks40% cuts in budget provisions for hostels40% cuts in budget provisions for sport activities20% cuts in budget provisions for office and other general administration expenditure10% cuts in budget provisions for repair, maintenance and minor improvements||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-impact-pu-suspends-employees-ltc-for-2020-21/story-UO8cWbiuzSbhKC55K4DUfJ.html
29-09-2020||Gurugram||MCG terminates services of 523 outsourced workers||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), in the last four days, terminated the services of 523 outsourced workers — a majority of whom included workers deputed at the water boosting stations in the city, said officials on Monday, adding that their termination might negatively affect the water supply in the city. The civic body terminated the services of 59 outsourced workers last Friday, followed by the termination of the services of 464 additional workers on Sunday — the highest in a single day since MCG was formed in 2008. These workers included 177 security guards deputed at water boosting stations, along with 45 water boosting operators and 38 water boosting assistants.MCG officials privy to the matter said that the termination of the workers, especially the boosting operators and the assistants, have left them extremely short in manpower. This could affect the water supply in the city, especially in summer of 2021, if the situation does not change by then.“The sacking of boosting operators and assistants has left us short of manpower. Given the existing staff strength, a single pump operator or assistant will now have to cover 6-7 boosting stations in one area. The lack of constant supervision and expertise will also affect services in the boosting stations, especially during the summer season. We are trying to figure out the best way possible to deal with the situation,” said a senior MCG official in the water supply division of MCG, seeking anonymity.The official further highlighted the importance of boosting operators and assistants in managing boosting stations. “A lot of our machinery is still operated manually. Following a power outage, a lot of machines do not automatically turn on through the help of backup generators. Human intervention is often required. Further, a regular presence in the boosting stations is important for tackling defects, leakages, and regulating the flow of water. Absence of manpower will gravely affect the maintenance operations and result in poor output,” the official further said.Earlier, in September 2019, a 126-page investigation report was presented by an MCG committee on the hiring of 1,950 outsourced workers during a House meeting. The report had highlighted many shortcomings in the hiring processes of such contractual workers. RS Rathee, councillor of ward 34 and the head of the MCG committee, said that the report highlighted the fact that the recruitment of many of these outsourced workers was needless. “Many of the 523 outsourced workers terminated recently had been interviewed by the MCG committee last year. Their shortcomings, such as lack of expertise for the job, hiring against multiple posts, lopsided deployment, needless posts, hiring on recommendations of bureaucrats and politicians, had all been highlighted in our report. MCG officials were alerted about the matter. As such, action against the outsourced workers is being taken periodically,” said Rathee.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that termination of outsourced workers was carried out as their services were found to be “surplus” to the requirement of MCG. “We realised that a lot of workers were hired unnecessarily. The tasks they were carrying out did not need multiple posts. Hence, we have terminated the services of around 500 workers. If at a later stage, we feel that certain departments need additional manpower, we will review the situation, and hire more contractual workers if needed,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-terminates-services-of-523-outsourced-workers/story-PF2xKL9aTaYfIuA4v6VlnO.html
29-09-2020||Noida||Man held for manufacturing fake Covid-19 test packages||Police arrested the owner of a package manufacturing firm in Noida’s sector 7 for allegedly making fake Covid-19 test packages and violation of trademark.The suspect was identified as Rajesh Prasad who is in his early forties, a resident of Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar who owns a package and pouch manufacturing firm in sector 7.According to police, Prasad received an order from a Delhi-based person to manufacture 500,000 anti-body rapid kits. However, the man who placed the order died leaving Prasad with a huge stock. He tried to find another buyer for it. “However, when the company in sector 7 that had the trademark to manufacture these packages found out about the operation, they approached sector 20 police station and filed a complaint on September 28,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Following the complaint, a case was registered at the sector 20 police station against the suspect under relevant sections of the Copyright Act, 1957. Police said they recovered 27 bundles of the fake tests in a raid at his factory on Tuesday. The suspect was produced before the magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-held-for-manufacturing-fake-covid-19-test-packages/story-wqjXvAkUpqVHdcZQwYbF3N.html
29-09-2020||Noida||Covid positive patient sets room afire, flees hospital at Modinagar||A 26-year-old inmate of Dasna Jail who was under treatment at the SRM College Covid hospital at Modinagar, managed to break open his first floor room window and escape on Monday night. He had managed to fool the hospital authorities into thinking he had died in the room after he set his bed on fire and locked the door from inside.The hospital is an L-1 category facility dedicated to treat mild cases of Covid-19. It has a capacity to treat 350 patients but had only 36 patients when the man was admitted and hence, he was the only one in the room.Officials of the health department who went to the hospital on Tuesday morning said that they had initially been informed that the patient had died in the fire. “He was lodged at the SRM College facility at 9.30pm on Sunday night from Dasna jail. At 9am on Tuesday the staff reported to the police that the door to his room was locked. The police went and broke open the door. When we were told that he had died in the fire, we immediately rushed to the spot,” said Dr. N K Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO). “There were no signs of burning of any human body. Only the bedrolls were set afire and the window grille broken.” The man was earlier booked under Indian penal code section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and lodged at Dasna jail before he was shifted. “I have directed the local police to register FIR against the suspect and nab him at the earliest. The suspect’s stund could have proved risky for other patients,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “This is why I have asked the police to register an FIR against him under stringent IPC sections. The cops have also been asked to increase security as well.” The hospital falls under the jurisdiction of the Niwari police station whose station house officer (SHO) could not be reached for comment. “We have registered an FIR against the suspect and investigating the incident. Our teams will nab him soon,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, circle officer of Modinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-positive-patient-sets-room-afire-flees-hospital-at-modinagar/story-K3vPO1fdG1IlnN5gQNhGDL.html
29-09-2020||Noida||Land pooling policy to boost industrial growth in Gautam Budh Nagar||The Uttar Pradesh government has asked the industrial bodies, including Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida), to adopt and implement the land pooling policy for development rather than direct purchase from its owners. The objective is to procure litigation-free land, create a land bank and use the ready land to attract investment in the region. Industry experts and the officials feel the move will fuel growth, particularly in Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway area, where a slew of projects, including the Jewar international airport and the Film City, are expected to come up.What does the policy sayIn his letter dated September 25, 2020, Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Alok Kumar asked all industrial authorities to implement the land pooling policy, first formulated in 2017.Land measuring at least 25 acres should be given priority, he wrote, and should be located at least 18 meters from roads so that parking and other supporting services can be developed around the plot. The policy allows industrial authorities to execute expressions of interest (EoI) and invite applications from those who wished to sell their land to the government. If a committee, headed by the authority chief executive officer (CEO), is satisfied with the proposal, they will acquire it with the condition that the government will not be required to pay immediately. Rather, they will develop the acquired land and grant 25% of it to the original owner.Of this 25%, 80% of it should be developed for industrial use, 12% for residential and 8% for commercial use. The person is also free to sell the whole share to anyone, including to the government. Till the owner gets the developed land, the authority will pay a rent of ₹5,000 per month per acre. However, the owner will also have to develop these units or prefer to sell the land in 10 years else face penalty.Earlier, the administration would either acquire the land using the Land acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 or directly purchase it. Both would result in intense litigation that would stall any project.Although the 2013 Act maybe used to acquire land owned by many people in the land pooling policy too, government officials think they may have a stronger case if at least 80% of owners consented or fell under the “strategic” category.What do the industrial authorities sayAll three authorities- Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority are likely to issue a notice in newspapers and website inviting applications from the interested farmers.“The land pooling policy will help in acquiring the land without the farmers facing any issues with it as the land owners will become the partners in the development. We have a target to acquire at least 3,000 acres from farmers and the land pooling policy will make it easier for us to prepare the land bank and provide the same to industries,” said Narendra Bhooshan, Greater Noida authority CEO that has notified 40,000 hectares between Noida and Yamuna Expressway area.“We will first identify the spots, where we need land for industrial units and then invite applications from farmers to start the process to implement this policy.” Nodia, however, has only very few areas left with undeveloped land and under the ownership of private people, including farmers.“We will try to implement this policy, wherever we can,” said Ritu Maheshwari, Noida authority CEO.The policy will prove to be boon for Yeida, where multiple mega industrial projects are proposed.“The policy will help us in acquiring the land with the support of farmers, who will become partners in the development. We hope the new policy will benefit immensely and boost growth,” said Arun Vir Singh CEO of the YEIDA.Farmers and industries Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU’s) Gautam Budh Nagar district president Ajaypal Sharma, however, feels that the new policy is against the interest of farmers.“The policy seems to be in favour of farmers on the face of it. But how can a farmer set up industry at developed land, when he does not have the funds. And how an unskilled farmer can set up and run a business. This policy will make farmers labourers as he will lose livelihood with land taken by the government. The government should make farmer a partner in the industrial project if he wants us to get benefited,” said Sharma.Noida entrepreneur association president Vipin Malhan said new policy will help industrial townships.“If the policy will help in providing the litigation-free land then it can fuel growth and enable mega industrial projects to flourish on time because court disputes delay and affect the industry, when farmers protest.”Indian entrepreneur association (IEA) general secretary Sanjeev Sharma said, “The new policy may benefit the industrial townships requiring the land above 25 acres. But instead of focusing only on bigger projects the government first must provide the basic civic amenities and better law and order to existing units in Noida and Greater Noida to fuel growth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/land-pooling-policy-to-boost-industrial-growth-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-IAAAmxHM85lWJC9Trm4ckM.html
29-09-2020||Noida||Scientist’s abduction: Fourth suspect nabbed; military intelligence team visits Noida||A team from military intelligence visited Noida on Tuesday in connection with the abduction and subsequent rescue of a junior scientist working for a top central government agency in Delhi.The 45-year-old scientist, a resident of Sector 77, was allegedly abducted on Saturday evening after tried to visit a massage parlour that he had found online. He had told his wife that he was going out to run some errands but on reaching the address mentioned online, he lured to a hotel in Sector 41 where he was allegedly held hostage by a woman and two others.“The victim had looked for a massage parlour online, and found the contact number for one in Noida. He came in touch with a man in this regard and the latter asked him to meet him at the City Centre. However, when the victim reached there, he was asked to follow the man to the hotel where he was kept hostage,” a police officer, on condition of anonymity, had said.The wife later received a ₹10 lakh ransom call and after the family failed to arrange the money, they approached the police and a case of kidnapping for ransom was registered at the Sector 49 police station on Sunday.The man was later rescued by police teams on Sunday night and three people, including the woman and the owner of the hotel where he was confined, were arrested for running on charges of kidnapping and extortion. Two more accomplices were on the run and one of them, Saurabh Sharma, who is believed to be in his mid-20s, was arrested by the Noida police on Tuesday while a search is on for the fifth suspect, police said. “He was arrested from his home in Barola village,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 12, Rajesh S.Police said Sharma was responsible for driving the victim from Noida City Centre to a hotel and the car which he had used, a red i10, was also recovered from him.A senior police officer said a team from the military intelligence visited the Sector 49 police station on Tuesday morning to go through the documents of the case and also spoke with the victim. “This was a routine exercise for them due to the sensitive nature of the work the victim did,” said the officer, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/scientist-s-abduction-fourth-suspect-nabbed-military-intelligence-team-visits-noida/story-UYre8aeXgzZ0vVcS27I6PN.html
29-09-2020||Noida||Two suspected criminals arrested after separate encounters with police||Two wanted criminals have been arrested after separate encounters in the Gautam Budh Nagar district, the police said on Tuesday. In the first incident, a 25-year-old wanted criminal was arrested after an encounter with the police in the Knowledge Park area of Greater Noida on Monday night. The police have recovered one countrymade gun, two live cartridges and two stolen mobile phones from his possession. The police have also seized one motorcycle after the gunbattle. The suspect, identified as Salman who is a native of Agrai Sarai in Bulandshahr, was presently living in a rented accommodation in Sector Beta 2, the police said. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the Knowledge Park police received information about movement of two suspected criminals on a motorcycle at 11pm. “A team was deployed at LG Chowk to check the suspects. The police signalled them to stop but they tried to escape after opening fire at the police team,” he said. The police also opened fire in which Salman was injured in the leg and he was overpowered. “An accomplice riding pillion managed to escape in the darkness. The injured suspect was rushed to a government hospital for medical treatment,” the DCP said. The suspect was wanted in 10 cases of loot and robbery in Greater Noida, Singh said, adding that he was also carrying a reward of ₹25,000 on his arrest. In another incident, the Noida Phase 2 police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old criminal wanted in the Gangster Act. The suspect was identified as Fahim Uddin, a resident of Gulaothi in Bulandshahr. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a police team signalled Fahim to stop the motorcycle for checking but he tried to escape towards Phool Mandi in Phase 2. “The suspect opened fire at the police team. The police chased down the suspect and arrested him after a shootout in which he was injured,” Chander said. The police recovered a stolen motorcycle, one countrymade gun and one cartridge from his possession. However, Fahim’s accomplice Sonu managed to escape from the spot, the police said. According to the police, the suspect was wanted in six criminal cases, including fraud, theft, and Gangster Act. Fahim was produced in a court and sent to judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-suspected-criminals-arrested-after-separate-encounters-with-police/story-gq3XzaPi0QwVClH71IK4IK.html
29-09-2020||Noida||Five armed robbers loot jewellery shop in Indirapuram, escape with jewellery worth ₹8 lakh||Five armed robbers on Tuesday afternoon struck at a jewellery shop in Indirapuram and fled with gold and silver ornaments worth ₹8 lakh after holding the shop owner at gunpoint. The police said they have formed four teams to crack the case. The incident took place at Dugra Jewellers, owned by Abhilash Verma, located in Nyay Khand-3 area of Indirapuram. Verma said his brother had gone to his home nearby to have lunch and he was alone at the shop when a customer arrived. “The customer saw different items and later selected a pair of earrings which he wanted to buy. In the meantime, two more persons arrived and seconds later, two more. Three of them pulled out pistols and held me at gunpoint. The first customer also turned out to be part of the same gang.While the others held me at gunpoint, he started collecting the gold and silver ornaments from the shop,” Verma said. Verma said the five robbers took away the recording device of the CCTV cameras installed at his shop and one of them also hit him with a weapon. “I suffered an injury after I was hit on my shoulder. The men were aged between 35 and 40 years and were speaking in the dialects spoken in Haryana and Rajasthan. After collecting the gold and silver jewellery, the five fled the shop, on a grey scooter and a black motorcycle,” Verma said. Verma then raised the alarm and other shopkeepers came to his aid. Teams of police and senior officers also visited the spot and collected details about the robbers from the jeweller. Although Verma said that there were five robbers in all, the police registered an FIR under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 392 -- (which pertains to robbery performed by a maximum of four persons. A robbery incident performed by more than four persons is termed dacoity under the IPC Section 395. “The jeweller claimed that there were five robbers but he gave us in writing that there only four. We have registered an FIR based on his written complaint. We have deployed four teams to crack the case and the suspects will be nabbed soon,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/five-armed-robbers-loot-jewellery-shop-in-indirapuram-escape-with-jewellery-worth-8-lakh/story-1KBcbrc2BUm4U072vA60IN.html
29-09-2020||City||Delhi-Meerut e-way: NHAI plans to open UP Gate to Vijay Nagar stretch by Oct 15||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is expediting the work on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) project and has planned to open about 10km stretch from UP Gate to Vijay Nagar by October 15. The officials said this stretch is part of DME Phase 2, which spans 19.2km from UP Gate to Dasna. Two phases -- Phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) and Phase 4 (Dasna to Meerut) -- are presently under construction and have a deadline of December 2020. The two other phases -- Phase 1 (Akshardham in Delhi to UP Gate) and Phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) are operational. The NHAI officials have planned that the 10.7km stretch of UP Gate to Vijay Nagar will be completed in another 15 days and opened to motorists. “At present, we have four lanes on each side, which are highway lanes, and they are open to motorists. In another 15 days, we will open the six expressway lanes as well. This will considerably reducing travel time to Delhi from the Meerut side. We have some extension work pending on the river Hindon overbridge near Chhajarsi. Once this is complete, the six expressway lanes will be opened,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. “The Phase 2 has about 17 underpasses and work on three is pending and these are located between Vijay Nagar and Dasna. With the opening of six expressway lanes from UP Gate to Vijay Nagar, the other underpasses in the stretch will also become functional,” he said. The 10.7km stretch is important for motorists as it is close to residential and industrial sectors of Ghaziabad and Noida and the route is majorly used by daily commuters who travel to Delhi for work. According to officials, the stretch is estimated to see movement of about 50,000 passenger car units on a daily basis. “The second part of Phase 2 -- from Vijay Nagar to Dasna -- has ongoing work on the major flyover at Chipiyana. The other pending work is the construction of a minor bridge over a drain near Crossings Republik. This also involves the shifting of Ganga water pipeline. This work will take place when the Ganga water supply is shut in October for the annual maintenance of the Upper Ganga Canal. Once these works are complete, the second part of Phase 2 will also become operational,” Garg said. The Phase 2 is about 84% complete while Phase 4 is about 75% complete at, NHAI officials said. The DME is a 14-lane project with the three inner lanes on each side dedicated as an expressway between Delhi and Meerut, covering a distance of about 60km. Once complete, motorists will be able to journey between the two cities in about 30-35 minutes, which now takes about one-and-half hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-meerut-e-way-nhai-plans-to-open-up-gate-to-vijay-nagar-stretch-by-oct-15/story-mZXrN4wS4hI2JeaDrT1e3N.html
29-09-2020||Noida||NMRC to build 5 Metro stations on Greater Noida West extension corridor of Aqua Line||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has issued a tender to develop five Metro stations on the extension line of the Aqua Line to Greater Noida West in the first phase. The proposed route will connect Noida’s Sector 51 station with Greater Noida’s Sector 2, and help make commuting easier of scores of residents living in high-rises and villages en route. On December 3, 2019, the Uttar Pradesh cabinet had approved the 14.95km Aqua Line extension corridor comprising nine stations from Noida’s Sector 51 to Knowledge Park 5 in Greater Noida. Praveen Mishra, executive director, NMRC, confirmed that the tender has been issued. The 9.15km route in first phase will have five Metro stations -- Sector 122 and Sector 123 in Noida; and Sector 4, Ecotech 12 and Sector 2 in Greater Noida. In the second phase of 5.8km, there will be four Metro stations; in Greater Noida’s Sector 3, Sector 10, Greater Sector 12 and Knowledge Park 5.Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said the Greater Noida West extension line is significant given the number of residential colonies in that area. “The NMRC has issued a tender on September 29 and the last date for submission of bids is October 31. The project will be completed in 24 months from the award of contract. Soil testing and geotechnical survey of the route have been completed,” she said. The project will be funded by the state government, the Centre, the Noida authority and the Greater Noida authority. As per the tender document, the project cost of the first phase is approximately ₹491.99 crore. The NMRC will also hold a pre-bids meeting on October 9. Greater Noida West residents said the extension corridor will immensely help ease commuting, as the Metro will go through the densely populated areas of Gaur City and Greater Noida West, which have around 3 lakh under-construction housing units and around 75,000 flats already occupied. Sumil Jalota, a resident of La Residentia, in Greater Noida West, said at present, people mostly use their personal cars for travelling to Noida and Delhi due to poor connectivity. “Once the Aqua Line reaches Greater Noida West, it will connect us to Delhi as well as Gurugram and Faridabad. This will also end traffic jams in areas nearby. We hope that the project is completed in a timebound manner,” he said. The NMRC commenced operations of the Aqua Line, comprising 21 stations from Sector 51 in Noida to Depot station in Greater Noida, on January 25, 2019. This existing corridor has 15 stations in Noida and six in Greater Noida. This 29.71km Aqua Line was developed at a cost of ₹5,503 crore. The average daily ridership in February, 2020, stood at 25,907. After the lockdown, it resumed services on September 7 and has an average daily ridership of 4,200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nmrc-to-build-5-metro-stations-on-greater-noida-west-extension-corridor-of-aqua-line/story-SlUjyUvrRXQ07pGmIwUWcN.html
29-09-2020||Noida||FIR lodged against company officials after employee dies at factory premises||The family members of a 45-year-old man whose body was found hanging at the factory where he worked have given a complaint to the police alleging that several officials of his company were pressuring him to do more work.The police said on the basis of that complaint, they registered an FIR under IPC Section 302 (murder) against four officials of the company, Shriram Pistons & Rings Limited. Around 8.30am on Tuesday, worker Girish Kumar was found hanging at the godown in the factory complex and the police also recovered a suicide note from his person. Kumar’s wife, Neelam Singh, alleged told the Sihani Gate police station that the suspects were pressuring her husband to do extra work. She said they informed her parents in Allahabad about Kumar’s death and it was from them that got to know about his demise. “The FIR has been registered on the basis of complaint given by the family. However, an investigation has been ordered into the incident. According to our initial investigation, the deceased went to the factory in the morning and later, he was found hanging from a ceiling fan in the factory. We recovered a suicide note from his possession which said that he was taking the step due to financial issues. He mentioned that he had a loan of about ₹30-35 lakh. The body was later sent for an autopsy,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer (city 2). When approached, Shubham Singh, son of the deceased declined comment on the matter. The company has denied all allegations and said the four officials named in the FIR were on duty from 9.30am while Kumar was found dead around 8.30am. “It seems that there is a group of disgruntled persons and some of our former employees who have played a part in lodging this FIR. The deceased had come to the factory where he had tea and snacks and later, he borrowed a pen from a colleague and also a sheet of paper on which was written the suicide note, found in his pocket by the police. It mentions that the incident took place due to financial issues he was facing,” said AK Sharma, general manager of the unit. He added that Kumar was working as a machine operator at the pin plant of the unit which manufactures engine equipment. “We have spoken to his family and they are also willing to give it in writing that the incident was not so as mentioned in the FIR. We will also take care of his family as is the policy of the company,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/fir-lodged-against-company-officials-after-employee-dies-at-factory-premises/story-MUH9nq32LKuLmwz3cTyscL.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Stubble burning: Farmers not using straw managing machines to face criminal cases, Rs50,000 to Rs1 lakh fines||Farmers using combine harvesters for paddy without a Super Straw Management System (SMS) will be slapped with a fine of Rs. 50,000 and face criminal proceedings, the district administration announced on Tuesday to check stubble burning and its resultant air pollution. Dry heaps of residue are left behind after combine harvester machines cut the crops, which have to be cleared for the next sowing. Most farmers then use the cheapest way to dispose this by burning. SMS attachments chop the leftover stalks and spread the residue as mulch and plant seeds. Those not using the attachments with the harvesters will be charged under provisions of the Air (Pollution and Prevention) Act, 1981, and pay compensation or fine for harming the environment. “The district administration is working hard to prevent stubble burning. An awareness drive on the issue is continuing. Despite repeated warnings, punitive action will be taken against those who violate the directions of the state government,” said Girish Dayalan, Mohali’s deputy commissioner. Fines of Rs 50,000 will be charged for first time violation, Rs. 75,000 for the second violation and Rs 1 lakh the third time. Dayalan said nodal officers and district pollution control officers would keep an eye on stubble burning activities and those not following orders will have to pay fines ranging from Rs 2,500 to Rs 15,000. Authorities in the district agriculture department and Pollution Control Board have also appealed to farmers, combine owners and operators not to set fire to stubble after harvesting paddy. All support has been promised by the administration to the department and the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stubble-burning-farmers-not-using-straw-managing-machines-to-face-criminal-cases-rs50-000-to-rs1-lakh-fines/story-2p3lFXtBsqVkgOhzzzvnhP.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools in Ambala want free Covid tests for teachers||Private school bodies in Ambala have demanded free Covid-19 tests, accusing the government of creating “economic pressure” on them by asking teachers to report to work with a negative report.Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Haryana Progressive School Conference (HPSC) and Integrated Private School Welfare Society (IPSWS) said teachers would not be able to foot the bill for tests at a time when school fees had not been paid for the last six months.Prashant Munjal, state vice president of HPSC, said, the education department started it policy of discrimination, from September 21, when, according to its orders, schools opened for Classes 9 to 12. “The order said test of teachers of government schools would be done by the department and those of private schools done by school authorities,” he said.Testing approximately 100 teachers at Rs 1,600 per test in every school, it would cost about Rs 1 lakh, he estimated. Saurabh Kapoor, head of IPSWS said, “Even after the completion of six months of the current session, school fees is still pending and repeated orders of the education department have also misled the parents.”Kapoor also alleged that the Board of School Education Haryana, Bhiwani, was “working against” the New Education Policy 2020, as it had abolished board exams of class 8 and 10, but was asking for money from schools for what it said was activation of boards for the aforementioned classes. The associations demanded withdrawal of such orders.Representatives also met the Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh last week.However, he has said that after the latest order of state government, those getting tested for non-medical reasons have to pay for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/private-schools-in-ambala-want-free-covid-tests-for-teachers/story-ocCg5aNPaoedBMJULHYEaJ.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Gian Chand Gupta wants action against contractors for delaying Panchkula projects||Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta has sought action against contractors for delaying development work in the city.In a review meeting on Tuesday with municipal officials to check the progress of projects in the district’s sectors and villages, Gupta expressed displeasure at the slow pace of work. Discussions were held on the construction of bus queue shelters, entrance gates or swagat dwars in the city and villages, construction of three fire stations, repairs of roads and lanes and maintenance of the sewerage pipeline.‘Streamline MC work’Along with this, the MLA reviewed progress reports on community centres, entry gates and animal hospitals in various villages. Not satisfied with what he heard, Gupta instructed the municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Mahavir Yadav and superintendent Vijay Goel ensure the quick completion of all work and streamlining of the MC’s functioning.“Contractors who are not completing the works within the prescribed limit should be blacklisted,” he said.When Gupta was told that Vidyut Nigam officials had not removed power lines, which had led to the delay in work on the swagat dwar in Toka village, he called for strict action against them, an official statement read.On the progress report of the proposed animal hospital in Ramgarh, the MLA was told that work would start after a map of the hospital ordered from the animal husbandry department was received.The sewerage problem of Billa village and progress of community buildings were also discussed.Clampdown on illegal mining orderedTaking cognisance of the illegal mining in Sukhdershanpur village and areas adjacent to the Punjab border of sectors 27 and 28, Gupta sought action against those responsible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gian-chand-gupta-wants-action-against-contractors-for-delaying-panchkula-projects/story-0y2CrENTpQUeFks3HnGNDN.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana admn to provide Covid patients ‘Corona Fateh’ kits||With the aim to help Covid-19 patients in isolation monitor their health, the district administration on Tuesday started distribution of “Corona Fateh” kits.MC councillor Mamta Ashu, along with additional deputy commissioner Neeru Katyal Gupta, distributed the first set of kits at the Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students. Ashu said the kit consists of 18 items, including a pulse oximeter, digital thermometer and essential medicines, along with educational material and instructions on the use of medicines. She said these kits will be distributed among all Covid patients in isolation, whether at home or in hospitals, and help them regularly self-monitor various health indicators. In the coming days, the kits will be distributed by the rapid response teams (RRTs) at the doorsteps of patients.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga urged residents not to take coronavirus casually and immediately contact the health department in case of any symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-admn-to-provide-covid-patients-corona-fateh-kits/story-QqlEH2FtBGzCfwrWiKmphP.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana SAD councillors demand MC House meeting||Seeking action against the contractors and the municipal corporation (MC) officials over alleged discrepancies and embezzlement in developmental works, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has demanded that a meeting of the MC General House be organised at the earliest.A delegation of SAD councillors led by leader of opposition Harbhajan Singh Dang met mayor Balkar Sandhu over the issue at MC’s Zone B office on Tuesday. Councillors and SAD leaders, including Jaspal Giaspura, Sarabjeet Laddi, Gurmail Singh, Manpreet Manna and Vijay Danav, were present in the meeting.The delegation complained that 12 road samples had failed quality tests in the past, with the mayor himself catching an embezzlement of around Rs 44 lakh in the Jagraon Bridge reconstruction project, but no action has been taken against any contractor or the officials concerned.Dang said, “MC should act against the contractors as public money is being wasted. There are many other issues related to development works and the mayor should immediately call a General House meeting for resolving the grievances of the councillors.”The councillors said the meeting can be organised at the Guru Nanak stadium or any other suitable venue where social distancing can be maintained. Dang and Jaspal Giaspura said, “If the Parliament and Vidhan Sabha sessions can be held, why cannot MC organise a meeting, which is pending since March?”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “The meeting has not been being organised due to the ongoing pandemic, but I will call one soon. It will be held in the stadium or any other suitable place where we could maintain social distancing. The inquiry in Jagraon Bridge case is being done by the local bodies department, and officials have already been given a warning regarding inferior quality works being done in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-sad-councillors-demand-mc-house-meeting/story-uN9Xnv4QJSSDC71xbrGnCM.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Morni to get mobile tower as viral video grabs Sonu Sood’s attention||Good things seem to be happening at the Morni block after a video shot there showing a child trying to get a signal on his mobile phone went viral on social media on September 20. It caught the attention of actor Sonu Sood, known for his philanthropic work during the Covid-19 outbreak and Karan Gilhotra, chairman, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI), Punjab, and they will help set up a mobile tower to enable children to get uninterrupted connectivity for their online classes. After the video was uploaded on social media showing a child from Morni village sitting on a tree branch trying to get a mobile signal to enable other children to complete their homework, Sonu Sood tweeted : “No more climbing of trees for your online classes. Your village will have its own mobile tower this week.” Gilhotra said he found the video “disturbing.” Usually political parties and service providers forget such areas with limited population, he added, saying, “however, I have spoken to the company installing the mobile towers and the service provider. They have done the survey of the village and identified the location for installation.” The installation work had started on Tuesday and was expected to be completed by next week, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/morni-to-get-mobile-tower-as-viral-video-grabs-sonu-sood-s-attention/story-6l6UZiRgJELchHRLsxqdPN.html
29-09-2020||Dehradun||Schools, anganwadis to have tap water supply within 100 days: PM Modi||All schools and anganwadi centres in the country will be connected by tapped water supply within 100 days under Jal Jeevan Mission starting from October 2, announced Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. The PM made the announcement while inaugurating six mega projects in Uttarakhand under the Namami Gange Mission through video-conferencing. “To fight challenges of water scarcity in many parts of the country, Jal Jeevan Mission is working towards giving piped water connectivity to all villages in the country and promoting gram swarajya (village self-sufficiency) and empowering the villages.“Under Jal Jeevan Mission, a 100-day campaign will start from October 2, under which it will be ensured that all schools and aganwadi centres in the country are connected with tap water supply,” said the Prime Minister. The state governments have been told to take up this project on priority and complete it within 100 days. “Over 15 crore houses were not connected with water supply till six years ago. Now around 1 lakh houses are being connected with clean piped water supply every day and the Jal Shakti ministry is working at a fast pace to increase this number. In just one year, over 2 crore families in the country have been given piped water connections. The Uttarakhand government is working one step ahead; they are working on giving water connectivity to each and every house at Re 1 only and over 50,000 families have been given water connectivity in Uttarakhand in the past six months, despite the Covid-19 epidemic,” said Modi.Talking about government vision about Ganga, PM Modi said that the government is not just focused on making the river pollution-free but also working on holistic economic development and protecting the ecology of the area along Ganga. “From its source near Gangotri till Ganga Sagar, river Ganga supports almost 50% of the population of the country. Many projects were taken up in the past to clean Ganga river but it is still polluted. We worked with a new approach and vision which was not only restricted to cleaning the river but took it up as the largest river conservation project in the country.” The PM said that the Namami Gange Mission is being taken to the next step now, where the focus will also be economic development of areas set up along the river. “The focus will not just be on Swachhta of Ganga river, but on holistic economic and environmental development of all areas set up along river Ganga. The Central government is working to promote organic farming and cultivation of medicinal plants along the river and making an organic corridor,” he added. Listing the four-point approach of the central government towards making Ganga pollution-free, PM Modi said, “We followed a systematic approach towards cleaning Ganga which focused on tapping over 130 drains opening into Ganga and restricting the entry of polluted water into the river.” “Along with this, we made sure that all the STPs being set up for river Ganga have the capacity of working long-term, minimum for the next ten years. Further in these past years, 100 cities and 5,000 villages along Ganga have been declared as open defecation-free, further reducing pollution sources. The fourth approach is to now ensure that tributaries joining Ganga are also made pollution-free,” said the Prime Minister. The PM inaugurated a sewage treatment plant (STP) with capacity of 68 million litres per day (MLD), up-gradation of the existing 27 MLD at Jagjeetpur in Haridwar and a new 18 MLD STP at Sarai in Haridwar. Along with this, a 26 MLD STP was inaugurated at Lakkadghat in Rishikesh, country’s first four-storey 7.5 MLD STP at Chandreshwar Nagar in Muni ki Reti town in Tehri Garhwal district, five MLD STP at Chorpani, and two STPs with capacities of 1 MLD and 0.01 MLD at Badrinath. The Haridwar-Rishikesh zone contributes about 80% wastewater load into the River Ganga. Hence, the inauguration of these STPs will play a significant role in keeping river Ganga clean. With the inauguration of these STPs, the sewage treatment capacity of Uttarakhand will increase from 61.5 MLD in 2014 to 214.5 MLD in 2020, an increase of almost three and a half times. The Prime Minister also inaugurated “Ganga Avalokan”, the first museum on Ganga at Chandi Ghat Haridwar, dedicated to showcase the culture, biodiversity and rejuvenation activities done in Ganga river. He also launched a book, ‘Rowing down the Ganges’, co-published by National Mission for Clean Ganga and Wildlife Institute of India, which conceptualises the story of the Ganga as what one would see when one rows down from Gaumukh, its origin, to Ganga Sagar, the last point before entering the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/schools-anganwadis-to-have-tap-water-supply-within-100-days-pm-modi/story-Y6lr0KHIEfyn6H2LHmINBK.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Water tariff hike to be reviewed at Chandigarh MC house meeting||The municipal corporation (MC) will be reviewing the recent hike in water charges, it has been learnt. A decision was taken at MC water supply and sewerage disposal committee meeting on Tuesday to place an agenda to review the tariff at the next general house meeting Chaired by Anil Kumar Dubey, the meeting included other committee members Jagtar Singh Jagga, Hardeep Singh, Rajesh Gupta, Dalip Sharma and MC officials, who discussed a number of important issues related to water supply and sewerage disposal.They observed that the sharp rise in the water tariff had put an extra burden on the city’s residents, especially the threefold rise in the slabs for domestic consumption from Rs 8 to Rs 24 per kilolitre, which they said needed to be reviewed. The members asked the engineers concerned to start the allotted developmental works at the earliest and to prepare estimates for changing the sewer line near the police line at Sector 26.The committee recommended doing away with submission of affidavits during the conversion of water connection from commercial to domestic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/water-tariff-hike-to-be-reviewed-at-chandigarh-mc-house-meeting/story-8Ky7VjOSWWnbNmCV7s4VAL.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid snuffs out nine more lives in Chandigarh tricity||Nine people lost the battle against Covid-19 in the tricity on Tuesday, with Chandigarh recording five deaths, followed by three in Mohali and one in Panchkula. Meanwhile, 359 people tested positive, including 138 in Chandigarh, 132 in Mohali, and 89 in Panchkula.In Chandigarh, four men, aged 43, 45, 75 and 92, from Kajheri, Ram Darbar, Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 18, respectively, besides an 80-year-old woman from Sector 40 died, taking the toll to 158. As many as 11,816 have tested positive so far, of whom 9,598 have recovered, including 273 discharged on Tuesday, while 2,060 cases are still active.In Mohali, the toll reached 189 as two women, aged 35 and 79, from Baltana and Sector 70, respectively, and a 30-year-old man from Kadi Majra died. The fresh cases took the total to 10,253, of which 8,229 have been cured, and 1,835 are active.A 73-year-old man from Sector 10 was the lone casualty in Panchkula. The total number of cases stand at 5,879, with 4,927 recoveries, 86 deaths and 866 active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-snuffs-out-nine-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-8WeGXy2JmZy6CNpRFt1HWM.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||New farm laws won’t affect existing mandi system, MSP: BJP Kisan Morcha chief||Members of the local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday took a tractor rally at the Sector 34 Grounds in support of the farm legislations enacted by the Narendra Modi government.Farmers from the city and surrounding rural areas participated in the rally organised under the leadership of Kisan Morcha national president Rajkumar Chahar, who launched a scathing attack on the opposition for protesting against the reforms. Permissions for a city-wide rally were denied.Addressing a press conference at the BJP’s state office, Kamalam, at Sector 33, Chahar said the bill was in the interest of farmers and would help increase their incomes.Only the Modi government wishes the farmers well and they know their interests are safe with him. Those who oppose this bill are only doing because of their political compulsions, he added. Assuring the farmers that the new legislations would not affect the existing mandi system or the minimum support price, the Kisan Morcha chief said they (farmers) will now sell their crops directly at whichever price they want.Speaking on the occasion, Chandigarh BJP chief Arun Sood said, “There is no issue left with the opposition, so unsuccessful attempts are being made to do politics in the name of farmers, whereas today’s farmer understands that his interests are safe only with the government led by Modi.”BJP state general secretary Ramveer Bhatti, Chandrashekhar, city Kisan Morcha president Didar Singh, and other local leaders were present during the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-farm-laws-won-t-affect-existing-mandi-system-msp-bjp-kisan-morcha-chief/story-4GJd8PXjvjGHmHPPnYU2HM.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||HC asks Chandigarh admn to look into complaint of whistleblower cop||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the adviser to UT administrator to decide on the representation of a Chandigarh Police head constable within two months. Head constable Jagjeet Singh, a whistleblower, had filed a plea in the high court seeking protection from some officials in his department and had sought directions for the same to the adviser as well as the director general of police. Singh has been involved in a PIL, in which he had sought weekly offs to cops and fixed hours of duty. He is also the one who had complained of embezzlement in purchase of food consumable items in the police department. He had told court that due to this, he was facing threats from two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, including a former senior superintendent of police (traffic) and a deputy superintendent of police. The court has asked the adviser to decide on his January 15 representation, in which he had detailed as to how his service record was being maligned and he was being implicated in false cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-asks-chandigarh-admn-to-look-into-complaint-of-whistleblower-cop/story-SpWqw4ooxNCtN73nJ7BWmL.html
29-09-2020||City||Along with Covid-19, Palghar now on high alert for Congo fever||With the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Palghar district collector Dr Manek Gursale on Monday evening issued an alert for the deadly Crimean Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF), or Congo Fever, which is believed to spread from animals to humans in the form of ticks and external parasites. Dr Prashant Kamble, deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department, Palghar issued a circular to this effect.Dr Gursale has directed all cattle feeders, meat and poultry sellers, animal breeders consumers to remain on high alert. Congo fever has a high mortality rate of between 10-40%, with no vaccine available for either humans or animals.“We have ordered all the meat sellers to take the necessary measures, including hygiene, cleanliness, spraying insecticides and using gloves, gumboots and masks. Proper checking of animals arriving in Maharashtra, particularly from nearby Valsad district in Gujarat, has also been ordered,” said Gursale. Dr Kanchan Vanare, district civil surgeon said that till date no cases have been reported in Palghar. “We have ordered the precautions as we found that those infected by Congo fever were recently detected in the neighbouring Valsad district in Gujarat, which borders Talasari taluka in Palghar district.”He said that as of yet not much is known about the disease. “It is believed to spread through the Hyalomma tick, an external parasite which thrives on the blood or flesh of infected animals like cattle and fowl. Anybody consuming such infected meat may experience symptoms of high fever, head and body aches, nose bleeding, stomach pains and red eyes,” said Vanare.Till Tuesday evening, Palghar district reported 34,708 cases of Covid-19, with 22,219 in Vasai-Virar civic areas alone. The death toll in the district stands at 678, with Vasai-Virar reporting 439 deaths as per district information office (DIO) data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/along-with-covid-19-palghar-now-on-high-alert-for-congo-fever/story-Iu1TcZ0W6uO2biq5q1J4SM.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER to put minutes of meetings online||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has decided to put in the public domain the minutes of meetings of all its decision-making bodies as mandated by the Right to Information Act. According to the agenda of the suo-motu committee’s meeting held in July, the minutes of which have been put on the institute’s website now, it took the reference of a Hindustan Times report regarding the failure of the institute to make such documents public and thus violating the RTI Act.Meanwhile, for complaints regarding miscellaneous representations and other heads will only be put on the website after going through the content of such documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-pgimer-to-put-minutes-of-meetings-online/story-wMCPkf2TC4ZTy5EUsdgPfM.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Over 6 lakh people across Mumbai screened for Covid-19, comorbidities under ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ survey||Under the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ door-to-door survey, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has screened over 6 lakh individuals in the last two weeks. The civic body plans to create a health map of the city by identifying people with co-morbid health issues.From September 15, BMC started the campaign for early detection and treatment of the most vulnerable sections of society with an aim to reduce deaths related to Covid-19. Till date, BMC has screened 182,667 houses and 634,000 individuals have undergone screening for co-morbidities in the last two weeks.“We will have a database of individuals suffering from diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments and other serious health issues. This will help us to be more prepared in handling patients ward-wise,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “All this information is being synced with war rooms of the respective wards,” he added. However, many volunteers and field officers are facing hurdles while talking to residents who often refuse to disclose health information.Due to the fear of being quarantined, residents refuse to disclose information about their family or themselves, complain ward officers. “Whenever society members see volunteers in protective suits, they often turn hostile. They think that we will quarantine people with diabetes or hypertension. So, the field officers have to first convince them to share correct information for their own good,” said Sandhya Nandekar, ward officer, R North, that covers Dahisar. According to BMC’s dashboard, till Tuesday 963,290 senior citizens have been screened, of whom 3,139 have oxygen saturation levels below 95. The civic body has trained hundreds of volunteers in carrying out the survey. Along with the set of questions, the volunteers also check oxygen levels and temperature of the residents. If anyone is found with mild symptoms, they are asked to remain in home isolation for 14 days. Among senior citizens, if anyone is found with oxygen levels below 95%, with symptoms, they are immediately tested for Covid-19. By the end of October, BMC will have data of the surveyed people as per their comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-6-lakh-people-across-mumbai-screened-for-covid-19-comorbidities-under-my-family-my-responsibility-survey/story-04X1rzdyvOF4QWZfdOhr7O.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Deputy CM Manish Sisodia discharged from hospital||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, 48, has been discharged from Max hospital, Saket where he was under treatment for Covid-19 and dengue for the last five days. Sisodia was moved to the private hospital on September 24, a day after testing positive for the mosquito-borne dengue infection along with Covid-19. At Max hospital, the minister was administered plasma therapy on September 25. Sisodia, who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 on September 14, had mild symptoms and was in home isolation. He was moved to the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital on the evening of September 23 with high fever and breathlessness. He had been admitted to the hospital’s intensive care unit and was put on low oxygen support. A battery of tests were done and when the doctors saw that his platelet count had dipped, he was tested for dengue, he tested positive for the vector-borne disease on September 23. The next morning he was feeling better and was moved to a ward on low oxygen support, later being shifted to Max hospital the same evening. Sisodia had taken over as the city’s health minister after Satyendar Jain had tested positive for Covid-19 in June this year. Jain had also been moved to Max hospital, Saket from the Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital to receive plasma therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-discharged-from-hospital/story-sUV5lmQAmLVzE17AYMtqgP.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: STF chief inspects micro- forests alongside Buddha Nullah||Special Task Force (STF) chief Satguru Uday Singh and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Tuesday inspected the micro forests being developed by the municipal corporation (MC) alongside the Buddha Nullah for its beautification.Civic body officials said that the STF chief appreciated the efforts of the MC and extended support from the side of Naamdhari sect. The MC has set a target to establish 300 micro-forests alongside the nullah. IRS officer Rohit Mehra, who has been involved in the similar projects, has been roped in. Officials said that the minimum area of a micro forest will be around 2,000 square feet and at least 2,000 trees will be planted in every forest.MC junior engineer, horticulture wing, Kirpal Singh said,”The MC has already established eight micro forests alongside the nullah and more sites are being identified.” Sabharwal said he has directed the staff to conduct a survey of the entire stretch of the nullah (14kms within the city) so that more sites can be identified. BJP councillor Sunita Rani’s husband Uma Dutt Sharma and Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey have accused the MC of ignoring public representatives while taking decisions regarding development and setting up of micro forests.Sharma said that the MC had earlier developed a park alongside the nullah near Chand cinema and now they have proposed to develop a micro forest at the same site. He added that public money is being wasted and councillors are also not being taken into confidence by the MC. Sharma also had a heated argument with officials during the visit of STF chief.Sabharwal said that all the councillors will be involved in the process and he will conduct a meeting in this regard in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-stf-chief-inspects-micro-forests-alongside-buddha-nullah/story-42v4EYgVWCCofbRijbeLVL.html
29-09-2020||City||Ludhiana’s historical Jagraon Bridge set to reopen on Sept 30||The long-awaited, bow-string Jagraon Bridge project has finally completed, with the bridge all set for reopening on Wednesday.Half of the under-construction bridge, which has already become a cynosure of all eyes, was opened for two hours on Tuesday evening for a trial run, while the railways continued to lay mastic asphalt on the other half. The first trial was conducted on Sunday.Hoardings have been installed at the site, congratulating city residents. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, who visited the bridge twice on Tuesday to monitor the ongoing work, said the bridge will be completely opened for movement of traffic on Wednesday morning. One leg of the historical bridge, built in 1888, was closed for traffic after the railways announced it unsafe in July 2016. A major traffic lifeline of the city, it had since been lying closed for repairs, hitting the movement of traffic on the Railway Station Road, Lakkar Bridge and nearby areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-historical-jagraon-bridge-set-to-reopen-on-sept-30/story-6LDiuXJM6USgFlwuJKW4yL.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Western Railway creates workstations for Mumbai employees||The Western Railway (WR) has introduced the concept of workstation spaces for its employees at Virar. Employees who find it difficult to work from home due to network connectivity issues or any other concerns can go to the office set-up created by WR and work.Five such workstations have been created at Virar and 10 more will be set up at other places including Bandra.“Spaces have been created for employees who are working from home. The employees can use the workstations during their shift hours,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, WR.Further, WR is also planning to shift a few of its offices from south Mumbai. “Employees are being consulted to see if offices can be shifted from south Mumbai. It is in an earlier stage, and locations are being identified,” said a senior WR official.Meanwhile, the Central Railway (CR) in 2017 had already shifted a few of its offices, and the employees residing beyond Kalyan were asked to work from railway offices located in Kalyan and Karjat railway stations. Both the zonal railways, to reduce crowding at railway stations, are also in the process of placing flap gates at Churchgate and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). The flap gates will be introduced by October end.The gates will have QR code and thermal scanners. Passengers will have to place the QR code generated on the ticket at the entry gate. Access inside the railway station will be permitted after temperature screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/western-railway-creates-workstations-for-mumbai-employees/story-GRLFgxSJ8lKz3fcqu4eNyK.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Power to streetlights snapped in four villages in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh electricity department has snapped power supply to streetlights in four villages under the municipal corporation’s jurisdiction.The action came on Monday night after the civic body failed to clear unpaid electricity bills worth ₹4.3 lakh. The affected villages are Dhanas, Sarangpur, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, all located on the northern periphery of the city. The department is contemplating similar action in other villages if the MC continues to default of pending bills.“There is total darkness on the streets as night has descended,” said Kuljeet Singh Sandhu, former sarpanch of Dhanas, on Tuesday. “As there is no beat box here, I have called up police and requested them to intensify night patrolling in the village, as we fear an increase in thefts and other street crimes.” All electricity connections are in the name of the village sarpanch/block development and panchayat officer. Sarangpur village owes ₹1.47 lakh, followed by Khuda Lahora (₹1.04 lakh), Khuda Jassu (₹94,000), and Dhanas (₹83,481). Villagers complained that they were being victimised even though they had no role in paying the bills. “The villages came under the MC’s jurisdiction in January 2019, and the panchayat authority ended on December 31, 2018. The MC took over all revenue generation avenues (such as commercial properties and community centres) in the villages. It is now its responsibility to pay for public utilities,” said Sadhu Singh, former sarpanch, Sarangpur. What officials sayStating that they were left with no option, CD Sangwan, superintending engineer, UT electricity department, said: “We had been postponing the action as we didn’t want locals to suffer. But with the MC failing to respond to repeated notices for unpaid bills, we decided to snap power to streetlights in some areas only. Other divisions haven’t done it so far.” MC officials contended that most of the unpaid bills were from the time it had no jurisdiction over villages. Assuring that the civic body is working on restoring the supply, MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said: “We are getting the details and we will resolve the issue as early as possible.” Meanwhile, Devinder Singh Babla of the Congress, who is the leader of opposition in MC House, blamed the lack of coordination between the civic body and UT administration for the problem. “It is shameful that because of lapses on behalf of MC officials, the UT electricity department is making village residents suffer.” AAP chief spokesperson Nitin Goyal, in a letter to the MC commissioner has demanded: “Pay compensation to each household of the affected villages, which should be recovered from officials found responsible in the departmental inquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/power-to-streetlights-snapped-in-four-villages-in-chandigarh/story-0UdvmTAgmQH7GMKUxdg5LM.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||No mask, no entry on Mumbai’s public transport: BMC chief issues Covid regulation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday ordered Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses, taxis and autorickshaws to not allow passengers who are not wearing face masks.During a meeting with all assistant municipal commissioners and BEST administration, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal ordered to intensify BMC action against those found violating safety measures by not wearing a mask.As per the new directions, a person without a mask will not be allowed to enter offices, malls, housing societies, halls or board public transport vehicles.BMC is also going to direct all the above-mentioned establishments to put up a board with a ‘No Mask No Entry’ message, warning people.Similar information stickers will be put up on BEST buses, taxis and autorickshaws. Chahal on Tuesday also ordered BMC officials to immediately start the necessary process for the installation of hoardings at properties owned by the civic body.BMC has also asked staff members to ensure proper usage of masks by citizens, wherein their mouth and nose are properly covered. Chahal in a video conference last week had mentioned, “I see many citizens do not wear masks or those who wear masks have it on their chin. This does not help to control the spread of Covid-19. People have to ensure the wearing of masks and also to ensure they wear it properly.”Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “The arrival of the vaccine may take one more year, and citizens will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing along with hand hygiene to stop the spread of Covid-19.”Meanwhile, BMC has collected over ₹52 lakh in fines from over 14,200 citizens, for not wearing masks. Maximum action has been taken in the last two months, after it was made mandatory by BMC to wear masks in public on April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-mask-no-entry-on-mumbai-s-public-transport-bmc-chief-issues-covid-regulation/story-uNRcVAytrlhK0ClcodXWwI.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC directs north corporation to clear pending wages of all teachers at earliest||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said that with Diwali approaching, no employee of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation should be deprived of the joy of festivity, while asking the municipal body to disburse pending salaries of 9,000 teachers engaged by the civic body.“Don’t forget the festival of Diwali is round the corner. We will not allow you to deprive any employee of that little joy of festivity,” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said, adding that many people are already heartbroken and under depression due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The court’s observation comes while hearing a suo-motu PIL initiated by itself for the disbursement of unpaid salaries to teachers employed in schools run by the north Delhi corporation. The plea was initiated as a PIL in June after hearing a petition filed on behalf of North Delhi Municipal Corporation teachers by Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh. The Shikshak Sangh sought direction to the authorities to pay salaries of teachers which were due since March, when a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 was imposed.On Tuesday, during the hearing, the corporation told the court that on September 8, the civic body had released salaries of June to its teachers.Appearing for the Delhi government, its counsel said that it has released Rs 98.35 crore to the north corporation on September 3 and the amount will cover the salaries of teachers for September and October.The court asked the civic agency to disburse the salaries of teachers for the pending months. To this, the counsel for the municipal body said that he would seek instructions as to whether the civic body has received the amount from the Delhi government and that they are working on the issue of releasing salaries.The court asked the civic body to file a status report in this regard and listed the matter for further hearing on November 5.North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the civic body is working on a three-pronged formula to be able to pay the due salaries of the staff. “We are making efforts to boast our revenue through an amnesty scheme for unauthorised regularised colonies. We are also in the process of clearing some major projects that will fetch us some decent amount of revenue. Thirdly, we have already written to the Delhi government to release the ₹ 1200 crores due to the corporation at the earliest. With all these efforts, we will ensure that the staff’s salaries are regularised by Diwali,” said Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-directs-north-corporation-to-clear-pending-wages-of-all-teachers-at-earliest/story-dO1iNcSi7VxmkwxperVqHN.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER modifies ‘on duty’ order for quarantined healthcare workers||Modifying its earlier order for treating the quarantine period of the doctors and healthcare workers on Covid-19 duties as ‘on duty’, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has now ordered that any employee who had come in contact with Covid positive employees or patients during duty will also be treated ‘on duty’ if they are advised to quarantine. “Those employees who came in contact with Covid positive employees and patients during the course of duty and are labelled as high risk and advised quarantine, for such period of quarantine may be treated as ‘on duty’,” the modified order stated. However, in such cases, the applicants should formally inform their controlling officer in writing and give supporting documents to show that they were directed to go into quarantine by the Hospital Infection Control team, epidemiologist of the institute, or in charge of the concerned Covid centre. The earlier order in this regard stated that the doctors and healthcare workers on Covid-19 duties who undergo quarantine will be treated as on duty but didn’t specify anything about the employees not on COVID-19 duty. Aswani Munjal, president, PGI employee union, said that it is a corrective step taken by the administration after their writing several requests to them. “Employees whose relatives within the hospital had tested positive were reporting to duties majorly because of the lack of such measures by the institute. Now, if someone has close contact who has tested positive can undergo quarantine without worrying about the leaves,” he said. The issue of ‘poor’ risk management had earlier brought the unions and the administration at loggerheads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-modifies-on-duty-order-for-quarantined-healthcare-workers/story-IQww89hZtpMu301XmrDhPM.html
29-09-2020||City||DU teachers move high court seeking pending salaries||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought the response of four Delhi University colleges on a petition by teachers, who wanted a direction to those institutions affiliated to the university and fully funded by the Delhi government, to release their salaries pending for the last four months.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked the authorities of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies to file their status reports on the petition.The court also sought the response of the Delhi government and Delhi University to the plea and listed the matter for further hearing on November 4.Initially, the plea was filed against 12 colleges over non-payment salaries. However, the court deleted eight names from the memo of parties as two of the colleges have paid salaries to the staff till August and no employee from the rest of the six colleges have approached the court with their grievances.The 12 colleges mentioned in the plea are Acharya Narendra Dev College, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences, Bhagini Nivedita College, DeenDayal Upadhyaya College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College, Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education & Sports Sciences, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Maharaja Agrasen College (DU), Maharshi Valmiki College of Education, Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies.Advocate Ashok Agarwal, who is appearing for eight teachers, argued that the Delhi government was punishing 2,000 families without any fault and that it should immediately release grants to colleges to enable them to pay the salaries of employees.In the plea, the teachers contended that they had not received their salaries for the months of May, June, July and August. The teachers said they are members of the Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA), which on behalf of the aggrieved staff has been writing to the Delhi government to release funds to enable the 12 DU colleges, funded by the state government, to pay pending salaries to 1,500 teachers and non-teaching staff working there.The plea said due to non-payment of salaries to the teachers, they and all other employees working with these colleges are undergoing mental agony and harassment.It sought the direction to the authorities to pay salaries to the petitioners due from May this year to date and also ensure timely payment of salaries in the future.DU Dean of Colleges Balaram Pani said, “The Delhi government should release the grants. Even if special audits are being conducted based on allegations of financial irregularities, salaries of staff should not be withheld. There is no rule which says so.”The Delhi government did not respond to requests for a comment.On September 16, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had spoken of surplus funds in at least four of the 12 government-funded colleges based on an initial observation report by the auditors following a special audit. The colleges contested the claim, saying students society fund cannot be used for salary purposes.The Delhi government has been at the loggerheads with 12 DU colleges, which it fully funds, over the release of grants for the last six months. While the principals allege they have not been able to pay their staff since May as grants have not been issued, the Delhi government says with enough funds have been provided in the present academic year. The government has also ordered an independent audit in six of the 12 colleges over alleged “misappropriation” of funds, which triggered a fresh round of war of words.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-teachers-move-high-court-seeking-pending-salaries/story-PDFZcI9YK7p0af75dhEcRM.html
29-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Controversy over farm bills merely a distraction, says BJP state president||A day after chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh expressed fears over the controversial farm laws having a detrimental impact on the security situation of the state, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president, Ashwani Sharma, accused the CM of using the protests to deviate the attention of the people from the failures of his government.“Be it the worsening Covid situation or the death of innocent men in hooch tragedy, the ration scam or the scholarship scam, Captain’s government has failed on every front. In order to divert attention from the real issues, he has beguiled innocent famers and triggered protests against the Union government,” said Sharma.Targeting Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Sharma said, “We honoured the Akali Dal as alliance partner. Sukhbir Badal even supported the farmer bills and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal even gave interviews in favour of them. Now both of them are saying the provisions in the bills were not discussed with them,” said Sharma.On farm bills, Sharma said, “We will not touch the established system of procurement. We have just provided another option to the farmers to sell their produce at a premium. The decision is being projected as harsh to cash in on the farmer vote bank, but these new laws are going to help farmers in the long run.”He added that a committee of BJP leaders had been formed to speak to the farmers about the new bills and their benefits.“When this ordinance was introduced, I had personally visited the farmer union leaders to assure that MSP and mandi system will stay put. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s objective is to uplift the social stature of farmers and double their income,” he said.Meanwhile, SAD worker Ravinder Verma along with former DPRO Gurdev Singh and his supporters joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-controversy-over-farm-bills-merely-a-distraction-says-bjp-state-president/story-YokPMksyGoQ0AmgzyRtBpI.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Compartment exams for Chandigarh government schools to begin from October 5||The UT education department on Thursday announced that the compartment exams for students of classes 9 and 11 of government schools will start from October 5. Speaking about this, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, the director school education (DSE), said, “The decision has been taken after witnessing improvement in parents’ response towards academic consultations from September 21 and studying how the CBSE conducted compartment exams for students of classes 10 and 12.” Brar added that the exams will be conducted on the lines of the CBSE compartment exams and as per the SOPs issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. October 15: Last date to register for board exams As per sources, the exams will conclude by October 10 as the registration of students for board exams has to be done by October 15. A teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said that it is a cumbersome task to upload these details with frequent server related issues and they will have to work on war-footing to ensure that the registrations are done in time. Around 4,550 students will be sitting for these exams. Students, who were promoted to classes 10 and 12 on a conditional basis, will be demoted on failing to clear the compartment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/compartment-exams-for-chandigarh-government-schools-to-begin-from-october-5/story-WjC01u2MyVV9UWOQKfUtUP.html
29-09-2020||City||Explosion at Ludhiana factory kills 40-year-old father of two||A 40-year-old factory worker died following an explosion at an automobile parts factory in Phase 8 of Focal Point on Monday night. The deceased was identified as Shiv Kumar, resident of Durga Puri. He had been working at the factory, Highway Industries, for the past several years. His co-workers and family members alleged that he was not given timely medical attention, which caused his death. Police said Kumar was working in the night shift on Monday when the accident took place.According to a co-worker, Kumar was working on a dye machine, when it suddenly exploded, leaving him severely injured. Other workers raised the alarm, following which Kumar was taken to the dispensary inside the factory. He was initially given only first aid, but his condition kept deteriorating. Later, he was taken to the ESIC Hospital, where he died during treatment. On Tuesday, Kumar’s co-workers observed a strike, seeking relief for the kin of the deceased and job for Kumar’s son. His family workers also reached the factory, demanding compensation, following which the Focal Point police reached the spot and tried to pacify them.Inspector Mohammad Jameel, station house officer (SHO), Focal Point police station, said as per preliminary investigation, the accident occurred when the worker put dye in a machine’s power pressure. The explosion was caused either due to some misalignment in the machine or due to Kumar putting the wrong dye in it. After the strike by the family and co-workers of Kumar, a compromise was reached with the factory owner. Therefore, no case was registered, the inspector said.WAS SOLE BREADWINNER OF FAMILY OF FOURKumar’s wife Sunita Devi said her husband was the lone bread winner of the family, comprising their two sons, aged 19 and 18. Her elder son was disabled. She alleged the factory owner did not take her husband to the hospital on time, which could have saved his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/explosion-at-ludhiana-factory-kills-40-year-old-father-of-two/story-YYEBxvOhOeFhG8jXMDOGPN.html
29-09-2020||City||AAP launches ‘Gram sabha bulao, pind bachao’ in Ludhiana||Slamming the central government for passing alleged anti-farmer laws, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday launched ‘Gram sabha bulao, pind bachao’ campaign here.Mann said a resolution approved in a gram sabha could be a legal document for challenging those laws in the Supreme Court, he added.Convene gram sabha meetings to oppose bills: Mann to sarpanchesMann said gram sabhas existed in every village, and the sarpanch/panchayat of the village could convene a session as a special case on a minimum of seven days’ notice. If for some reason, the sarpanch was reluctant to do so, 20% of the village voters could sign and convene a session through the block development and panchayat officer.Mann appealed to all the sarpanches of Punjab to rise above party politics and convene gram sabhas in their respective villages to oppose the black laws. A few such meetings were being organised in Sangrur on Wednesday, he added.Punjab AAP in-charge Jarnail Singh said a helpline number will be launched to facilitate those seeking to gather requisite information in this regard.‘Badals back-stabbed farmers’Mann said that the Badals had back-stabbed the farmers by advocating in favour of the anti-agriculture laws, and were now hell bent on playing politics to torpedo the farmers’ struggle with nefarious designs to breaking the mobilisation.The chief minister, Mann said, was committing to a legal battle against the farmer laws, saying he would go to any extent to get them tweaked at all costs, but “the ground reality is that both the CM and Badal are trying to deceive the farmers as they both played a pivotal role in the passage of those laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-launches-gram-sabha-bulao-pind-bachao-in-ludhiana/story-y18q4t85jALXq7w4PqKDHK.html
29-09-2020||City||Former allies SAD, BJP now eyeing leader of opposition seat in Ludhiana MC House||After snapping their 24-year-old ties, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are now at loggerheads, both vying for the leader of opposition seat in the General House of the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC).During a meeting held between the mayor and the councillors of SAD on Tuesday, the latter said they had 11 councillors against BJP’s 10, which was why councillor Harbhajan Dang should remain the leader of opposition.Earlier, the SAD-BJP alliance had made for 21 councillors in the MC House. The BJP now claims the support of an independent councillor, Parvinder Kaur.ALSO READ: Political dynamics in Ludhiana set to change as SAD, BJP go separate waysWhile the Congress party holds a majority in the MC General House with 64 councillors, followed by SAD and BJP, the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) comes in fourth with seven councillors. Three of the 95 councillors are independent.Will seek legal opinion: MayorDang said, “BJP is making false claims for fear of losing ground in the state. Norms dictate that the votes of independent councillors don’t count in total tally. We have asked the mayor to take legal opinion if BJP makes any claim to the seat of leader of opposition.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu confirmed this and reiterated that legal opinion will indeed be sought over the issue should such a situation arise.BJP district president Pushpinder Singal, however, said the party had not made any claim to the position of the leader of opposition, yet. “We have not made any claims over the tag, but an independent vote will be counted as BJP’s vote since the councillor has extended support to the party from the onset. SAD is disturbed over losing BJP’s support. A few SAD councillors are even looking to join BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-allies-sad-bjp-now-eyeing-leader-of-opposition-seat-in-ludhiana-mc-house/story-AiHoB7DTwpih4SOXWpLT6O.html
29-09-2020||City||19-year-old killed in Ludhiana: Kin refuse postmortem, seek murder case against dhaba workers||The family members of Nakul Mehra, 19, of Mayapuri, who was killed after a chase ended in a crash near Samrala Chowk, on Tuesday refused his postmortem to be conducted and instead, sought a murder case against the dhaba workers.On September 27, the victim along with his brothers, Karan and Arjun, was chased by workers of a roadside eatery following a clash. The police had claimed that Nakul had died in the accident, however, the victim’s kin accused the eatery workers of beating him to death.According to Karan, he and Arjun had been on one bike, and Nakul on another bike during the chase. Near Samrala Chowk, Nakul’s bike had rammed into a truck.He alleged that Nakul had died because the accused had brutally beaten him while he was lying on the road after the crash, and not because of the crash itself.ALSO READ: 19-year-old killed after chase ends in crashHarish Kumar, the maternal uncle of the deceased, alleged that the police had shown them the CCTV footage only till the time Nakul’s bike collided with the truck. While Nakul was lying on the road, the accused had reached there and thrashed him, which had caused his death, he further alleged.He added that they will not give permission for the autopsy to be conducted until the police registered a murder case against the accused.Two cases have been registered, one against the truck driver for causing death by negligence, and another against the dhaba workers and their accomplices for beating up the brothers.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Central) Waryam Singh said that the preliminary investigation suggested Nakul had met with an accident and had suffered serious accident injuries. However, it could be ascertained only with an autopsy report, but the family was not allowing the postmortem to happen, he added.He said the family members were being convinced to let the postmortem be performed to find out the truth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-killed-in-ludhiana-kin-refuse-postmortem-seek-murder-case-against-dhaba-workers/story-AKvkgSZMbQcn7k8D0OXCeI.html
29-09-2020||City||Installation of high-security number plates comes to a halt at Ludhiana centre as staff goes on strike||Residents applying for high-security registration plates at the Automated Driving Test Centre on Chandigarh Road were left a harried lot on Tuesday after the staff of the private company managing it went on a strike, in protest of termination of services of their colleagues. The work of issuing and installing the number plates was halted for more than three hours, following which the company had to arrange staff from other centres. Only a few applicants were seen waiting their turn at the centre, while others were asked to return, with an assurance that the number plates will be installed at their respective locations.As per information, the private company to whom the contract to install the plates has been awarded by the government had laid off some employees on Sunday. Protesting against their employer’s move, around 10 employees went on strike on Tuesday morning, with work at the centre resuming only in the afternoon.One of the applicants, Gursharan Singh, a truck driver, said, “I came for the plates around 9am, but the staff had announced a strike. We have been asking the staff to install the plates, but they have asked us to wait. There is no other option because if we leave, we will have to come back.”State head of the private contractor Arjun Singh said, “Soon after the employees went on strike, we arranged for staff from other centres. Meanwhile, residents who were waiting their turn were asked to return, and the company staff will install the plates at their respective places in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-to-install-high-security-number-plates-halts-at-ludhiana-centre-as-staff-goes-on-strike/story-ShYywC2GDn6IL0seZJ41lO.html
29-09-2020||City||Rajya Sabha MP, former minister among 290 test positive for Covid in HP||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday saw 290 fresh coronavirus infections taking the state’s Covid-19 tally to 14,747.Also, the death toll mounted to 178 as three more patients succumbed to the contagion.In Kangra, Rajya Sabha MP Indu Goswami has been tested positive for Covid-19. “I had recently met BJP leader Sandeepani Bhardwaj in Delhi, who was later tested positive. I got my test done which came back as positive. I am isolating myself and request all who came in my contact to do so and undergo test,” Goswami wrote on Facebook. Meanwhile, a press conference of minister of state (M0S) for finance Anurag Thakur slated fo Wednesday in Dharamshala has been cancelled as he had come in contact with the MP. Fourteen more police officials undergoing training at Police Training College, Daroh, have tested positive, taking the tally in the institute to 38. In Sunderngar, Mandi, former BJP minister Roop Singh Thakur has also tested positive. Of the new cases, 65 were reported in Shimla, 59 in Solan, 51 in Kangra, 23 each in Una and Sirmaur, 19 in Bilaspur, 15 each in Mandi and Chamba, 14 in Kullu, and three each in Hamirpur and Lahaul-Spiti.Two people died of the virus in Kangra and one in Shimla. RECOVERY RATE NEARS 75% The recovery rate in state has neared 75% with 364 more people being discharged from the hospital. To date, a total of 10,971 people have recovered. As many as 6,498 or 59% recoveries have been registered in September alone. There are 3,573 active cases in state. And the death rate in state is 1.2% with 142 fatalities being recorded in September. A total of 2.92 lakh tests have been conducted that comes around 40,000 tests per million population. The confirmation rate was hovering around 2,000 cases per million. There is slight decline in new cases as fresh infections have grown at 2.2% this week as compared to 3% growth of last week. SOLAN, KANGRA SHARE 35% DISEASE BURDEN Solan and Kangra district share 35% of the disease burden with 5,228 cases of total 14,747 being reported there. Till date, Solan has recorded 2,988 cases, while Kangra has 2,240 infections. In terms of active cases, Kangra is at 620 cases and Solan at 591. Sirmaur is the third worst-hit district with 1,808 cases, followed by Mandi with 1,671 cases, Shimla 1,284, Una 1,267, Hamirpur 913, Chamba 829, Bilaspur 800, Kullu 603, Kinnaur 190 and Lahaul-Spiti 154.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajya-sabha-mp-former-minister-among-290-test-positive-for-covid-in-hp/story-IUuFjoGgqa7vaA2DF46GyM.html
29-09-2020||City||Himachal CID to start an awareness campaign on crimes against women and children||The Himachal Pradesh Criminal Investigation Department (CID) will be organising an awareness campaign on crimes against women and children across the state.The campaign will include awareness messages on All India Radio, local news channels and HP Police website; lectures/discussions in educational institutions; SMS campaign; poster-making and organising skits, essays, debates and painting competitions. The vulnerable sections of the society will also be apprised about the legal provisions in the aforesaid matter through Mahila Mandals and Anganwadi workers.Additional director general of police (CID) N Venugopal said there is no doubt that such crimes show the sick mindset of the offenders, which creates an atmosphere of fear and insecurity among children and women in the society, thus there is an urgent need to create mass awareness on the matter.“Women and children need to be sensitised about the impending risk to their modesty at the hands of friends, relatives or others, and early detection of warning signals relating to advances or inappropriate gestures,” he added.The CID has also sought active assistance and co-operation from the state social justice and empowerment department and the women and child development directorate to achieve the desired results.Venugopal said since the CID has no earmarked funds for the purpose, the department has urged the additional chief secretary, social justice and empowerment department and director of women and child development to provide monetary assistance of ₹3,00,000 for meeting the expenses of the awareness campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cid-to-start-an-awareness-campaign-on-crimes-against-women-and-children/story-YoSEnsfhHaxWPWnvW6GfVM.html
29-09-2020||City||Himachal HC mourns demise of Justice Mehrotra||A virtual full court reference to mourn the demise of former judge of Himachal Pradesh high court Justice V K Mehrotra, who died on September 8 at the age of 90 in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, was held here on Tuesday.Mehrotra served in the HP high court from May 12, 1988, to October 18, 1992.Speaking on the occasion, Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy said Mehrotra was an eminent jurist and great personality, besides being soft-spoken, humble and spiritual with a philosophical bent of mind, and held the court in the most pleasant manner, making everyone feel at ease. After his retirement Justice Mehrotra wrote two short books ‘Happiness Mantra’ and ‘Success Mantra’ which he did not want to publicize and only maintained for personal distribution as gifts to family and friends.Swamy expressed his deep condolence to the bereaved family and said that passing away of Justice Mehrotra is not only a loss to the bereaved family but also to the entire legal fraternity.Mehrotra was born on October 19, 1930, at Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, and was enrolled as an advocate of the Allahabad high court on December 31, 1959. He practised in Jaunpur from 1954 to 1959 and in Allahabad from 1960 onwards. Mehrotra was appointed as additional permanent judge in the Allahabad HC on July 30, 1980, and was transferred to the HP high court on May 12, 1988, and retired on October 19, 1992. During this period, Mehrotra served as the acting Chief Justice of Himachal HC several times. After his retirement, he took over as the president of the UP Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (Lucknow) in 1993 and remained as such up to 1997.Justices Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Sureshwar Thakur, Vivek Singh Thakur, Ajay Mohan Goel, Sandeep Sharma, Chander Bhusan Barowalia, Anoop Chitkara, and Jyotsna Rewal Dua also attended the full court reference virtually.Advocate General Ashok Sharma, HP Bar Council chairman Ramakant Sharma, HC Bar Association president N S Chandel and Assistant Solicitor General of India Rajesh Sharma also addressed the virtual event and paid tributes to Mehrotra.A two-minute silence was also observed as a mark of respect to the departed soul.Registrar General Virender Singh conducted the proceedings through video-conference. Other registrars of the HC, advocates, officers and officials of the registry watched the live telecast of the virtual full court reference on their respective computer/mobile screens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-hc-mourns-demise-of-justice-mehrotra/story-wwUi1CiXIPEaN4KiUW2GeK.html
29-09-2020||City||Farooq takes up Jammu’s ‘crumbling’ health infra with Centre||National Conference (NC) president Dr Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday spoke to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and raised the issue of Jammu region’s “almost defunct” healthcare services with its hospitals running short of oxygen and ventilators amid an alarming surge in Covid-19 cases.In a tele-conversation, Farooq referred to the panic-like situation among people who feel vulnerable in the absence of a credible health support system, said an official statement issued here.He dwelt upon the inadequate allocation of bed strength for the pandemic cases and failure in setting up make-shift hospitals to meet the challenging situation.“This could hugely impact the fight against coronavirus, resulting in insecurity among the people, who don’t know how the situation will turn out in the future,” read his statement.Farooq urged the minister to ensure uninterrupted medical oxygen supply at all the healthcare centres and provide more bed in the Covid-dedicated wards of hospitals.He stressed the need for synergy between various agencies to grant the necessary medical support to the patients.On this, the Union health minister assured Farooq that all necessary measures would be taken to strengthen infrastructural facilities in the Jammu hospitals. Dr Harsh Vardhan also apprised the NC chief about the steps being taken in this direction.Farooq hoped that the health services would be upgraded on war-footing in Jammu and Kashmir in general and in the areas which lack facilities in particular.“This is not the time to review and assess the situation, but supplies need to be replenished and an emergency plan formulated to contain the spread of the virus,” he added.Till Monday, the UT recorded a cumulative count of 73,014 Covid cases and 1,146 deaths related to it. Jammu district has been witnessing an alarming increase in these numbers, while the hospitals in the region lack basic facilities like oxygen and ventilators for the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farooq-takes-up-jammu-s-crumbling-health-infra-with-centre/story-Zm2sdgCa4VZS06cokL3zVJ.html
29-09-2020||City||Army recruitment rally: J&K Cong seeks extension of registration dates||Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma on Tuesday urged the army authorities to extend the date of online registration for the upcoming recruitment rally.The recruitment fair is scheduled to be held for six districts from December 11 to 22 at ALG, Rajouri.“The online registration was opened during lockdown in April, which is a joke, as it has deprived most of the eligible unemployed youth from applying due to 2G mobile internet services in the region and complete lockdown,” he said in a statement issued here.Sharma was reacting to the representation of a number unemployed youth and their parents, from far-flung districts, who alleged that the army authorities sought online registration during the period of lockdown as the last date was fixed as April 21.He has sought the extension of date for online registration besides holding district-wise rally instead of inviting youth from six districts to Rajouri during the Covid pandemic.He hoped that the army and defence ministry would take appropriate decisions in the interest of the eligible youth.However, a defence official said last year over 44,000 youth had turned at the Samba rally and another 27,000 had participated in a similar rally in Reasi. “At that time too we had 2G network. In the ensuing rally, the youth were given adequate time to apply. However, the issue can be considered in view of Covid pandemic and subsequent restrictions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-recruitment-rally-j-k-cong-seeks-extension-of-registration-dates/story-iFofcHjXr4DgwGYZIGZpCO.html
29-09-2020||City||JNUSU demands return of students to campus in a phased manner||New DelhiThe Jawaharlal Nehru University’s Students’ Union (JNUSU) on Tuesday demanding the return of research scholars to the campus in a phased manner and sought a postponement of the university’s entrance tests, saying the dates clashed with other examinations. Addressing a press conference, JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said, “The university has asked PhD scholars to request for a 9B extension by September 30. The application requires submission of 90% of the PhD draft. However, many students have not been able to access the internet, library or labs and research material due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.” She called for an extension of the deadline.The students’ union also said despite letters, protests, and representations, the university had not initiated any plan to allow a phased-wise return of students to the campus. The Unlock 4.0 guidelines had allowed for a partial reopening of universities for research scholars and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory or experimental works. JNU Registrar Pramod Kumar said 9B rules have to be followed. “If students get the 9B extension, they have to submit their thesis by June 2021. If they haven’t finished 90% of their work till now, how can they submit their thesis by then? Students can opt to deregister themselves and then finish their work.” On JNUSU’s demand for a phased return, Kumar said, “We don’t have isolation or quarantine facilities on our campus. The hostels have shared washrooms and common areas. The Covid-19 disease is still spreading. Who will take responsibility if more people fall sick once we allow students to come back to campus?” The students’ body alleged mismanagement in the upcoming JNU entrance exams scheduled to be conducted from October 5-8 by the National Testing Agency (NTA), saying the schedule of the tests clashed with other exams. They said students may face issues in reaching the examination centre due to lack of transport facilities and called for a postponement of the examsKumar said the NTA, which is conducting other examinations as well, prepares the entrance exam schedule. “They have to manage the schedule accordingly and ensure all exams are conducted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jnusu-demands-return-of-students-to-campus-in-a-phased-manner/story-GXQHCxmI7piR1aQmVarGFO.html
29-09-2020||City||Groom booked for bursting firecrackers at wedding in Srinagar||The police on Tuesday booked a Srinagar resident for bursting firecrackers on the night of his wedding in Batmaloo here.On Monday night, the close friends and relatives of Bilal Ahmad Shah burst crackers when he brought his bride home.Police have registered an FIR under Section 188 (disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC.“Last night, firecrackers were heard in Batmaloo which were being used during Shah’s wedding ceremony. It is prohibited to use firecrackers within the territorial jurisdiction of Srinagar district,” a police spokesperson said.Shah could not be contacted for his reaction.The police said they have not yet arrested him owing to his upcoming ‘Firsal’— a ceremony during which the groom’s in-laws invite the couple and close family members for dinner after two-three days of marriage.“We summoned him on Tuesday, but his elders said he will come to the police station after ‘Firsal’ which we allowed,” said Batmaloo station house officer Manzoor Ahmad.Ahmad said Shah’s mistake was that firecrackers were burst during the night.“The deputy commissioner has banned any fireworks in Srinagar, whatever the occasion. Nobody is allowed to do it as people unnecessarily get alarmed,” he said.He said firecrackers during the night create confusion. “When there is a bang during the night it causes fear among people as to what happened, besides disturbing their sleep,” he said.The police urged people not to use firecrackers anywhere within the territorial jurisdiction of Srinagar district.On September 17, an encounter had raged between militants and security forces in Batmaloo in the night in which three militants were killed. A woman had also died in the crossfire. This year, Srinagar has witnessed at-least seven gunfights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/groom-booked-for-bursting-firecrackers-at-wedding-in-srinagar/story-k28la2J2HxwNbCHYiIL4uO.html
29-09-2020||City||Srinagar man held for posing as cop||The police on Tuesday arrested a Srinagar resident for impersonating a police officer and intimidating people by registering his name as ‘DSP’ in Truecaller app.A police spokesperson said that on September 27, Sherghari police station received a complaint from one Sohail Ahmed Pinchoo of Noorbagh, Srinagar, stating that he had received threat calls from a person claiming to be DySP (Cargo).Based on the complaint, a case was registered under relevant sections of the IPC at the Sherghari police station and investigation was initiated, the spokesperson said.During the investigation, the accused was identified as Nazir Ahmad Sheikh of Botakadal, Lal Bazaar, Srinagar.He has been arrested and remains in police custody. Police said the accused had registered his name as DSP CM residence in Truecaller app with the intention to cheat and threaten the public.The police are resolved to act tough against individuals involved in criminal activities, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-man-held-for-posing-as-cop/story-CfNxdXOtbQW1i1Tjg1n41H.html
29-09-2020||City||13 held for fleecing labourers for ‘easy’ entry into J&K||A racket of touts fleecing labourers on the pretext of “easy entry” into Jammu and Kashmir was busted after the police arrested 13 persons, including a special railway police officer on Tuesday.The police have registered seven FIRs — six in Kathua district and one in Sujanpur of Pathankot — against the accused. One more accused is absconding.Giving details, Kathua district police chief SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra said, “For the past two to three weeks, we had been getting reports that a gang of touts was operating at Madhopur — the last point of Punjab — and Lakhanpur. They were charging money from labourers for facilitating their entry into J&K.”“Due to the Covid pandemic, entry to J&K is regulated. Initially, it was being allowed via Lakhanpur, but recently we have also opened Atal Setu. The gang started charging money to the labourers reaching Madhopur in a hope to get access to the UT,” he said.Mishra informed that presently no inter-state bus movement was being allowed.“These touts used to charge the labourers ₹1,000-₹2,000 to facilitate their entry into Kathua by managing dispatch slips. For this, the accused disguised as labour contractors,” he said.Subsequently, these labourers used to get the rapid antigen test conducted and their dispatch slips prepared before being allowed access to Jammu.“We conducted raids and arrested 13 of the 14 accused. One is absconding. Among the arrested is an SPO of railway police. Roles of an ASI, head constable and a contractual labourer in the office of DC Sales Tax are under the scanner,” he added.One FIR each has been registered at the Sujanpur police station in Pathankot and Hiranagar police station (Kathua district), while five have been registered at the Kathua police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-held-for-fleecing-labourers-for-easy-entry-into-j-k/story-UeOcbYxFy8ouE5QtIkfbZM.html
29-09-2020||City||UAPA case: J&K police chargesheet 4 LeT militants among 7||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet against seven persons, including four Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants, under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act), police said.A police spokesperson said the four militants and their three associates were chargesheeted in a case registered at the Handwara police station.“The case pertains to an incident from April 3, 2020, wherein the Handwara Police, along with 21 RR, 92 CRPF, arrested four LeT terrorists and their associates,” the spokesperson said.After completing the investigation and obtaining necessary government sanction for prosecution, the chargesheet has been filed before the competent court by the Handwara Police under sections 13, 18, 20, 23 and 38 of the UAPA and sections 7 and 25 of the Arms Act and substantive offences thereof.“The accused are identified as LeT militants Parvaiz Ahmad Chopan, Mudasir Ahmad Pandith, Mohd Shafi Shiekh and Burhan Din Wani, all residents of Langate, and their associates Azad Ahmad Bhat of Shalpora, Langate; Altaf Ahmad Baba of Babagund Seelo, Rafiabad and Irshad Ahmad Chalkoo of Silikoot, Uri,” the spokesperson said.They have been charged for their role in hatching a criminal conspiracy for a terrorist act, harbouring terrorists and giving support to the proscribed terrorist organisation, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uapa-case-j-k-police-chargesheet-4-let-militants-among-7/story-Gj8Koe5EFuOtF7B5tBYZnN.html
29-09-2020||City||Half of Jalandhar’s covid-19 deaths reported from private hospitals||Jalandhar Around half of 381 deaths in the district due to covid-19 to date have been at private hospitals, data with the administration shows. Private hospitals have recorded 182 deaths; 109 deaths (28%) in government hospitals; 19 in military hospitals and 68 during treatment from hospitals outside the district. Three people died on way to hospital. Twelve patients are on ventilator. Jalandhar is the second-worst district in the state with 381 deaths and 12,742 cases till Monday evening. The number of deaths at private hospitals has seen a spurt over the past month as previously, most such hospitals referred patients in acritical stage to the civil hospital. In August, however, deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori issued an order barring private hospitals from indulging in this practice. Jalandhar is the only district in the state where the civil hospital has level-3 beds (for critical patients) and the other required equipment to deal with such a situation. Treatment is expensive in private hospitals, while the civil hospital offers it free of cost, yet many prefer to go to private hospitals, said officials.“The district has reported an average of eight deaths per day for the past week, of which five-six cases are from private hospitals. Patients arrive late to hospitals for treatment, and most of those put on ventilators could not survive,” said an officer. Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) estate officer Navneet Kaur Bal who has been appointed as a covid patient tracking officer to minimise the fatality rate said they will run a campaign on the lines of the pulse polio drive to motivate people to report to hospital with fever or flu, and get tested for covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/half-of-jalandhar-s-covid-19-deaths-reported-from-private-hospitals/story-2Hkq2mDzhMw3DQQLJdcKIN.html
29-09-2020||City||2,359 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, with 44 patients declared dead due to infection||PUNE On Wednesday, Pune district reported 2,359 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, with 44 patients declared dead due to the infection, as per the state health department. Currently, Pune district has a total of 2.89 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 2.27 lakh have recovered.The death toll stands at 5,734 and the active case count is 56,819. Pune rural reported 726 fresh cases, taking its count to 60,738. According to the state health department, 17 Covid-related deaths on Tuesday took the death toll to 1,214 in the rural areas.Pune city, as per the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), reported 1,005 fresh cases, taking its total count to 1,54,344. Twenty-five deaths reported on Tuesday puts the death toll at 3,500.Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) reported 628 fresh cases, taking its final count to 74,721. Two Covid-related deaths on Tuesday put its death toll at 1,019 . The state health department reported that 19,212 patients were discharged, taking the final discharged count to 10,69,159. The recovery rate in the state is 78.26%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.65%. Currently, 21,35,496 people are in home quarantine and 29,947 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-359-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-with-44-patients-declared-dead-due-to-infection/story-uTEnAu5AG2UTd9B1L4Xr4J.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two IAS officers transferred out of Chandigarh||Close on the heels of the repatriation of two senior Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers from Chandigarh to their parent Punjab cadre, two more IAS officers were transferred out of the UT on Tuesday.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) ordered the transfer of Sanjay Kumar Jha (2008 batch) to Andaman and Nicobar Islands. He is secretary, departments of animal husbandry and fisheries, public relations, personnel, printing and stationery, cooperation, establishment and agriculture, in the Chandigarh administration.Sachin Rana (2014 batch), special secretary, departments of technical education and house allotment committee, also holding the charge of additional deputy commissioner, additional registrar cooperative societies, and secretary, Red Cross Society, has been transferred to Arunachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, Nitika Pawar (2012 batch) has been transferred from Andaman and Nicobar Islands to Chandigarh. The MHA has also ordered the transfer of IPS officer Ketan Bansal (2016 batch) from Mizoram to Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-ias-officers-transferred-out-of-chandigarh/story-yVgmdZBbOmxK4pDXf1KQcN.html
29-09-2020||Pune||Pune RTO to conduct learning, permanent licence tests at college campuses||In an effort to provide road safety lessons to students and eventually conduct learning and permanent licence tests within college campuses, the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) started an initiative, road safety and employability skills training. Under the initiative, RTO officials with the help of the colleges will conduct road safety lessons for students during their academic year schedule. Later on, as per the requirement of the college, learning and permanent licence tests will be conducted at college campuses.“A college student or a youngster who has just graduated and is working professionally, may use motor vehicles and if they get proper training during their college period about road safety and how to drive safely taking all the necessary precautions then his/her productivity increases in their work. Also, a responsible citizen contributes to nation building. Road accidents amongst the youth is a worldwide issue which we all are facing and so it is necessary to have road safety lessons as a part of every course syllabus,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer at Pune RTO.“We are reaching out to colleges to take this programme forward so that RTO officials can give road safety lessons to students. Currently, due to Covid19, it won’t be possible to do so physically but we can definitely take online lectures for students. We are already in talks with several prominent colleges in Pune and some of them have agreed to take up this programme for their students. Also, we will be conducting learning licence tests at college campus as per requirement for students, and later on even permanent licence tests can also be conducted for them,” added Sasane. Sampada Joshi, chief operating officer at Modern Education Society which is one of the oldest educational institutes in Pune, said, “We are in primary talks with Pune RTO and we are convinced with their road safety programme to be given for students. Once we get a prospective schedule from them as how to take this programme ahead in our colleges, we can plan the schedule of lectures for the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-rto-to-conduct-learning-permanent-licence-tests-at-college-campuses/story-huqzUCx9C2v4KcNwDrKAXI.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Protest against farm bills: Abhay Chautala slams unavailable Sonepat DC||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Chautala on Tuesday lambasted Sonepat deputy commissioner for not being present when the leader reached his office to submit a memorandum against the three farm laws.The Ellenabad legislator alleged that Sonepat deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia and other administrative officials concerned left the office when their delegation visited the DC’s office.“The DC excused himself on the pretext of ‘field work’ when our delegation reached his office to submit a memorandum against the three farm laws. In OP Chautala’s regime, officials will have to visit villages to solve peoples’ grievances,” he said.“The BJP-JJP government is against farmers and has introduced the farm laws to destroy the farming community,” he said. Abhay urged party workers to start canvassing for the Baroda bypoll. “People want to elect our nominee to save the state from the Congress and BJP-JJP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/protest-against-farm-bills-abhay-chautala-slams-unavailable-sonepat-dc/story-ix6CZxxVEa6U5fwWnfjN8K.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees driest September in 50 years||Chandigarh this year has witnessed the driest September in the past half-century, as per data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). This comes with the forecast of no rain on the last day of this month and monsoon withdrawal likely to be declared by Thursday (October 1).With only 6.1mm rain throughout the month, which is considered the last of the four months that comprise the monsoon season, this is the lowest recorded in September since 1970, for which data was readily available with the IMD, Chandigarh. Before 2020, the lowest amount of rainfall in September was recorded in 1981 (12.8mm). Throwing light on reasons behind the month being so dry, IMD Chandigarh director Surender Paul said: “There were no winds coming from over the Bay of Bengal, due to which there was no rainfall. The monsoon trough was also positioned in other parts of India, and northwestern region as a whole got lesser rain.” During the withdrawal period, too, rain was expected in the region, but since there were no active western disturbances, no rain was recorded.The normal rain for September (average of the past 30 years) is 144.4 mm. With only 6.1mm rain this time, the month is 96% rain deficient. Monsoon 9% surplus, withdrawal likely by tomorrowOverall, the monsoon has been 9% surplus with 920.3mm rain received from June to September, as compared to a normal of 845.7mm. The city received more rainfall owing to its location on the foothills of the Himalayas, while it mostly remained on the lower side at other stations in the region, said the weatherman.While monsoon withdrawal has already started in western parts of Punjab, Paul said it is likely to happen in the city by Thursday, and will be followed by an anti-cyclonic movement developing over the region that will keep the weather dry in the coming days. Meanwhile, at 34.3°C, maximum temperature remained unchanged between Monday and Tuesday, while the minimum too went up just slightly from 20.6°C to 20.7°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 35°C while minimum is likely to stay around 20°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-driest-september-in-50-years/story-Iyh6zWdT8C9ZCPOd00VxeK.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board issues notices to Central govt departments over pending bills||Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said the utility has issued notices to several central government departments, including the Railways and Delhi Police, and municipal corporations asking them to pay outstanding dues amounting to Rs 6,811 crore within 30 days.Addressing a press conference, Chadha said notices were also issued to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) and the Delhi Development Authority between September 1 and September 15.There was no immediate response from the Railways, Delhi Police and CPWD.However, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash rejected the allegations as “baseless” and said, “The charges were being levelled to hide the failures of the government”.Chadha said the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the economy hard and governments across the country were facing financial challenges.“Is it imperative that these outstanding dues are paid so that the DJB can deal with the financial challenges,” he said.“Railways owes Rs 3,283 crore to the DJB for the services provided by it... the Delhi Police is yet to pay bills worth Rs 614 crore, while the CPWD has to clear dues amounting to Rs 190 crore,” Chadha claimed.“The DDA owes Rs 128 crore, East Delhi Municipal Corporation Rs 49 crore, North Delhi Municipal Corporation Rs 2,466 crore and South Delhi Municipal Corporation Rs 81 crore,” the DJB vice-chairman said.If the dues are not cleared within the stipulated time, the board will be left with no other option but to initiate coercive actions until the full and final payment is recovered, he said.Chadha hoped that the need to press penal provisions will not arise.“We also have our financial obligations... We would like to urge that all agencies pay the outstanding dues within 30 days,” he said, adding some departments have written to the DJB seeking clarification and the utility is ready to help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-issues-notices-to-central-govt-departments-over-pending-bills/story-e3yOg8tzIYOnVUoXWj7z3K.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||10 farm fires detected in Fatehabad over 3 days||The Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC) satellite has captured 10 farm fires in six Fatehabad villages over the last three days.Fatehabad deputy director (agriculture) Rajesh Sihag said, “HARSAC imagery indicates 10 instances of stubble burning in six villages of the district over the last three days. Fires were detected in Dhangar, Badhai Khera, Loha Khera, Samain, Chando Kalan and Jamalpur villages.”“We will send a team to inspect the fields where the fires were detected. Action will be taken against defaulting farmers,” Sihag said, adding that paddy harvesting had started at a few places and will gather pace in the first and second week of October and as such it was likely that more farmers will burn stubble in the district and state.A farmer, Satpal Singh of Fatehabad’s Jamalpur, said, “Farmers have no other option as the government is not providing us with the ₹100-per-quintal incentive for not burning stubble as directed by the Supreme Court last year.”“Most farmers cannot afford to purchase equipment required to clear fields for the rabi season. However, instead of assisting farmers, officials issue show-cause notices and impose fines,” he added.As per government data, in 2019, stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab had contributed to 44% of the pollution in the National Capital Region. Stubble burning is responsible for around 18%-40% of particulate matter in the air in the northern plains, say experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-farm-fires-detected-in-fatehabad-over-3-days/story-WbSeVuwTOYyv9X8FmoCqdI.html
29-09-2020||City||Ludhiana: Sept 30 last day to pay property tax with 10% rebate||Even as September 30 is the last date to submit the property tax with 10% rebate for 2020-21, over 50,000 Ludhiana residents have yet to clear their dues. From October 1 to December 31, tax payers will get no rebate, but will also face no penalty. However, after December 31, a 10% penalty will be imposed on the defaulters. A sum of Rs 3.5 crore was collected as property tax on Tuesday alone. Residents can also avail of 10% rebate on submission of water-sewer user charges till September 30. Beyond that, payment can be made till March 31 without penalty.An MC official stated that out of the around 4 lakh properties in the city, property tax was to be paid against 2.25 lakh properties, while the remaining were exempted. Out of these 2.25 properties, owners of 1.75 lakh buildings had cleared the dues, while tax for around 50,000 buildings remained unpaid, the official said. Superintendent, property tax, Vivek Verma said, “To help residents avail of the rebate, MC kept the Suvidha Kendras open on weekends as well. Wednesday is the last date to pay tax with rebate. The Suvidha Kendras will remain open till 5pm and residents can also pay online at mcludhiana.gov.in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-last-day-today-to-pay-property-tax-with-10-rebate/story-KvbLiIoFvHxjrra5W8ETKM.html
29-09-2020||City||12 Ludhiana traders held for gambling in Dugri park, ₹4.07 lakh recovered||The anti-smuggling cell of Ludhiana police arrested 12 men for gambling in a park near Flower Chowk, Dugri, Phase 3, on Tuesday afternoon and recovered Rs 4.07 lakh in cash from their possession.The accused have been identified as Ashwani Kumar of Model Town Extension, Arun Kumar of Durgapuri, Harinder Singh, alias Bhola, of New Kidwayi Nagar, Mahinder Kumar of New Janta Nagar, Sanjiv Gupta of Nanakpuri, Millar Ganj, Satpal Singh of Janakpuri, Kanwalpreet Singh of Kidwai Nagar, Naveen Kumar of Haibowal, Umesh Kumar of Model Town, Navtej Singh of Flower Chowk, Harish Kumar of Bajwa Nagar and Manjit Singh, alias Laddi, of New Amar Nagar.Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge of the anti-smuggling cell, stated the police arrested the accused following a tip-off. The group was setting bets on card games when the police conducted a raid and arrested them red-handed. All accused were small-time traders, he added.A case under Sections 13, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act was registered against the accused. They were later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-ludhiana-traders-held-for-gambling-in-dugri-park-4-07-lakh-recovered/story-ivn48m1HjydXNgtXm5gvdJ.html
29-09-2020||City||Protesters booked for using drone camera at Ludhiana mini-secretariat||Protesting at the mini-secretariat on Monday in favour of their demands, members of the Punjab Sound DJ Light and Bhangra Groups Association have landed in trouble for filming the protest using a drone camera.Head constable Gurdeep Singh, who lodged the FIR, said the protesters were clicking photographs and recording the protest on video using a drone camera at the mini-secretariat, which was a high-security zone. Besides, they were not wearing face masks or adhering to social distancing norms.Therefore, the members were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 (1) B of the Disaster Management Act.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal had previously banned the use of drone cameras in the city, citing their misuse by anti-social elements.Use of drones for any event requires prior registration at the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s online portal – Digital Sky Platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesters-booked-for-using-drone-camera-at-ludhiana-mini-secretariat/story-uTS0P6Uc5S7bFrS7gyxfoL.html
29-09-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka bypoll a huge test for Cong’s DK Shivakumar and JDS’ HD Kumaraswamy||With the Election Commission announcing bypolls for two seats in Karnataka – Sira in Tumkur and Raja Rajeshwari Nagar (RR Nagar) seat in Bengaluru – it is the opposition Janata Dal (Secular) and Congress than the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that is trying to make a mark.The Sira seat became vacant after sitting JDS legislator B Sathyanarayana died due to novel coronavirus on 5 August. In the 2018 assembly elections, the RR Nagar constituency was won by Munirathna Naidu of Congress but he later switched over to the BJP.Ironically it was the then BJP candidate Tulsi Muniraju Gowda who went to court challenging Naidu’s election alleging he had created fake voter ID cards. The EC had subsequently declared Naidu’s election as null and void. With the ruling BJP having 117 seats in the 225-member assembly (including one nominated member) plus the support of two of the three independents, it is comfortably placed with a clear, simple majority. However it is the opposition parties who have a point to prove in the bypolls.DK Shivakumar, who was appointed as the Karnataka Congress president in March this year, is keen to prove that under his leadership, the party would be able to take on the BJP.For the JDS, it is a question of survival as both seats are Vokkaliga dominated and the party is traditionally seen to represent the interests of this community. It is also an electoral tussle between JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy and DK Shivakumar on who will be seen as the real Vokkaliga leader as both belong to the community.Kumaraswamy had recently acknowledged that the Sira seat would be a test, even as he swatted away rumours of increasing proximity to BJP. “We will win Sira,” Kumaraswamy had said on September 12 after holding a meeting of workers from the constituency.However, a senior JDS leader who did not want to be identified, said the party faces an uphill task. Due to age and health-related issues even before coronavirus claimed his life, Sathyanaryana was not very active in the constituency “so even if we give a ticket to one of his family members to encash the sympathy, it might not work. Also remember, even our party’s tallest leader Deve Gowda was defeated in Tumkur in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll.” Sira is an assembly constituency under Tumkur Lok Sabha seat.Both Deve Gowda and Kumaraswamy will be in Sira on Wednesday to decide on their candidate and strategy.The Congress has already named former minister TB Jayachandra who had lost the previous assembly polls as its candidate. Karnataka president DK Shivakumar had declared on 17 September that ‘Jayachandra is the unanimous choice of workers and leaders from the constituency. He has won six assembly polls in the past. I am confident we will win the seat again.”The BJP, which is the third player in the constituency, is likely to field either SR Gowda or BK Manjunath. Both are party workers. In the RR Nagar seat, the BJP is likely to give Congress turncoat Munirathna Naidu the ticket, while Congress and JDS may field fresh faces. The parties are all in a huddle on finalising names of candidates except in Sira where Congress has already declared Jayachandra’s name.Political analyst Manjunath commenting on the bypoll prospects said “The ruling party has other challenges such as cabinet expansion and eventual replacement of Yediyurappa. The BJP will also be more concerned about winning the four legislative council seats for which elections have been announced as they lack a majority in the upper house. It is the JDS and Congress who are both out to prove a point in the assembly polls. While all the three will obviously try to win, it is the JDS which has the most to lose in case it does now win either of the assembly seats.”Election Commission has also announced polls for four graduates and teachers constituency for the Karnataka Legislative Council for which voting will happen on October 28. For the two assembly constituencies, voting will happen on November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-bypoll-a-huge-test-for-cong-s-dk-shivakumar-and-jds-hd-kumaraswamy/story-zhHNHeKQdDFFR30cgcyNeK.html
29-09-2020||Pune||Pune restaurant owners relieved as govt allows dine-in facility||Restaurant owners in the city have heaved a sigh of relief as the state government has agreed to allow restaurants to operate from the first week of October.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray made the promise to a delegation of restaurant owners from Pune during an online meeting.“Today we had a fruitful zoom meeting with the chief minister and his team regarding the reopening of dine-in facilities in restaurants. He has assured us that the restaurants will reopen in the first week of October,” said Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRHA).“We will be allowing 50 per cent of dine-in facility with 50 per cent staff. To operate at 50% will be a bit difficult for business, but its important to resume dine-in service. Also, the standard operating procedure (SOPs) issued by the chief minister’s office will have to be followed by the restaurants to ensure the safety of its patrons,” said Shetty.“CM has also assured that the excise license fees will be revised on pro-rata basis against the balance operational months of the year 2020-21,”he said.Pune has at least 8,700 big and small restaurants which are eager to start the business as in the last six month, they have suffered losses. As many as 20 per cent restaurants have shut business due to losses.Since June 1, the state government had allowed only take away service at restaurants.“We also need to check the response of the customers which will give us the idea of how to progress ahead with the business,” added Shetty.“It will be a blessing for us as take away business is not giving us a good profit. People love to eat food in a restaurant ambience and profit will definitely increase,” said Rakesh Patil, owner of Devika Seafood restaurant, Thergaon.Staff crunchWith most of the employees which have gone back to their hometowns, restaurants may face staff crunch time while restarting the dine-in facility.“We will be operating with 50 per cent staff. So restaurants who have employed locals will not have a problem. Most of the staff will be coming back and our strength will improve gradually. Same is the case with waiters and once the business gets going things will fall in place,” added Shetty.Food courts gear up to resume businessMall owners in the city have welcomed the assurance of the chief minister as food courts are one of the major attractions in the city.“It is good news. I want to thank the government finally for taking the decision as since the last six months it was closed. People who were associated with this industry like chefs, helpers, waiters, suppliers and vendors all were impacted badly and it will be a big relief for all of them,” said Arun Arora, centre director, Phoenix Marketcity.“I am sure with this start all the staff who have gone to native places will return back. The business will revive gradually and once the government is confident that all restaurants are safe then there will be definitely more relaxations than the current permission of 50 per cent,” added Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/to-operate-at-50-is-difficult-but-important-to-resume-dine-in-service-shetty/story-M8zfMRcUG6iH9xPT7PHguN.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Capt Amarinder to fight farm laws on all fronts||Extending his government’s support to agitating farmers in this “aukhi ghari (difficult time)”, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday assured them of all possible legal and other help to fight the new farm laws, including a special session of the Vidhan Sabha to discuss and decide the way forward. Chairing a meeting with representatives of 31 farmer unions to take their views on the matter, the chief minister said he would be discussing the issue with his legal team to finalise the line of action, including challenging farm laws in the Supreme Court. Besides farmer representatives, the AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, attended the meeting, along with cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and advocate general Atul Nanda. “We will take all possible steps to counter the Union government’s assault on the state’s federal and constitutional rights, and fight for the interest of the farmers,” Captain Amarinder Singh told the farmers. If legal experts advise amendment to the state laws to fight the central laws, a special session of the Vidhan Sabha will be called to do so, he said. He, however, trashed Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s demand for a special Vidhan Sabha session as “cheap gimmickry” after supporting the central laws for months. “Where were the Akalis in the last session and why did Sukhbir not support the other parties at the all-party meeting?” he said. He said the Akalis, led by Sukhbir, had been supporting the farm ordinances throughout and had only backed out once their position in Punjab became untenable amid widespread angst among farmers. “If they were so concerned about the farmers’ interests, why did Harsimrat Kaur Badal not resign from the Union Cabinet the moment the farm ordinances were brought in by the Centre?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-capt-amarinder-to-fight-farm-laws-on-all-fronts/story-uvkY4EfYLVKwPhGYCucWXP.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||2G spectrum allocation scam cases: Delhi high court allows early hearing applications||The Delhi high court on Tuesday allowed the early hearing applications filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) challenging the acquittal of former Union telecom minister A Raja and others in the 2G spectrum allocation scam cases. The court fixed October 5 for the hearing in the appeals and added the matter would be heard on a day to day basis.A detailed copy of the judgment was yet to be uploaded on the court’s website. The two probe agencies have sought the early hearing of the appeals, which are otherwise listed for hearing on October 12.CBI has also sought the advancing of the hearing of the appeal challenging the acquittal of Essar Group promoters Ravi Kant Ruia and Anshuman Ruia and six others in a separate case related to the 2G scam probe.A special court in December 2017 acquitted Raja, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) lawmaker Kanimozhi, and others in the CBI and ED cases related to the scam.In March 2018, the ED and CBI moved the high court challenging the special court’s order acquitting the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2g-spectrum-allocation-scam-cases-delhi-high-court-allows-early-hearing-applications/story-UasaKwXzwC1RVoeVEXjZpO.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 cases higher, but deaths a third compared to June: Delhi health minister||Even with a higher number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, fewer deaths have been reported as compared to June when Delhi had previously seen a surge in cases, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said in an interaction with the media on Tuesday. “If you look at the number of cases, it is comparatively much higher than... during the surge in June. The number of deaths is less than one-third than what was recorded then,” he said, on being asked about the 10-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) crossing the 1% mark. CFR is the proportion of people who die of Covid-19 among those who have tested positive for the infection. The 10-day CFR stood at 1.07% as per Monday’s health bulletin; lower than the cumulative CFR of 1.93%—calculated based on the total number of cases and deaths reported in the city so far. Also Read: Coronavirus: As Covid-19 deaths hit 1 million, scientist says toll may be doubleThe highest number of deaths recorded in a day during the surge in cases in September was 46. In comparison, the highest number of deaths recorded in a day during the June surge was 101, as per data shared by the chief minister’s office. The data shows that on average over 77 deaths—somewhat skewed because of the reconciliation of 437 deaths on June 16—had been recorded between the second week of June and first week of July when there had been a surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi. In comparison, 32 deaths were reported each day on average between the second week of September and now. “Now, with an increase in testing, more cases are being detected early on and patients are being admitted to hospitals early in case they need further management. This could be one of the reasons for fewer deaths. Another reason could be the standard treatment protocols that are in place now,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonology at Safdarjung Hospital. Also Read: Covid-19: Serum Institute to produce additional 100 million vaccine dosesThe minister also said that the number of ICU beds in the city had been increased by 500 in private hospitals and 500 in government hospitals before the matter was challenged in the Delhi high court by an association of healthcare providers. “The court hasn’t given a judgement in the matter, there is a hearing on October 9. We are increasing ICU beds in government hospitals, but many people who come for treatment from outside the state want to go the private sector only,” said Jain. He also said over 10,000 RT-PCR tests were being conducted every day in Delhi and all symptomatic persons are being tested. The Centre had claimed that the city can administer up to 27,000 tests a day. The minister also hit out at the municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) over non-payment of salaries to doctors in their hospitals, calling them the “mafia” that earned crores of rupees but did not know how to manage finance. “This is what the MCD does every time. We have already given them the funds as per the tax collection that has happened this year. But the BJP is unable to run the MCD; they cannot manage finances. The building department is a mafia that earns thousands of crores,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-cases-higher-but-deaths-a-third-compared-to-june-delhi-health-minister/story-cu4evityFGw2KDSMaLC51I.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Court restrains people from ‘dragging’ Arbaaz Khan’s name||A Mumbai civil court has restrained Delhi-based media professional Sakshi Bhandari, lawyer Vibhor Anand and other unknown persons from posting comments linking actor Arbaaz Khan with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and his former manager Disha Salian.The court order came on Monday. Khan had moved a defamation suit before the city civil court, Mumbai, last week against Bhandari, Anand and other unknown persons for dragging his name in the alleged conspiracy theory behind the deaths. Along with the defamation suit, he had also sought to restrain them from posting or publishing any comment against him in this regard and also sought direction that existing comments be withdrawn. The actor has also made all the social media networks and micro blogging sites -- Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Google -- where the contents alleging his involvement in the deaths were published, party to the suit. Soon after Rajput’s death on June 14, several conspiracy theories were floated; one of them being its link to Salian’s death on June 8. Another one alleged that Khan was involved in both the deaths. In their posts on several social media platforms, Anand and Bhandari also published the same, prompting Khan’s action. In their arguments, lawyers for social media companies claimed that they were wrongly added as parties to the suit. The court has granted them two weeks to submit their detailed reply. Meanwhile, till further hearing, the court also restrained Bhandari, Anand and any other person from posting any contents naming Khan in the conspiracy theories. The court has also asked the social media companies to take steps for withdrawal of the comments posted against Khan and his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-court-restrains-people-from-dragging-arbaaz-khan-s-name/story-6R0HXQt59XH4SSD4IwvuyN.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Faridabad health dept busts sex selection racket in Ghaziabad||The Faridabad health department busted an interstate sex-determination racket in Ghaziabad and arrested two men, police said on Tuesday.Kapil and Owais Khan, who were running a clinic in Ghaziabad’s Loni area, were caught when two decoys, including a pregnant woman, asked to know about the sex of her unborn child.Dr Randeep Punia, Faridabad civil surgeon, said his team acted after receiving information that Ghaziabad was becoming a hub for sex determination tests. The decoy contacted Kapil and a deal was struck for Rs 12,500, after which tests confirmed a male child. “Our team then raided their clinic and nabbed Khan and Kapil. However, one of their accomplices managed to flee,” Punia added.An FIR has been registered against Kapil and Khan by Uttar Pradesh police in the Ghaziabad-Loni area.This was the second successful interstate raid in a month and the third in the year, Punia said.Prenatal sex determination is illegal in India under the Preconception and Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/faridabad-health-dept-busts-sex-selection-racket-in-ghaziabad/story-2zigbemHypfSYzyr0Ca1zM.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai court discharges 12 Indonesians arrested over Tablighi Jamaat event||A magistrate court in Bandra on Tuesday discharged all 12 Indonesian nationals who were arrested and booked for allegedly not following a Mumbai police advisory declare that they had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. During inquiry, Mumbai police learnt that the group of 12 had come to India on February 29 and that they had visited Nizamuddin Markaz to attend the meet. According to Bandra police officials, after attending the religious meet, they arrived in Mumbai on March 7 and were staying at an apartment in the area. Also read: ‘Tablighi event led to Covid spread among many,’ Govt tells ParliamentThe Bandra police traced them on April 1, and two of them tested positive for Covid-19 after which they were admitted to Lilavati Hospital in Bandra, while the remaining 10 were home quarantined for 20 days. The accused were arrested on April 23 under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease that is dangerous to life) 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life),188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and for attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Indian Penal Code (IPC). It was alleged that they had intentionally played a key role in spreading the virus. However, the courts had held that they cannot be booked for attempt to murder as it was not intentional and were granted bail by the sessions court. Their lawyer Ishrat Khan had later moved a discharge plea, claiming they cannot be charged for any offence. The court discharged all the accused from all the charges. A detailed order copy would, however, be made available in a few days. Two similar cases are pending where DN Nagar police station has booked 10 Indonesian and Kyrgystan nationals each under similar charges. Police have dropped the charges of attempt to murder against the 20 accused even as the case against them under various other charges is still pending. They were also booked under sections 269 , 270 and 188 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-discharges-12-indonesians-arrested-over-tablighi-jamaat-event/story-jrCG1DdlG9IC2BA7L0GRMI.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers’ protest clicks with virtual followers||The Punjab farmers’ agitation against the central laws aimed at liberalising the farm sector is not limited to rail and road blockades. It is finding resonance on social media too thanks to tech-savvy youngsters posting videos from protest sites, uploading interviews of leaders and sharing press coverage clippings. The social media platforms are updated daily for the past one week and are getting an encouraging response in terms of views, likes, shares and comments. “Punjab farmer rights’ associations are using cyberspace to build momentum for the movement against the central laws. It is probably for the first time that non-political organisations are using social media platforms in this manner,” says Rubal Kanozia, a media analyst and an assistant professor at Central University of Punjab, Bathinda. The Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugraha) and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, which are at the forefront of opposing the farm laws on the ground have registered an increase in following over the past week. As on Tuesday, the BKU (Ekta-Ugraha) has more than 58,000 followers on its Facebook page that has been ‘liked’ by 45,000 users. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has a following of 59,000 Facebook users and the page has 30,000 ‘likes’. The BKU (Sidhupur) has 22,000 followers and its FB page has gained 19,000 ‘likes’. AGITATION ACCELERATES TRANSITION BKU (Ekta-Ugraha) working president Jaswinder Longowal said the need to focus on social media was felt over the past week. “Though village youngsters associated with farmer organisations had been asking us to tap social media but this agitation has accelerated our transition in these changing times of communication. We are working to strengthen our presence on new media,” Longowal said. Earlier this month, the association organised a nine-day round-the-clock dharna outside the residence of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in a Muktsar village to protest the farmer laws. Pinder Ghumman, a lawyer and farmer at Sangrur’s Gharachon village, is the man behind the Ugraha group’s FB page. It was earlier a personal account of Ghumman but now he has converted it into the official account of the Left-leaning union that has its presence in Mansa, Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda districts. “I go to every important event of the agitation for a Facebook live. Sometimes, volunteers at far-off villages send us videos and photos of protests or any farmer-related issues. The application to make ours a verified page is still pending with Facebook,” he said. NEW MEDIA AND SELF-RELIANCE Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, president Satnam Singh Pannu, who has been spearheading the rail blockade agitation and camping on a track in Ferozepur since September 24, said social media is needed for public outreach. “Volunteers such as Sukhwant Singh in Ferozepur are working tirelessly to share the dissent of Punjab’s farmers. Some of them are engaged in private jobs but they update our social media accounts during their spare time. Now even NRIs have started supporting our agitation and are offering financial support ,” said Pannu. A law student from Muktsar, Karan Singh Bhuttiwala, who is managing the FB page of the BKU’s Sidhupur faction said, “New media has made us self-reliant. We can raise our voice independently. We don’t need conventional media to communicate farmers’ issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-protest-clicks-with-virtual-followers/story-IgOSpZ7jF1tCPhxtYzn8LM.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in ‘moderate’ category||The national capital’s air quality was recorded in the “moderate” category on Tuesday morning. A government forecasting agency said it will remain in the same category for the next two days. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 170 at 10:30 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 159 on Monday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. “Favorable ventilation condition is likely to keep Delhi’s AQI in the moderate category for the next two days,” the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said. However, it said, the late withdrawal of monsoon and associated stagnant winds are likely to influence Delhi’s air quality negatively by the weekend. The monsoon started receding from Rajasthan on Monday. It is expected to withdraw from the rest of northwest India in the next three days, according to an India Meteorological Department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-in-moderate-category/story-Cnl9MgjpQea4PFSHFxwZJK.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC asks Centre for status report on action taken in Rakul Preet’s plea against ‘media trial’||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Centre to file a status report as to the steps taken pursuant to its order of September 17 where it had directed the authorities to treat as a representation actor Rakul Preet Singh’s plea restraining media from reporting on her in connection with Rhea Chakraborty drug case.Justice Navin Chawla also issued notices to the authorities on the application seeking the response of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry among other respondents and posted the matter for further hearing on October 15.Chakraborty is at the centre of a controversy surrounding actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14.Singh’s application was filed in the main petition alleging a media trial against her in the case after she was reportedly named by Chakrabarty in a statement to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) authorities.CBI, NCB, and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are the three central agencies which are probing Rajput’s death.Singh’s counsel Aman Hingorani told the court that fake news was being peddled against her. He submitted that after he filed the main petition in the HC, media reports said that she was summoned by the NCB authorities on September 24.He said Singh was in Hyderabad and had not received any summons. He said that fake news was being peddled against his client, where she was accused of stocking up drugs. He said that TV news channels alleged that she was dodging the NCB authorities, even though she received the summons later. He claimed that Singh was losing out on the work front, as she was removed from films because of her alleged drug links. “My right to dignity, privacy, which is to be left alone, is being violated,” Singh’s petition stated .However, the court sought to know whether it could pass any order when none of the TV news channels was present. It said that the petitioner needed to furnish a grievance or a broadcast with which she was aggrieved.Rahul Bhatia, the counsel for News Broadcasters Association (NBA), the collective voice of the TV news channels, told the court that they have been receiving a lot of complaints, which are being looked into on a daily basis. The court asked Bhatia to file a status report in this regard.The court also sought to know from Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma about what actions were taken on its September 17 order, where it had asked to consider Singh’s plea of media trial as a representation.ASG Sharma told the court that the NBA was aware of the matter and the process was in progress. He said Singh was not an accused and she was being investigated. He said that any order by the court at this stage would affect the ongoing probe in the case.The court issued notice on the urgent plea seeking to ensure that the TV news channels were barred to broadcast any report on Singh’s links to the NCB probe in the Chakraborty drug case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-delhi-hc-asks-centre-for-status-report-on-action-taken-in-rakul-preet-s-plea-against-media-trial/story-JOqQkS8vticYdw988z6wgO.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Farm laws opposed by Congress-NCP present new dilemma for Uddhav Thackeray||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government iappears to be in dilemma over the implementation of the contentious farms laws passed recently by the Parliament.The Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party have opposed implementation of the three laws in the state, calling them anti-farmer. Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar announced last week that the state government would not implement the farm laws in the state. Revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat has claimed that all the three ruling parties have opposed the bills and the issue will be discussed in a coordination meeting to stop implementation of the bills.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray hasn’t made a public comment on the row over the farm laws in recent days. But his government did issue a circular in August directing local authorities to implement in letter and spirit the ordinance that preceded the legislation passed by Parliament.Also Read: They are insulting farmers, says PM Modi on protesters burning tractor at India GateShiv Sena, which did not oppose the bills in Parliament, has not come clean on its stands on the bills.The Sena had supported the bills in Lok Sabha and walked out of the vote in Rajya Sabha. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had even congratulated the Centre during a review meeting by the Union agriculture ministry a few weeks ago.A Shiv Sena leader said the issue would be sorted out soon. “It will be discussed in a coordination meeting of the three ruling parties. Our stance on the bills will be cleared soon,” the Sena functionary said..On Monday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked all Congress-ruled states to explore the possibility of enacting legislation under Article 254(2) of the Constitution to negate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government’s “anti-agricultural laws” and prevent “grave injustice” from being done to farmers.Also Read: Sonia Gandhi urges Congress-ruled states to override Centre’s farm lawsA senior Congress leader in Maharashtra said they were holding consultations within the party and with their alliance partners on the next steps. “We are consulting on the matter with the law and judicial department seeking legal opinion. It will be discussed in a coordination meeting of ruling parties,” said a Congress leader.The Centre had issued three ordinances in June this year, replacing them with three bills - Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - which were passed by the Parliament last week.Maharashtra marketing director Satish Soni had issued a circular on the basis of the ordinances on August 10 that asked district authorities and departments to implement the ordinances in letter and spirit.“As per the provisions in the ordinances, the farmers are free to market his produce at field, factory, warehouse or cold storage without any hindrance and without any market fee applicable under APMC Act. Any other fee or charges applicable under APMC Act cannot be charged now as per the provisions made in the ordinances. The law and judiciary department has vetted the ordinances and validated its applicability. Though the existence of the APMCs has not been affected by promulgation of the ordinance, the farmers will have a parallel mechanism to get fair prices for their produce. The market committees are expected to implement the provisions in the ordinances effectively,” the circular states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farm-laws-opposed-by-congress-ncp-present-new-dilemma-for-uddhav-thackeray/story-cwRNrMrb0LnJ5Z5lBwAqhL.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks Maharashtra to consider restarting public transport in a planned manner||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state government to consider reopening public transport facilities in a planned manner in a bid to ensure that people from all walks of life get to earn their livelihood, who have been financially hit hard because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The court made the suggestion while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking permission for lawyers to attend lower courts. The court has asked the petitioner lawyers to share a one-page note of suggestions with the Maharashtra government in a bid to help it take a decision by October 5.The state authorities have been directed to inform the court about their decision on the next date of the hearing of the related pleas on October 6. Also Read: Maharashtra: Number of active Covid-19 cases continues to reduceThe bench held that court and lawyers have to ensure that they do not look after their own needs, but also of the other people, who are starving because they have been deprived of their means of livelihood due to the viral outbreak.A two-member HC division bench, comprising Chief Justice (CJ) Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa was informed by senior counsel Dr Milind Sathe that the petition was seeking directions to the state government to consider advocates as essential service providers and permit them to travel by suburban trains to attend lower courts. However, government counsel Poornima Kantharia opposed the plea and cited that despite the travel restrictions the Covid-19 pandemic situation was going from bad to worse, as suburban train services were running packed during peak hours.The court heard the submissions and drew the attention of Dr Sathe to media reports, which stated that the government was considering allowing employees of private organisations to travel by suburban trains. “We understand that the local trains are packed but we have to look at the needs of other people, too, as they have lost their means of livelihood. We read a report, where a manager of a hotel had to work as a helper of a dumper truck to support himself,” said (CJ) Datta. Also Read: One million lives lost to Covid-19, writes WHO chief Tedros Adhanom GhebreyesusThe bench suggested that the lower courts could start functioning from 2 pm, as the trains were packed during peak hours. The court said the move would allow the lawyers to travel by trains in the afternoon when they are running upto 50% capacity. “We have to think about ways to overcome the situation. We need to guard against what has happened in Kerala, where there has been a 126% rise in Covid-19 cases since the Onam celebrations,” observed CJ Datta.“Allowing only lawyers can be biased on our part. Why not the other sectors? We cannot only think of lawyers, but we have to think of people from other sectors as well. People, who are starving, after losing their jobs,” the bench further observed.The bench asked Dr Sathe and advocate Dr Uday Warunjikar, who appeared in a related matter, to submit a one-page suggestion such as looking at staggered timing of local courts. The bench further directed the state to consider the suggestions and if it found them prima facie acceptable to take a decision for permitting local train, bus and other modes of transport for travel for the public and file a reply to this effect on October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-maharashtra-to-consider-restarting-public-transport-in-a-planned-manner/story-VAW9P53AHuVqWqh5FFtihI.html
29-09-2020||Lucknow||CBI court to pronounce Babri verdict tomorrow: All you need to know||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Lucknow will pronounce its verdict in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case on Wednesday. The demolition triggered some of the deadliest riots since partition and left about 2,000 dead. Here is a look at how the case has panned out1. Two First Information Reports (FIRs) were lodged in Ayodhya after the demolition on December 6, 1992, with the first against unmanned karsevaks, or religious volunteers.2. The second FIR named Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, who were present when the mosque was brought down. Advani spearheaded a campaign for a Ram Temple in place of the mosque.3. Forty-five more FIRs were later lodged.4. A special CBI court was constituted in Rae Bareli on July 8, 1993 to hear the case.5. Charges were framed on July 28, 2005, and 57 witnesses recorded their statements.6. The Supreme Court transferred the case to the Lucknow court on May 30, 2017, as charges were framed against 28 people.7. It extended the timeframe for completing the criminal trial in the case on July 19, 2019 by six months, and set a deadline of nine months for the final order.8. The nine-month deadline expired on April 19 and the special judge wrote to the apex court on May 6, seeking an extension.9. The Supreme Court, on May 8, set a new deadline of August 31 for the judgment.10. In August, the apex court again extended the deadline till September 3.Also Read: Babri demolition case: Accused may seek exemption from appearance in courtTwist in the caseCalling the demolition a crime that shook the “secular fabric of the Constitution”, the apex court in April 2017 overturned the dropping of criminal conspiracy charges against high-profile accused persons including Advani. The court called the Allahabad high court’s February 12, 2001, verdict dropping the charges “erroneous”.Before the 2017 verdict, there were two cases related to the demolition being heard in Lucknow and Rae Bareli.The first case involved unnamed karsevaks in Lucknow and the second eight high-profile accused in Rae Bareli. In April 2017, the Supreme Court transferred the Rae Bareli case to the special court in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cbi-court-to-pronounce-babri-verdict-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know/story-xaE1jStm0ntMZHnmB0auDM.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Minister Uday Samant who visited all Maharashtra universities tests Covid positive||Maharashtra minister Uday Samant tested positive for Covid-19. He is the 16th member of Uddhav Thackeray’s council of ministers to be infected with the highly contagious disease.Samant is minister of higher and technical education.“On getting the initial symptoms of Covid 19, I got myself tested and the report came back positive. My health is fine and I am observing home quarantine as of now,” Samant said on Twitter.He has recently held a statewide tour and visited all the universities to review their preparations for final year examinations of professional and non-professional courses expected to start from October first week.Also Read: In Maharashtra, nu`mber of active Covid-19 cases continues to reduceEarlier, 10 cabinet and five junior ministers were infected with it. They were urban development minister Eknath Shinde, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, rural development minister Hasan Mushrif, energy minister Nitin Raut, PWD minister Ashok Chavan, fisheries minister Aslam Shaikh, housing minister Jitendra Awhad, social justice minister Dhananjay Munde, cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil, dairy development minister Sunil Kedar, minister of state for school education Bachchu Kadu, minister of state for revenue Abdul Sattar, minister of state for environment Sanjay Bansode, minister of state for social justice Vishwajeet Kadam, minister of state for higher and technical education Prajakt Tanpure. State chief secretary Sanjay Kumar too had tested positive last week and is under self-isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uday-samant-16th-minister-in-mva-government-tests-covid-positive/story-MQPSxpQ90iAiNQb7wZxThP.html
29-09-2020||Bhopal||FIR filed against 2 MP cops after man dies in custody. They said he shot himself||Two policemen have been suspended and a FIR filed against them after a 38-year-old man arrested by them died of a gunshot injury on Sunday night. The policemen had claimed that Rajpati Kushwaha had shot himself from the service revolver of one of the two policemen. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder was registered against the policemen after protests by residents of a town in Madhya Pradesh’s Vindhya region. Satna district police chief Riyaz Iqbal was also shunted out by the state government.The two policemen are Singhpur police station in-charge Vikram Pathak and constable Ashish Kumar, said Rewa zone inspector general (IG) of police Umesh Joga. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced the transfer of the district Superintendent of Police and Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia for Rajpati Kushwaha’s family.Shivraj Singh Chouhan also said a magisterial inquiry had been ordered. “If any police personnel is found guilty in the inquiry the state government will not spare him and take strict action against him,” he said.“An FIR has been registered against the police station in-charge Vikram Pathak and constable Ashish Kumar under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 348 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Singhpur police station,” Rewa Umesh Joga said. The man had been detained for interrogation in a theft case.The action followed protests led by Congress legislator Siddharth Kushwaha in Satna district, about 500 km north east of Bhopal, who alleged the police had killed the man.Rajpati Kushwaha’s daughter, Shivani, said her father was being harassed for a long time. “He can’t kill himself because he was a brave person and told us that he would come back from the police station as he didn’t commit any crime,” the 18-year-old said.Senior police officer Umesh Joga said Rajpati was called for questioning after a burglary was reported by the former village head of Narayapur village. He had alleged that the thief had stolen jewellery and a licensed rifle. “The former sarpanch in his written complaint expressed his doubt about involvement of Rajpati and two others in the crime. Police had interrogated Rajpati once last week. On Sunday, he was called again for interrogation to the police station,” Umesh Joga said.“The SP Riyaz Iqbal informed me that during interrogation, Rajpati snatched the revolver of police station in-charge Vikram Pathak and shot himself in the forehead. He was taken to a private hospital from where he was referred to Sanjay Gandhi Medical College, Rewa where he succumbed to bullet injuries,” said Joga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-filed-against-2-mp-cops-after-man-dies-in-custody-they-said-he-shot-himself/story-2bSSlopenkkSO1QKaHTXfJ.html
29-09-2020||Education||Do not fall for false fee reduction claims, education department urges parents||Two days after several parents from Mumbai had raised an alarm about a company promising up to a 50% discount in private school fees because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the office of the deputy director of the education department for the Mumbai region, Maharashtra, has warned them about the scam.On September 26, HT had reported about a complaint filed by a group of parents against a private company called Pride Group, which had claimed to have a tie-up with the state government and promised to pay up to 50% of fees of private schools on behalf of parents. The company had promised discounts depending on the fee that a private school charges. Also Read: Online learning leaves poor, young women in India behind | OpinionIn lieu, parents were asked to pay Rs 2,500 to the personal account of one of the heads of the company. The deputy director of education department for the Mumbai region took cognisance of the complaint and issued a circular. “There is no such fee reduction scheme by the state/Central government for private schools as stated by the company. Parents are requested not to trust such companies and should not provide any details and documents to them,” the circular stated. Also Read: Teachers raise concerns over weekly report mandate by Maharashtra education departmentAnil Sabale, deputy director of the education for the Mumbai region, said, “We have uploaded the circular on our website and have also urged private schools and parents not to trust such schemes. The post, which is doing the rounds on social media, is claiming that the group has an association with the state government. It is fake information.” Parents are also wary of the fake promises made by the company. “Many parents have lost their money and have also given their documents. This is a risky business, especially at a time when parents are already struggling to pay their children’s school fees because of the contagion. We are planning to lodge a police complaint in this matter,” said a parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/do-not-fall-for-false-fee-reduction-claims-education-department-urges-parents/story-gmRRPv6ZfS4i838Emf9mlL.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Number of active Covid-19 cases continues to reduce||The active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Maharashtra have been consistently going down in the past few days. The active viral caseload has come down to 2,65,033 cases until Monday. Over the past 11 days, there was a reduction of 36,719 Covid-19 cases, a record since the viral outbreak was reported in the country’s worst-affected state around seven months ago.State health and family welfare department officials attributed the discernible trend to an appreciable dip in fresh infections in the past few days.Also Read: One million lives lost to Covid-19, writes WHO chief Tedros Adhanom GhebreyesusActive cases are the difference between total number of Covid-19 cases and the patients, who have recovered from their viral infection, or some of those, who had succumbed to the contagion. Maharashtra had breached the three-lakh mark of active Covid-19 cases on September 17, as the tally stood at 3,01,752.However, the figure has been declining since then. On September 21, it was reduced to 2,74,623 cases, and it further came down to 2,65,033 on Monday.“The rate of fresh viral infection has come down, as compared to the cases reported in the past few weeks. The state has also recorded more number of recoveries than fresh infections between September 18 and 28. Consequently, the active Covid-19 cases have been decreasing,” said a ministry official.Also Read: India’s daily Covid-19 case count drops to 70,589; recoveries increase to over 82%Maharashtra has reported 188,282 new Covid-19 cases between September 18 and 28, while the recoveries of the viral infection during the corresponding period have been 237,593, according to the state health department’s data.The state reported 11,921 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, as the tally rose to 1,351,153. The cumulative Covid-19-related death toll stands at 35,751, including 180 fresh fatalities. The state authorities are still struggling to control the high number of casualties. Data showed that Maharashtra accounted for 37.41% of the 95,542 Covid-19 deaths reported across the country until Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-continues-to-reduce/story-M4lOqecRpXdergue1olHbJ.html
29-09-2020||Environment||Aerial images show coastal road reclamation far beyond requirement: Environmentalist to SC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has allegedly undertaken more land reclamation for a road project in Mumbai than it was supposed to and damaged the city’s coastline in violation of Supreme Court orders, an environmental group has told the top court. NGO Conservation Action Trust (CAT) on Monday filed an affidavit requesting the court to stop BMC from further reclamation.The affidavit cited a series of aerial images of the reclamation through mud and debris dumping and added it has gone far beyond what was required for the road.The Supreme Court in December 2019 put on hold the Bombay high court’s July 2019 order quashing coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearances to the civic body. It allowed the reclamation but restricted BMC from carrying out any other development work. “The petitioners are free to reclaim the land, build the road thereon, and secure the road. They shall however not carry out any other development work until further orders of this court,” the Supreme Court said.Also Read: Online public consultation to finalise coastal maps for Sindhudurg, Palghar in Maharashtra face oppositionCAT’s executive trustee, Debi Goenka, said the depth and the width of the reclamation demonstrated that the Supreme Court order has been allegedly ignored and caused irreparable damage to Mumbai’s coastline. “We have attached photographs along Priyadarshini Park, Cumbala Hill, and Breach Candy area all showing illegal reclamation.”“This excessive reclamation has already caused severe and irreversible harm to the Mumbai coastline, and remaining areas need to be protected urgently.”The Supreme Court will again hear the matter on Wednesday.BMC’s chief engineer (coastal road project), Niranjan Khanolkar, dismissed the allegations as baseless and insisted they have only reclaimed 52 ha of the approved 90 ha cleared under the CRZ since March in South Mumbai for the 9.9-km Rs 14,000-crore eight-lane road project. “While we have requested the SC [Supreme Court] and the Centre for approval to reclaim an additional 21 ha, it will only commence once we complete the first 90 ha followed by permissions from the Union environment ministry.”Goenka said BMC’s reclamation work was in violation of its submissions before the Supreme Court and conditions for CRZ clearance. “BMC had assured the SC that it would only commence reclamation after clearances under the Wildlife Protection Act (WLPA), which it does not have at the moment. Secondly, the CRZ clearance stipulated that no work could commence without wildlife clearance due to the presence of corals [protected under the WLPA) and other marine biodiversity.”BMC on September 3 applied for wildlife clearance and submitted a proposal to move 18 coral colonies for further reclamation.HT on September 21 reported the Maharashtra forest department has temporarily stalled the clearance until the clarification of specific details.Khanolkar said they have submitted all required documents and maps for the project and brought on record the proposed plan for coral translocation. “Our plan is to complete this translocation and commence with reclamation across ecologically-sensitive zones by mid-October.”Divisional forest officer (Mangrove Cell) DR Patil said they have received the revised list of documents from BMC and it will take them at least a week to examine the material, assess impacts, and make a recommendation. “Following this, the proposal will be vetted by the Mangrove Cell head and finally the chief wildlife warden in Nagpur. The process will take time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/aerial-images-show-coastal-road-reclamation-far-beyond-requirement-environmentalist-to-sc/story-wi5KOA5EIqa4Qc0AlbbuyN.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police sub-inspector on the run after killing father-in-law, woman friend||Delhi Police teams have conducted raids at five different locations in the national capital and neighbouring Haryana to nab sub-inspector (S-I), Sandeep Dahiya (35), who allegedly shot dead his father-in-law (62) in Rohtak’s Bhainsi village on Monday morning.Dahiya had also shot at his woman friend in a car at Alipur in outer Delhi over 12 hours before the Rohtak incident.“We have raided five places, but Dahiya is yet to be caught. Our teams are trying to nab him,” said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), (north district), Delhi Police. Also read: Woman found murdered in Delhi’s Mohan GardenDahiya, who is posted at north Delhi’s Lahori Gate police station, is in possession of his service pistol and cartridges that were issued to him on September 26. That was the last time he had reported for work and was assigned night patrolling duty from 9 pm. It is not yet clear, whether Dahiya allegedly used his service weapon in both the crimes. He was driving his car during the crimes and is on the run along with it, said the officers, who are investigating the cases. Besides Dahiya’s family members, who live in a Haryana village, the police have also questioned his three friends – one in the national capital and two in his native state – to get more leads about his whereabouts. One of the friends had last spoken to Dahiya on Sunday morning. The friend told the police that Dahiya had informed him that he would be coming to meet him in the afternoon, the officers said.“Dahiya’s mobile phone was last active at Shalimar Bagh in Delhi until 3 pm on Sunday, around the time he had left his residence along with the woman friend in his car. His mobile phone was switched off since then,” said an officer, who did not want to be named.Police said Dahiya shot at the woman friend around 5.30 pm at Alipur on Sunday following an argument they had in his car. The woman, who was shot thrice in her right shoulder and arm, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Delhi.She has told the police that Dahiya was taking her to meet his family members, who live at Sisana village in Sonepat, Haryana. On the way, they had an altercation and Dahiya allegedly shot at her and fled, leaving her bleeding on the roadside. She was spotted and admitted to the hospital by another passerby policeman, the officer said. The woman has told the police that she was in a relationship with Dahiya for the past year. “Dahiya deactivated his social media account and dropped his parents to his native village on Saturday, a day before he shot at his woman friend. We suspect that Dahiya may have planned the crimes well in advance,” the officer added.While the Delhi police teams were looking for Dahiya, he reportedly drove to his in-laws’ house in Rohtak’s Bhainsi village and shot his father in-law, Ranbir Singh, dead on Monday morning. Dahiya’s wife, Rajesh Devi, said the incident took place at around 7 am when her father was cleaning the road outside their house. She told the police that she had moved back to the parents’ house four years ago following a marital discord. She also said that a case was pending in the local court in Rohtak district.Police officials said Dahiya had joined Delhi Police as a constable in 2006. In 2016, he was promoted an S-I after he cleared the departmental examination. “Dahiya has been in a marital dispute with his wife, who has filed a dowry harassment case against him in a police station in Rohtak. He had also faced a departmental enquiry,” said an officer, who knows Dahiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-sub-inspector-on-the-run-after-killing-father-in-law-woman-friend/story-mjSTbVRdnIqL1BhAw89sJO.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police returns Rs 21.50 lakh, gold, phones, vehicles in recovered property to the public||Around Rs 21.50 lakh in cash, gold jewellery weighing around five kilograms (kg), 472 mobile phones, and close to 4,000 vehicles, including 146 auto-rickshaws, which were recovered stolen properties lying in malkhanas -- a room in a police station where stolen and other goods, including guns, are stored -- of the national capital’s police stations, were returned to their rightful owners during several “case property disposal melas” organised by the Delhi Police since June. This is a new drive started to facilitate the public, who had lost their belongings to various property-related crimes such as snatching, robbery, dacoity, theft, and burglary, but were not able to collect them despite recoveries from criminals because of the prevailing coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak that has led to the imposition of various restrictions, police officers said. SN Shrivastava, commissioner, Delhi Police, tweeted about the drive and said the list includes Rs 21.43 lakh and approximately 5 kg gold jewellery. Delhi Police began a drive to return stolen properties recovered from thieves/robbers connected to a crime to its rightful owner after permission from the court. The list includes 21.43 lakhs rupees, approx 5 kg gold jewellery and 5000 vehicles👇@LtGovDelhi @HMOIndia @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/DEK1TV5RGBBetween June 1 and September 17, 6,478 people were benefited because of this new initiative, called “case property disposal melas” that are being periodically organised at all the 15 police districts and other units, where cases are registered and probed. Officials said that thousands of such articles were lying in malkhanas following their recovery as case properties. The owners of the properties were not able to get them back because the procedure needed approval from courts concerned, whose functioning has become restricted because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“While the recovered stolen items were piling up in police stations, their owners were also facing difficulties in claiming them. As a result, we decided to pursue the matter in courts. We collected details of the finalised cases in bulk, presented them before courts and took permission for releasing these items. The case property disposal fairs are organised and the items are being returned to their rightful owners,” the officer said. Among the 6,478 people benefited from the new scheme is Rajesh Kumar, an insurance advisor from south Delhi’s Khirki village, whose mobile phone was lost following a snatching incident in his neighbourhood on July 24. “I was worried, as my mobile phone contained several office-related data that could have been misused. But I am thankful to the police because they not only recovered my stolen phone but also returned it in less than a month under their new scheme. The process is smooth and people-friendly. This initiative should continue,” said Kumar. The list revealed that $120 US and £325 recovered stolen foreign currencies were also returned to the complainants, who had lost them. Of the 3,996 recovered stolen vehicles, 3,418 were two-wheelers, followed by four-wheelers (432) and auto- rickshaws (146). The list showed that 4.97 kg of gold jewellery items, five diamond jewellery and 113 silver jewellery items were returned to their rightful owners after they were recovered. Besides, 472 mobile phones and 2,243 other articles such as laptops, electronic gadgets, and household items were also returned following the permission of courts, said an official, who did not want to be named. So far, over a dozen melas have been organised in various police districts in the national capital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-returns-rs-21-50-lakh-gold-phones-vehicles-in-recovered-property-to-the-public/story-SjfRYrqQA6pcdYXyUBWvhM.html
29-09-2020||City||UP: BRD Medical College to start Covaxin phase-3 trial in mid-October||Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das Medical College is expected to start the phase three trials of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in mid-October. The government’s drug regulator approved Covaxin for human trials in June, making it India’s first domestic candidate to get the go-ahead.Baba Raghav Das Medical College principal Dr Ganesh Kumar said they met the representatives of Bharat Biotech on Sunday to discuss the trials. Phase three of drug trials involve efficacy and monitoring of adverse reactions.Also read: India’s daily Covid-19 case count drops to 70,589; recoveries increase to over 82%The college has constituted a three-member doctors’ team to prepare the standard operating procedure for the trials. A Bharat Biotech representative said the dates of the trials will be announced next week.Officials said the work on data compilation and other procedures are continuing to prepare for the trials.Kumar said they will follow the Centre’s safety and regulatory guidelines for conducting the trials and that experts from Gorakhpur’s Regional Medical Research Centre will be also be involved.A state health department official said the earlier two phases of the trials were held at two private medical hospitals in Gorakhpur and Kanpur. The hospitals have sent their reports to Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research.Amit Mohan Prasad, the additional chief secretary (health), last week announced Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences and Baba Raghav Das Medical College have been selected for the Covaxin phase-3 efficacy and safety clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-brd-medical-college-to-start-covaxin-phase-3-trial-in-mid-october/story-uPUqbtDp2axc8GmJvet4JP.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Traffic restored on Chandigarh-Shimla highway after landslide cleared||Traffic on the Chandigarh-Shimla national highway number 22 was restored on Tuesday afternoon after the landslide in Himachal Pradesh’s Solan district on Monday night was cleared. “The traffic has been restored on the highway. The landslide that occurred around 9pm on Monday was cleared around 2pm on Tuesday. Cracks have developed on the road after the landslide at Kiari Bangla near Kandaghat. The road has sunk on the stretch ,” Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap said. Traffic to Shimla was earlier diverted through lateral roads connecting Shimla and Kandaghat via Sadhupul. The police had advised people to use alternate routes of Kufri-Kandaghat, Mehli-Kandaghat via Junga and Tutu to Kunihar to avoid inconvenience. Similarly, people coming from Rampur, Rohru, Kotkhai and Chopal were asked to take the Chhaila to Solan route via Neripul and Giripul, they said. The supply of essential commodities, including milk, to the state capital of Shimla was delayed on Tuesday morning as vehicles were diverted via Kunihar. WORK IN PROGRESS ON STRETCH Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the public works department, had directed the National Highway Authority of India to speed up restoration of traffic on the arterial route. A high-level team of engineers was at the spot to find ways to restore the sinking stretch of the highway.NH-22 is a key highway that connects Ferozepur in Punjab with Shipki La on the Indo-China border in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district. The landslide had affected the movement of army vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/efforts-on-to-restore-traffic-on-chandigarh-shimla-highway/story-gsQO99ZqW1ckXuBDjdGOmM.html
29-09-2020||City||Pak opens heavy fire in J&K’s Poonch; no loss of life, property||Pakistan opened heavy fire on Indian posts along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mankote sector of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday.India retaliated to the firing. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “at about 0430 hours (4.30 am), Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation in Mankote sector. Initially, they fired with small arms and then switched to intense mortar shelling. Indian Army retaliated befittingly.”There was no loss of life or injury on the Indian side when reports last came in. Mankote sector lies in Mendhar sub division, one of the densely populated areas of Poonch district.Amid a protracted India-China stand-off in eastern Ladakh, Pakistan has also upped the ante along the 744-km-long LoC and 198-km-long international border. While ceasefire violations and infiltration bids have seen a quantum jump since nullification of Article 370 on August 5 last year, Pakistan has also adopted a new modus operandi to fuel terrorism with the use of drones to push arms, ammunition, narcotics and hawala money into Indian territory.From January 26 in Arnia sector of Jammu district to June 20, when an arms-laden drone was shot down by the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel at Rathua in Kathua district’s Hiranagar sector, at least seven such bids have been foiled by the Indian forces this year. On August 29, BSF had detected a trans-border tunnel in Samba sector that was being dug to push armed terrorists into J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-opens-heavy-fire-in-j-k-s-poonch-no-loss-of-life-property/story-EQlXYfj0dzdWXAScbKW7GP.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Over 50% violations in Mumbai reported from areas in western suburbs, southern part||Over 50% of the total cases of Mumbaikars levied fine for not wearing a mask in public places in the last six months have been reported from at least five locations in western suburbs and southern parts of the city, respectively. These locations also include areas that are currently under coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots.Borivali, Kandivali, Malad, Andheri are located in the westerb suburbs and Churchgate, Colaba, Marine Drive, Charni Road, Malad Hill and Chowpatty are situated in south Mumbai. Also read: 43 volunteers selected for Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine trial in MumbaiOn Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities had said that it had fined 14,207 Mumbaikars in the city since April for not wearing a mask and collected Rs 52.76 lakh as fines for violating the rule. Fines worth Rs 19 lakh were collected from 9,218 defaulters between September 13 and 26 alone.The BMC had made it mandatory for Mumbaikars to wear a mask in public places since April 8. Earlier, the civic body used to levy fines ranging between Rs 200 to 1,000 for not wearing a mask in public places.However, the penalty amount was brought down to Rs 200 in early September.According to the data, six hotspots, which had reported 36% of Mumbai’s total viral case load, had also reported 32% of Mumbaikars, who were penalised for not wearing a mask. The list revealed that 1,084 cases of Mumbaikars did not wear a mask in Borivali, Kandivali (1,331), Jogeshwari West (891), Malad (551). Andheri West and Vile Parle East had reported 586 violations each. And, 237 cases of flouting of were recorded each in Dadar, Mahim and Dharavi.In south Mumbai, Churchgate, Colaba, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had reported 771 cases each and 1,053 cases were recorded from Dongri and Marine Lines each. While in Charni Road, Kalbadevi, Pydhonie 1,169 cases had reported each and another 724 cases were recorded from Grant Road, Malabar Hill and Chowpatty each. These areas had reported 8,397 (59.1%) cases of the total 14,207 cases of Mumbaikars, who were fined by the BMC authorities for not wearing a mask.Mulund had reported one of the lowest cases of similar violation at 120 cases, followed by Govandi, a former hotspot that has dense sum clusters (159), Parel (172), and Powai, Vikhroli and Kanjurmarg with 226 cases each.The BMC has been putting a lot of emphasis on wearing a mask in public places because of the unlocking of restrictions in a phased manner in a bid to revive economic activities in Mumbai that have been roiled by the viral outbreak.The BMC has also asked 24 administrative civic wards in Mumbai to undertake an aggressive drive to levy fines against violators. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (AMC), BMC said, “We need to understand that the launch of a Covid-19 vaccine will take time. Under the circumstances, the best we can do is to comply with social distancing, wear a mask and maintain hygiene in a bid to prevent the spread of the contagion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hot-spot/story-2pf04x55IJ6c1K18qlY5VP.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Hoteliers face an uphill task as govt allows reopening of hotels, restaurants||The Maharashtra government has indicated that hotels and restaurants would be allowed to reopen from the first week of October, despite the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country’s worst-affected state.However, hoteliers and restaurateurs are likely to face an uphill task in running their businesses because of a raft of factors.Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity, as the state government has insisted on compliance with social distancing, an acute shortage of labourers, severe financial crisis coupled with panic about the Covid-19 pandemic among customers.Hoteliers and restaurateurs said though they would not make any profit, they were relieved about the gradual unlocking of restrictions in a bid to revive economic activities battered by the viral outbreak.Consider the case of Udupi Srikrishna Boarding, a reputed south Indian eatery in Matunga that can accommodate up to 79 customers. “We will be able to cater to a maximum of 40 customers at one go. Our business will be reduced to half,” said Satish Nayak, the owner of the outlet. Also Read: Restaurants in Maharashtra likely to reopen from first week of OctoberNayak said it would be impossible for hotels and restaurants to break even in such a restrictive environment. “There were no earnings in the past six months. This move will at least provide us to pay our overheads to some extent,” he added. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, director, Pritam Hotels, cited an acute crisis of labourers because many migrants to the city had returned to their respective native places during the Covid-19-induced 68-day nationwide lockdown restrictions. “It will be a Herculean task to bring back migrant labourers from their native places because of a shortage of outstation trains,” said Kohli. “Besides, local employees live in far-off places and they are not being allowed to travel by suburban trains,” he added.Hoteliers plan to petition the state government to allow their employees to travel by suburban trains and treat them as part of essential services. Regular patrons to hotels and restaurants are wary of eating out because of an uptick in the number of Covid-19 cases in both Maharashtra and Mumbai.“We are still apprehensive about the viral outbreak. We will wait for some more months before eating out,” said Vaishali Mandot, a Sewree resident, who used to dine out at least once a week during pre-Covid-19 days.Maharashtra has around four lakh hotels that have been closed for the past six weeks because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Though the state government had allowed takeaways and home deliveries, Mumbaikars were lukewarm to avail of the services. There was a growing chorus for reopening of hotels and restaurants as part of the state government’s Mission Begin Again campaign, which was accepted on Monday. Savio D’sa, a consultant to the food and beverage (F&B) sector, said the state government’s move was prompted due to economic issues. “Hotels and restaurants provide a huge amount of taxes to the state exchequer. It is imperative that the state government allows them to reopen,” said D’sa. He said any further delay would have broken the back of the F&B sector, which is reeling under an acute financial crisis because of the contagion-induced lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-hoteliers-face-an-uphill-task-as-govt-allows-reopening-of-hotels-restaurants/story-sgNmXs9qj5pDx9v4gO19ZI.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR among top 10 global trips market, says Uber||Ride hailing platform Uber has said Delhi-NCR ranked among its top 10 markets globally based on the number of trips taken in the month of September. Delhi is the only Indian city to have made it to the top 10, highlighting its strategic importance in Uber’s global portfolio, with residents taking more than one million rides each week, a statement from Uber said. “As Delhi residents resume travel after the lengthy lockdown, Uber data reveals that cars have emerged as the most preferred mode of commuting, followed closely by low cost products such as Auto and Moto,” it added. There has also been an increase in longer distance trips, with the busiest hours weekly being 8AM - 10AM. Also, Mondays and Fridays are the busiest days of the week for drivers, the statement said.A nationwide lockdown was imposed at the end of March by the government and like many other businesses, cab companies like Uber and Ola saw a major impact on their business. With the lockdown being lifted in phases, these cab aggregators have seen gradual resumption in business.According to news agency PTI, Uber India and South Asia President Prabhjeet Singh said they are thrilled to see Delhi as one of Uber’s top 10 global markets in terms of number of trips in the month of September, which underscores India’s important role as a contributor to Uber’s business growth.Earlier this month, Uber had said its affordable Uber Auto service was recovering briskly with cities like Delhi rebounding to almost 80% of pre-Covid levels, followed by Jaipur and Chandigarh recovering to 50%.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-ncr-among-top-10-global-trips-market-says-uber/story-P3jPsBImrh5BHm1w8g37MN.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Life with a kitchen novelty||It is taking so much space in the small kitchen. But Babua Singh won’t crib about that. “You stack the bartan (dishes) in it, go to office, and when you come back in the evening everything is spotlessly clean and dry,” she says.A textile designer, Ms Singh is showing her newly acquired dish-washing machine in the Ghaziabad flat that she shares with her husband and college-going daughter. Like many middle-class households, Ms Singh used to depend on the services of a part-time house maid for washing the dishes. The coronavirus pandemic changed that as visits from the outside now involve fears of getting the virus. Ms Singh says she nevertheless supported Asha, her long-time housemaid, until she left for her village in Bihar a couple of months ago.While her family would give a hand in household chores during the ongoing pandemic, Ms Singh would still find herself too involved in the kitchen duties. “I leave for office at 9.30 in the morning and come back around 6pm, so there isn’t so much time to relax.”The house always had a washing machine to take care of the laundry “but the idea of getting a dish washer came after Mukul Bhaiya and Anita Bhabhi got one for themselves,” she says, referring to a couple who couldn’t stop gushing about how easy their life had become after getting the admirable appliance.Following a brief discussion with her husband, Ms Singh ordered the machine online “and the company’s people helped us install it... they came in mask.”The new machine seems the most ostentatious object in Ms Singh’s kitchen. A simple two-burner gas range reigns over the counter. “Lakshman Rekha” chalk is drawn around an aata jar to keep off the ants. The microwave is in the corner and the spices and lentils are stocked behind wooden closets.“Even the pressure cooker cleans up very well... the only thing I have to wash in the sink is the kadahi and the tawa,” she says.Dishwashing machines are novel to Indian homes — during the harshest days of the lockdown, some of the more popular online videos were of Hindi film stars trying their hand at washing the dishes in the sink.Ms Singh confides that some of her friends also got the machine “in dekha-dekhi (got inspired) but they use it rarely, as if too much handling might spoil it... just like during the early days of the washing machines (for clothes), when we would use it only on Sundays!” Native of a UP village, Ms Singh reveals that nobody in her circle of immediate relatives has ever used a dishwasher.And now she playfully poses with the machine, making sure that her face is not visible “because of shyness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-life-with-a-kitchen-novelty/story-Ym1yNycsUB8MWx5dVo0FYK.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Heart surgeries down by 89.5% at AIIMS during lockdown||There was a drop of 89.5% in the number of cardiac surgeries that were performed between April and July at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, according to data shared by a doctor during one of the National Grand Rounds, where doctors from across the country learn about issues in management of patients with Covid-19 in a virtual interactive session.The data shows 411 cardiac surgeries were performed between April and July in 2019 as compared to just 43 in 2020. The hospital had shut its outpatient clinics in March during the lockdown and only the emergency surgeries were being performed.However, there was a drop in the number of emergency cardiac surgeries as well. According to data, 35 such surgeries were performed in 2020 as compared to 58 done in the same period last year. This amounts to a drop of 39.6%.“Diabetes, hypertension and heart diseases are comorbidities that lead to poorer outcomes as far as Covid-19 is concerned,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS.Dr Mukesh Goel, senior consultant of cardio-thoracic and vascular surgery at Indraprastha Apollo hospital said, “During and after the lockdown, all hospitals saw a decline in the number of patients coming in for emergency procedures mainly because of two reasons – one, the fear of getting Covid-19 kept them away from hospitals and two, those from outside Delhi weren’t able to travel. Because of delays in seeking treatment, I have had patients with heart attacks coming in so late that they needed complicated surgeries to repair the damage.”Cardio-vascular disease such as heart attacks and strokes are the biggest killers in India with 28.1% of all deaths being attributed to it in 2016, according to a state-level burden of disease study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/heart-surgeries-down-by-89-5-at-aiims-during-lockdown/story-UumU7MpTf224mJuX45lGfJ.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana tribunal to hear appeals against HPRERA||Following the request of Himachal Pradesh government, Haryana chief minister, Manohar Lal has approved the draft notification to authorise Haryana Real Estate Appellate Tribunal (HREAT), Karnal, to hear appeals made against the directions or decision or order made by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Himachal Pradesh. An official spokesperson said that the approval of the state government has been conveyed to the Himachal Pradesh government. HREAT, Karnal, will hear appeals made against the orders of Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Himachal Pradesh, or the adjudicating officer and to perform such other functions prescribed under the Real Estate (Regulations and Development) Act, 2016, in respect of Himachal Pradesh by bearing 10% of the annual budget of HREAT, Karnal on quarterly reimbursement basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-tribunal-to-hear-appeals-against-hprera/story-LzWpu2YXLEe5DgBzAttRPL.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||1,500 centres to be set up to provide equipment to Haryana farmers||The Haryana government will set up 1, 500 Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs), which will provide crop residue management equipment to farmers. Additional chief secretary (ACS), agriculture and farmers’ welfare, Sanjeev Kaushal said a target to establish 820 CHCs had been set earlier. However, keeping in view the demand from farmers, 680 more such centres will be set up. He said preference will be given to small and marginal farmers to ensure that they are able to access agricultural machinery easily and participate in the statewide campaign against stubble burning. Allocations will be done on priority basis in red and yellow/orange zones, identified by the department on the basis of incidences of crop residue burning last year. Last year also, the state government had established 1,685 CHCs against the target of 1,300 CHCs. Kaushal said last year the state government had achieved more than 95% of the target set by the Central government for distribution of crop residue management equipment under the scheme ‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for In-Situ Management of Crop’. This year, the state government has decided to provide financial assistance, to the tune of ₹155 crore, to all 11,311 individual farmers who have applied for agricultural implements under the scheme. The agriculture department would provide 454 balers, 5,820 super seeders, 5,418 zero till seed drills, 2,918 choppers/mulchers, 260 happy seeders, 389 straw management systems, 64 rotary slashers/shrub masters, 454 reversible mould ploughs and 288 reapers to the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-500-centres-to-be-set-up-to-provide-equipment-to-haryana-farmers/story-dW7VeCd7d8GTY1ifFltsFN.html
29-09-2020||City||Govt brought these laws amid pandemic to avoid protests: Abhay||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) workers, led by senior party leader Abhay Chautala, took out a protest march against the newly enacted agriculture laws, from Sector 12 to mini-secretariat in Karnal on Monday.Addressing the gathering, Abhay said the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party government had brought these three anti-farmers laws during the pandemic to avoid protests. “And now that the country’s farmers are on the streets, the government is not ready to listen to them,” he said, adding, “The INLD has always been with the farmers and will continue to support their fights.”Chautala said the INLD will hold statewide agitations in support of the farmers until the government is forced to bring these laws are withdrawn. He also slammed the government for not procuring paddy from the farmers, who he stated, have been waiting in the mandis for the past several days. Praises Badals for snapping ties with BJPThe INLD leader also praised the Shiromani Akali Dal leadership for snapping their ties with the National Democratic Alliance in the interest of farmers. He said that SAD’s decision is in favour of farmers and proved that former Punjab chief minsiter Parkash Singh Badal was the tallest farm leader in the country after late Chhotu Ram, Late Devi Lal and Chaudhary Charan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-brought-these-laws-amid-pandemic-to-avoid-protests-abhay/story-tgmKgTz3zLGibARwiQHgeL.html
29-09-2020||City||Clamour for Dushyant, Ranjit Chautala’s resignations grow louder||A day after President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the three agricultural legislations that have evoked widespread resistance from the farming community, 17 farmers unions have decided to stage dharnas in front of the residences of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala to demand their resignation from the Khattar government.Kisan Sangharsh Samiti president Mandeep Singh Nathwan said the dharna will start from October 6 and will be similar to the ones staged by Punjab farmers outside the residence of Akali patriarch and former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal.“We want deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and his grandfather Ranjit Chautala, a cabinet minister in the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party government in Haryana, to tender their resignations the same way that Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit the union cabinet. The Chautalas have been elevated to power due to the support of the farming community and now it is ridiculous that they are still supporting the BJP government,” he added.“If the Badal family can snap their two-decade-old ties with the BJP, what is stopping Dushyant and his grandfather Ranjit Chautala to come out of the BJP government, which is running with their support. This is the time for them to prove their pro-farmer stand, otherwise the farming community will never accept them,” he added.The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) meanwhile seems divided on the laws. While Dushyant is backing the laws, Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag and Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam have extended their support to the agitating farmers. On Sunday, the JJP’s Rohtak unit had taken out a tractor march in support of the three laws. The party’s Rohtak unit chief Balwan Suhag said these laws will prove beneficial to the farmers and the minimum support price (MSP) system will not end.When contacted, Ranjit Chautala said he is currently in home quarantine after testing positive for Covid-19 and denied to comment on the farm bill issue.JJP supremo Ajay Singh Chautala said the BJP-JJP alliance will continue in future and his party has a different stand from the Shiromani Akali Dal. “These three laws are helpful for farmers and the few protesting farmers’ are being backed by a party. The farmers’ produce will be purchased at minimum support price (MSP),” he added.Black flags shown to agri ministerThe farmers showed black flags to Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal and Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik during their visits to Chhichhrana and Madina villages in Baroda constituency on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/clamour-for-dushyant-ranjit-chautala-s-resignations-grow-louder/story-N6lJFhak79ufllhC8MDINJ.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 1, 630 new infections, 24 deaths||Haryana reported 1, 630 new Covid-19 infections, 2, 421 recoveries and 24 deaths on Monday. Six districts –Gurugram (261), Faridabad (195), Kurukshetra (163), Rohtak (126), Hisar (107) and Sonepat (102) reported more than 100 new infections. Significant numbers were also reported from Yamunanagar (80), Fatehabad (70), Ambala (67), Sirsa (66), Panchkula (60), Rewari (59) and Mahendergarh (52).The fresh infections pushed the cumulative number of cases to 1, 25, 412. As per a medical bulletin, 2, 421 infected persons recovered from the virus on Monday, taking the number of recoveries to 1, 08, 411. The recovery rate improved to 86.44%, from Sunday’s 84.63%, while the case fatality rate remained stable at 1.06%. Among the 24 who succumbed to the respiratory illness, five were from Panchkula, four from Panipat, two each from Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad and one each from Faridabad, Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Kaithal. The medical bulletin said there were 364 critically ill patients, including 56 on ventilator support. Among other districts, Panipat reported 43 new infections followed by Karnal (37), Bhiwani (36),) Kaithal (30), Jhajjar (26), Jind (20), Palwal (16), Charkhi Dadri (9) and Nuh (5).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-logs-1-630-new-infections-24-deaths/story-bbG7xtBhnx7JGUH5BJlQmJ.html
29-09-2020||City||Glut in Haryana mandis as arhtiyas, mill owners refuse to cooperate in paddy procurement||Even as the Haryana government announced to advance paddy procurement by four days, there is no relief for farmers as arhtiyas and rice-mill owners have refused to cooperate in the procurement process. It has been learnt that the rice-millers and ahrtias are opposing the government’s decision to get the procurement agencies to directly procure the paddy from mandi and transport it to the godowns to bring transparency. The government had announced to start procurement of Parmal varieties in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Ambala from September 27 but so far, the process has not started.As per information, members of the Haryana rice millers and dealers association held a meeting on Sunday evening at Kurukshetra and decided not to cooperate in the procurement.A senior official of the Haryana state agriculture marketing board said, “Since the rice millers are not allowing procurement agencies to store paddy in their godown, the latter are not procuring the paddy. Even the commission agents are saying that the procurement agencies will have to lift the paddy soon after procurement as they need space for their farmers.”The officer said that now the procurement agencies are exploring other options for storage till the issue with rice-millers is sorted out. Farmers irkedThe delay has cost the farmers heavily as they have been forced to wait in mandis. “We have been waiting in mandis for the past one week and now the arhtiyas and government officials are refusing to procure the paddy,” said Kuldeep Singh, a farmer who was waiting at Pipli grain market of Kurukshetra.A few agitated farmers also locked the market committee office in Kurukshetra to air their anger.Farmers also alleged that they got faulty messages from the government. “I had registered for 250 quintals but I got a message informing me that only one quintal of paddy is to be brought. I raised the issue with mandi officials, but they didn’t care,” said Praveen Kumar, a farmer of Nilokheri of Karnal.Talking to Hindustan Times, Jewel Singla, chairman of the Haryana Rice Millers and Dealers Association, said they are demanding the government to increase the milling charges from Rs 10 to Rs 100 per quintal, and reduce the returns for rice from Rs 67 per quintal to Rs 64. They also want that they should allowed to purchase paddy from farmers of nearby districts and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/glut-in-haryana-mandis-as-arhtiyas-mill-owners-refuse-to-cooperate-in-procurement/story-to0lpmnYkV6yTXQT4u4iRM.html
29-09-2020||City||Paddy procurement begins early: Farmers, arhtiyas in Ambala allege absence of arrangements in mandis||A day after the Haryana government announced paddy procurement, a few days earlier than usual, farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents) of Ambala are still unclear on where to begin.The ready crop is laying in the mandis in huge quantities with no clarity on when it will be purchased, leaving the farmers in a fray whether to stay or to leave.Farmers at the Ambala City mandi have alleged that they have been fooled by the government, who have not expressed any intention on buying the crop yet.Gurvinder, a farmer from Mohra village, said the government wants to buy the crop that has a moisture content of less than 17%. “This condition can’t be fulfilled as mandis are full with very little procurement. We want our old system back that had the involvement of commission agents. Otherwise, the mandi system will collapse.” Gurvinder, who is yet to harvest his ready crop, said if he didn’t sell it now, his crop would rot.Crop rates, labour rates undisclosedAn office bearer of a commission agents’ body alleged that they had not been given any bardana bags by the government yet. He added that the crop rates, labour rates and other prices were yet to be told to them.To check the procurement process, Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) leader Chitra Sarwara visited Ghasitpur mandi and found that the whole mandi was full of paddy with no space left. “My visit apprised me of the fact that there is confusion between the commission agents and shellers. Government wants the farmer to sell it directly to the shellers, but they are waiting to purchase it from agents. The harried lot are the farmers, who have been waiting for almost a week at the mandi without any facility even for drinking water,” she said. “Farmers told me that they have grown around 200 quintals and they have received a message to sell only 1 quintal. They fear that if their ready crop in the mandi is not sold on time, their remaining crop will rote or worse, rain could destroy both the crops,” Chitra told the Hindustan Times.On receiving a call from this correspondent, HAFED Ambala district manager Vikas Deswal said he was busy in a video conference, and later failed to respond to calls or messages.In a statement, district food supply controller (DFSC) Anil Kumar said out of 10,719 metric tonne crop that had arrived at the mandis, 1,929 metric tonne had been bought by the agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paddy-procurement-begins-early-farmers-arhtiyas-in-ambala-allege-absence-of-arrangements-in-mandis/story-k4LCTlnAmpmyJ3APoWXlTI.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||43 volunteers selected for Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine trial in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has selected 43 volunteers till Monday for the clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine produced by the Oxford University. Of these, 12 have already received the first dosage of the drug. After King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital too, started its clinical trial of the vaccine on Monday. Four male volunteers below 40 years of age were given the first dosage in the morning at the hospital. They were kept for around four hours for observation and discharged from the hospital in the evening. They will be administered the second vaccine after a month. “So far, we have selected 20 volunteers, including three women. None of them are related to our institute. They underwent RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) and antibody tests as per the guidelines. To avoid any health complications, we have selected young volunteers,” said an official, who is a part of the clinical trial at the hospital.On Friday, three male volunteers have been administered the first dosage of the vaccine at KEM Hospital, while on Monday five participants were given the drug. In addition to this, 15 more volunteers have been selected by the hospital. “We are flooded with queries from citizens [who wish to volunteer] since Saturday. We have given waiting numbers to each of them. Everyday, we will call two-three people for medical check-ups,” said an official from KEM Hospital.Each of the two hospitals will have to conduct the trial on 100 participants. They are expected to finish the selection process by the middle of October. The vaccine induces a strong immune response. It provokes a T-cell (white blood cells that can attack cells infected with Covid-19) response within 14 days of vaccination and an antibody response within 28 days.In the second week of September, both the hospitals had to halt the trial after a participant developed an adverse reaction in the United Kingdom. Later, the Drug Control General of India (DCGI) gave the permission to run the second and third phases of the trial. However, both the civic hospitals had to get the final approval from their ethics committees before starting with the screening of the volunteers.Meanwhile, Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) – which is the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines in terms of volume –partnered with and British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine candidate formulated at the University of Oxford.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/43-volunteers-selected-for-oxford-university-s-covid-19-vaccine-trial-in-mumbai/story-y3hKxsxLR32ZNRI6QGqOOI.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees less than 12,000 Covid-19 cases in a day, a first for this month||The state reported 11,921 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking its tally to 13,51,153, of which 265,033 are active cases. This is the first time in September that Maharashtra has recorded below 12, 000 new cases in a day. The state also reported 180 fatalities on Monday, which is also its lowest since August 31. The Covid death toll now stands at 35,751. On Monday, the number of recoveries from Covid-19 – 19,932 – was more than the new reported cases reported. The state’s tally of recoveries is 10,49,947 and the recovery rate is 77.71%. Of the 180 fatalities reported on Monday, 98 are from the last 48 hours and 45 are from last week. The remaining 37 deaths are from the period before last week. Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR) is now at 2.65%. The state reported 56,735 samples tested in the past 24-hour period. While Maharashtra’s overall positivity rate (percentage of positive cases compared to total number of tests) stands at 20.4%, the positivity rate for Monday was 21.01%. According to health department officials, the state’s positivity rate has been falling consistently. “The week-on-week positivity rate is also witnessing a slowing. However, it is too early to call it a trend. Last week (September 20-27), the positivity rate averaged at 19.21%, while the previous week (September 13-19), it was 24.43%,” said an official requesting anonymity. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said active cases are on a “decline” in 17 of the state’s 35 districts, including Mumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune Satara, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Nandurbar, Dhule, Beed, Nagpur and Bhandara. “Our testing average has gone up in September to 90,000 tests daily. In August, it was 60,000. Usually on weekends due to manpower crunch or other factors, tests are fewer,” said Awate. The number of active cases dropped to 265,033 on Monday from over 300,000. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) contributed nearly 35% of the state’s Covid total on Monday. Navi Mumbai reported 392 new cases and five deaths, while Thane city reported 304 new cases and 12 deaths. Thane (rural) saw 236 new cases. Kalyan Dombivli reported 293 new cases. Mira-Bhayander and Panvel city saw 218 and 200 new cases respectively. Vasai-Virar saw 140 new cases. Pune city reported 799 new cases and six fatalities, while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 505 new cases and five deaths. Pune (rural) had 606 new cases and eight deaths. Nagpur city saw 578 new cases and one death. Nagpur (rural) reported 200 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-less-than-12-000-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-a-first-for-this-month/story-UQNOL5v0wPaVZWosQpnv2L.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Group home for mentally ill in Chandigarh: ‘With just 8 rooms, Cheshire Home can’t meet city’s needs’||The recent decision of the UT administration to convert the Cheshire Home in Sector 21 into a group home for persons with mental issues has invited more criticism.Those associated with the welfare of people battling mental issues have highlighted the inadequacy of the facility to meet the needs for the beneficiaries.The UT administration in a meeting held on July 11, 2019, had asked Aditya Vikram Rametra, managing trustee, Pushpanjali Trust, to provide a list of potential/prospective beneficiaries of the group home.“We conducted a survey among 31 psychiatrists of the city. As per their feedback, around 400 people need a group home. But not all of them need it immediately or at one time. Immediate need for a group in the city is for around 70 people,” said Rametra.Bhupinder Kaur Sidhu, a mother of an adult with mental illness, in a letter to the UT adviser, highlighted the limitation of the proposed group home: “Out of nine rooms, one room will have to be for the residential staff. The remaining eight rooms can accommodate a maximum of 16 residents.”MHA interventionThe administration last year had decided that Cheshire Home will be used as a halfway home for mentally ill persons, and an affidavit was also submitted in the Supreme Court to that effect. The administration had finally made a move to implement the decision in August this year.ALSO READ: NGO objects to UT admn decision to convert Cheshire HomeThe parents and residents had written to the Union ministry of home affairs calling out the delay in creation of a group home. On August 24, MHA officials had then written to the UT administration seeking a report on the issue at the earliest.The decision to set up a group home, rather than a halfway home, at the facility in Sector 21 had followed. The halfway home will instead come up in the Disability Assessment Rehabilitation and Triage (DART) building in Sector 32.Rametra said, “Administration should draft a basic framework, which will incorporate issues like need assessment, paying and non-paying categories, selection procedure, etc.”On ‘encroachers’The September 23 press statement of the administration had described the current residents of the Home as “encroachers”, but the minutes of the meeting held on July 11, 2019, clearly stated, “At present, 17 disabled persons are residing in this home. In the year 2017, the said NGO (Cheshire Home Society) abandoned the Cheshire Home and inmates living therein. Thereafter, the inmates have continued to stay in this building.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/group-home-for-mentally-ill-in-chandigarh-with-just-8-rooms-cheshire-home-can-t-meet-city-s-needs/story-OfgpQmkSkKx6pLFEGGorKL.html
29-09-2020||City||4 lakh Thane residents checked for Covid-19 symptoms under ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has completed 32% of the door-to-door survey in the city so far under the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative launched by the Maharashtra government two weeks ago. As per the data released by municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma, around 1.4 lakh families were checked for low oxygen levels, Covid-19 symptoms and comorbidities. The drive was launched across the state for the early detection and isolation of patients. TMC began the survey on September 18 with over 500 teams deputed across the city. “The teams are reaching every home and checking all members of the family. Until now, around 4.23 lakh people have been checked under the initiative,” said a TMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-lakh-thane-residents-checked-for-covid-19-symptoms-under-my-family-my-responsibility-initiative/story-WpfJhUPtPqVczMVnGBVEbP.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Restaurants in Maharashtra likely to reopen from first week of October||Restaurants in the state are likely to begin their operations from the first week of October as the state government has assured hoteliers during their meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday of receiving the requisite permissions. The state has prepared a Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) draft for the restaurants, bars, hotels and eateries in consultation with various associations representing these establishments. The draft is expected to be finalised in the next few days.The SOP has been mandated by the tourism department of the state government has made it mandatory restaurants to screen customers and make them wear masks while on the premises. The hotels have been asked to avail a separate entry and exit, sanitise restrooms regularly, make sanitizers available, encourage digital payments and replace cloth napkins with paper napkins. The restaurants have been directed to maintain the distance of one metre between two tables. Apart from regular disinfecting the furniture, utensils and cutlery, the management has also been asked to maintain the warmth of food. They have also been directed to encourage pre-booking to avoid crowding and proper training of the staff for personal hygiene, sanitation, respiratory etiquettes and social distancing. Valsa R Nair Singh, principal secretary, tourism department, said that they have been allowed to reopen restaurants from the first week of October. “The SOP is yet to be finalised,” she said. The state government is expected to extend the ongoing lockdown by another month, though certain restrictions are expected to be lifted under Mission Begin Again. The restaurants are expected to be asked to maintain a distance of 6 feet between two tables and follow personal hygiene protocols. Hoteliers have opposed the idea of imposing a cap on the capacity to operate at. “The decision will be taken once the SOP is finalised mutually. We are not against opening up activities, but in the wake of the rising number of cases, we are treading very cautiously. The restrictions have been imposed in the public interest despite huge losses of revenue to the state exchequer. It will be the responsibility of the restaurant and hotel operators to ensure safety of the customers and staff members in the wake of the pandemic,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been quoted in a statement issued by his office. The Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR) called it a huge relief to the restaurant sector. “The whole sector is in deep crisis as the takeaway business is not at all profitable. We know that the next six months will be very difficult but then we needed to start somewhere,” said AHAR president Shivanand Shetty. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, the former president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), echoed the sentiment. He said that social distancing and other norms will impact the whole business. “We have no choice but to adhere to the norms. This reopening will generate some revenue so we can pay the staff as well as keep the business moving, “said Kohli. There are around 4 lakh hotels, restaurants and bars in Maharashtra.Kohli said at national level, the hotel and restaurant industry has suffered losses of about Rs1.90 lakh crore in the past six months of lockdown. Dilip Datwani, former president of Hotels and Restaurants Association, said that though the SOP has not been finalised, the outlets are expected to operate at 50-60% of their capacity. “Operating the restaurants at 30% is not viable and it was clarified to the government. We have been allowed to operate at 50 to 60% capacity, depending on the size of the restaurants. Blocking the alternate tables will serve the purpose of maintaining distancing of one metre. We have trained our staff members on hygiene protocols and social distancing and see no problem in following the protocol strictly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/restaurants-in-maharashtra-likely-to-reopen-from-first-week-of-october/story-omBV3P5BMWm35qncgLuzcP.html
29-09-2020||City||Maharashtra government mulling 24x7 offices, local trains for all by mid-October, says Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray||On a day the city crossed the grim mark of two lakh Covid-19 cases, Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray told HT the state government was looking at resuming suburban train services by mid-October, a demand made by commuters for a while. Thackeray also said the government was talking to associations of business community to stagger office timings to ease congestion in public transport and was thinking about allowing 24x7 offices in commercial establishments. There has been a surge in Covid cases in September. When is the situation likely to improve? We are opening up slowly and if you see, along with the cases, there is a rise in the number of people on streets and officegoers. Soon, we can see restaurants and other commercial places opening up – the decision on it is yet to be taken. We had expected this surge and since May we have started building these jumbo facilities. As long as we have enough health machinery like beds, oxygen supply and ventilators, we can slowly start opening up. The situation totally depends on citizens and the precautions they take. Just like how it is the government’s responsibility to provide beds and medical facilities, it is important for citizens to realise that when we step out, we are not only risking ourselves, but our family too. So only step out if need be, which is applicable even today when things are opening up, and follow the basic discipline of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Mumbai has crossed 10 lakh Covid tests, but experts say daily tests need to be scaled up to check the spread of Covid-19. Why it is not happening? There is a three-point strategy for Covid testing. Firstly, we have liberalised testing since July. We were one of those few cities in the world to liberalise testing back then and so the testing numbers will keep rising. Second, we are conducting door-to-door surveys across the state under ‘My family, My responsibility’ scheme, where we are trying to build health profiles of citizens and check for Covid symptoms. Third, our local wards are already conducting door-to-door surveys. There are some societies that resist testing or check-ups due to fear of isolation or stigma. That is something we need to work on and get rid of. In Mumbai, several people have started commuting for work, but they have to travel in crowded buses or other means of transport that are not adequate. When will we start the local trains? I think the number of people from essential services being allowed on the local trains has been increased. We need to increase the frequency of local trains and we are working on that with the railway authorities. As soon as we have more frequency, more crowds can be allowed, otherwise any mode of transport will be crowded. By mid-October, it is likely that we will start local trains as we are looking at a couple of more things opening up, for which we will have to start other modes of transport as well. Opening up has been slow because we don’t want to shut down anything that we have opened up already. The approach towards relaxations has been like this for the past three months. What are the major hurdles while implementing staggered timings for offices? BMC and railways held several discussions involving private and public offices… In a city like Mumbai, where we have different districts for businesses, banks and commercial establishments, it is very difficult to have staggered timings as a blanket rule. We are discussing it with different offices, complexes and corporate areas where you can try to stagger the timings. Finally, we want to reach an arrangement where offices are functioning 24x7. Not just in Covid times, but post that also, we would really be able to manage the traffic better if we have flexible working hours. Currently, this plan of having offices 24x7 is an internal discussion, but once we start discussing it with offices, keeping timings flexible will come up as an option. Post-Covid, we would have to give shops and establishment some more time to do their business and get back on track. We will have to give them that flexibility. When can we expect more relaxations in the city? What is the plan to revive the economy, considering Covid is going to stay for a longer time? Very soon actually, the last round of relaxations was around the beginning of September. If you see the pattern in all our relaxations, it will be done gradually. Just like how the state went into a lockdown gradually. It was not a sudden movement. Likewise, when we are coming out of it, we are absorbing the surge for 15 days and then planning to give more relaxations. Probably in the first week of October, the chief minister will be taking a call on what would open next. The question of economy and unemployment is global. As we start moving out of Covid, we are looking at a couple of sectors. Firstly, the real estate sector has been given the stamp duty relaxation that has started churning the real estate, as people have started to invest. Public works is another sector we are looking at, since the beginning of the pandemic. Tourism and hospitality are other sectors which can act as a sponge for employment because people would now also want to step out and travel, considering the exhaustion of constantly being at home for the past several months. The fourth sector is industries. Every 15 days, the CM is chairing a meeting where we are looking at going further into the ease of doing business and the nitty-gritties. The discussions surround the implications of ease of doing business, its repercussions, ways to balance the industries and the labour and how to keep the investment going in times of a global economy crisis. Covid fatalities have gone up in the MMR and there are instances of patients struggling to find hospital beds in rural Maharashtra as well. How does the state plan to improve this? There are only a couple of textbook methods that we follow. Covid is such an unpredictable disease. Firstly, we have to indulge in early testing and detection through our state-wide programme. While we increase our bed capacities with well-equipped jumbo facilities, we also need to decentralise our helplines, similar to how we did in Mumbai. This is very crucial. We have set up a task force and mini-task force in every district to make regular visits to hospitals and jumbo facilities to have a basic check on the line of treatment. Apart from this, a long-term plan to set up a 5,000-bed hospital for infectious diseases is already in the pipeline and will cater to Mumbai as well as the MMR. What is the topmost priority of the state to bring down Covid cases? Do a health profile of everyone and spread awareness in terms of self-reliance of their own protection. You have to ensure that everyone knows how to wear a mask and follows social distancing guidelines. As we open up under Mission Begin Again, we will have to start taking responsibility for ourselves. We also need to get rid of the stigma around Covid. Another major issue that we need to work on globally is mental health of people. Considering the stress about job losses and exhaustion in these trying times, which has generated a lot of anxiety among people about the future, mental health care is an area we need to prioritise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-mulling-24x7-offices-local-trains-for-all-by-mid-october-says-mumbai-suburban-guardian-minister-aaditya-thackeray/story-WzUtl3bDPc80MtOyXF0pxN.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Former Congress leader Chander Mukhi Sharma joins AAP in Chandigarh||Former president of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), general secretary, Youth Congress, and two-term councillor Chander Mukhi Sharma on Monday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).“I have served Congress for the last 40 years, but in today’s Congress, there is a place only for sycophants, and dedicated workers like me are feeling suffocated. Only a small coterie of people are at the helm and all others have been sidelined in the party’s working and decision-making,” said Sharma after joining AAP. “For the betterment of the city, which is going through a very rough phase on the development front, I joined AAP. Congress is in no position to take on BJP, and the city needs better alternatives to both the parties,” he added.AAP Chandigarh convener Prem Garg announced that AAP will contest all the seats in the forthcoming MC elections slated to be held towards the end of 2021, and Sharma will be nominated the coordinator for the polls.Sharma also met AAP national organisation building team in-charge Durgesh Pathak in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-congress-leader-chander-mukhi-sharma-joins-aap-in-chandigarh/story-w8ENc0KsMXcg9hQs204j6H.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amid pandemic, cases of vector-borne diseases in Chandigarh witness major decline||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Chandigarh has witnessed a sharp dip in the number of vector-borne diseases as compared to previous years, government data suggests.While experts believe a few months’ data cannot depict the whole picture, the UT health department has said that the dip was due to timely action, as well as emphasis on preventive measures taken amid the pandemic.This year, so far, only 13 cases of dengue and six cases of malaria have been reported. Last year, the numbers were significantly higher at 286 cases of dengue and 22 cases of malaria. No case of chikungunya has been reported in the last two years.‘Restriction, increased awareness main reasons’Director, health and family welfare, Dr G Dewan, said, “Oiling of stagnant water, extensive sanitation and fumigation were carried out on a much larger scale. These routine exercises were not affected by the Covid situation in the city. It may also be due to the restrictions and increased awareness of the citizens towards hygiene.”However, Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the department of community medicine and school of public health at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said that restrictions and fewer outdoor activities could not be a major reason behind the dip.“Most people get infected while they are at home and outdoor activities like the closure of schools and offices do not play a major role if proper conditions are maintained in those premises. However, for a proper picture to emerge, we need to wait and watch as cases are still being reported. The cycle for vector-borne diseases is on and more cases will come to the fore,” said Dr Kumar.Most cases see a peak after every three years and the process is cyclic, he added.Over the last five years, the city has seen a consistent decline in the number of vector-borne diseases being reported. The data presented in the Lok Sabha stated that Chandigarh recorded 1,125 cases of dengue in 2017 and only 301 in 2018. The number dipped slightly to 286 in 2019, and then majorly this year to just 6 cases.‘Underreporting could be another reason’“One reason could be that most people who had symptoms did not come forward due to the fear of Covid-19 testing and mandatory isolation that follows,” an expert from PGIMER said. Health authorities, however, said the likelihood of this happening was unlikely because vector-borne diseases caused high-grade fever, while Covid-19 patients had low-grade fever. Therefore, “underreporting” could not be the major reason, they said.Stressing on the role of hygiene, Dr RS Bedi, former president of the Indian Medical Association, Chandigarh chapter, said the pandemic had taught a lesson that a clean environment, sound civic system, improved public health, sanitation and garbage disposal, which came by default with closed schools, colleges, market places, offices and eateries, along with social distancing, could decrease the infectious disease load.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-pandemic-cases-of-vector-borne-diseases-in-chandigarh-witness-major-decline/story-GXcbLKekkaw9WUbIWypKoO.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||1,600 students of classes 9 to 12 attend school in Chandigarh||The government schools of the city on Monday were abuzz with activity as around 1,600 students of classes 9 to 12 attended school, the UT education department said.This comes after a week of reopening of schools for academic consultation for classes above 9. The average attendance in the first week was 900, which later dropped to just above 500.However, after the education department issued instructions to all government schools to maintain uniformity in timings, the numbers are encouraging.As per fresh instructions, two sessions were held on Monday—9am to 11.30am for board classes 10 and 12, and 12 noon to 2.30pm for classes 9 and 11. Meanwhile, 50% of the teaching staff were called in.Director school education Rubinderjeet Singh Brar said, “Our aim is to provide academic consultations to needy students who can attend school with the consent of their parents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-600-students-of-classes-9-to-12-attend-school-in-chandigarh/story-u7EpoxGGyLuqznfwEYS7xO.html
29-09-2020||City||NHM workers in Gurugram may stage protest over contract issue||Gurugram: Nearly 750 contractual healthcare workers with the National Health Mission (NHM) in Gurugram district — comprising doctors, auxiliary midwife nurses, emergency medical technicians, and ambulance drivers, among others — have declined to get their employment contracts renewed and are planning to protest against the two new clauses in the contract. Members of NHM Karmachari Sangh alleged that the two specific clauses, which have been added to the contract this year, would reduce job security for the health workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic. They said that they would have to either strike work or stage a sit-in in the coming days if the clauses are not withdrawn. The contractual workers on Monday wrote to the district chief medical officer, informing him about their decision that no NHM worker in the district “will submit his contract affidavit for renewal”. Hari Raj, general secretary, NHM Karmachari Sangh (Haryana) and district president (Gurugram), said that contractual NHM workers make up a third of the health department’s staff in Gurugram district. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, they have been working day and night on the frontline. Medical technicians, ambulance drivers and midwives, all are included in this group. The state’s insistence on these clauses sends the wrong message. The new terms allow appointing health authorities, such as civil surgeons, to terminate any employee with no advance notice and no compensation. This was not the case earlier.”The Monday’s letter, authored by the district president of the NHM Karmachari Sangh, comes on the heels of a union meeting held in Gurugram on September 25. The letter states, “You are hereby notified that during our meeting on September 25, it has been decided that no NHM worker in the district will submit his contract affidavit for renewal.” The specific clauses (numbered 9 and 10) in the ‘Letter of Contract’ affidavit, which NHM workers are expected to sign and submit by the end of the month in order to renew their employment, remove the provision of a month-long notice period in case of termination of employment. The affidavit (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times) also states that this may be done “without making payment of remuneration in advance”.Rehan Raza, state president of the NHM workers union, said, “This is not just a Gurugram matter. All 13,500 NHM workers in Haryana will be affected by this decision. We have already written to the state government on September 20 explaining our demands. The Karmachari Sangh state committee will be meeting later this week. If the clauses are not rescinded, we will have no option but to protest, either through a strike or sit-in.” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, declined to provide a comment, saying this was a state matter and did not concern his office. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health), Haryana, also declined to provide a comment for this story. Prabjot Singh, mission director, NHM Haryana, also did not respond to requests for comment.However, an official in the post of deputy director, NHM Haryana, seeking anonymity, said, “These clauses have been included to ensure better performance on the job by the contractual workers. A large proportion of contract NHM workers in Haryana have been objecting to these clauses. We have decided on a course of action if they do not comply, but I am not at liberty to disclose it yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nhm-workers-in-gurugram-may-stage-protest-over-contract-issue/story-CZ26rmYAbjtiN0BMrgcsmK.html
29-09-2020||Gurugram||93 primary schools in Gurugram to be turned into English-medium ones||In a move aimed at improving the standard of education, the state government has started the process of developing Government Model Sanskriti Primary Schools in the district. Model Sanskriti Schools are English-medium government schools that charge a nominal monthly fee of ₹200. Across the district, 93 primary schools are being upgraded to these model schools with the first batch of English-medium classes slated to start in 2021. Out of the 93 schools in the district, 72 are in Gurugram city. A number of such schools were formally inaugurated last week and more are expected to be upgraded in due course. Last month, state education minister Kanwar Pal had said that over 1,000 schools across the state would be developed as these model schools. Gurugram block education officer Sheel Kumari said that 72 Model Sanskriti Schools will become operational in the city. “These 72 schools include those that are being upgraded and others that need to meet certain infrastructure requirement before being declared as model schools the next year. Starting this week, we have already started the process of renaming the schools and ensuring that necessary arrangements are made in line with the quality of education that the state intends to impart through these schools,” said Kumari. She said that admissions to these schools would take place next year. “These are English-medium schools and the aim is at providing quality education, especially to children of those parents who hesitate to take admissions in government schools due to the fact that English is not a medium of instruction,” said Kumari. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, who holds the charge of the Government Model Sanskriti Primary School in Sector 4/7 that was inaugurated on Saturday, said that the state government had announced plans of setting up 1,000 Sanskriti model schools in Haryana. “The primary school under our watch has been declared as a Model Sanskriti School. Earlier, it was a simple primary school. These are English-medium schools with a monthly fee of ₹200 and a one-time admission fee of ₹500. The aim is to improve the standard of education in this district. After some years, these schools might get affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE),” said Sharma. A spokesperson from Government Primary School, Sukhrali, that was inaugurated last week, said that the school would be working towards fulfilling the requirements that need to be met before the session starts next year. “The state government is focusing on inclusive education by developing such model schools. Our school will also be taking admissions as part of the upgraded model from next year. Teaching will be done in line with the guidelines issued for model schools,” stated the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/93-primary-schools-in-gurugram-to-be-turned-into-english-medium-ones/story-ssRq0wYybTZSPLXDCYvseP.html
29-09-2020||City||Mohali DC orders FIRs against agents bringing paddy from other states||Taking a strict stance on the illegal influx of paddy from neighbouring states in the district mandis of Mohali, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has directed the mandi officials to take legal action against arhtiyas (commission agents) violating the Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) Act.While reviewing the paddy procurement scenario, it was brought to the notice of the DC that mandis adjoining the Haryana border often faced a glut due to an unprecedented arrival of paddy from other states via local commission agents. This, in turn, hampered the procurement process.THe DC was informed that the local civil administration would make arrangements for estimated arrivals of produce from villages, but those arrangements tended to fall short due to illegal sale of paddy from neighbouring states.Taking strict note of the transgression, DC Dayalan directed the police officials to establish special interstate border check-points so that “other state paddy” was unable to come in the district. He further issued directions to register FIRs and suspend licences of errant arhtiyas. Sub-divisional magistrates have been directed to maintain a constant vigil to ensure compliance.Influx of other state paddy is prevalent in Lalru and Dera Bassi. On DC’s orders, check-points will be established primarily at Jharmari, Baltana, Barwara and other points as suggested by local SDMs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-dc-orders-firs-against-agents-bringing-paddy-from-other-states/story-QeJtlgna0CmjkOUskdWq3N.html
29-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Two women injured after portion of road caves in; civic agency orders inquiry||Ghaziabad: Two women were injured when they fell into a pit created by a portion of the road in Rajendra Nagar caving-in, on Sunday morning. The incident on Sunday took place in Sector 3m where the two women, both aged around 40-45 years and residents of the nearby Pasonda area, were collecting dry wood from the roadside and loading them in to a rickshaw.The matter has prompted the Ghaziabad municipal corporation to issue orders for a survey of the area in Rajendra Nagar where the incident took place. According to the civic agency’s officials, the cave-in took place probably due to water leakage. The portion has been barricaded, officials added.“The spot where they were standing caved-in and both fell in. The pit created as a result of the cave-in was about 7-8 feet deep and soon locals rushed for their help. One of the women suffered minor injuries and was taken to a hospital for first aid. Both had come to collect dry wood from the green belt area,” said Himanshu Sharma, a local resident. “As soon as I got information, I reached the spot and informed the corporation officials. Later, they barricaded the area. The woman, however, did not suffer any major injuries and was discharged from the hospital,” Sharma added.MS Tanwar, Ghaziabad municipal commissioner, said he has taken cognisance of the incident and directed officers to survey the area. “It seems that the roadside portion that caved-in was due to some water leakage. I have asked the general manager of the water works department to survey the surrounding area and ensure that there is no such issue there. The repair work will also be ensured at the earliest and we are also taking up road repair works on 25 different roads of the city. Our officials reached the spot and took the women to a nearby hospital for first aid,” he added. The residents, however, raised concerns over the dilapidated condition of city roads. “It is necessary that the entire incident be probed and reasons behind it be found out. Further, the city roads are lying in a dilapidated condition ever since the lockdown and bad patches of the road often lead to accidents. The corporation should fix the responsibility of the respective engineer of the area and should rope in mobile road repair teams, so that the dilapidated patches can be repaired immediately,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of the apartment owners’ federation. “The work for repair of the 25 different roads will start within the next 15 days and tenders have been issued under phase 1 of the work. We have also requested residents to inform their respective zonal in-charges in case they come across broken patches. We will try to put the other roads in phase 2 of the road repair work, for which tenders will be floated in the second half of October,” Tanwar added.Under phase 1 of the road repair works, the corporation has issued tenders for 25 different roads which have become dilapidated and need immediate repairs. The roads are identified in residential areas of Vasundhara sectors 6, 4A, 16 and 18, Dabur Chowk to Kaushambi, Kavi Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Diamond flyover, Shalimar Garden Extension 1 and Vijay Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-two-women-injured-after-portion-of-road-caves-in-civic-agency-orders-inquiry/story-0Un5MWvho7VHNtM3mlTFSO.html
29-09-2020||Noida||Scientist goes to massage parlour he found online, gets abducted; 3 arrested||A 45-year-old junior scientist, working with a Delhi-based central government agency, who was kidnapped on Saturday, was rescued from a Noida hotel on Sunday evening. The police have arrested three people in connection with the kidnapping.Police officers said the matter came to light Sunday evening when the victim’s wife approached them. According to her, her husband had left home around 5.30pm on Saturday saying that he was going to the Noida City Centre to buy some household items. The family lives in a high-rise in Sector 77.“However, he did not return. Around 10pm on Saturday, I got a call from his phone and the caller said my husband had been abducted. The caller said they wanted money in order to release my husband,” said the woman in her complaint to the police.She alleged that later she received a call from a different phone number. A man and a woman could be heard talking, and they demanded a ransom of ₹10 lakh for my husband’s release or else they would harm him, she said.Officers said the victim’s wife did not contact the police immediately as she was scared for her husband. However, when she could not arrange the money, the family approached the Sector 49 police station where a case of kidnapping for ransom (Section 364a of IPC) was registered.“Based on instructions from the commissioner, three teams were formed immediately—the Noida zone surveillance team, a crime branch team and one from Sector 49 police station. Within a few hours of the complaint, we traced the suspects, using the location of the phone from which the ransom calls were made,” said additional DCP, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police said the victim had left home in his Honda city car. After tracing the location of the phone to a hotel in Sector 41, they found the car parked nearby, officers added. “We found three men inside the victim’s car. One of them was apprehended while the other two managed to flee. The apprehended suspect was identified as Deepak Kumar (28), who is from Haryana and worked at the hotel. Based on his directions, the victim was traced to one of the rooms in the hotel,” said Singh.The police said that the victim had several injury marks on his body when they found him. Two persons, including a woman, who had held the victim hostage, were arrested from the spot, the police said.These were identified as 51-year-old Sunita Gujjar, a resident of Noida’s Sector 51, and 32-year-old Rakesh Kumar, who is also from Haryana. The police said Rakesh is the owner of the hotel where the victim was allegedly being held hostage.The police said that their investigation later revealed that the victim was allegedly abducted when he had left home to visit a “massage parlour” that he had found online. His wife was not aware about the planned visit, officers added.“The victim had looked for a massage parlour online, and found the contact number for one in Noida. He came in touch with a man in this regard and the latter asked him to meet at the City Centre on Saturday. However, when the victim reached there, he was asked to follow the man to the hotel where he was instead kept hostage,” a police officer, on condition of anonymity, said.According to a press statement by the police, the victim had allegedly been lured by the woman and her associates before they asked him to meet. Police said this allegedly was the modus operandi of the gang, which has been involved in multiple extortion cases. “We have found the involvement of the gang in at least two to three cases of extortion so far. The gang has been active for the past four or five years, and a search is on for their other associates. According to our initial investigation, no other women, apart from Sunita, seem to be a part of the operation,” said Singh.According to sources, Sunita is associated with the women’s wing of a political party, though police officers said that this is claim has not been verified yet.The police said that some electronic devices and a few documents incriminating the suspects in the operation were allegedly seized during the probe, apart from the victim’s car.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.The police team which rescued the victim was rewarded a prize of ₹5 lakh from Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi.Police said the victim was rescued the victim within a few hours of receiving the complaint. Teams had been deployed at border areas, as part of which search operations, and suspicious vehicles were checked. Nearly a dozen police personnel in civil clothes had been involved in the raid and surveillance in Sector 41 hotel, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/kidnapped-government-scientist-rescued-in-noida-three-arrested/story-c4Lb6KpzJifXbJbKPLSsQP.html
29-09-2020||Noida||Residents allege ‘vandalism’ in Noida high-rise||Unidentified men allegedly destroyed a temporary partition between two phases of a society in Sector 45 on Sunday evening damaging a few vehicles.The incident was reported from Amrapali Sapphire society.“The two phases of the society,1 and 2, are only partially complete, and phase 2 of the society has even fewer number of flats ready. However, the two phases had a temporary partition, mostly made out of tin sheets and bamboos, between them. This partition was mostly for the safety of the residents, and also to keep the entrances of the two phases separate,” said Ravikant Srivastava, secretary, apartment owner’s association of the societyHe said that on Sunday, a few vandals destroyed the partition and created a lot of ruckus in the society. “The partition was brought down damaging a few vehicles in the process. We immediately reported the incident to the police,” said Srivastava. He further said that there are some “anti-social elements” who want to create tension in the society through vandalism and hooliganism for their “own vested interests”. “The matter is mostly internal, but we had visited the spot and are keeping an eye on the situation,” said Azaad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station. The police have not received any formal complaints so far.Srivastava added that the destroyed partition leaves the residents more vulnerable to the entry of outsiders through phase 2. Noida police had also arrested two men for theft of construction material from the society last week. The suspects had entered through phase 2, said the police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-allege-vandalism-in-noida-high-rise/story-aVQf7dQ5TDwlxH20GlIRtM.html
29-09-2020||City||Greater Noida: Six arrested in clashes over property||Greater Noida: At least six men were arrested by the Ecotech 3 police on Monday following clashes over a property, in which several people were injured.The incident was reported around 9am from Aliwardipur village. The complainant is Vikas Mandal, a resident of Delhi. “Several of us had purchased this land through a property dealer, Jagdish Yadav. We had erected boundary walls and foundations on the property. On Monday, when we went there to check up on the land, several men were there with tools and earth-moving machines to raze the structures. They claimed that this was their land. When we objected, they started abusing and assaulting us and even threatened us with dire consequences,” alleged Mandal.He said that Yadav was informed about the situation and he also reached the spot with a few of his associates. “They were also armed with weapons and sticks. Both the parties clashed amongst themselves. Several rounds were also fired in the air and people from both the groups sustained injuries. There was complete chaos and we informed the police about the situation,” alleged Mandal.Based on his complaint, a case was registered against 16 persons from both the groups and several unidentified persons as well, at the Ecotech 3 police station under sections of rioting, extorting property, assault, criminal intimidation, among others, of the Indian Penal Code, and relevant sections of the criminal law amendment.“We had received a complaint that someone had taken over the land illegally and the case is being probed. However, before any action could be taken, the group took earth-moving machines to the land and started demolishing the structures built there. Meanwhile, the other group also reached the spot and the situation worsened. Shots were fired in the air, though no one sustained bullet injuries,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.Police arrested four people from one group and two from the property dealer’s side, while the injured were provided medical attention. Action will be taken against other offenders as well while damages will also be recovered from them, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-six-arrested-in-clashes-over-property/story-9iRR6aaKgPhj4BJa7WeH7M.html
29-09-2020||City||Jewar airport: Zurich International to sign concession agreement in second week of October||GREATER NOIDA: Zurich Airport International AG, the concessionaire selected for developing the international airport at Jewar, and the special purpose vehicle (SPV) Yamuna International Airport Private Limited are set to sign a concession agreement in the second week of October, officials from the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) said on Monday. According to the officials, the signing of concession agreement holds importance as Zurich Airport International cannot start work at the airport site without it. “The concession agreement with the Switzerland company Zurich AG will be signed in the second week of October. The company officials were waiting for the removal of ban imposed on international flights in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. International flights are likely to resume operations from October 1. Therefore, the agreement will be signed before October 15 for sure, and date will be finalised once the flight tickets for Zurich top officials are booked,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, NIAL, a nodal agency to monitor the airport project.On May 19 this year, Zurich International had got requisite security clearance from the Union ministry of home affairs, paving way for singing of concession agreement. The agreement was supposed to be signed by July 2 as per the earlier schedule. But on June 10, the Uttar Pradesh government postponed the agreement signing date to August 17 in view of the pandemic. On August 14, Zurich International was given time till October 15 for agreement signing in view of restrictions on air travel.“We have informed the UP government that the agreement will be signed in the second week of October and the necessary process is being completed in advance. The agreement will be signed in the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority’s sector Omega-1 office,” said Singh.The SPV was formed in January this year for the development and the operations of the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar. It has directors from the UP civil aviation department, NIAL and Zurich International.“Once the agreement is signed, Zurich will start work at the site in the next six months as it needs time to mobilize the workforce and also rope in required agencies,” said Singh.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has acquired 1,334 hectares of land under phase 1 out of the total 5,000 hectares required for the airport project. In November last year, Zurich Airport International AG, the owner of Switzerland’s biggest airport, had emerged as the top bidder to design, build and develop a new airport in Jewar along the 165-kilometre Yamuna expressway. To be spread over 5,000 hectares, once completed, it will be the biggest airport in India with eight runways and will cater to 70 million passengers a year by 2040-50. The first phase will be completed in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jewar-airport-zurich-international-to-sign-concession-agreement-in-second-week-of-october/story-JGoFawovxd5A9aZoE5C6dM.html
29-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: FIR against patient’s relatives for assaulting staff at women’s hospital||The Ghaziabad police on Monday said they have booked more than 35 unidentified persons, including relatives of a patient, for allegedly assaulting the staff at the district women’s hospital on September 19.The hospital authorities submitted a complaint to the Kotwali police station on September 26 regarding the incident.“A patient who was to deliver her second child was admitted to our hospital. The woman was anaemic and their were chances of severe bleeding and other related complications during her delivery. On the basis of her condition, we told her family on September 19 that she needs to be shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi for better treatment. After this, we called our ambulance but her family members objected to the referral. Our doctors tried to explain to them the woman’s condition, but they got agitated and called up about 30-35 of their known persons,” said Dr Sangita Goel, chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the hospital.“Later, the patient’s family members assaulted our staff nurses and the guards and home guards deployed at the hospital. One of our staff nurses’ hand was hurt, while one guard suffered injuries to his head that need six stitches. One of the attackers had even snatched a stick from the home guard and assaulted our staff,” she added.Based on the complaint, an FIR under Indian Penal Code sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 332 (intent to prevent or deter person or any other public servant from discharging his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) was registered by the police on Saturday . The police are yet to identify the relatives of the patient who is a Nandgram resident.Dr Geol said that there was a delay in giving a complaint to the police as the former CMS of the hospital, who was deployed at the hospital during the incident, was transferred to Lucknow in the meantime.The entire incident took place at the ground floor of the hospital, which shares campus with the MMG district hospital, and later the attackers fled the spot taking the patient with them in their own vehicle, the hospital authorities said.The police said they are investigating the matter. “We are investigating the case to identify all the suspects. Once they are identified, strict action will be taken against them,” said Abhishek Verma, superintendent of police (city). Earlier on April 1, the staff nurses of the MMG district hospital had alleged that five patients in isolation ward had misbehaved with them and denied taking treatment. The Kotwali police in this connection had lodged an FIR under several IPC sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-fir-against-patient-s-relatives-for-assaulting-staff-at-women-s-hospital/story-PVWrniTiJ8u3DO2yMWFSVK.html
29-09-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Moderate Covid-19 cases occupy most beds; ICU bed availability low in pvt hospitals||Ghaziabad: The occupancy of L2 beds in government and private facilities in Ghaziabad, is the highest in all coronavirus (Covid-19) disease categories of hospitals in the district. According to official records, as of September 27, at least 53 of the 700 L1 category beds in the district were occupied, while 66 of 400 were occupied in L3 category hospitals. However, the occupancy position in L2 category hospitals, which include private hospitals, is still on the higher side. As of September 27, 627 of the 931 beds, across government and private Covid-19 L2 hospitals combined were occupied by patients in the district, said district health officials.“The occupancy is still high, at around 67%, in our L2 category hospitals which have a combined strength of 931 beds, out of which 755 are in the private sector and 176 are in the government sector. The reason for this is because more coronavirus patients these days have moderate symptoms and hence are being admitted to L2 category hospitals. The 11 private hospitals in the district providing paid Covid-19 treatment are also categorised under the L2 category, according to government directions,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.Officials of private hospitals, however, said that their bed occupancy position dropped slightly in the fourth week of September but the strength of ICU beds continues to be fully occupied. The district has overall 168 number of ICU beds – 37 in government sector and rest in 11 private hospitals offering paid Covid treatment. “The occupancy of L2 beds during mid-September at our hospital was almost full but it has slightly come down to about 77%, which is still high as more patients are seeking admission. On the other hand, the ICU beds are all occupied,” said Dr Sangita Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar. Other private hospitals also reported that ICU bed occupancy is still high, with almost full occupancy at present. “The Covid-19 bed occupancy has slightly come down by 15-20% overall during the past one week or so. However, ICU bed occupancy is still almost full. Above all, the severity of cases is also high,” said Dr Mahesh Chaudhary, director (operations), Navin Hospital at Vaishali. Monthly tally almost double from AugustIn the first 27 days of September, as many as 5302 coronavirus (Covid-19) cases were reported in the district. This is a significant increase (a rise of 46.75%) from the 2,824 new Covid-19 cases recorded in the first 27 days of August. Officials, however, have attributed increase in testing in the district to the steep rise in cases – during the first 27 days of September, the district took up 1,00,891 tests while the same was 81,648 in the first 27 days of August, which is a rise of about 19%.“During the first fortnight of September, we had about 3,000 fresh cases, which led to high occupancy of Covid beds in government as well as private sector facilities in the district. However, after September 15, there was a decline seen in terms of new coronavirus cases,” the CMO addedFrom September 15 to 27, about 2,300-odd Covid-19 cases were recorded in the district. According to official records, the district has so far permitted 3,738 asymptomatic patients in home isolation and 3,048 of these were discharged till September 27, while 690 are still under active home quarantine. About 209 of those discharged had been referred to L2 or L3 facilities when their health status showed deterioration, officials added. According to the state control room records of September 28, the Ghaziabad district overall had 13,828 Covid-19 cases with 77 deaths, 1,945 active patients and 11,806 patients discharged, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/most-covid-patients-in-gzb-hospitals-those-with-mild-symptoms-data-shows-icu-beds-availability-low-in-pvt-hospitals/story-lYYomhF1ilrSsi5E0EYtJP.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||51k fined, Rs2.53cr collected as fine for violating Covid-19 protocols in Delhi||The Delhi government has so far issued more than 51,600 challans and collected around Rs 2.53 crore in fine from people for flouting Covid-19 safety rules even since a crackdown began on violators on June 13, according to data shared by officials on Monday. Of this, Rs 1.19 crore was collected in just the past eight days, from September 20 to 27.The government deployed more than 180 teams across the city’s 11 districts to prosecute violators of Covid rules, the officials said. Data shared by the revenue department showed that from June 13 till September 17, a total of 182 teams across 11 districts prosecuted as many as 27,678 people for different violations under five categories -- not wearing a mask, no social distancing, spitting in public, being part of large gatherings and consuming liquor or tobacco in public places -- collecting Rs 1.34 crore as fine.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage A separate data set shared by the department showed that the government intensified the drive from September 20. Between September 20 and 27, the government issued as many as 23,925 challans, including 22,570 for not wearing masks and 1,050 for not maintaining social distancing, amounting to a total of Rs 1.19 crore in fine. Five FIRs were also registered, all on September 27. No numbers were available for two days -- September 18 and 19.On June 13, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal had empowered enforcement officers to impose a fine of Rs 500 each for flouting these Covid management rules. Also read: Avoid routine use of plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients: Govt to hospitalsA Delhi government spokesperson said majority of the prosecutions are for not wearing masks, followed by not maintaining social distancing. “Apart from enforcement officials, we have deployed thousands of civil defence volunteers across Delhi to ensure Covid-19 social rules are followed by people. These volunteers do not have prosecution powers but since they are in khaki uniform, their warnings work to a large extent. A lot of them have been deployed at major bus stops in the city,” the spokesperson said. Till September 17, as many as 25,957 challans were issued for not wearing masks, the highest among all five categories. This was followed by 1,140 for not maintaining social distancing and 501 for spitting in public.If seen district-wise, the west district with 13 enforcement teams made the maximum prosecutions (5,650), till September 17. Also read: Active cases in Delhi below 30k, but number of daily deaths remains a concernNeha Bansal, district magistrate (west), said apart from containment activities, testing and surveillance, the administration increased its Covid-19 behaviour activities with special focus on hot spots. West Delhi has three hot spots -- Paschim Vihar, Hari Nagar and Tilak Nagar (including Vishnu Garden).The West district was followed by Central district with 3,759 prosecutions and Southwest district with 5,650 challans till September 17.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at ICMR said enforcement should be further tightened. “Checking should not only be about whether masks are being worn or not. It should also be on checking if masks are being worn the right way. The enforcement teams need to be trained accordingly for this,” he said. Apart from the Delhi government, Delhi Police and the municipal corporations also are prosecuting people for similar violations. Delhi Police constituted dedicated teams in each police station to carry out such prosecutions. Teams are deployed at specific locations within the jurisdiction of each police station from 10am to 6pm daily to prosecute violators of hygiene norms.Since March till September 8, Delhi Police issued more than 306,693 fines for violations of various hygiene rules. These include over 277,131 for not wearing masks, 27,116 for violating social distancing rules and over 2,434 for spitting in public. No information was readily available on what action was taken by the municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/51k-fined-2-53cr-collected-as-fine-for-violating-covid-protocols-in-delhi/story-4mvV6SZ672ph0EVT1SlCBM.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB opposes Rhea’s bail plea, says it can investigate drug case||Replying to the bail application of actor Rhea Chakraborty before the Bombay high court (HC), the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has maintained that it has the jurisdiction to investigate the case against her and several others, including her brother Showik.Arguing Rhea’s bail plea, her counsel, Satish Maneshinde, had submitted that the drug-related case against the 28-year-old actor should also have been entrusted to the CBI, in terms of the Supreme Court order of August 19, 2020.Maneshinde claimed that on August 19 the apex court allowed CBI to investigate the case registered at Patna on the basis of complaint lodged by the father of deceased actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. In the same order, Supreme Court has also directed that all cases relating to the death of Rajput should be transferred for investigation to CBI, and since the drug trail being probed by the NCB was also linked to Rajput’s death, the case should also have been transferred to CBI.The reply filed by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede stated that there is no such order passed by the apex court. The agency has maintained that the Supreme Court has directed the CBI to take over investigation, if any new case was registered “on the death of Sushant Singh Rajput and the surrounding circumstances of his unnatural death” and the direction “was not with respect to the present case” registered under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.Relying on the purported recovery of contraband material from one of the alleged suppliers, Anuj Keshwani, NCB has claimed that the case involves commercial quantity of drugs and not the small quantities, as claimed by Rhea, Showik and some other accused arrested by the agency after WhatsApp chats revealed sale and purchase of contraband material, primarily for consumption of Rajput.NCB has reiterated it’s stand that that Rhea was “an active member of the drug syndicate connected with high society personalities and drug suppliers.” In this regard the reply to her bail plea states that the “Applicant (Rhea) has in her statement (recorded by NCB) revealed about her involvement in procurement of drugs and financing of illicit drug dealings.”“The present applicant is prominent member of supply chain of drugs and majorly she is handling finance also,” states that affidavit. “The present applicant used to manage, finance for drug procurement along with Sushant Singh Rajput,” NCB has said while opposing Rhea’s bail plea. NCB to scrutinise, review electronic evidence gathered from actors The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), investigating the drug angle into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, is now reviewing and scrutinising the electronic evidence it has gathered from all the 20 accused arrested in the case till now. NCB has also taken mobile phones of actors Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, Deepika’s manager Karishma Prakash, Sushant Singh Rajput’s former business manager Shruti Modi and talent manager Jaya Saha. “We will follow the procedure of law. Their mobile phones will be returned to them through the court after we gather data,” said deputy director general of NCB Mutha Ashok Jain. No fresh summons has been issued to anyone in the case for inquiry, added Jain. NCB, on Monday released, a statement with respect to the allegation of humiliation and torment made by advocate Satish Maneshinde who represents accused Kshitij Ravi Prasad who arrested NCB unit on September 26. NCB official in their release said, “It is very unambiguously stated that the allegation is mischievous and completely untrue. NCB Mumbai unit arrested Prasad in the alleged drug case (16/20) related to the Sudhar Singh Rajput’s death, after some incriminating evidence were recovered from him, and found his involvement in offence under NDPS act and placed him under arrest following due process of law.” “Prasad’s lawyer and his mother were informed, and he was even also allowed to meet his father and his wife in Mumbai zonal unit office. Prasad was not cooperating with the investigation, this fact was brought to the notice of court and NCB demanded his custody on September 27 when he was produced in the court through video conferencing after medical check up,” stated NCB’s release “Prasad was remanded in the NCB custody till October 3 after listening the argument from both sides. The court has observed that no physical ill treatment has been given to Prasad. The NCB reiterates that the allegations are baseless and devoid of any truth,” added NCB’s press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ssr-death-ncb-opposes-rhea-s-bail-plea-says-it-can-investigate-drug-case/story-8SaxPXSQ9RZGDjQ8Zbn4hO.html
29-09-2020||Mumbai||200K cases in Mumbai; trains, eateries unlock on cards||More coronavirus disease (Covid-19) locks look set to be removed with restaurants across Maharashtra likely to reopen in the first week of October, although with a host of safeguards. The government is also considering resuming suburban train services for all by the middle of next month. The developments, ironically, happened on a day when Mumbai crossed the 200,000 Covid-19 cases mark, with the addition of 2,055 infections taking the count to 200,901.The state government on Monday assured hoteliers of granting requisite permissions, during a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. A standard operation procedure (SOP) is expected to be finalised in the next few days. Valsa R Nair Singh, principal secretary, tourism department, said they have been allowed to reopen restaurants from the first week of October. “The SOP is yet to be finalised,” she said.Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday told HT the state government was looking at resuming suburban train services by mid-October, a demand made by commuters for a while. Thackeray also said the government was talking to associations of the business community to stagger office timings to ease congestion in public transport and was thinking about allowing 24x7 offices in commercial establishments.All this comes after September witnessed a dramatic surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, with 2,000-2,300 cases being reported daily through the month, against the earlier 1,200 to 1,500 cases.The state, meanwhile, reported 11,921 cases on Monday, taking the count to 1,351,153, and 180 deaths, pushing the toll to 35,751.There were 26,784 active cases in Mumbai, as of Monday. According to figures up till Sunday, September saw a 105% increase in Covid-19 cases, from the corresponding period in August, and a 98% increase in comparison to the same number of days in May. A total of 51,899 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the city between September 1 and September 27.Civic health officials said that the high daily caseload would continue in the coming days, owing to the upcoming season of festivals.Experts believe the number of Covid-19 cases will drastically drop by December or January, especially if Mumbai continues to increase its testing capacity, and timely isolate more patients and high-risk contacts.Until Saturday, Mumbai had conducted 10.82 lakh Covid-19 tests, at a positivity rate of 18.15%.Positivity rate is calculated as the per cent of people who have tested positive in comparison to the total number of tests done. Mumbai has been conducting up to 15,000 tests a day. This figure is lower on some days and ranges between 9,000 and 13,000 tests. Dr Rahul Pandit, director-critical care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said, “There is no one reason why September has been the worst month. But the more we test now, and if we continue with this aggressive testing even in October, then come December and January, the numbers will drop, because we will be able to isolate patients and curb the spread.”Civic health officials and experts have also attributed the increase in the number of cases in September to reverse migration, as labourers are now returning to the city for work; to ‘herd’ testing, which means as businesses, shops, offices, or eateries are opening up, employers and owners are opting to get their employees tested periodically before returning to work; increased interaction of the unorganised workforce such as house helps, drivers, street vendors, or hawkers, with the community, and instances of local transmission arising from such interaction, as well as from the festival season. The increase in cases has also been attributed to scaled-up testing in Mumbai.According to experts, the surge is also partly due to lack of Covid-19 etiquette among Mumbaiites; failure to maintain social distancing, to wear masks, to wash hands frequently, to avoid crowds or poorly ventilated spaces; and an overall complacency about taking precautions.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of the public health department in the civic body, said last week, “With unlock plans and the city opening up, this trend is expected. We are testing more. But this is not only attributed to increase in testing, but also to increased interaction in the community in general, such as house helps returning to work, people beginning to buy groceries and vegetables on a daily basis, as opposed to the behaviour in March and April.”Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, comprising areas of Dadar, Shivaji Park, Mahim and Dharavi, said. “A trend is very evident where employers of businesses want to test their employees before they return to work. So at a time, one business, or shop, or organisation gets anywhere between 10 to 50 people tested. Moreover, as house helps and drivers are returning to work, their employers, too, test them regularly.”Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 task force, said, “This trend was expected, as transport opens up, and people commute within the city and to satellite cities. With unlocking plans, interaction is going to increase.”Dr Pandit said, “Just at the onset of September, we had one festival, that gave scope for more interaction and for people to meet each other, venture out for shopping. Around the same time, BMC increased their testing capacity, and now they are testing almost 15,000 daily. In a way, they cast a wider net to catch more cases, and that is a good thing.”However, experts have pointed out that the way forward is for Mumbaiites to show greater responsibility. Pointing out that for every tested person, there are 20 people who are also positive, but who have not tested and who do not have symptoms, Dr Joshi said, “In terms of lack of cooperation from citizens, the month of September has been very disappointing. Mumbaiiites have not shown any discipline in terms of maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, avoiding crowds and avoiding poorly ventilated spaces and Covid hygiene. Mumbaiites need to wake up and observer stricter discipline.”As Mumbaiites are allowed to venture out for work, shopping is allowed, visiting public places such as beaches or promenades is allowed, a sense of normalcy is settling in. According to Dr Pandit, this lack of discipline is also attributed to some amount of complacency setting in due to unlock plans. “The pandemic has reached a stage where it is no longer the government, which is responsible for absolutely everything. It is the people’s responsibility that is more than that. We must observe appropriate behaviour and habits. Wear masks, maintain social distancing, plan travel so as to avoid crowds, test on time and isolate on time. On the contrary, in March, April and May, lockdown mandated stricter discipline.”The civic body has until Saturday fined 14,207 citizens for not wearing masks and collected ₹52.76 lakh from them. Of this, fines worth ₹19 lakh were collected from 9,218 defaulters between September 13 and 26 alone.“If you do not maintain social distancing, and do not wear masks, the chances of your proximity to an asymptomatic carrier are going to increase. Social distancing works, we have seen that, even in other countries. This is the only thing that can be applied in the long term”, said Dr Om Shrivastav, who is a city-based consultant for infectious diseases. As per BMC’s Covid war room data, 68% of detected Covid patients are asymptomatic, 27% are symptomatic and 5% are critical.Experts also believeD that the government needs to further scale up Mumbai’s testing capacity to at least double the number of daily tests being done at present. While Dr Joshi said, considering Mumbai’s population, the city needs to conduct at least 30,000 to 50,000 tests a day. Dr Om Shrivastav said, “Mumbai should be doing over 1.5 lakh tests per day.”According to Dr Pandit, it is also important to stick to the basics from the administrative point of view, testing in high number, isolating positive patients, contact tracing, and quarantining high risk contacts.Dr Joshi said, “We are aiming to bring down case fatality rate (CFR) to less than 1%, going forward. In many parts of Maharashtra we have been successful in doing so.” In Mumbai too, CFR has dropped from 5.7% to 4.5%. HT reported on September 21 that in the past 31 days, the city has recorded CFR of 2.2% (1,115 deaths and 51,617 cases), which has helped bring down Mumbai’s overall CFR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/200k-cases-in-mumbai-trains-eateries-unlock-on-cards/story-VMKSOPYJ32HsuQxw3Zkn3L.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Active Covid-19 cases in Delhi below 30k, but number of daily deaths remains a concern||Delhi saw the number of active Covid cases drop to below 30,000 for the third day in a row on Monday.This has happened after ten days, according to the daily health bulletins released by the Delhi government. There were 27,123 active cases as on Sunday, fewer than the highest 28,329 active cases reported during the surge in June. The maximum peak in active cases during the current surge was 32,250, recorded on September 18, data shows. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The number of deaths, however, has seen a steady rise over the last seven days. On an average, almost 37 deaths has been reported daily during the last seven days as compared to almost 35 the week before and 24 daily deaths a day a fortnight ago. The higher number of fatalities due to Covid-19 reported during the week, has led to an increase in the seven-day case fatality ratio (CFR) – fraction of deaths among those who tested positive for the infection – to over 1% for three days in a row. It was as low as 0.68% in mid-September as per the data. “We should not look at single day fatalities because the patients do not die the same day they are diagnosed with the infection, people who have been infected before die over a week or ten days. That is why we look at the ten-day average case fatality ratio. And, there will be a decline in the number of deaths also as the cases have declined,” health minister Satyendar Jain had said during a media interaction on Sunday. Also read| Avoid routine use of plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients: Govt to hospitalsThere has also been a decline in the number of hospitalisations. As on Sunday, 6,659 people with the infection were admitted across hospitals in the city as per the data. This is lower than the highest number of hospitalisations recorded on September 21 when 7,051 patients with Covid-19 were admitted to city hospitals. “There is slowly a decline in the number of Covid-19 patients getting admitted to the hospital over the last week or so. The number of cases being reported in the city is still high at about 3,000 a day and it might go up in the winters like other infectious diseases,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, professor of pulmonary medicine at Safadarjung hospital. Also read: 51k fined, Rs2.53cr collected as fine for violating Covid-19 protocols in DelhiDelhi only reported 1,984 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, however this is a result of fewer tests conducted over the weekend. Only 36,302 tests were conducted on Sunday as compared to an average of 57,669 tests conducted each day during the week. The positivity rate – fraction of samples that return positive among the samples tested – dipped below 6% to just 5.47% on Sunday, the data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/active-cases-below-30k-but-number-of-daily-deaths-remains-a-concern/story-67H8wlGLNZbHowliWkFOmK.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Two pull woman down from bike, flee with gold chain in Delhi||A 50-year-old woman was dragged off a two-wheeler, and thrown on to a busy intersection even as vehicles zipped past her, by snatchers who violently tugged off her gold chain and drove away on their motorbike --- another incident that highlights the menace of street crime in the national capital.The woman, who works in a hospital, was left with a fracture in one arm, injuries to her head and knees, and may lose the use of her left ear because of the fall, said her husband, who was riding the motorcycle on which she was riding pillion at the time of the incident near Kashmere Gate on Friday night.Pramila Singh continues to be in hospital at Sushruta Trauma Centre in Civil Lines, and doctors say her condition is now stable. “But doctors have told us that she may have suffered permanent damage to her left ear,” Surender Singh said.The two motorbike-borne attackers are yet to be identified, police said. The couple live with their two sons in the MCD flats in North Delhi’s Jahangirpuri. Pramila Singh is a Grade IV health worker at the Girdhar Lal Maternity Hospital in Kamla Market, and her husband is a supervisor with the Delhi Jal Board. The crime occurred at around 8.45pm on Friday, when Surender was taking wife to the hospital for night duty. “We were on Ring Road, and close to Kashmere Gate ISBT, two men on a motorcycle pulled over close to us. The pillion rider violently tugged at my wife’s neck to snatch her gold chain,” said Surender. The violent jerks as his wife tried to fend off the attackers made Surender lose balance. Pramila, who was sitting with her legs to one side, fell on the road. “The snatchers managed to pull the chain off. I saw the pillion rider snatcher turn back and glance at us. He was masked, wearing a handkerchief,” Surender said.He added that his wife had a close shave as other passing vehicles swerved to avoid her, some barely avoiding running her over as she lay bleeding in the middle of the road.A motorist eventually stopped to offer the couple a ride to Sushruta Trauma Centre. Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (North), said a case of theft and ‘assault in attempt to commit theft of property’ has been registered at the Kashmere Gate police station. “We are checking CCTV footage for the suspects, but are yet to make a breakthrough,” the DCP said.On average, nearly 20 incidents of snatching and five robberies were reported every day in the capital till August 15 this year. Despite relatively empty streets during the lockdown, there was a 6% increase in snatching incidents this year compared to the corresponding period last year --- 4,257 till August 15 as compared to 4,010 in the same period in 2019. Robberies have, however, dipped by over 18% -- 1,086 cases till August 15 as compared to 1,333 in the same period last year.Vikram Singh, former DGP of Uttar Pradesh, said that snatching gold chains has become a lucrative crime because of the involvement of jewellers who buy the stolen property from them and go on to melt the jewellery, thus making it untraceable. “A few successful gold snatching a month earns these snatchers more than what an MNC executive makes. The police need to go after such jewellers if they intend to control this menace,” said Singh. He said that the pandemic has caused a lot of unemployment which is making the snatchers desperate to target people even at crowded and busy streets. “They also understand that the police is fatigued due to additional Covid duties. They know that the street patrolling is relaxed now as compared to earlier,” said the former UP Police chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-pull-woman-down-from-bike-flee-with-gold-chain-in-delhi/story-s8XO8Yp3iCGKmx6uPRDn9O.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rules go up in smoke as farm fires rage in Punjab||Farmers in Punjab, particularly in the Majha region --- comprising Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts --- have started burning the paddy residue early this year to prepare the fields for sowing vegetables. Agriculture department officials said potato and peas are sown in a significant portion of cultivable land in these regions. The farmers here prefer to cultivate the Pusa basmati-1,509 and some other hybrid varieties of paddy that ripen fast and thus are harvested early. Compared to 159 farm fires reported in the state till September 28 last year, as many as 520 incidents, most of them from Majha, have been witnessed during the corresponding period this time. Of the total 407 incidents that took place in the Majha region, 358 were in Amritsar, the state’s worst-hit district in terms of farm fires. Jagmohan Singh of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakunda) said the farmers have no option but to burn the paddy residue. “Since the government has not announced any incentive for straw management, the farmers are left with no option but to burn it. If the government is serious about stopping farm fires, it should announce Rs 200 per quintal funds for handling of straw,” Singh said.An agriculture department official said, “Actually, the farmers find burning of stubble the easiest method of disposing it even though it is a health hazard. Since the agriculture income is going down, they try to utilise the gap between paddy harvesting and wheat sowing by cultivating vegetables.” The government has deputed 8,000 nodal officers in paddy growing villages, with 23,500 machines being given to farmers for in-situ management of paddy straw. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has appealed to the farmers to shun the practice of burning straw on several occasions. At Devidas Pura village of Amritsar district where farmers were spotted burning the paddy straw, the HT team was asked to leave the place promptly. Some farmers said, “We are already facing harassment at the hands of government officials for burning the stubble. We cannot afford any method of managing the straw other than burning it.” But in some fields, labourers were seen lifting the straw with bailer machines and using tractor-trailers to transport it to the nearby sugar mills. Kulwant Singh, a farmer from Phoolke village near Batala in Gurdaspur district, said, “The farmers know the side-effects of burning stubble, but they still do it. In view of their precarious financial condition and increasing cost of cultivation, they cannot afford any other method of managing the residue.” “Nearly 80 per cent farmers have a land holding of 2 to 5 acres. The government asks us to buy a happy seeder machines to prevent stubble burning. This machine can be operated with a new model of tractor only. It costs around 11 lakh to buy such a tractor. How many of the farmers can afford to buy these machines?” he asks. Sukhwinder Singh, a farmer from Thatha village of Gurdaspur, said, “Without the government’s support, managing the residue with eco-friendly methods is not possible. As far as the use of bailer machines are concerned, a sizeable quantity of grain goes waste,” he added. The administration in Amritsar has imposed ₹55,000 fine on 15 farmers in the district, said deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khehra. Teams of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Monday visited 150 villages after spotting 318 cases farm fires, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rules-go-up-in-smoke-as-farm-fires-rage-in-punjab/story-CVyyVCXO5HLjp7eP1lnqiK.html
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||World Heart Day: Healthy lifestyles a must during Covid outbreak, say docs||Chandigarh Heath experts at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, on the eve of World Heart Day (observed on September 29), have stressed on the need to maintain healthy lifestyles as Covid-19 patients with underlying medical conditions are at increased risk of complications requiring intensive care unit admission, ventilator support, often leading to death.“Covid infection may lead to two types of cardiac complications: One is acute, during the infection and other is chronic when the patient has recovered from the infection. Hence, heart patients who have recovered from Covid infection should also be evaluated for any progression of underlying heart disease or a new manifestation, especially the elderly with associated co-morbid illnesses such as diabetes, hypertension, renal failure, and chronic respiratory diseases,” read press release from PGIMER quoting Professor Rajesh Vijayvergiya, department of cardiology.There is an increasing incidence of psychological stress in the community, which can lead to certain behavioural changes such as smoking and alcohol consumption, weight gain, physical inactivity, overeating, and not taking regular medicines. This increases the risk of heart diseases, the release read.The doctor stressed on the need to maintain a healthy lifestyle during the Covid-19 pandemic.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/world-heart-day-healthy-lifestyles-a-must-during-covid-outbreak-say-docs/story-5uWKPYt3lqA1b1Sg4RLUJN.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC wants Centre’s response on plea to stop stubble burning||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought the Centre’s response on a plea seeking immediate steps to prevent stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana on the grounds it could aggravate coronavirus- related problems.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Centre on an application that contended that stubble burning would increase air pollution drastically in the national capital and could further aggravate health problems in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Also read: Rules go up in smoke as farm fires rage in PunjabIn his plea, advocate Sudhir Mishra, urged the court that the central government should be directed to coordinate a meeting between the chief secretaries of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to address the issue.Mishra told the court that stubble burning has already started in Punjab and Haryana. He said the deadly virus has already claimed 92,000 lives and stubble burning would further weaken the immunity of people.He said the chief ministers of Delhi, UP, Haryana should sit and bring out a solution to the problem.The Centre told the bench that despite directions from the respective state governments not to burn stubble or face penalty for violation, farmers were doing it.Delhi government additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan told the court that a similar matter with respect to air pollution is pending and hence this matter should be tagged along with that.The court listed the matter for hearing on October 22 and asked the central government to find out if any similar matter was pending before the Supreme Court.Also read| Farm bills: Protesters set tractor on fire near India Gate, five arrestedThe application was filed by Mishra in his main PIL moved in 2015 seeking directions to the Centre to take immediate steps to control increasing air pollution in the national capital.He claimed there is a direct connection between the increase in air pollution and the rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi.This year, farmers have already begun burning crop residue in parts of Punjab and Haryana, satellite images from Nasa has shown, suggesting an early start to a practice that plunges much of the region.Every year these farm fires usually begin in full-swing by mid-October. Last year early fires were detected by September 25.Also read| ‘Stubble burning can spike Covid-19 deaths’: Petition in SCClouds of smoke cover Delhi and parts of north India in a thick blanket of toxic smoke every year, triggering a public health crisis.This year, there are fears that it is likely to exacerbate the Covid-19 outbreak. Research from Italy, one of the first coronavirus hot spots, showed that air pollution was linked to worse mortality rates. The virus, in severe cases, causes respiratory distress -- a condition that can be made worse to exposure to polluted air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehi-hc-wants-centre-s-response-on-plea-to-stop-stubble-burning/story-8K6NwjLV3ceov3Pz93PTQI.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao doctors start pen-down strike over delayed salaries||Doctors of the north municipal corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital, a Covid-19 designated facility, are on a pen-down strike for three hours every day since the past week over the long delay in the payment of salaries. According to the hospital’s Residents Doctors Association (RDA), they were last paid on June 15 after they moved court over delayed wages. The doctors have warned that if they are not paid their dues by this month, they may have to stall work or go on a full-fledged strike from next month. “We have been working through the pandemic without being paid regularly for our job. It was the 105th day that we reported to work without having been paid our dues. Despite the high court’s directions, salaries have again not been paid for three months,” said Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, president of the RDA. The doctors do not attend to non-emergency patients and make reports between 9 am and 12 pm in the day to register their protest. On Monday, a doctor on Covid duty wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) overalls stood with a placard that read “Doctors on covid duty : Unpaid Day-105”. The doctors had approached the Delhi High Court in May over the non-payment of dues, after which salaries were paid till June. Sardana said if the scenario continues, they will be forced to hold an indefinite protest. The doctors’ association had written to the hospital administration on September 23. The association on Monday also wrote to the north corporation commissioner and the political representatives on the pending dues. Nursing staff, paramedics and safai karamcharis of the north body-run Kasturba Hospital were also on a partial strike until Monday over the non-payment of dues. Teachers of both the north and east corporations had also been staging demonstrations over the past 26 days against delayed salaries. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Monday met the protesting staffers of Kasturba Hospital and requested them to withdraw the agitation, seeking two months to resolve the issue. “The protesting employees withdrew their strike after I requested them to allow me time till November 30 to resolve the issue of their salaries. I have approached the Centre to help us with funds, as the corporation is suffering from a severe financial crunch. We will request the Delhi government once again to release our funds or else we will have to file a PIL regarding non-disbursal of funds due to the civic body under the basic tax assessment (BTA) head,” said Prakash. The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to requests for a comment. Prakash alleged that during the pandemic, the Delhi government cut funds due to the corporation under the basic tax assessment head by 57%. “Every government department or municipal body has been hit badly by the pandemic. However, such a drastic cut in the BTA, which has to be given by the state government, has been done only for the municipal corporation. In case of other government departments, the BTA has been cut only by 18%-19%. We are due to get ₹425 crore from the government under BTA,” said Prakash. The mayor said that to boost its revenue, the civic body will start an awareness campaign for the amnesty scheme launched to collect pending property tax from unauthorised regularised colonies. East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain submitted a proposal in the House meeting on Monday, asking Delhi government to release funds due to it. “We are due to get a total of ₹1,050 crore from the Delhi government in the current financial year. We have been unable to pay our staff because of not having any funds,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hindu-rao-doctors-start-pen-down-strike-over-delayed-salaries/story-o0g5ZGbYGxtS7MkRdLF13N.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Delhi cop shoots father-in-law dead, 12 hours after shooting at woman friend||A Delhi Police sub-inspector shot dead his 62-year-old father-in-law in Rohtak’s Bhainsi village on Monday morning, nearly 12 hours after he shot at his woman friend in a car in outer Delhi’s Alipur. Both Haryana and Delhi Police have launched a manhunt. The suspect, Sandeep Dahiya, 35, was posted at the Lahori Gate police station in north Delhi, officials said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said, “Multiple teams are now on a lookout for Dahiya. We are working in coordination with the Alipur police and our counterparts in Haryana,” said DCP Alphonse. Meham deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Shamsher Singh Dahiya said the suspect, a resident of Sisana village in Sonepat, has been booked under Section 302 (murder) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code. He said that the victim’s family have told the police that the accused had threatened to kill him a few days ago.Witness to Alipur shooting Dahiya had fled after the shooting in Alipur. However, now the police have found a witness who was passing through the area and suffered a shrapnel injury in his leg. Police said Satbir (who goes by his first name) was on his way to Sonepat when he was injured. However, he did not realise when a shrapnel from the three bullets that Dahiya had fired at his woman friend got lodged in his leg. On Monday, a Delhi police team met Satbir in a Sonepat hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma said Satbir is a key witness to the Alipur firing incident.Officials said Sandeep was in a relationship with the woman for over a year. She was found injured in the car on GT Karnal Road on Sunday evening by another police sub-inspector, Jaiveer, who took her to a nearby hospital. “On the way, the woman told him that Sandeep Dahiya, had shot her following an argument. She also told him that Dahiya had strained relations with his wife. We registered a case and formed teams to search for SI Dahiya. The woman suffered bullet injuries in her right shoulder and arm. Her condition is stable and is out of danger,” Sharma said, adding that they are probing whether Dahiya used his service weapon in the crime. Second crimeOn Monday morning, Sandeep reportedly drove up to his in-laws’ house in Rohtak’s Bhainsi village and shot his father in-law, Ranbir Singh, 62. Sandeep’s wife, Rajesh Devi, said the incident took place around 7am when her father was cleaning the street outside their house. “Dahiya, along with my brother’s father-in-law and cousin Pawan, came in an SUV and pumped a bullet into my father’s forehead, killing him on the spot,” Rajesh Devi said. She told the police that she had moved back to the house of her parents four years ago, following marital discord. She also said that a was pending in the local court. “My husband had illicit relations with my sister-in-law. My sister-in-law, Reena, had also filed a case against my brother, seeking divorce as she wanted to marry Sandeep. He wanted to take custody of our son but I was against it,” she added. Delhi Police officials said Sandeep joined the force as a constable in 2006. In 2016, he was promoted as a sub-inspector after clearing the exam. He has been posted in north district since 2013 and in the Lahori Gate police station since December 2017. Sandeep has been living in a government flat at Shalimar Bagh police colony. “Dahiya has been in a marital dispute with his wife, who has filed a dowry harassment case against him in a police station in Rohtak. He faced a departmental enquiry also,” said a police officer who knows Dahiya said on the condition of anonymity. (With inputs from Karn Pratap Singh in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-cop-shoots-father-in-law-dead-12-hours-after-shooting-at-woman-friend/story-upXTAOOdK9iNKz6PCKSALN.html
29-09-2020||Education||Students in Urdu-medium schools, struggle with worksheets in Hindi, English||Delhi government schools that use Urdu as the medium of instruction have been struggling to ensure uninterrupted learning to students amid the Covid-enforced restrictions because no online study material or worksheets in the language are being provided by the state’s education department, according to several officials and students in these schools. With schools shut since March and classes shifted online, government institutions -- where a majority of the students do not have access to smart devices and the internet -- are dependent on the worksheets or study material provided by Directorate of Education (DoE) for virtual learning. These worksheets contain both notes and questions. Students can either access them on their class WhatsApp groups, or their parents can physically pick them up from the schools. DoE has been providing worksheets every day for all subjects -- in both Hindi and English -- on a daily basis to all its schools. However, there are no worksheets in which Urdu is the language of instruction. The vice-principal of an Urdu-medium school in the Walled City said: “We receive at least 2-3 worksheets per class every day from DoE, but they are either in Hindi or English. It has become a major task for us to translate those for our students in their medium of studies on a daily basis. Though our students can understand both Hindi and English, if they do not read and write in Urdu script they will lose grip over the language.”There are around 20 government schools in Delhi offering Urdu-medium education that cater to around 20,000 students. Most of these schools are in the Walled City. After receiving the worksheets from their zonal offices, the teachers at these schools divide the work among themselves. They manually translate the worksheets, click pictures of them, and then send them to the students. The schools have also formed WhatsApp groups to share the translated study material with each other. A teacher at an Urdu-medium School in Jafrabad said, “It takes a day or two to translate the worksheets and send them to the students since only Urdu-knowing teachers can do that. Many of our teachers are acquainted with the language, but can’t write in the script. That’s why the translation work takes a lot of time and due to which the worksheets reach late to our students.”When contacted, a senior official in Delhi government’s education department said: “DoE is providing worksheets only in Hindi and English because they are the most preferred mediums in our schools. The education department has given independence to the schools to modify them or introduce anything suitable for their students. The teachers of Urdu-medium schools can either translate them or explain to the students through audios or videos. Many of them are already doing this.”An official in Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said, “The education department will assess the situation and will provide any other support required to ensure uninterrupted learning to these students.”Students at some schools say they are getting untranslated worksheets in Hindi. Nazir, 17, a Class 12 student at a school in Old Delhi that offers both Urdu and Hindi as mediums of instruction, said: “We are receiving all the worksheets in Hindi. The school has also allowed us to use a mix of Hindi and Urdu while attempting the worksheets. It will affect my fluency in the Urdu language, and I have to appear in board exams next year.”Manzar Ali Khan, member of the Delhi Minority Commission’s advisory committee, said, “It’s very important to have worksheets and study material in Urdu language for the students enrolled in Urdu-medium schools. If the students will continue study in any other language than it will affect their learning in their medium language. The government should look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-urdu-medium-schools-a-struggle-without-worksheets/story-6dyfVO6aC9ZNIh6y0oQaTP.html
29-09-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: All precautions must be taken during upcoming festivals, says UP CM||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said all precautions must be taken during upcoming festivals in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.He also directed officials at a review meeting to “apply all precautions during the coming festival season”, according to an official statement.“Awareness about Covid-19 should be spread through public address systems and surveillance committees should remain active,” the chief minister said at the meeting that was held to review the situation in the state due to the pandemic.When asked to comment on reports that Durga Puja events will not be allowed this year, an Uttar Pradesh government official told PTI that no advisory has been issued so far.“Public programmes, where there is a possibility of crowding, will not be permitted. There will be puja,” he said without elaborating, but added that an advisory on ‘dos and don’ts’ will be issued.On whether Ramlila will be allowed, the official said, “Conditional permission will be given so that there is no crowding. For example, in the Ramlila that will be held in Ayodhya, organisers have been told to do live telecast and digital broadcasting.” Meanwhile, an office bearer of the Vyapari Kalyan Board of Gorakhpur, Pushpdant Jain, on Monday claimed that there will be no public programmes, and no Durga Puja and Diwali celebrations this year.However, Ramlila will be allowed with social distancing and in adherence with other Covid-19 protocols, he told PTI, a day after the meeting chief minister.“On Sunday, I met chief minister Yogi Adityanath regarding celebrations during Durga Puja and Diwali. Keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in view, he clearly said that there will be no public celebration during the festive season. However, people could celebrate inside their homes,” Jain claimed.“Ramlila will be allowed with social distancing. The chief minister told me that with a maximum of 100 persons gathering, following social distancing and (other) Covid-19 protocols, Ramlila is allowed,” he claimed.Ramlila is held on big grounds and social distancing can be easily followed there, the vice-president of the Vyapari Kalyan Board said.“There is restriction on pandals and big idols. However, small idols that can be carried in cars, autos, etc are allowed. Processions will not be allowed,” Jain claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-all-precautions-must-be-taken-during-upcoming-festivals-says-up-cm/story-3tuy5U9hq9OWhyv9vnLn1L.html
29-09-2020||Pune||Maha-Metro completes digging of Agri college-Shivajinagar underground metro track||Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) achieved a breakthrough as it completed 1.6 km underground tunnel-digging between Agriculture college and Shivajinagar.The tunnel boring machine (TBM), entered from Agricultural College ground, on October 30, 2019, completed the tunnel work of 1,600 metres during ten months.“This signifies the completion of tunnelling of the Range Hill- Shivajinagar- Civil Court stretch. The breakthrough happened 150 metres inside the NATM section of Civil Court underground station,” said Maha-Metro Managing Director Brijesh Dixit.Maha Metro is building two metro lines - Swargate-Nigdi and Vanaz-Ramwadi - of which 43 per cent work is complete.This is one of the two TBMs being used for tunnelling the up and down line in the underground section. The other TBM has also completed 1.5 km starting Agriculture College, according to Dixit.During the breakthrough, the tunnel boring machine entered accurately at the designated location by missing just ten mm target even as the permissible limit has been 100 mm.Atul Gadgil, director, director, Maha-Metro, said, “Metro officials and staff welcomed the TBM by hoisting a flag. The TBM is used to carry out drilling work with a huge cutter. At the same time, manual work was carried out at the Metro station work where the station area got dug. When the tunnel boring machine enters this manual tunnel, it is called a tunnel breakthrough.”The metro will run underground for a six-kilometre stretch, from Agriculture College ground to Swargate on Nigdi-Swargate line.Dixit said, “It is one of the major achievements of the Pune Metro. Now, this tunnel boring will start work to dig next tunnel which will go under the Mutha river.”There is a total of five underground metro rail stations on the six-kilometre stretch. The first station is at Shivajinagar, second is at Civil court, the third station is at Phadke Houd chowk, fourth is at Mandai and the last one is at Swargate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agri-college-shivajinagar-underground-metro-track-light-at-the-end-of-the-tunnel/story-K1IFPINkbj0tRFov3c20KL.html
29-09-2020||Pune||7 per cent volunteers at Pune’s NCL developed antibodies: Survey||A voluntary serological survey conducted by CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune, on its employees has revealed that 24 of a total of 339 participants who provided blood samples were found to be seropositive. This is seven per cent of those tested showing antibodies to the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Speaking about the results announced on Monday, a senior NCL official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “These 24 seropositive individuals include eight students, 11 staffers, three contractual staff and two family members of staff. Gender-wise, it is 18 males and six females seropositive, as per the survey. The data shows limited spread of infection on the NCL Pune office campus and colony area, indicating maximum care being taken by people regarding use of masks and sanitisers, besides washing hand frequently and other safety measures.” The serological testing began on September 12 at the NCL Medical Centre and concluded on September 17. The blood samples, along with health data, were sent to CSIR-IGIB for the serological analysis. This initiative is part of a pan-India project, named ‘Phenome India - A long-term longitudinal observational cohort study of health outcomes’, initiated by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and led by Delhi-based CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. Dr Shantanu Sengupta from CSIR-IGIB is coordinating the survey study. The CSIR-NCL team comprised scientists from the biochemical sciences division and doctors from the medical centre. “This research study involved testing of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 in the people working in the CSIR labs and their family members. The CSIR-NCL and CSIR-URDIP represent the western region. Blood samples were collected from those who were willing to participate. The test was voluntary and open to all CSIR staff, including pensioners up to the age of 70, students, contractual staff and their families,” said Prabhakar Ingle, media advisor at CSIR-NCL, Pune. The serology test, also known as the Covid-19 antibody test, is a blood test that can detect if a person has antibodies to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Health parameters such as temperature, height, weight, oxygen level and blood pressure are noted in addition to collecting the blood sample.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-per-cent-volunteers-at-ncl-developed-antibodies-survey/story-uhNVdYWqZsyuIph8fDPs1H.html
29-09-2020||Pune||50-59 age bracket fatalities higher in Pune’s Dehu Cantonment||Dehu road cantonment and the nagar pparishads are reporting a 30% incidence of Covid-19 fatalities in the 50-59 age group. Poor critical care infrastructure in these areas, is being cited as one possible factor.In comparison with Pune district, which includes cantonment boards and the nagar parishads, Pune district accounts for 22% or 1,320 fatalities in the age group of 51-60 years; also 1,776 deaths in the age group of 61-70 years. These are from a total Covid-related death toll of 5,954.In comparison, Dehu cantonment accounts for 30.3% or 492 deaths in the age group of 50-59, with 33.3% deaths from the 60-69-year age group.Also, the 14 nagar parishads have reported 32.8% deaths from the age group of 50-59 years and 19.7% deaths from 60-69 age group.With respect to critical healthcare too, Dehu cantonment has no oxygenated isolation beds; and no ICU beds with or without ventilators. The 14 nagar parishads in the district have 406 oxygenated isolation beds, 92 ICU beds without ventilators and 63 with ventilators.Ayush Prasad, CEO of Zilla Parishad said, “There is a 500-bed hospital in Maval taluka which borders Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) and is just six km from Dehu road cantonment board.”“The area is densely populated and most residents have retired. I cannot say what could be the exact cause, but the health facilities are within reach for anyone who needs it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehu-cantt-nagar-parishads-see-higher-number-of-fatalities-in-51-60-age-bracket-than-rest-of-district/story-mrYnrpXwE84W5yH338CPdJ.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Caste-related crimes on the rise in UP: AAP||Delhi minister for social welfare Rajendra Pal Gautam and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Monday condemned the sexual assault on a 19-year-old girl at Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh. Talking about the incident in which the Dalit girl was assaulted by upper caste men, Gautam said there has been a “continuous rise” in the number of crimes against Dalits and Brahmins in UP. Bharadwaj said under the Yogi Adityanath government in UP, the condition of Dalits and Brahmins has deteriorated drastically. He also said that members of Thakur community have been appointed to most of the top positions since the CM belongs to the same caste. He said two other minor girls were targeted in the same district (Hathras) on August 24 and on August 14.“Looking into the crimes that are happening in Uttar Pradesh, we have found that Scheduled Castes and Tribes, OBCs and Brahmins are constantly being targeted. This is happening because of the attitude of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The morale of the people of a particular community is high because whenever the people associated with that community commit any crime, no action is taken against them. A recent survey has shown 25% of caste-related crimes are reported from UP followed by Madhya Pradesh. Both these states are run by BJP. On the other hand, in Congress-ruled Rajasthan caste-related crimes are also increasing,” he said. Gautam said that all such crimes should be stopped and the government should be proactive in handling these cases. Referring to the gang rape of the 19-year-old girl, a senior UP police officer said, “The police have arrested all the four accused named in the FIR. And the victim is undergoing treatment at Aligarh medical college.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/caste-related-crimes-on-the-rise-in-up-aap/story-o8GJU9oIkyC5GdxGvIgWwK.html
29-09-2020||Delhi||Woman found murdered in Delhi’s Mohan Garden||A 26-year-old woman was found murdered with her throat slit and multiple stab wounds in her abdomen at her in-laws’ home in outer Delhi’s Mohan Garden near Ranhola on Saturday night, police said on Monday.A case of murder was registered at the Ranhola police station and the matter is being probed from various angles, including personal enmity, robbery attempt going wrong and family dispute, officers associated with the case said.“The first information report (FIR) was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Our probe is on,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan.The woman identified by her first name Manisha was married to Pankaj (first name) four months ago. The couple lived on the ground floor of a building, the first floor of which is occupied by Pankaj’s brother and his family. Pankaj is a motor mechanic and repairs cluster buses, the police said.A senior police officer associated with the case said Manisha’s body was discovered by her husband around 10 pm, when he returned home after work. The husband told the police that he had left home for work around 9.30 am, leaving his wife alone at home.According to Pankaj, when he returned home, he found the main door bolted from inside. But it did not make him doubtful because he had asked his wife to fasten the latch from inside before going to sleep as he usually returned home late in the night, Pankaj told police.“Pankaj unbolted the door by reaching the latch through the window. He went inside and found his wife bleeding and unconscious on the floor. Items in the room were scattered on the floor,” the officer said, quoting Pankaj’s statement.Pankaj raised an alarm, informed his brother and neighbours before calling the police control room. A police team reached there and took Manisha to a nearby hospital, where she was declared brought dead.Police spoke to Pankaj’s brother and his family members. But they claimed that since the air cooler in their house was on, they did not hear Manisha’s screams. The neighbours also did not hear anything.“The murder took place between 10 am and 10 pm on Saturday, during the period when the woman’s husband was away. Prima facie, it appears that the killer is known to the woman as there was a friendly entry in the house. The suspect knew how to fasten the main door’s rear latch through the window. Nobody has been given a clean chit, so far,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-found-murdered-in-delhi-s-mohan-garden/story-4OzLhOraFzwHEQh3YjUeRM.html
29-09-2020||Kolkata||NIA seeks TMC leader Mahato’s house arrest in connection with murder case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has sought Chhatradhar Mahato, a leader of the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, to be put under house arrest in connection with a murder of a CPIM leader in 2009 in the state.The central probe agency also wants to send Mahato’s swab samples to a central government laboratory for Covid-19 test. His swab samples were tested in a state-run laboratory which declared him Covid-19 positive on Sunday, a day before the case was to be heard in a special court on Monday.Mahato, the former poster boy of the Maoist-backed tribal movement that grabbed national headlines between 2008 and 2011, was recently inducted into the ruling TMC party after serving a jail term of eleven years.Also read: Despotic tendencies seen prominently’: Bengal Guv targets Mamata BanerjeeWhile the NIA had earlier questioned him in connection with an eleven-year-old case of hijacking of the Bhubaneswar-Delhi Rajdhani Express, the agency had also sought his custody along with four others in connection with the murder case.None of the five accused appeared before the special court saying they were under home isolation after Mahato tested positive for Covid-19.“The NIA has sought that Mahato and four others be put under house arrest. All five have been asked to appear before the court on the next hearing. The next hearing is on October 12,” said Kaushik Sinha, Mahato’s advocate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/nia-seeks-tmc-leader-mahato-s-house-arrest-in-connection-with-murder-case/story-guPHAmuS53QvGuQqHd1hVN.html
