20-04-2021||Ranchi||State’s case growth rate nearly double than national average||Jharkhand’s seven days’ Covid-19 growth rate was almost double than the national average, as the state discovered over 43,000 cases in last 19 days.According to the health department’s April 19 bulletin, the seven-day Covid-19 growth rate in the state was 2.10% against the national average of 1.18%.All parameters, except mortality rate, remained poor in comparison to the national average. While the state’s seven-day doubling period was 33.35 days, the national average was 59.25 days. Jharkhand’s recovery rate was 80.87% against the national 86%.Jharkhand, which logged 124,201 cases till March 31 this year, added 43,034 new cases in last 19 days with an average daily detection of around 2,265 cases.The state reported its highest-ever single-day spike recently on Monday after discovering 4,290 cases, that pushed the tally of active cases to over the 30,000-mark.Jharkhand has as many as 30,477 active cases, of which Ranchi contributed 11,726 active cases alone.However, the district has a total of 2,995 beds comprising isolation beds, oxygen-supported beds, ICU and ventilator beds in both government and private sectors.The rising number of cases in the state has put health care and services in crisis causing much trouble to patients, with many of them dying in last 10 days allegedly for want of adequate treatment.The state was also facing acute shortage of life-saving drugs, particularly Remdesivir injection meant for Covid-19 treatment.Taking seriously the pressing need of Remdesivir, chief minister Hemant Soren earlier wrote to Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda, seeking permission to import 50,000 vials of the said medicine worth one million dollars from Bangladesh-based pharmaceutical company BEXIMCO.Soren stated, “...The precariousness of the situation will be evident from the fact that against the total order of 76,640 vials, Jharkhand has received only 8,038 vials of Remdesivir injection in the last fortnight, leading to the medicine not being administered to many needy patients. Since we could not get this medicine as per our requirement from Indian manufacturers, we explored international markets and obtained a quotation from BEXIMCO, Bangladesh.”Many Jharkhand parliamentarians and legislators have released constituency funds for meeting the growing demand of oxygen cylinders and medicines.Recently on Monday, Union minister Arjun Munda released ₹50 lakh from his constituency fund for meeting the urgent requirement of medical oxygen in his Khunti constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/states-case-growth-rate-nearly-double-than-national-average-101618937498600.html
20-04-2021||Ranchi||State announces week-long lockdown from April 22||Strap: Named as Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, the lockdown restrictions will come into effect from 6am on April 22 till 6pm on April 29.  The state government on Tuesday announced a week-long lockdown from April 22 to 29, named as ‘Swasthya Surkasha Saptah’, in a bid to break the chain of the rapidly spreading coronavirus infection in the state.The restrictions will come into effect from 6am on Thursday and will end on 6pm on April 29, officials said. Chief minister Hemant Soren said, “It has become extremely necessary to break the chain of infection of coronavirus in the state. So, we have taken some important decisions in this regard. I hope we will be successful in our attempt through Swasthya Surakasha Saptah.”Giving details, Soren said barring shops selling essential commodities, all other shops will be shut during the period. All offices will remain closed, excluding central and state government offices and some identified offices of private sector.Religious places will remain open. However, devotees will not be allowed to visit them. Residents have been asked not to venture out of their homes, excluding those possessing a permit to do so. Gathering of five and more persons in one place was also prohibited.The chief minister, however, said activities related to agriculture, industry, construction and mining will function uninterrupted. “Our priority is to save lives and livelihood. We can stop the spread of the virus through people’s participation. So, I will appeal to people of the state to follow the government’s guidelines for Swasthya Suraksha Saptah,” he said.Earlier on Sunday last, the government ordered closure of all schools, colleges, coaching, training, and anaganwadi centres for a month. The number of attendees at weddings was also limited to 50 from the existing 200.Amid rising cases of Covid-19, the government was under pressure for taking strong decisions, as traders and most of the political parties were demanding lockdown-like restrictions in a bid to reduce cases and burden on the health infrastructure in the state.Jharkhand recorded 43,145 Covid-19 cases between April 1 and 19, while as many as 389 people lost their lives due to the disease during the period.Recently on Monday, Federation of Jharkhand chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) declared a self-imposed lockdown from Wednesday to April 25 in light of the grim situation. However, several markets went under voluntary lockdown from Monday in fear of rapid spread of infection.Besides, at the all-party meeting called by the chief minister on Saturday last, all major parties, including the BJP, JMM, RJD, AJSU and NCP demanded for imposing lockdown. However, the Congress did not support the unanimous demand. The party’s state president Ramehswar Oraon advocated for social and religious lockdown and not economic.Announcement triggers panic buying With news of lockdown making rounds since morning, panic buying was witnessed in urban markets across the state on Tuesday. Consumers thronged grocery and other retails shops to stock up items of daily need, despite the government’s announcement that shops of essential commodities will remain open. Ravi Paswan, while purchasing items at a grocery shop in Ranchi, said, “I want to stock up items of daily need, as I do not want to go outside for a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-announces-week-long-lockdown-from-april-22-101618937498000.html
20-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand announces week-long lockdown from April 22||Jharkhand government on Tuesday announced a week-long lockdown, from April 22 to April-29, named Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, in a bid to break the chain of Covid-19 spread in the state. The restrictions will come into effect from 6 am on Thursday till 6 am on April 29, the officials said.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said, “It has become very necessary to break the chain of soaring infection of coronavirus in the state. So, we have taken some important decisions in this regard. I hope we will be successful to break the chain of the virus through ‘Swasthya Suraksha Saptah’.”Giving details of the fresh restrictions, CM Soren said barring shops of essential commodities, all other shops would be shut during the period. All offices will remain close excluding the central and state government offices and some identified offices of the private sector.Religious places will be opened but devotees would not be allowed there. Residents have been asked not to venture out of their homes, excluding those who hold permits. Not more than four people can assemble in a place.The chief minister, however, said activities related to agriculture, industry, construction and mining will function uninterrupted. Also read: Immediate implementation of order suspending oxygen to industries - Delhi HC“We can stop the spread of the virus through people’s participation. So, I would appeal to the people of the state to follow the government guideline for the Swasthya Suraksha Saptah,” he said, adding that a government order containing more details about the restrictions would be issued soon.Earlier on Sunday, the chief minister announced that all schools, colleges, coaching, training, and Anganwadi centres would remain closed for a month. The number of attendees at weddings was also limited to 50 from the existing 200 in the state.Amid rising cases of Covid-19, THE government was under pressure for taking some strong decisions as traders and almost all political parties have been demanding lockdown-like restrictions in a bid to reduce the cases and burden on hospitals.Jharkhand recorded 43,145 Covid-19 cases between April 1 and April 19. As many as 389 people have lost their lives due to the virus during the period.The federation of Jharkhand chamber of commerce and industries (FJCCI) on Monday declared a self-imposed lockdown from Wednesday to April 25. However, several markets have already imposed a lockdown from Monday. Shops at many major markets in the state capital Ranchi have shut their shutters in fear of the spread of the infection.During the all-party meeting called by the chief minister on Saturday, all major parties of the state demanded the imposition of a lockdown to break the chain of the virus. However, the Congress party was not in support of a complete lockdown. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon called for a social lockdown and not an economic one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-announces-week-long-lockdown-from-april-22-101618931198630.html
