24-04-2021||Ranchi||Only 8% people in state vaccinated||Jharkhand, in last three and a half months, has vaccinated only 8% of its population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, considered as the only way to slow down the growth of infection, according to the state health department’s bulletin released on Saturday.The state till Saturday evening vaccinated over 2.54 million citizens against its total population of 32.96 million. These beneficiaries were a part of preferred groups comprising health care workers (HCW), frontline workers (FLW) and citizens above the age of 45 years.At a time when the state is badly hit by the second wave of the pandemic, all eyes are now set at the pace of vaccination and its coverage, that need to be amplified further to save precious lives.Considering the importance of vaccination in the ongoing fight against the virus, the Centre recently allowed inoculation of all citizens above the age of 18 years from May 1.The state government too responded quickly to this development and announced to provide free vaccination to all its eligible citizens.According to an estimate of the state health department, there are around 16 million people between 18-44 years of age in Jharkhand, for which it requires 32 million doses of the vaccine.However, health mandarins in the state are sceptical about timely availability of such a huge number of vaccine doses. This apart, they also find the current pace of vaccination coverage unsatisfactory.A senior official of the health department said, “The department has been continuously monitoring the entire vaccination programme and issuing directions/advisories to districts to augment the pace of vaccination. Districts with low coverage have been nudged regularly. Special camps were organised at panchayat levels also to augment the coverage percentage. On Saturday, around 1,500 Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVC) were functioning across the state. The number of CVCs may be increased from May 1.”According to sources, the state has, at present, six lakh doses of both Covishield and Covaxin. It is also planning to purchase around 50 lakh doses for the launch of mass vaccination campaign from May 1.According to a department official, “The Serum Institute of India, Pune, that manufactures Covishield vaccine, has fixed ₹400 and ₹600 prices per dose for government and private sectors, respectively.”Health experts feel that vaccination is the key to contain the spread of the infection. “Achieving herd immunity at the earliest is key to effectively control the disastrous pandemic. How quickly can we reach the magic herd immunity number across the country depends on a number of factors, including infectivity of the virus,” said Dr RK Jha, former professor and head, department of medicine of RIMS, Ranchi.He added, “More the infectiousness of the virus, bigger the percentage of people to be vaccinated. For instances, herd immunity for measles is achieved by vaccinating almost 100% population because its basic reproduction number R0 ( R nought) is extremely high, 12-18 suggesting infectiousness, whereas, for whooping cough (pertussis) it’s 5-6, requiring only 70% of population to be vaccinated.It’s quite likely that newer variants of coronavirus, that are more infectious, now require almost 100% of population to be vaccinated, Jha said.“Vaccinating a large population swiftly requires huge manpower and other infrastructure. Health emergency should be promulgated in order to effectively use national resources. Vaccine availability, right from production to storage and distribution, should be streamlined and perfectly tuned with the help of computer applications. Media have a greater role to play in creating awareness,” he said, adding, “Wearing mask as a national dress and duty can buy time for vaccination. The state should do everything possible to ensure that people are made to use mask and maintain social distancing.”According to the health department’s April 24 bulletin, of the total 2,548,045 beneficiaries, who received the first jab, 2,088,413 were above 45 years of age, 264,281 were FLWs and 195,351 were HCWs. A total of 414,035 beneficiaries have taken both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/only-8-people-in-state-vaccinated-101619282760878.html
24-04-2021||Ranchi||State starts Covid-19 circuit to relieve load of major districts||In order to decongest hospitals in major cities like Ranchi and Jamshedpur and provide oxygen beds to struggling patients, the state government on Saturday started ‘Covid-19 circuit’ through which patients will be shifted to hospitals in nearby districts where oxygen beds were lying vacant, officials said.The circuit was inaugurated online by chief minister Hemant Soren, along with symbolically flagging off ambulances from his residence that will transport patients to nearby districts free of cost as and when required. “It is being observed that while there is lot of pressure on hospitals in Ranchi and Jamshedpur, several beds in nearby district hospitals are lying vacant. We need to use these beds optimally. Patients who are in need of oxygenated beds can dial emergency number and they can get admitted in nearby districts which are part of the two major districts. If needed, government vans will transport them to these facilities from Ranchi and Jamshedpur,” said Soren, while inaugurating the circuit. The move comes a day after the chief minister said there was no shortage of oxygen or oxygen supported beds in the state.Ramgarh, Khunti, Humla, Siddha, Lohardaga and Latehar districts are part of the Ranchi circuit, while Jamshedpur, Chaibasa and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts are part of the Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) circuit. According to the chief minister, hundreds of oxygenated beds were available in these districts. “In Ranchi circuit, out of the total 2,000 beds, nearly 450 are vacant. In Jamshedpur circuit, out of 1,200, around 500 are still available,” Soren said. He further said oxygen beds in the state were increased to 10,000 from 2,500 in last 20 days, while work was also on to increase the number of oxygen supported beds across the state.Besides, in a bid avoid problems arising due to lack of information, the state government issued a toll-free number, the chief minister said. Infected patients or families, who wish to be admitted to nearby district hospitals, can call central control room at 104 or Ranchi centre at 0651-2411144 and Jamshedpur centre at 0657-244011, and 8987510050. This service is being provided for free.Earlier on Friday, Soren said there was no shortage of oxygen or oxygen supported beds in the state. “There is no need to panic. All of us will win this battle against Covid-19 by keeping restraint. Doctors in the state, including paramedical staff, and other Covid-19 warriors are working day and night for us. We all have to be together in this fight. Arrangements are improving with every passing day. Our patience can be an important link in this fight,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-starts-covid-19-circuit-to-relieve-load-of-major-districts-101619282700944.html
24-04-2021||Ranchi||12-hour road journey brings oxygen for Kashi hospitals||An oxygen tanker from Bokaro in Jharkhand reached an oxygen plant in Chandauli district’s Ramnagar industrial area in eastern Uttar Pradesh by road around 3am on Friday, covering the distance in “12 hours” instead of the usual 14 hours as a green corridor was created, officials said. The driver Suresh Kumar, a resident of Pratapgarh, drove non-stop. The arrival of the tanker with 20 tonnes (20,000 litres) of oxygen held the promise of easing the shortage in Varanasi somewhat amid the Covid-19 crisis. Soon after arriving at Ramnagar, the liquid medical oxygen in the tanker was unloaded at the MedTech plant there. The plant then started preparing medical oxygen, which was filled in cylinders. The oxygen cylinders were supplied to hospitals, Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said. Oxygen supply became somewhat normal by Friday noon. “I wanted the oxygen tanker to reach the plant as early as it could. Therefore, I spoke to the tanker driver Suresh Kumar and apprised him of the oxygen crisis in Varanasi. I motivated him and said if the tanker reached two-three hours before the usual time, it will be a great help. I am thankful to the driver Suresh Kumar. On our request, he has brought it non-stop from Bokaro. He started around 2.30pm on Thursday and reached the MedTech plant, Ramnagar, at around 3am to save the lives of patients.” Usually, it takes more than 14 hours to cover the distance from Bokaro to the oxygen plant in Ramnagar by road. Varanasi commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh sent a police escort vehicle which met the tanker beyond Dehri-on-Sone in Bihar and escorted it to the Ramnagar plant. “It was one of the most satisfying operations of my career,” Ganesh said. The district magistrate said the MedTech plant earlier got shut around 11am on Thursday when its liquid oxygen stock ran out. As a result of the heavy pressure on oxygen supply on Thursday, new admissions in hospitals had to stop temporarily and a few patients were shifted from the hospitals that were left with little oxygen. Sharma said there were six oxygen plants in the industrial area of Chandauli. Four of them make oxygen from air and two produce it from liquid medical oxygen. Among these four plants, one has the capacity to produce 150 cylinders of oxygen every day and three others about 100 to 150 cylinders daily. The two other plants, which use liquid medical oxygen to produce oxygen gas, have the capacity to produce 800 cylinders each in 24 hours. The district magistrate said there were 43 hospitals listed as Covid-19 care facilities, including six government hospitals and 37 private ones. The oxygen cylinders were being supplied to them as per their quota and need daily, he said, adding that the oxygen cylinders were supplied to the hospitals today (Friday). At the same time, oxygen cylinders are also being supplied to non-Covid hospitals. Sharma said Varanasi will also get an oxygen tanker from the Oxygen Express, which is likely to reach the city at around Friday midnight. At present, 3800 oxygen cylinders were being filled daily at oxygen plants in the industrial area of Chandauli. Varanasi is getting around 3400 cylinders every day against its daily need of around 6,000 cylinders. An oxygen plant ,with the help of a local philanthropist, will be set up at the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay government district hospital. It is likely to function from the first week of May. Likewise, a proposal has been sent for setting up another oxygen plant at the divisional hospital. Meanwhile, there are 1900 beds in Varanasi hospitals, 1600 of them with oxygen facility. All the beds with oxygen facility are occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12hour-road-journey-brings-oxygen-for-kashi-hospitals-101619198756449.html
