26-04-2021||Ranchi||Soren writes to Guj CM to ensure delivery of oxygen equipment||Chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren on Monday wrote to his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani, requesting him to intervene and ensure timely delivery of medical oxygen-related equipment such as tanks, cylinders and vapourisers that were reportedly stuck with manufacturers in Gujarat. “My sincere request to the Gujarat CM to take cognizance of the delay in delivery of liquid medical oxygen tanks, cylinders and vapourizers from manufacturers in Gujarat. In this hour of crisis, it will be good if we all could work together, ensuring timely service,” Soren said. In the letter, Soren said Jharkhand was an oxygen surplus state. “Unfortunately, we are struggling with flow constraints in the supply-chain due to paucity of oxygen cylinders despite having refillers available in Jharkhand. I have been informed that many of our orders of LMO (liquid medical oxygen) tanks, vapourizers and cylinders are pending with manufacturers in Guajarat,” he said in the letter. Through the letter, Soren sought the Gujarat CM’s assistance in getting the orders delivered. “This will allow us to make oxygen available to hospitals and subsequently the people who desperately need it,” he further said in the letter. Earlier on Sunday, the CM inspected two oxygen refilling plants in Ranchi to take stock of the situation capacity of the plants to produce oxygen. The plant operators raised the issue of pending orders with Gujarat manufacturers and Soren assured them to deal with the issue, officials said. Many oxygen plant operators told the CM that they will double oxygen refilling and supply if they get delivery of orders from Gujarat. Last week, the CM claimed there was no shortage of oxygen production in the state, as it produces more than 550 tonnes of oxygen daily against the requirement of 100 tonnes. However, shortage of oxygen cylinders posed a challenge. The state has a mere 8,739 medical oxygen cylinders. However, the state was trying to increase the number of medical oxygen cylinders from various sources. Officials said they were also trying if they could use industrial oxygen cylinders for medical purposes. Jharkhand has around 17,000 industrial cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/soren-writes-to-guj-cm-to-ensure-delivery-of-oxygen-equipment-101619452518737.html
26-04-2021||Ranchi||Maoists blow up portion of Howrah-Mumbai rail track in Jharkhand||About a meter of the railway track on the Howrah-Mumbai main line was blown away in Jharkhand early on Monday by suspected Maoists, who gave a call for Bharat Bandh on April 26 in support of farmers protests against the three Central farm laws. The traffic on the section under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER) in West Singhbhum district was suspended for hours following the blast, said railway officials.A senior railway official indicated that a goods train passing through the damaged section between Lotapahar and Sonua stations alerted the authorities and reported a “heavy jerk”, which led to at least 8 mail/express/passenger trains being stopped at different stations to prevent any untoward incident.“On receiving information, all movement in the Rourkela-Chakradharpur section was immediately stopped and 8 mail express/passengers trains and several goods trains were controlled at different stations as security measures,” Manish Kumar Pathak, senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM), Chakradharpur division of SER, said Monday morning.He said patrolling teams accompanied by security personnel were sent to the blast site first and it started investigating the ‘heavy jerk’ reported by the goods train loco driver after arriving at the site.“During the investigation of the site it was found that the Up main line track was sabotaged. The blasted pieces of the rail were found up to 35 metres from the site. Restoration work started immediately after getting security clearance. Down line was given a fit at 7.15 am, the 3rd line at 8.35 am. Movement over the lines has resumed,” Pathak said. He added that Maoist propaganda material was also recovered from the blast site.After necessary clearances train movement was restored on the Up line between Sonua -Lotapahar section at 9:35am, also normalising traffic between Chakradharpur and Rourkela section. A junior administrative grade inquiry has been ordered by the DRM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/maoists-blow-up-portion-of-howrah-mumbai-rail-track-in-jharkhand-101619422570149.html
26-04-2021||Ranchi||State suspends mandatory biometric authentication for ration withdrawal till May 31||State food and public distribution department has suspended mandatory biometric authentication for ration withdrawal under Public Distribution System (PDS) in wake of increasing cases of coronavirus infection in the state, officials said on Sunday. The order will be effective till May 31. In a late evening tweet on Saturday, chief minister Hemant Soren said, “In view of Covid-19 infection in the state, distribution of ration will take place at PDS shops through OTP (one time password) system instead of biometric authentication till May 31.” Further decision on the same will be taken after reviewing the Covid-19 situation, officials said.The department also issued a notification in this regard. Earlier, PDS dealers in the state demanded the government for temporary suspension of biometric system for ration withdrawal in wake of surge in cases.President of Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Association (FPSDA), Jharkhand, Onkar Nath Jha said, “As many as 10 PDS dealers lost their lives due to the infection this April and over two dozen dealers are infected and undergoing treatment at various hospitals.”He said the biometric system was being used in PDS for distribution of ration. Hundreds of consumers withdraw ration through their thumb impressions on a single biometric device, known as e-PoS machine, at PDS shops. “Hundreds of thumb impressions on a single machine raise threat of spread of infection,” Jha said.More than 57 lakh beneficiaries were enrolled under National Food Security Act in the state. One PDS dealer deals with around 200-400 consumers, Jha said.“We wrote to the Jharkhand chief minister on April 19 to withdraw the online system temporarily. Now, we will distribute ration through OTP authentication. When we will enter a person’s ration card number, the beneficiary will receive a fixed standard OTP,” Jha said.The association, however, demanded government compensation to ration dealers on line of Rajasthan government. “In Rajasthan, ration dealers have also been considered as front line workers. The Rajasthan government announced ₹50 lakh compensation if any dealer dies of Covid-19 infection. We demand similar initiative for PDS dealers in Jharkhand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-suspends-mandatory-biometric-authentication-for-ration-withdrawal-till-may-31-101619421009633.html
