01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 6 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported six new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours,  a health bulletin from the Chandigarh administration said on Wednesday.The UT now has 66 active cases and its positivity rate over the last week stands at 0.63 per cent.  Chandigarh’s fatality count since the pandemic began stands at 820.Chandigarh reported five recoveries over the last 24 hours. The bulletin said 1,258 samples were tested for Covid-19 over 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-6-new-covid-19-cases-345135
01-12-2021||Naina Mishra||A first this year, Chandigarh sees no Covid-19 death in November||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30For the first time this year, no death due to Covid-19 took place in the city this month.April and May had dealt a deadly blow to Chandigarh residents as 375 patients succumbed to the virus during the second wave. Fatalities have been on the decline in the city since July.Testing down 35%November also witnessed a decline in Covid testing by 35 per cent. The steep fall in testing prompted the Health Department to issue directions to the civil hospitals, dispensaries and tertiary care hospitals in the city to screen all OPD patients with the RTPCR test.In October, only one person died of Covid against 121 positive patients, which puts the fatality rate of Chandigarh at 0.8 per cent. However, the overall fatality rate of Chandigarh is still high at 1.2 per cent.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “There are less number of deaths due to less infectivity rate in the city. Vaccines have also induced immunity and have a role in decreasing mortality. However, the exact impact of the vaccine on the reduction in deaths needs to be further evaluated.”The cases further showed a decline by 5 per cent this month in Chandigarh. As many as 114 cases were recorded in November against 121 cases last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-first-this-year-city-sees-no-covid-19-death-in-nov-344902
01-12-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI advice: Get tested in case of respiratory symptoms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30Amid speculation around a new Covid variant, Omicron, PGI community health experts have advised that patients with respiratory symptoms like cough, cold and difficulty in breathing should get themselves tested for Covid-19 and isolate themselves till the reports are available.Contacts of SA returnee’s wife test -ve for CovidChandigarh: Eight community contacts of the wife of a 36-year-old, who returned from South Africa, tested negative for Covid-19 at the GMCH-32 on Tuesday. Four high-risk (household) contacts of the South Africa returnee residing in Sector 36 were tested on Monday. The reports of two of them were positive. The returnee and the two positives contacts were shifted to an institutional quarantine (GMCH-32). Samples of the SA returnee and his two positive contacts have been sent for whole genome sequencing to the NCDC, Delhi. It usually takes a minimum of two weeks to get results of genome sequencing. TNSProf PVM Lakshmi from the Department of Community Medicine and Public Health said, “There is still uncertainty related to transmissibility, immune escape potential (from infection and vaccine-induced immunity), severity of disease and response to available countermeasures like diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics. At present, there is no evidence of importation and transmission of the Omicron in the Indian subcontinent. However, given its immune escape potential and possible transmissibility advantage as compared to Delta (as indicated by the rapid surge in South Africa), likelihood of potential introduction and subsequent transmission of Omicron is high and we need to be alert.”Prof Mini P Singh, professor and nodal officer, Covid-19 testing at PGI, informed that the existing diagnostic tests, including the real time PCR and rapid antigen, could pick up this new variant.The emergence of Omicron (B.1.1.529), a new variant of concern of SARS-CoV-2, has attracted worldwide attention. This variant is believed to have originated in South Africa in an immune-compromised patient. Since then it has been detected in Botswana, Belgium, Hong Kong, Israel and some European countries.PGI experts advised tricity residents to continue following Covid-appropriate behaviour and ensure vaccination of all eligible individuals. Mass gatherings and non-essential travel should be strictly avoided.Dr Lakshmi highlighted that enhanced surveillance would be important to detect the early warning signs and prompt initiation of public health and social measures.Chandigarh sees 9 casesChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported nine cases of Covid-19 and no fresh fatality. Two more patients have got the better of the disease. — TNSOne death in MohaliMohali: One person died of Covid, while three new cases, two from Mohali and one from Dhakoli, were reported on Tuesday. Three patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. — TNSJust one Covid case in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Tuesday reported just one fresh coronavirus case, taking the overall tally to 30,832. The toll remained at 379. While 30,426 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 27 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.68 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-advice-get-tested-in-case-of-respiratory-symptoms-344904
01-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Campaign material shops gear up for Chandigarh civic body polls||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30Not only political parties but also local businessmen are gearing up for the coming Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections. With the announcement of elections, scheduled for December 24, shops offering campaign material have become active.One such shop at the Attawa market in Sector 42 is catching the eyes of many as it offers all types of “Election Campaign Material”. Not a regular stop for politicians, it becomes active only during the time of elections (Lok Sabha/ Municipal Corporation). A big hoarding on the roadside attracts commuters.“Our products range from flags to banners, caps to modified tags, party promotional clothing and cut-outs, and many other things. In the previous elections, most candidates had purchased products from us,” said Sonu, owner of the shop. When asked about the response this year, the owner said the business was yet to pick up. “The business will pick up pace once all parties finalised their respective candidates. Campaigning in Chandigarh is yet to reach full swing,” added Sonu. When asked about hot selling products, he added: “We have a variety of products and added more to the stock this year.”Similar shops have come up at Sector 26 and at other areas of Chandigarh. “Earlier, we had to bring the campaign material from New Delhi. While campaigning, we need a number of attractive things. Traditional products such as caps, badges and stickers are always needed for workers. With the passage of time, many products have been added to the list of materials and it’s completely up to a candidate how much he/she wanted to spend on campaign material,” said a seasoned politician.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/campaign-material-shops-gear-up-for-mc-elections-344905
01-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||In Moudgil's Ward No. 22, night food street, waste segregation a non-starter||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30Some new projects came up during the five-year term of ward number 22 councillor Davesh Moudgil, but old projects such as the Sector 48 night food street and his pet project — segregation of waste — remained a non-starter.Davesh Moudgil: BJP councillor from ward number 22CouncillorspeakIt is no more a night food street and will run during the day as residents wanted so. The highest percentage of waste segregation in the city is being done in my ward. When I was the Mayor, we got the third position. — Davesh MoudgilArea: Sector 31, 47 and 48, and the Industrial Area, Phase IIPromise: Overall development of wardResult: Partly doneAchievements claimedMoudgil had pioneered the initiative to kick-start dry and wet waste segregation in societies in his ward, but after sometime, it could not continue except in a few areas.During Moudgil’s tenure, despite promises, the night food street in Sector 48 remained non-functional. It is turning a dirty site and needs maintenance. Societies here showed annoyance over the pollution control board sending a notice to a society to follow the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.JJ Singh, president of the Residents Welfare Association (RWA), said, “Why should a society have arrangements inside its premises for managing waste. The MC is trying to put the blame of poor swachhta rankings on societies. The MC also failed to make efforts to run the night food street. Why did it build it, if it is unable to operate it?”He said, “Due to the opening of a liquor vend at the Sector 48 motor market, people drink in cars and roam around. Besides, a large number of unregistered food vendors have set shop in our sector.”“Booth owners at the motor market have sublet these. Those who run these occupy roads, causing chaos and traffic jams. A number of discarded vehicles have been dumped in parking lots. During the five-year term of the councillor, the situation did not improve,” he said.Sector 47 residents rued that they had to struggle to get even the basic civic works done. Sunita Sharma, president of the Residents Welfare Association, Sector 47-D, said, “Sanitation is a big issue. Workers of the private sanitation firm do not come for work. Our sewer system was not built properly. The promise of managing dangling electricity wires and cables was not fulfilled. Poor water supply in summer is also a big issue, but was not resolved. We struggled to get small works such as pruning done.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-moudgils-ward-no-22-night-food-street-waste-segregation-a-non-starter-344907
01-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Social media campaign seeks justice for Anands||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30Indu Anand and her family had to wait for nearly 40 years for injustice to be completely undone in her husband DIG Joginder Singh Anand’s death case. She was virtually sentenced to mental torture and agony, along with her son Sumanjit Singh ‘Nikki’ and nephew Sandeep Singh ‘Sandy’, for a crime that was never committed.Now that the order of their acquittal by the Punjab and Haryana High Court has attained finality with the Supreme Court dismissing the CBI’s petition challenging the verdict of their acquittal, questions are being raised on the efficacy of the justice delivery system that took decades to decide an open-and-shut case.The apex court on Monday brought down the curtain on the 38-year-old death case after the Bench of Justice Vikram Nath and Justice MM Sundresh ruled: “The special leave petition is dismissed. Pending application stands disposed of.”The judgment came more than five years after Justice AB Chaudhari of the High Court asserted that evidence clearly indicated that DIG Anand had committed suicide. Yet, the appellants were tormented and had to suffer excruciating pain and ordeal for several years.It was one of the rarest of rare cases where the High Court honorably acquitted the accused, while castigating the trial court for the way it handled the case by holding them guilty.Justice for the familyFew thrillers end as dramatically as this. But the CBI case has left behind the lurking question on how to make up for the anguish the family meaninglessly faced for almost four decades. Sumanjit Singh was just 17 and Sandeep Singh 18 at the time of the incident. They virtually grew up with the hammer of justice dangling on their head.Already messages on the social media are doing rounds seeking justice for the family. One of the messages says: “The CBI had challenged the judgement of the Punjab and Haryana High Court whereby Indu Anand had been acquitted. The SLP stands dismissed. Forty years of harassment, apart from mental tension. How can she ever be compensated?”The caseIt all happened during the night intervening July 12 and 13, 1983. Just 47, Joginder Singh Anand, Indu Anand, Sumanjit and Sandeep returned home in Sector 3 after attending a “drink party” in a Sector 10 house at about 11 pm.At about 7.30 am the next day, two police officials discovered the body in Sukhna Lake. Initially, the police claimed the DIG had committed suicide, but the matter was referred to the CBI after doubts were raised. Darshan Lal, whose testimony primarily laid the foundation for the CBI to build its case, was working as a domestic help. The CBI registered the case on July 23, 1983; and the prosecution alleged that Indu had caught hold of the DIG’s throat during a quarrel before he collapsed. Believing him to be dead, he was thrown in the lake, where he died due to drowning. Claiming to have been implicated, the accused asked for a trial. However, the then District and Sessions Judge, on March 11, 1996, held the three guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304-part II of the IPC. Darshan Lal was tendered pardon by a UT Chief Judicial Magistrate.The defenceIndu’s story differed from the CBI’s reconstruction of the events. Indu claimed that she had left the house immediately after the quarrel and was not present at the time when the CBI claimed she was battling Anand physically.Appearing on their behalf, counsel SS Narula submitted that reliance could not be placed as approver Darshan Lal was not an independent witness. He was interrogated and kept in custody by the CBI for about 20 days before his arrest on August 19, 1983.Overturning the verdict, the High Court ruled it was impossible to believe that appellant-Indu Anand, a young woman having young son of 17 years, daughter of 14 years and nephew of 17 years, would even think of getting her dear husband eliminated without thinking about her small children,” the Bench concluded||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-media-campaign-seeks-justice-for-anands-344908
01-12-2021||---||Ex-Chandigarh scribe to be brought on production warrant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30Former scribe Sanjeev Mahajan will be brought on a production warrant by the Chandigarh Police on December 7.Mahajan, who is lodged at the Burail jail in a property grab case, was booked by the police on November 23 for allegedly threatening a witness in a murder case.Complainant Rohit Kumar, a resident of Mohali district, had reported that a person who introduced himself as Sanjeev Mahajan allegedly called him from a mobile phone and asked him not to depose before the court against one of the murder suspects, Vikas. Rohit is also a witness in the case.The police said Mahajan was taken to the court for a hearing on November 22, when he borrowed a mobile phone from a Sector 37 resident and made a call to the witness. “We will probe Mahajan’s links with the murder suspect, who is a member of the Boxer gang,” said a police official. “On September 4, 2019, victim Tejinder Singh, alias Malli, was shot dead while his friend was injured after four assailants opened fire on them in broad daylight at a car parking in Sector 17 in Chandigarh. Around two weeks later, the UT police had arrested three members of the Boxer gang, including the leader of the gang, Vikas, alias Boxer. A case has been registered against Mahajan under Sections 195 A, 506 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-scribe-to-be-brought-on-production-warrant-344910
01-12-2021||---||Boy falls off elevator in Zirakpur, dies||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 30An 18-year-old boy died after falling off an open elevator at a warehouse in Adarsh Colony this morning. The deceased has been identified as Wahid, a native of Bishanpura village in Uttar Pradesh.According to the information, the deceased, a student of Class IX, was working at a hardware shop. A warehouse of the shop was located behind the market where an elevator was installed to lift heavy goods.Sources said the victim had gone to unload goods. Irshad, the victim’s father, said he got a call from the shopkeeper that his son had fallen and was injured. When he reached the spot, he found his son dead, he added. The boy was working in the shop as his school was closed these days.Zirakpur SHO Omkar Singh Brar said, “The victim fell off the elevator installed for lifting goods. No complaint has been received so far. We have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-falls-off-elevator-dies-344911
01-12-2021||---||Protests spell chaos on roads in Mohali, Kharar||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 30Protests by members of several unions threw life out of gear as massive traffic jams were witnessed in Mohali and Kharar this afternoon.Elementary Teachers Training (ETT) and TET-qualified teachers, members of the visually impaired union, National Health Mission (NHM) workers and others blocked traffic on main roads.The protesting ETT teachers blocked the Chandigarh-Kharar highway near the elevated road at Desumajra in Kharar for close to five hours. The highway remained choked with queues of vehicles on both sides of the road till 10 pm. Traffic virtually came to a standstill and commuters were inconvenienced in the peak rush hours. The traffic chaos spilled on to the Kharar-Landran road and the Mohali-Kharar road as commuters tried to make way through alternative routes. Unruly scenes were witnessed at several places as harried commuters vented their ire against the protesters.Kharar DSP Gurcharan Singh said, “Owing to the ongoing protests at several places, movement of vehicles was affected for more than five hours.”In Mohali, office-goers, patients and the underprivileged were inconvenienced as protesters blocked the road near the Verka Milk plant in Phase 6.“Commuters were harassed due to the teachers’ protest during the rush hours today. The livelihood of auto-rickshaw drivers, traders and shopkeepers was severely affected,” said Kuldeep Singh, an Anandpur Sahib-bound passenger.In Phase 7, NHM workers took out a rally to press for regular service, which led to a traffic jam.Gurdeep Kalra, who works as nurse at a private hospital in Mohali, said, “Those who do not have their own conveyance had nowhere to go. They were stranded on the road. We understand their hardships but the protesters must also understand our compulsions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protests-spell-chaos-on-roads-in-mohali-kharar-344912
01-12-2021||---||HP resident dies in accident||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 30Rash driving resulted in the death of a resident of Himachal Pradesh near Nanakpur village around 11:30 pm last evening. The victim has been identified as Rajendra Kumar, a resident of Dharampur, who owned a motorcycle repair shop.The victim, along with his friend Vimal Kumar, was on his way to his hometown after buying spare parts for his shop from Ludhiana.“Around 11:30 pm on the Baddi-Pinjore road near Nanakpur village, a rashly driven car, bearing a Punjab registration number, hit our car. The collision badly damaged the front end of our car and my friend got trapped in the vehicle,” Vimal told the police.With the help of passersby, the victim was taken to the CHC, Nanakpur, from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6. The doctors further referred Rajendra to the PGI in Chandigarh, where he was declared dead.A case has been registered under Section 279 and 304-A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hp-resident-dies-in-accident-344913
01-12-2021||Mohali||Kharar councillors being coerced, alleges SAD||Led by Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra and Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, SAD leaders today alleged that their Kharar councillors were being coerced by Punjab Chief Minister’s nephew Manpreet Manna and others to change sides. They alleged that ward no. 27 councillor Jasbir had been “kidnapped” and missing since last night. Many councillors had been forcibly taken for secret meetings with top Congress leaders for the past two-three days, they alleged.The Congress has 10 councillors, while SAD has eight and AAP one. Eight are independent councillors in the 27 wards in the Kharar Municipal Council. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-councillors-being-coerced-alleges-sad-344914
01-12-2021||---||Sachin claims gold in 50m race||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30Sachin Sharma claimed first position in the boys’ 10-13 years 50m race during the Annual Athletics Meet for Special Students, organised by the Government Rehabilitation Institute for Intellectual Disabilities (GRIID), Sector 31, at the Sector 46 Sports Complex.Jaspreet claimed second position while Kartik finished third. Tammana, Rashmeet and Naina claimed three positions, respectively, in the girls’ category. In the boys’ 100m and 200m events, Shiva, Anoop and Aditya claimed top three positions, respectively. Anoop won softball throw event, Shiva claimed second and Arnab finished third. In the girls’ category, Tammana, Rashmeet and Harjaspreet Kaur claimed three positions, respectively.In the girls’ 14-18 years category, Priyanka claimed gold medal in the 100m event. Varsha finished second and Nisha claimed third position. Lucky won 50m event of above 15 years in the category of students with severe intelligent quotient. Hemant and Mastaq claimed second and third position, respectively. In the girls’ 50m race, Rajnandini, Gagan and Meena claimed top three positions, respectively. Rudraksha claimed gold medal in the softball throw event (wheelchair event). Ram claimed second position and Vishal finished third.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sachin-claims-gold-in-50m-race-344915
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||University, college teachers court arrest||On a call given by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO) nearly 2,000 teachers of universities and colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh staged a rally here today. The protesters marched towards the residence of the Punjab Chief Minister. However, they were stopped by the police after which they courted arrest.The federation is demanding immediate implementation of revised UGC pay scales and withdrawal of the decision of the Punjab Government to delink the scales of teachers of universities and colleges from the UGC.Earlier, Dr Jagwant Singh, general secretary, PFUCTO, said the government was bent upon destroying the higher education system in Punjab by delinking it from the National Higher Education system and was taking decisions that were in direct contravention with the central laws on the subject of higher education which is on the concurrent list.Dr Lakhwinder S Kang, president of GNDUTA, Dr BS Tohra, president of GCTA, Dr Mritunjay Kumar, president of PUTA, Dr Vinay Sofat, president of PCCTU, and others took part in the rally. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/university-college-teachers-court-arrest-344916
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Entrepreneur gets patent||The office of the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks (CGPDTM), under the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, has approved the patent of Mohali-based entrepreneur Amardeep Sharma, who had developed a machine that processes all types of waste, including wet and dry garbage, without any segregation. He said the end product came in the form of green coal known as RDF (refuse derived fuel), which has a greater calorific value than coal itself. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/entrepreneur-gets-patent-344917
01-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula sees 94% rise in Covid cases in November||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 30Panchkula witnessed 62 Covid infections in November, a rise of almost 94 per cent compared to last month. October saw just 32 cases. In terms of fatalities, one death each was recorded in both months.Vaccine is a must. Vaccinated people may catch the virus but get cured easily, in a majority of the cases, without hospitalisation. — Dr Mukta Kumar, Panchkula CMO The upward trend was also seen in neighbouring Mohali.Compared to 88 cases in October, 122 infections were reported in November in Mohali district. The number of deaths also went up from three in October to four in November.The local health authorities in both districts, however, stressed that it was too early declare it the beginning of a new wave.“If we study the history of pandemics, the current trend suggests that the virus is currently evolving. Yes, cases went up in November compared to last month. But, in the past four days, just five cases were reported. Once the number of active cases had reached 37, but has once again come down 27. Hence, it’s too early to say if it is the start of a new Covid wave,” said the Panchkula CMO, Dr Mukta Kumar.Asked about the possible reasons, she said waning vaccine immunity and complacency could be the biggest factors but nothing was conclusive so far. The CMO said they were constantly monitoring the situation and were confident of tackling any rise in the Covid infections.Amid concerns about the new Omicron Covid variant, she urged the unvaccinated population to come forward for vaccination. “Vaccine is a must. Vaccinated people may catch the virus but get cured easily, in a majority of the cases, without hospitalisation,” the CMO said.The Health Department also claimed that it was going an extra mile to ensure 100 per cent vaccination in the district. Villages have been adopted by officers to ensure maximum Covid vaccination, it said.“Yesterday, I apprised the new Deputy Commissioner of the current Covid situation. I also urged him to open Covid care centres for better care of patients,” Dr Kumar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-94-rise-in-covid-cases-in-nov-344918
01-12-2021||---||12 street vendors held for 'blocking traffic'||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 30The police today arrested 12 street vendors for “blocking traffic” at the Sector 20 light point while they were protesting against the anti-encroachment drive carried out by the Panchkula Municipal Corporation. 50 protesters blocked traffic: copsThe police said over 50 protesters blocked the traffic at the Sector 20 light point around 11 am leading to inconvenience to commuters. The FIR registered on the complaint of a traffic cop claimed that the protesters threatened to damage vehicles, if they tried to pass through the blockage.The arrested persons have been identified as Omkar Singh, Naveen Kamboj, Anmol Kamboj, Achint Chhabra, Gagandeep Singh, Rajendra Kumar, Gurpreet Singh, Ranjeet Kumar, Arvind, Abdul Jabbar, Baldev Raj and Gagandeep.The police said over 50 protesters blocked the traffic at the Sector 20 light point around 11 am leading to inconvenience to commuters.The FIR registered on the complaint of a traffic cop claimed that the protesters threatened to damage vehicles, if they tried to pass through the blockage.A case was registered under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 283 (causing danger, obstruction or, injury in any public way or line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 20 police station.Inspector Sushil Kumar, SHO of the Sector 20 police station, said commuters had to face inconvenience due to the protest. The blockage lasted for less than half an hour and traffic was restored subsequently.As the Municipal Corporation and the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran have intensified anti-encroachment drive following “strict instructions” from Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, street vendors have put up resistance against their eviction from public places before they were allotted sites at the dedicated vending zones.The protesters said their names were included in the street vendor survey conducted by the civic body. Hence, they were eligible for the allocation of sites in vending zones.“We are being harassed by the local authorities in the name of anti-encroachment drive. Until street vendors are allotted sites at the dedicated vending zones, they should be allowed to operate from public places to earn their livelihood as per the provisions of the Street Vendors Act,” said Ram Dev Singh, Footpath Worker Swarozgar Bachao Sangharsh Samiti. He alleged that the police lodged false FIR against the protesters.“The police picked up the protesters saying they would arrange a meeting between vendors and civic body officials at the police station. Instead of listening to our grievances, an FIR was registered,” he said.The street vendors have now decided to stage a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner office in Sector 1 against the police action. A memorandum will also be handed over to the DC in this regard.Carts, goods of vendors confiscatedOn Monday, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation and the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran had confiscated carts and goods of vendors in Sector 20 here to evict them from public places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-street-vendors-held-for-blocking-traffic-344920
01-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court seeks reply from Chandigarh  police on Mann's bail plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30A local court has issued a notice to the Chandigarh Police for December 2, 2021, to file a reply on the anticipatory bail application filed by MP and AAP leader Bhagwant Mann.Mann has filed the anticipatory bail application through advocate Amrinder Vir Singh Barsat in the FIR registered by the Chandigarh Police on January 10, 2020.The Chandigarh Police had registered a case against 10 AAP leaders, including Bhagwant Mann, Harpal Singh Cheema and Aman Arora, for allegedly pelting stones on the police in a demonstration held on January 10, 2020 opposite the MLA Hostel.The police registered the case against the accused for the offences committed under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter the public servant from his duty), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of the offences committed in prosecution of common object).The court had earlier issued notices to all leaders in September after the police submitted the challan against them. Other AAP leaders who have also been issued the notices include Master Baldev Singh, Baljinder Kaur, Meet Hayer, Manjit Singh Bilaspuri, Narinder Sher Gill, Jai Singh Rodhi and Sarabjit Kaur Manuka.The police registered the case against the accused on the complaint of a woman constable of the UT police at the Sector 3 police station, Chandigarh, on January 10, 2020.In the complaint, woman constable Manpreet Kaur alleged that she was deputed to manage the rally of AAP workers at the MLA Hostel, Chandigarh, on January 10, 2020. She said around 1 pm, a large number of AAP workers assembled at the MLA Hostel ground. She alleged the 10 leaders, who were leading around 800 workers, started moving towards the official residence of the Punjab Chief Minister. On being instigated by the leaders, the workers started pushing the police force and tried to break the barricades. Water cannons were used to disperse the workers, but they started allegedly pelting stones on the police force. The woman constable alleged that she, along with SDOP Krishan, Inspector Malkit Singh and SSP Vineet Kumar, was injured in the attack.In the bail application, Barsat denied all charges and alleged that the police registered the case under the political pressure just before the elections.Mann said the entire police theory was a figment of imagination and the FIR had been registered on wrong facts. He argued that Mann was detained at the MLA Hostel and the media was also present there. Barsat argued that the MP was never asked to join the investigation before registering the FIR and why the police kept mum for almost two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-seeks-reply-from-ut-police-on-manns-bail-plea-344921
01-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Turmoil, rebellion to fore in city AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 30Turmoil and rebellion in the city AAP came to the fore after the party released its first list of 26 candidates for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections, scheduled for December 24.AAP, which already has its election committee chairman Chandermukhi Sharma distancing himself from party activities, today saw a slew of resignations.Alleging that old party workers were ignored and Congress deserters were given the ticket for the elections, several angry leaders today resigned from the party.A few of them announced to contest the poll against the party candidates. AAP workers, led by Zora Singh, even burnt an effigy of senior party leaders in Sector 25 here.“Arvind Kejriwal promised of clean politics, which is different from the existing parties. On the contrary, people with shady background were given the ticket. Those, who came from the Congress a month or two ago, were adjusted, while workers associated with the party for 8-10 years were ignored. Ticket was sold,” alleged Zora, who is associated with the party since 2013. Zora said he would contest the elections as an Independent from Ward No. 16 to ensure the defeat of the AAP candidate.Amit Kumar Sunny from Ward No. 26 (Dadu Majra) said: “Almost all Congressmen, who recently joined AAP, were accommodated. Leaders with honest and clean image were ignored. The party is now officially Congress 2. We will contest independently.”Upset with the development, Sanjeev Kochar, vice-president of AAP, Chandigarh, said: “I will contest as an Independent candidate from Ward No. 32 as the party nominee is an outsider.”Surinder Kaur from Ward No. 1 (Khuda Lahora), said: “I have been associated with the party for the past five years. I was the vice-president of the AAP’s women wing. I was removed from the post after former Congress president Pardeep Chhabra joined the party. People, who joined the city AAP 20-25 days ago, hijacked the party and got the ticket. This is the story almost in all wards. Loyalists of Harmohan Dhawan, Prem Garg and Chhabra got the ticket. People like us who were from AAP and had no godfather were shown the door.”“I will stay in the party as I was not here only for contesting poll. But what they did has demoralised old workers,” she said.Sources told Chandigarh Tribune that 11 loyalists of Chhabra, nine of Garg and five of Dhawan have been given the ticket.Party convener Garg said: “We had several suitable candidates in each ward. It is obvious if someone does not get the ticket, he/she might be angry. It is just an initial response from them. We will involve them in the party.”“The ticket was not decided by any leader, but was based on the surveys conducted by the high command,” he claimed.Chandermukhi said: “I am in the party, but I have no involvement in deciding the list of candidates.”Candidate’s husbandhas a criminal pastSandeep, husband of Ward No. 16 candidate Poonam Kumari has a criminal past. Cases under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act cases are registered against him, a resident of Sector 25. However, Sandeep claimed: “No case has been registered against me in the past five years. I got acquitted in all cases before 2016.” He was shot at last month.Top 3 leaders told to fight pollAmid infighting report, the AAP High Command on Tuesday asked all three top Chandigarh party leaders to contest the MC poll. Party convener Prem Garg, co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra and election committee in-charge Chandermukhi Sharma have been asked to contest the elections. Sources said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal gave directions to the city unit after reports of groupism. This has come as a surprise for the trio, who did not expect this. The three were earlier not in a mood of contenting the poll. Chandermukhi is expected to contest from Ward No. 2, while Chhabra is expected to fight from Ward No. 17. Garg, who has his vote in Panchkula, may find it as an excuse for not contesting the poll. The party may ask him to shift his vote to Chandigarh. However, Garg said: “We have got the directions, but will hold a meeting on Wednesday to decide further.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/turmoil-rebellion-to-fore-in-city-aap-344923
01-12-2021||Chandigarh||Staff, visitors to show vax record, -ve RT-PCR report||Amid threat of a possible third wave of Covid-19, the UT Administration has again issued instructions to allow only employees and people visiting the office on producing the vaccination report or a negative RT-PCR report.In a communication to all administrative secretaries and head of departments, offices, institutions, boards and corporation of the UT Administration, the Superintendent Establishment, Department of Personnel and Training, UT, stated that some of the employees of the Administration have not yet taken both doses of the vaccine.“Allow only those employees and people to visit the office who produce their vaccination report of at least first dose or a negative RT-PCR report of the past 72 hours,” he said, adding that vaccination certificate/RT-PCR report in mobile phone or Aarogya Setu app would be sufficient. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staff-visitors-to-show-vax-record-ve-rt-pcr-report-344924
01-12-2021||Mohali||12 new dengue cases in Mohali||‘Hoardings of non-compliance’Chandigarh: The local MC on Tuesday installed “hoardings of non-compliance” outside four societies under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. These were put up outside BSNL Society, Sector 50, Progressive Society, Sector 50, Pushpak Society, Sector 49, and Kendriya Vihar Society, Sector 48. The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee had earlier served a notice on the societies stating that the duties of waste generators specified in Rule 4 of the Solid Waste Management Rules were not being complied with properly, resulting in improper disposal of municipal solid waste by the societies. TNSPanchkula shuttlers shineChandigarh: Panchkula shuttlers bag rich haul of medals on the concluding day of the Haryana State Senior Badminton Championship that concluded in Ambala. In the women's final, Panchkula's Anupama Upadhyaya blanked her teammate Devika Sihag 21-18 21-16. In the mixed doubles final, the pair of Akshit Mahajan and Ridhi Kaur Toor overpowered Sonepat's Sohit and Nikki 21-12 21-16. Devika Sihag and Ridhi won the women's doubles title by defeating Palak Arora and Unnati Hooda 21-8 21-14. In the men's doubles title clash, Akshit and Hardik Makkar ousted Deepak Khatri and Ketan Chahal 21-15 21-17. TNSPGGC-42 cagers log winChandigarh: The Postgraduate Government College (PGGC) for Girls, Sector 42, registered a 52-34 win over the Postgraduate Government College for Girls, Sector 11, on the opening day of the Panjab University Inter-College Basketball Championship (Women) on Tuesday. Khalsa College for Women, Ludhiana, outplayed the Chandigarh College of Engineering & Technology 68-0 while Panjab University Campus registered a 41-6 victory over the Government College of Commerce, Sector 50. Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, recorded a 49-18 victory over Postgraduate Government College, Sector 11. TNSSoft tennis meet title for PUChandigarh: The Panjab University campus won the Panjab University Inter-College Soft Tennis (Women) Championship. GGD SD College, Sector 32, claimed second position and Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, finished third. GN College, Narangwal, won the Panjab University Inter-College Basketball (Women) B-Division Championship. MM DAV College, Gidderbaha, claimed second position and Swami Ganga Janta College, Raikot, finished third. TNSGGDSD College win trophyChandigarh: Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma (GGDSD) College, Sector 32, won the overall trophy for the 7th consecutive year at the Panjab University Zonal Youth and Heritage Festival held at Postgraduate Government College, Sector 46. The students showcased academic prowess by bagging first prize in quiz and poem writing, followed by second prize in English handwriting and heritage quiz. TNSAdda Cricket XI victoriousMohali: Hosts Adda Cricket XI defeated Namaste Chandigarh Complex by five wickets to win the Maa Tujhe Salaam final. Batting first, Namaste Chandigarh Complex scored 116 runs in 18.4 overs with the help of Pankaj (39), Lalit Chauhan (26) and Hardik (22). Sultan Thakur claimed three wickets while Ankit Garg claimed two and Chandi Ram grabbed one for the bowling side. In reply, the Adda team achieved the target in 15 overs. Harvinder Nain (62), Prateek Anand (15) and Ankit Garg (13) helped the side to ensure easy win. Nitesh Negi, Lalit Chauhan, Pankaj, Shubham and Mohit claimed one wicket each for the bowling side. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-344928
