02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rebel AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu not to contest upcoming Punjab assembly polls||Rebel AAP legislator Kanwar Sandhu on Thursday said he will not contest the upcoming Punjab assembly polls.Sandhu, an MLA from Kharar assembly constituency in Mohali, was suspended by the Aam Aadmi Party for “anti-party” activities in 2018.Sandhu, who went live on his Facebook page, said though he had options to join any traditional political party, he will not do so.“Should I join any of the traditional parties like some of my colleagues have done? This option is with me and I have more than one option. I thought about it in detail and there have also been speculations on social media,” he said.“But my conscience does not allow me to change the party… I make it clear that I am not joining any traditional party. Had there been a viable third or fourth front, I could have considered it but that is unlikely. I will be active in public life,” he said.“But I have no intention to fight the polls. I am not contesting,” said Sandhu, who is a first-time MLA. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rebel-aap-mla-kanwar-sandhu-not-to-contest-upcoming-punjab-assembly-polls-345523
02-12-2021||Satya Prakash||'Court is not a walk in place because Chandigarh is close to Delhi’, says SC, fines petitioner for 'wasting time'||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 2The Supreme Court has ordered a litigant to shell out Rs 20,000 for wasting its time by filing a Special Leave Petition against an adjournment order passed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.“If this is not a misuse of the process of law, one can say little else. This Court is not a walk in place only because Chandigarh happens to be in the proximity to Delhi,” a Bench led by Sanjay Kishan Kaul told petitioner Ramesh Chander Diwan.“We are of the view that the petitioner must pay for wastage of judicial time and thus dismiss the petition with cost of Rs 20,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Group “c’ (Non-Clerical) Employees Welfare Association within four weeks from today,” ordered the Bench which also included Justice MM Sundresh.“The special leave petition has been preferred not on any other fact or even the fact that the order is wrongly recorded but that the High Court erred in mechanically adjourning the matter for three months without issuing notice to the respondent and that the long adjournment without any interim protection would take away the petitioner’s right to approach a Higher Court,” the top court noted.“We do not know why the adjournment was requested -- whether the counsel was not ready or whether there was lack of material instructions from the petitioner to the counsel! The fact remains that the learned Judge only obliged the counsel for the petitioner by accepting the request for adjournment. Yet the order is sought to be faulted by the petitioner by filing a petition under Article 136 of the Constitution of India,” it said in its November 22 order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/this-court-is-not-a-walk-in-place-only-because-chandigarh-is-close-to-delhi-says-sc-345505
02-12-2021||Mohali||7 dengue cases in Mohali dist||Man ends life in Mani MajraChandigarh: A 40-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Mani Majra on Wednesday evening. The victim has been identified as Vikramjit, who owned a furniture shop. The police said the victim hanged himself in a store at his house. The body was shifted to a mortuary and inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Mani Majra police station. No suicide note was found from the spot. TNSHealth services upgradedPanchkula: The local Health Department has upgraded the health services at the Sector 20 civil dispensary, including introduction of medical tests. “From Thursday, tests related to kindey function, liver function and other tests like lipid profile will be offered at the dispensary,” said Dr Mankirat Murara, spokesperson for the department. MTP services will also be available at the dispensary, she said. People can also avail of the RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test for detection of Covid at the dispensary. TNSHouse theft reportedChandigarh: Thieves struck at a house in Mani Majra. The complainant, Pawan Sharma, reported that unknown person stole two gold rings, two mobile phones and Rs25,000. A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station and an investigation initiated into it. TNSDirector of Pvt firm dupedChandigarh: The UT police have registered a case of cheating at the Industrial Area police station. The complainant, Konark Bhardwaj, director of Astin Analytics Pvt Ltd, reported that unknown persons duped him of Rs50,000 and Rs48,800 on the pretext of supplying oxygen concentrators. TNSVikram wins cycling silverChandigarh: Local cyclist Vikram Seth has won silver medal in the 26th National Road Cycling Championship recently held at Kurukshetra. Seth claimed second position in the individual time trials (40 km) by clocking 52:11.36s at a speed of 45.99 km/h. Another local cyclist, Akshat Sindhu claimed fourth position in the individual time trials in the subjunior category while Jai Dogra finished fifth in the men's junior mass start event. Reet Kapoor claimed the sixth position in the individual time trial in the women’s junior category. TNSZeena wins shooting silverChandigarh: Zeena Khitta, a student of DAV College, Sector 10, claimed silver in the women's Air Rifle event during the ongoing 64th National Shooting Championship in Bhopal. She scored 250.1 points to finish at the second position. Rajshree won the championship by scoring 251.8 points while Shrya Agarwal finished third with 227.7 points. TNSCross-country on December 12Chandigarh: Chandigarh Athletics Association will organise State Cross-Country Championship at the Sector 7 Sports Complex on December 12. Athletes residing, studying or working in Chandigarh and registered with the Chandigarh Athletics Association will be eligible to participate in this championship. The interested athletes can confirm their entries before December 10 at https://chandigarhathletics.com/payment-gateway/. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-dengue-cases-in-mohali-dist-345359
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||SD College archers hit bull's eye||GGDSD College, Sector 32, won the Panjab University Inter-College Archery Championship (men) for recurve event.GHG Khalsa College, Gursar Sadhar, claimed the second position and Govind National College, Narangwal, finished at third spot.In the individual category, Manpreet Singh claimed the gold medal, followed by Fateh Singh Virk at second position and Sagar Kumawat at third.Meanwhile, the PU Campus team reached the final of the Inter-College Tennis Championship with a 2-1 win over the PGGC, Sector 11. In another semifinal, DAV College-10, beat GGDSD College 2-0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sd-college-archers-hit-bulls-eye-345358
02-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Elections of Chandigarh Golf Club likely on Jan 30||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Annual elections of the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) are likely to be held on the last Sunday of January next year.One of the most reputed clubs of Chandigarh, the CGC has not witnessed voting since 2018, as the presidents were chosen unanimously. However, according to sources, election will be held through voting this time. As many as 1,800 members have the voting right to choose new office-bearers of the club.As per the previous trends, of the 1,800 voters, from 900 to 1,000 turn up to cast their vote.“Most likely, the elections will take place in the end of next month (January 30, 2022) while following the Covid-related guidelines. There are 1,800 registered voters and they are likely to choose next House by the means of polls. The details about elections as well as candidates will be disclosed soon as per the protocol,” said Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president and chairman (media and publicity), CGC.Before the pandemic, the annual elections were held in April.The club had held elections in April 2018 and at that time, a total of 918 votes were cast. The following year, Sandeep Singh Sandhu was unanimously elected for the next term and, due to the Covid pandemic, he continued on the same post for 2020.Thereafter, the current president Ravibir Singh Grewal was chosen unanimously to the top post in January 2021. He had also won the president’s election in 2017-18 by 94 votes. He had also served as the acting president in 2016-17 after the demise of the then sitting president IPS Mann.Meanwhile, political activity at the club has started. “The activity in the club has already started and the scenario will see many turns till the polling day. As of now, the elections are most likely to be held on January 30 and the number of candidates, the election schedule and other developments will be announced soon,” said a member of the club.The club was founded in 1962 and the foundation stone of its building was laid on April 24, 1969.Voting last held in 2018The club had held elections in April 2018 and at that time, a total of 918 votes were cast. The following year, Sandeep Singh Sandhu was unanimously elected for the next term and, due to the Covid pandemic, he continued on the same post for 2020. Thereafter, the current president Ravibir Singh Grewal was chosen unanimously to the top post in January 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elections-of-chandigarh-golf-club-likely-on-jan-30-345357
02-12-2021||---||Chandigarh's Abhijit claims lead on opening day||Chandigarh, December 1The city’s Abhijit Singh Chadha played well in the rainy conditions to seize an early initiative at the Rs 40-lakh Pune Open Golf Championship being played at the Poona Club Golf Course.Chadha’s fiery 7-under 63 gave him the clubhouse lead on a day that witnessed rain from the start of play till the end. Gurugram-based rookie Kartik Sharma and Delhi’s Wasim Khan were tied second in the clubhouse with scores of 4-under 66.Chadha, a two-time winner on the PGTI, bogeyed the first. However, he fought back with a terrific tee shot on the par-3 fourth where he had a tap-in for birdie. He then got on a roll from the seventh onwards where he made a 20-foot birdie conversion. The next three holes saw him make birdie-eagle-birdie. He chipped-in for eagle on the par-4 ninth. He capitalised on the two par-5s, the 12th and 18th, by laying up and hitting his wedge shots to perfection to pick up two more birdies.“I didn’t start well but things changed for the better from the seventh where my second shot hit the flag and rolled back off the green. I made a long putt there and that got me going. What followed was a good momentum stretch for me,” said Chadha.Sharma had an eventful day as he mixed an eagle and six birdies with four bogeys. Khan, meanwhile, had a poor start with a bogey on the first but then turned it around with a birdie on the ninth followed by four more on the last five holes.Among the players who finished, Chandigarh’s Harendra Gupta had the next best score of 67. He was fourth in the clubhouse. Rajiv Niranjan Datar had the best opening day among the Pune-based players as he shot a 70 to be tied 16th in the clubhouse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-abhijit-claims-lead-on-opening-day-345356
02-12-2021||---||Fresh notices to AAP leaders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1A local court has issued fresh notices to six AAP leaders asking them to file a reply for the next date of hearing on March 23, 2022, in a case registered against them by the Chandigarh Police in 2020.The court has also issued bailable warrants against four other AAP leaders. The police had registered the case against the leaders after AAP workers allegedly pelted the police with stones during a demonstration held opposite the MLA hostel on January 10.MP Bhagwant Mann sought anticipatory bail in the case and filed an application before the court on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fresh-notices-to-aap-leaders-345355
02-12-2021||Mohali||Madanpura chowk firing suspect nailed||The police have arrested, Rajinder, alias Joker, a native of Hisar and the prime suspect in the Madanpura firing case of November 11. He was carrying a country-made pistol.“The suspect has eight cases registered against him at police stations in Punjab and Haryana. He was also involved in a firing incident at Balongi in 2017 in which a financier was injured,” said Phase 1 SHO Shivdeep Singh Brar.Four suspects, who were in an SUV, first rammed their vehicle into a motorcycle of the victim, Rohit, a resident of Balongi village, and later fired a shot at him. Rohit and his friend ran in separate directions and took shelter in nearby houses. Preliminary probe revealed that there was an old enmity between Rohit and the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/madanpura-chowk-firing-suspect-nailed-345354
02-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: 'Chhole bhature' seller set to taste poll flavour||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1It is not just seasoned politicians or professionals contesting the city Municipal Corporation elections, but a ‘chhole bhature’ seller too is jumping into the poll fray.Akhlesh Saxena (32), known in his Bapu Dham locality as a popular ‘chhole bhature’ vendor, is the first candidate to file nomination from Ward number 3 for the December 24 MC elections. He, along with his family, sells ‘bhature’ near their house in the morning and ‘tiki’ and samosas in the evening.When asked why he was contesting the election, Akhlesh told Chandigarh Tribune, “Bapu Dham has become ‘Kabad Dham’ as its entrance is dumped with waste material. There is no development in our ward. Poor sanitation and increasing drug supply are the two major issues here.”How will he arrange funds for the election? “I have appealed to people to contribute at least Rs2,000 each. I won’t need a huge sum of money because I am not going to spend on liquor like political parties do during elections.”Akhlesh had unsuccessfully contested last elections as well. “I have no regret of the loss. I did clean and honest politics. When big political party leaders were distributing liquor, I had served carrot juice to people. I had purchased carrot in wholesale for the purpose.”If he wins, he said he would also do something for the vendor community. “I have been protesting in connection with issues pertaining to vendors. I will ensure that they are allowed to operate from their original places and not shifted to far-off places. Further, their vending fee should also be exempted for a few months when they could do no business due to Covid.” Interestingly, his family is not on the registered vendors’ list of the MC.At present, BJP’s Dalip Sharma is the councillor from the ward. He had won the 2016 MC election as an independent and later joined the BJP. He had left the party when he was denied the ticket for the 2016 poll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-chhole-bhature-seller-set-to-taste-poll-flavour-345353
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh warns building owners of action for failing to install rooftop solar plants||In order to reduce dependence on non-renewable resources, the UT Administration has warned all building owners of action if they failed to install solar power plants as per the Building Bylaws.During a meeting of the governing body of the Chandigarh Renewal Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) held under the chairmanship of UT Adviser Dharam Pal recently, it was discussed that several residential houses, industrial buildings, commercial buildings, institutional buildings, etc., have not complied with the orders dated May 18, 2016, for mandatory installation of solar power plants in the city.The UT Administration had made rooftop solar power plants must in new properties measuring 500 sq yds and above and in group housing societies. The Adviser directed all such building owners to install solar power plants immediately, failing which necessary action would be taken against them. He also directed to make an year-wise action plan to achieve 75 MWp of solar power plant installation in the city by August 15, 2023.The Administration has already approved a scheme to implement rooftop solar project on private residential buildings under the Renewable Energy Service Company model. Under the scheme, a private company will install solar panels without taking any money from house owners.The owners will have to provide space on the rooftop and they will get electricity at Rs2 per unit less than the existing rates for the next 15 years even if the electricity rate increases.After the completion of a fixed period, the company will hand over the solar plant to the owner. The firm will recover the cost by selling the energy produced from the plant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-warns-building-owners-of-action-345351
02-12-2021||---||Intensify drive on no-mask fine: Panchkula DC||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 1Amid concerns over the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik today announced strengthening of Covid measures and reviewed arrangements for an anticipated third wave of the pandemic.He was presiding over a meeting of the Covid monitoring committee at the Mini-Secretariat to stem the spread of the virus.Kaushik instructed the police, the MC and all incident commanders to strictly challan people found without a mask in public space and ensure implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour in crowded places like bus stand and markets.It has been decided to set up a Covid care centre at Nirankari Satsang Bhavan in Sector 9 for better care of new patients. The centre can accommodate up to 50 patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/intensify-drive-on-no-mask-fine-panchkula-dc-345350
02-12-2021||---||'Designate vending space or let us work from public place'||Panchkula, December 1Street vendors today staged a protest outside the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1 accusing the Municipal Corporation and the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) of “snatching their livelihood” by evicting them from public places during anti-encroachment drives before allocating them sites in dedicated vending zones.Members of the Footpath Worker Swarojgar Bachao Sangharsh Samiti handed over a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner in this connection.The police had yesterday arrested 12 street vendors for “blocking traffic” while protesting against the MC over seizure of their carts and goods during an anti-encroachment drive in Sector 20.The union has also sought quashing of the FIR registered against hawkers for protesting against the civic body at the Sector 20 light point.After picking vendors from the protest site, the police had registered a case against them under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 283 (causing danger, obstruction or, injury in any public way or line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 20 police station.After “strict instructions” from Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, the MC and the HSVP have intensified their anti-encroachment drives, attracting sharp reactions from those covered in the vendors’ survey.“Give us a designated space and licence before removing us from public places as per provisions of the Street Vendors Act,” vendors demanded, alleging that the civic authorities had been acting against the law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/designate-vending-space-or-let-us-work-from-public-place-345349
02-12-2021||---||Zirakpur stinks as sanitation staff strike enters third day||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, December 1Heaps of garbage lay strewn at several places in Zirakpur as a strike by sanitation workers entered its third day today. The protesting workers dumped a tractor load of garbage outside the main gate of the MC office and did not allow its removal by a JCB machine.Unbearable stench and unhygienic conditions are prevailing as the garbage collectors went on strike in support of their demands.For the past three days, garbage is not being collected from public places. Trucks have been parked inside the MC office and the main gate of the complex is locked.Residents said the situation was very bad and MC officials should find a way out of the mess.Sanitation workers’ union president Pradip Sood said, “The MC’s condition of seeking Punjab domicile from sanitation workers is unjust. Most workers come from the Panchkula side, so they cannot furnish documents. Some employees are working for the past 15 years but their jobs have not been regularised. Their record too was gutted in a fire in the building. They are being penalised for no fault of theirs. They should also be regularised as some of the outsourced employees were unduly favoured.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-stinks-as-sanitation-staff-strike-enters-third-day-345347
02-12-2021||Mohali||Four teachers climb tower in Kharar over demands||Four protesting members of the Temporary Teachers’ Union climbed on a mobile phone tower near Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s house in Kharar today.Two women and two men climbed on the tower around 7 am and raised slogans against the Punjab CM and Education Minister Pargat Singh, demanding the regularisation of services and hike in salary.The police reached the spot and tried to bring them down, but the protesters did not pay heed. Later, a meeting of the protesters with the department officials was arranged following which they came down in the afternoon.Nishant Kumar of Kapurthala, Gurwinder Singh of Gurdaspur, Harpreet Kaur of Jalandhar and Ranjana Thakur of Hoshiarpur had climbed the tower.The protesting teachers, who have been on a dharna outside the PSEB building in Mohali for over 170 days, said they had been suffering for the past several years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-teachers-climb-tower-in-kharar-over-demands-345346
02-12-2021||---||Medically certify cause of each death, Chandigarh told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The Directorate of Census Operations has directed the UT Administration to have 100 per cent medical certification of cause of deaths for all fatalities taking place in the city.The direction came during a meeting of the state-level census coordination committee held under the chairmanship of UT Adviser Dharam Pal today. Detailed presentations on different aspects of census, civil registration system, mapping work, medical certification of cause of death, etc, were given during the meeting.Dr Abhishek Jain, Director, Census Operations, Chandigarh and Punjab, Ministry of Home Affairs, stated that census was the biggest administrative and statistical exercise in the country, adding that it was conducted with the active cooperation and participation of the state government machinery.An important issue highlighted during the meeting was the need to have 100 per cent medical certification of the cause of deaths taking place in Chandigarh, including all Covid-19 fatalities. The Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969 and a Supreme Court order dated June 30, 2021, mandate medical certification of cause of death in each case.However, a medical expert said it was difficult to determine the cause of death of every person brought dead at hospital. The cause of death could be determined after a post-mortem examination, but in most cases, kin refused to get the autopsy done, the expert added.The UT authorities were directed to conduct inspection of both government and private hospitals to ensure 100 per cent registration of birth and death. Information signboard would also be installed at prominent places in all hospitals informing public about birth and death registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/medically-certify-cause-of-each-death-chandigarh-told-345345
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Smart metering: Chandigarh for hiring agency to implement project||To speed up installation of smart meters, the UT Administration will send a proposal to the Union Home Ministry for appointment of an agency to implement the project.A meeting to review the progress of smart metering rollout in the UT was held under the chairmanship of Union Home Secretary via videoconferencing, which was attended by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, the UT Finance Secretary and the Chief Engineer-cum-Special Secretary (Engineering).The Union Home Secretary reviewed the progress of ongoing smart metering pilot project concerning 26,000 consumers. The progress in implementation of smart metering project for the remaining 1.84 lakh consumers in the city was also discussed.The UT Administration has already set a deadline to complete the pilot project for installation of smart electricity meters in the city by March 31 next year. The UT Administration has planned to replace all electricity meters with smart ones in the entire city by the 2022-23 fiscal.The project was allotted to the government-owned Regional Electricity Corporation in 2018 and was to be completed by June 2020. However, nearly 50 per cent of the work could be completed so far.Under the pilot project, nearly 26,000 smart meters are to be installed in Sector 29, 31, 47 and 48, Faidan, Ram Darbar, Hallo Majra, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra and Daria villages and the Industrial Area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smart-metering-chandigarh-for-hiring-agency-to-implement-project-345342
02-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh logs 27% jump in  GST collection in November||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The festival season brought cheer to the UT Administration as the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection increased by 27 per cent in November.According to the Ministry of Finance, the GST collection in Chandigarh stood at Rs180 crore in November, which was 27 per cent more than the revenue of Rs141 crore generated in the same month last year.The GST collection in October stood at Rs158 crore, which was 4 per cent higher than the revenue of Rs152 crore generated in October last year. The tax collection in September was recorded at Rs152 crore, which was 8 per cent higher than the revenue of Rs141 crore generated during the same month last year.In August, the GST collection was Rs144 crore, an increase of 4 per cent than the revenue of Rs139 crore received during the corresponding period last year.With a gross GST collection of Rs169 crore, the UT Administration had registered a robust growth of 23 per cent in July this year in comparison to the revenue of Rs137 crore generated in July last year.The Finance Ministry did not release the state-wise data of the GST collection during January, April, May and June 2021. In March, the GST collection was Rs165.27 crore, 8 per cent more than the revenue of Rs153.26 crore generated during the same period last year. The GST collection stood at Rs148.5 crore in February, 14 per cent less than the revenue of Rss172.37 crore received during the corresponding period last year.The GST collection in the UT stood at Rs158 crore in December last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-27-jump-in-gst-collection-in-november-345339
02-12-2021||---||Farmers' supporters distribute sweets||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 1To celebrate the repeal of three farm laws in Parliament, farmers’ supporters distributed sweets at Shaheed Lt Col Bikramjit Singh chowk, also known as dolphin chowk or YPS chowk, in Mohali today.On this occasion, Ravinder Singh Sodhi, Shabdeep Singh Sandhu, Birinder Sandhu, Anurit Singh Sidhu, Jasdeep Kaur and others paid homage to the farmers who attained martyrdom during the Kisan Morcha movement on Delhi borders that continued for over one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-supporters-distribute-sweets-345338
02-12-2021||---||Panjab varsity to hold odd semester exams online||Chandigarh, December 1Panjab University authorities have finally taken the decision to conduct the coming odd semester examinations in the online mode. The examinations are scheduled to be held later this month.“The detailed instructions for the students will be shared subsequently,” said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, PU. The practical examinations of undergraduate courses will be conducted between December 17 and 21, and for the postgraduate courses, the examinations will be conducted between December 20 and 24.The theory examinations of undergraduate courses will start from December 22 and the examinations of postgraduate courses will start from December 27, said one of the officials.Earlier, amid protests by various student political parties, a committee had recommended that these examinations be conducted online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-to-hold-odd-semester-exams-online-345336
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Accused denied bail||A local court has rejected the bail application of a resident of Nayagaon, Vishwas, who is facing charges of molesting a senior British diplomat in Sector 10 here.The court said keeping in view of the nature and gravity of offences along with peculiar facts and circumstances, the accused was not entitled to the bail.The police arrested the accused two days after the British diplomat lodged a complaint. She alleged that around 5.44 am on October 6, while she was going to the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) complex in Sector 10 C, a person, riding a motorcycle, came from behind and hit her hard with his hand on her back with the intention of molesting her.The counsel of the accused argued that the accused was falsely implicated in the present case. He also claimed that the accused was suffering from a brain problem and is under treatment at GMSH-16. The Public Prosecutor said if the accused was released on bail, then he might hamper the investigation and influence the prosecution witnesses.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-denied-bail-345335
02-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court dismisses CBI plea for summoning judges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1A CBI court has dismissed the application filed by the CBI for summoning judicial magistrates who recorded the statements of the accused in the alleged cash-for-judge scam. The CBI moved the application after some of the accused turned hostile in the case.The CBI, in the application, justified the demand while saying that it wanted to prove the statements of the accused recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. The counsel for the accused opposed the CBI’s demand.The alleged scam came to light in August 2008 when a bag containing Rs15 lakh was erroneously delivered at the house of Justice Nirmaljit Kaur. After initial investigation by the police, the case was handed over to the CBI.The CBI has claimed that the money, in fact, had been allegedly demanded by Justice Nirmal Yadav.The CBI alleged that a businessman, Ravinder Singh, gave a bag to advocate Sanjiv Bansal, who allegedly asked his wife to send the amount to Justice Yadav through his clerk. He inadvertently reached the residence of Justice Nirmaljit Kaur.Hearings of the case could not be held last year due to Covid.Meanwhile, the CBI court allowed another application of the CBI submitted under Section 311 of CrPC taking on record the certificate under Section 65 B of the Indian Evidence Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-dismisses-cbi-plea-for-summoning-judges-345332
02-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Common admission schedule for entry-level classes released in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The UT Education Department today released a common admission schedule for entry-level classes for the 2022-23 session. However, the decision to hold the draw of lots in either online or offline mode (or both) will have to be taken by private schools. The private schools have been given a free hand in this aspect of admission.District Education Officer Prabhjot Kaur said, “We held a meeting with private schools and decided that it is for the private schools to decide the mode of the draw of lots. The school can adopt a dual mode – online and offline, depending upon the parents’ consent.”Key datesIssuance and submission of admission forms: December 7 to 18Display of list of eligible students: By January 14, 2022Display of list of selected/waiting students: By February 1Selected children to deposit fee: By February 11She said the admission schedule for the economically weaker section (EWS) remains the same as of now. However, it may be extended as the approval of the issuance of income certificates from the Deputy Commissioner office is awaited.The Education Department has directed unaided recognised schools to follow the common admission schedule. Schools have to display information, including the date of admission, total no. of seats, age requirement, fee structure, admission criteria, documents required and the date of the draw of lots, on notice boards and their websites before December 6.Forms would be available on school websites from December 7 to 18.The list of eligible students has to be displayed on the school notice boards and official websites by January 14, 2022. The list of students selected and kept in waiting has to be finalised and displayed by February 1. Selected children will have to deposit fee by February 11.The private schools have been asked to upload admission notice carrying details of admission form on their websites with particulars – name of entry class, age criteria, number of seats along with seat breakup, criteria for admission, detail of document required for admission, and fee structure.The admission form is free of cost and only Rs100 will be charged from students of the general category as registration fee at the time of submission of admission forms.The schools will also have to display a list of books, uniform and other articles (class-wise) on their notice boards as well as on the school websites. The department has directed schools to supply a copy of list of books and other material to the parents of children admitted to school. Parents are free to purchase books and uniform from any shop as they desire.Also details, including the names of children (category-wise), who apply for admission on the school website after the closing date and those selected (category-wise) for entry classes after the completion of the process as per the schedule, has to be uploaded on the official websites and displayed on the notice boards. The schools have been directed to complete the admission process through the online mode keeping in view the SOPs for the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/common-admission-schedule-for-entry-level-classes-released-in-chandigarh-345331
02-12-2021||Pendency of appeals in cases of drugs||Punjab and Haryana High Court calls for year-wise details of persons in custody||Saurabh MalikTribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Just about a month after the Punjab and Haryana High Court directed the initiation of an exercise to find out the pendency of matters of drugs before it, a Division Bench has called for year-wise details of persons in custody during the pendency of their appeal. The move is liable to expedite the hearing of appeals filed by the state against acquittal orders and the convicts against their conviction in the drugs cases.The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain observed that the HC Registry, in accordance with directions earlier issued in the matter, had provided year-wise list of pending cases. “We, however, feel that it would be apposite to require the Registry to get the year-wise details of the persons, who remained in custody during the pendency of the appeal,” the Bench said.The Bench was hearing a bunch of applications in criminal appeals filed against the Narcotics Control Bureau by Bhupender Singh and other appellant-convicts through counsel Navkiran Singh, Shaveta Sanghi, Aditya Sanghi and other advocates.The direction to the Registry to collate year-wise information on the pending appeals under the NDPS Act came after the Bench was told that appellants before it in drugs cases had undergone substantial part of the sentence. However, their appeals were yet to be heard.The Bench observed that the convicts were seeking suspension of sentence on the preliminary ground that they had undergone a substantial part of the sentence, but the appeals had not been heard.“It has been suggested by the counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant-appellant, the amicus curiae and the state counsel that before considering this issue, it would be appropriate if statistics are summoned regarding the total number of pending appeals (year-wise) in this court. We are in agreement with the suggestion,” the Bench said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-calls-for-year-wise-details-of-persons-in-custody-345328
02-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh finalises draft policy on C&D waste||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1For complete disposal of debris, the UT Administration has finalised the draft policy for the management of construction and demolition (C&D) waste in the city.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the draft policy had been finalised and it would be put in the public domain in a day or two to invite suggestions/objections, if any.Dharam Pal had recently directed the MC Commissioner to simplify the draft policy so that it was easy to understand and also easy to implement.In August, the Administration had prepared the draft policy to process 100 per cent waste being generated in the city and use it to make recycled items like gravel and slabs, which can be used in the construction of roads.Under the policy, it will be made mandatory for all those constructing or reconstructing their houses to send the C&D waste to the processing plant in the Industrial Area.As per the policy, those reconstructing their houses will be levied C&D waste processing charges at the rate of Rs176 per sq metre per storey and Rs22 per sq metre for new construction at the time of approval of the building plan from the Estate Office or the MC. As an incentive, if a waste generator brings the C&D waste to the processing plant, he/she can take back 50 per cent of the volume of the waste in recycled items. Before approving the building plan, the generators will be given an option to either send the waste material directly to the processing plant or ask the MC to pick it up after paying the applicable charges.It will also be mandatory for all government departments, boards and corporations to send their C&D waste to the processing plant. Chandigarh generates nearly 90 tonnes of C&D waste every day. The waste generator will be challaned at the rate of Rs5,500 per vehicle for dumping unprocessed waste in the city.?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-finalises-draft-policy-on-cd-waste-345326
02-12-2021||---||Showroom gives way in Baltana||Zirakpur, December 1A single-storey marble showroom collapsed due to seepage in Baltana during the digging of a basement of an under-construction hotel nearby. The incident took place in Baltana near the Chandigarh-Ambala highway around 3 pm. However, no one was present in the showroom.Eyewitnesses said 40-foot-deep digging work was being carried out for parking in the basement of an under-construction hotel. Zirakpur Municipal Council officials rushed to spot and took stock of the situation.Hotel owners Rahul Goel and Sohan Lal told officials that the digging work was being done after taking permission. The map of the under-construction building was approved. An agreement regarding the digging work near the foundation of the showroom was also signed by the two parties. Officials said the documents of the under-construction building were being verified.Zirakpur MC Executive Officer Girish Verma said, “An inquiry has been marked to the municipal engineer and the official has been asked to submit the report regarding the collapse of the building within one week. No complaint has been received in this regard till now.”Eyewitnesses said the showroom collapsed due to water seepage near its foundation even though piling was done on all four sides to avoid caving of earth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/showroom-gives-way-345322
02-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports six fresh cases of Covid-19||The city on Tuesday reported six cases of Covid-19. There was no death due to the virus, while five patients were cured of the disease. — TNSMohali district also reports six casesMohali: Six new cases, two each from Gharuan and Kharar and one each from Dhakoli and Dera Bassi, were reported from the district on Wednesday. Two patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Of the 68,954 positive cases reported from the district so far, 67,840 patients have recovered. There are now 42 active cases. The toll stands at 1,072. — TNSFive fresh cases surface in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported five fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,837. The toll remained at 379. While 30,432 people have recovered from the disease so far, 26 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.68 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-six-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-345321
02-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Covid fallout:  Chandigarh sees 80% dip in CSR spending||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Due to the spread of Covid-19, the city witnessed a decline of nearly 80 per cent in the corporate social responsibility (CSR) expenditure. The CSR spending dropped from Rs15.72 crore in 2019-20 to nearly Rs3.13 crore in 2020-21. A major part of the fund used to be spent on healthcare and education in the city.In reply to a question raised in the Lok Sabha, Rao Inderjeet Singh, Minister of State for Corporate Affairs, stated that the government provided a broad framework for the CSR. “The CSR architecture is disclosure-based. All data related to CSR filed by companies is available in public domain,” he said.According to information furnished in the Lok Sabha, just eight companies came forward to spend nearly Rs3.13 crore under various CSR projects and programmes in 2020-21 in the city. During the year, the major three spenders were Coforge Ltd (Rs1.07 crore), Nvidia Graphics Pvt Ltd (Rs94.20 lakh) and Swaraj Engines Ltd (Rs49.47 lakh). A major part of the fund (Rs1.38 crore) was spent on education, followed by Agro forestry (Rs94.20 lakh) and healthcare (Rs72.58 lakh).In 2019-20, before the pandemic had struck, a total of 72 companies, including Future Retail Ltd (Rs7.29 crore), Centrient Pharmaceuticals India Pvt Ltd (Rs97.13 lakh) and Groz Beckert Asia Pvt Ltd (Rs84.79 lakh) spent Rs15.72 crore on various CSR programmes and a major part of the fund (Rs7.24 crore) was spent on gender equality, followed by education (Rs3.38 crore) and healthcare (Rs2.37 crore).In 2018-19, a total of 70 companies spent Rs11.95 crore in the city. With an expenditure of Rs1.76 crore, the National Informatics Centre was the top spender, followed by Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Pvt Ltd (Rs1.35 crore) and Scot Edil Pharmacia Ltd (Rs97.50 lakh) and a major part of the fund (Rs4.39 crore) was spent on healthcare whereas Rs2.69 crore was spent on education and Rs1.43 crore on rural development projects.In 2017-18, a total of 51 companies, including Infosys Ltd (Rs1.4 crore), Kandhari Beverages Pvt Ltd (Rs1.12 crore) and Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Pvt Ltd (Rs91 lakh), used Rs20.54 crore on various programmes, including Rs1.4 crore on setting up orphanage, Rs2.5 crore on education and Rs1.55 crore on healthcare.However, the highest amount ever (Rs21.98 crore) was spent by 54 companies, including Infosys Ltd (Rs10.02 crore), Infosys BPM Ltd (Rs3.5 crore) and DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals India Pvt Ltd (Rs1.54 crore), on various projects in 2016-17. A major chunk of the fund — Rs12.27 crore — was used on healthcare, Rs5 crore on armed forces, veterans, war widows and dependants and Rs3.33 crore on education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-fallout-%E2%80%94-chandigarh-sees-80-dip-in-csr-spending-345320
02-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Active cases of Covid in Chandigarh highest since July 15||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The active cases of Covid-19 are yet again on the rise in Chandigarh after mid-July this year. From only 28 active cases recorded 10 days ago, the tally shot up to 66 today, registering a rise of 135 per cent.By definition, active cases mean the number of confirmed cases minus the number of recovered cases and deaths. It is the number of cases still considered to be infectious.On July 15, Chandigarh had 67 active cases of Covid. The graph of active cases had been declining ever since. At no point of time during this period, Chandigarh had more than 50 active patients of coronavirus.Despite the rise in the active infections, the hospital admissions are still the same in the city. Only 19 patients of Covid-19 are currently admitted to city hospitals. Of them, five are admitted to the PGI on ventilator beds, while the remaining are on beds with oxygen support.The UT has asked hospitals to gear up for any surge in the coming weeks. As per the action plan, the Civil Hospital in Sector 48 with 121 beds will be opened up if the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, exhausts 80 per cent of its capacity.Amid concerns of the new variant, Omicron, city medical experts have advised to get tested for Covid-19 if patients are suffering from flu-like symptoms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/active-cases-of-covid-in-chandigarh-highest-since-july-15-345319
02-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh municipal elections: AAP bets big on hoarding ads, hires 41 sites to garner support||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), it seems, believes in reaching out to the public through big hoardings and advertisements. The city unit has already taken 41 advertisement sites on rent to garner support for the MC poll.Taking a lead in capturing advertisement space on hoardings in the city, it has hired 5,500 sq ft from an MC-approved private agency. The party has already started displaying ads.A party leader said on the lines of the Delhi AAP, this was their “professional” way to reach out to the public. Till now, other political parties have not captured this space.“We also do it in Delhi. This is our professional style to advertise and convey our message to the masses. We do not believe in adopting other methods such as distributing liquor. We will also release jingles on city issues to reach out to the public,” said city AAP convener Prem Garg.The ads have slogans like, “Chandigarh mein bhi Kejriwal...bhrastachar-mukt corporation....” The ads also display party guarantees such as providing 20,000 liters of water free of cost.“Through our hoardings, we will highlight the issue of ‘wasteful expenditure’ such as the Sector 17/16 underpass, issue of running of parking lots and around 46 per cent water wastage here,” he said. The party has got permission from the State Election Commission to till December 21.BJP focus on short videosOn the other hand, the city BJP’s focus these days is on releasing short videos on various development funds. City BJP president Arun Sood, MP Kirron Kher and others have been tweeting these videos. These are being made on smart schools, bird park, new underpass, 24X7 water supply project and others.Meanwhile, Congress chief spokesperson HS Lucky said, “We are not hiring any hoardings. Our ad is directly reaching the people. AAP is doing it because it has no base in the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-bets-big-on-hoarding-ads-hires-41-sites-to-garner-support-345291
02-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Sans names of 5 ex-Mayors, BJP list of 23 nominees out||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 1Sans names of five former Mayors, the ruling BJP today declared its first list of 23 candidates, comprising four sitting councillors, councillors’ family members and some new young faces, for the December 24 Municipal Corporation elections.The suspense over giving the ticket to some sitting councillors and former Mayors will continue till the next list of candidates is announced by the party. Former Mayor Asha Kumari Jaswal has expressed her inability to fight the poll. Sitting Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma has been given the ticket. In the case of former Mayor and city party president Arun Sood, the BJP high command will take the final call.“Former Mayors and sitting councillors Raj Bala Malik, Davesh Moudgil and Rajesh Kalia are said to be in the danger zone. Along with them, there is also uncertainty about considering the candidature of councillors Heera Negi, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and former councillor Saurabh Joshi,” said sources.A party leader reasoned that indiscipline and cross-voting during various MC House elections was the reason behind the “double mind” on their candidature now.City party chief Arun Sood said, “Based on consultation with the local and national leadership and survey reports, the party has released the names of 23 candidates for the civic body elections. Winnability and dedication towards the party have been considered while finalising the list.” Those namedWard No. and candidate1 Manjeet Kaur, wife of Hukam Chand, secretary, city BJP3 Dalip Sharma, two-time councillor4 Savita Gupta, wife of councillor Vinod Aggarwal5 Nikita Gupta, Mahila Morcha secretary (2018)6 Saravjit Kaur Dhillon, councillor Jagtar Singh Dhillon’s wife7 Manoj Sonkar, state vice-president, SC Morcha, Chandigarh9 Vimla Dubey, councillor Anil Dubey’s wife10 Rashi Bhasin, social worker11 Anup Gupta, son of late councillor Rajesh Gupta13 Prince Bhandula, state convener, Medical & Pharma Cell15 Gopal Shukla (Pappu): Councillor Chandrawati’s husband17 Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor20 Devi Singh, state office secretary23 Neha Arora, served as vice-president & gen secy, Mahila Morcha24 Sachin Kumar Lotiya, nominated councillor in MC27 Ravinder Rawat, dist gen secy28 Jaswinder Kaur, gen secy, Mahila Morcha29 Ravinder Pathania, dist president30 Sanjeev Grover, Traders’ Cell31 Bharat Kumar, councillor33 Kanwarjeet Rana, councillor34 Bhupinder Sharma, convener, Uttrakhand Cell35 Rajinder Sharma, dist president, BSNL Society, Sec 50||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-sans-names-of-5-ex-mayors-bjp-list-of-23-nominees-out-345290
02-12-2021||---||4 teachers climb atop phone tower close to Punjab CM Channi's house in Kharar||Mohali, December 1Four ETT-TET qualified teachers climbed atop a mobile phone tower near Punjab CM Charanjit Channi's house in Kharar on Wednesday.Two women and two men have been raising slogans against the CM and education minister since morning.Police have reached the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-teachers-climb-atop-phone-tower-close-to-punjab-cm-channis-house-in-kharar-345076
