03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports three new cases||Chandigarh reported three new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the UT administration said on Friday.The UT now has 64 active cases with a positivity rate of 0.47 per cent over the past week.Chandigarh’s fatality count since the pandemic began in March last year stands at 820.The bulletin showed1,488 samples were taken for testing over the last 24 hours.Chandigarh reported four recoveries over 24 hours, the bulletin showed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-three-new-cases-345932
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman booked for defying quarantine rules||A Chandigarh woman who recently returned from South Africa has been booked for breaking quarantine rules, police sources said on Friday. A woman from Sector 48 who travelled to India from South Africa on December 1 was asked to home quarantine for seven days although she’d tested negative in the first RT-PCR test taken when she landed, a press release from the administration said. The woman however defied quarantine rules and checked into the Hyatt Regency Hotel on December 2, then left the hotel and returned at night, the press release said.She was due for a second Covid test on December 8.The central government has made it mandatory for international travellers coming to India from “high-risk” countries to undergo a Covid-19 test at the airport. The decision was taken in the light of a looming threat from the Omnicron variant, detected first in Botswana and South Africa.The press release said that the UT’s Director of Health Services had ordered the staff of Chandigarh’s Hyatt Regency hotel to undergo tests immediately. The press note said that the Director of Health Services ordered immediate action against the violator and constant monitoring until she’s tested again on December 8. Hotels and guest houses in Chandigarh have been asked to enquire after their guests' travel history of the last 15 days at the time of their check-in.The woman has been booked under Section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and also under provisions of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-orders-action-against-south-africa-returnee-for-defying-quarantine-rules-345916
03-12-2021||Mohali||7 new dengue cases in Mohali||Ex gratia for kin of Covid victimsMohali: Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said as per the directions issued by the National Disaster Management Authority, in pursuance of the Supreme Court orders, an ex gratia of Rs50,000 was being awarded to the kin of those who died due to Covid-19. The affected families can submit their representation to the office of the Deputy Commissioner or the Sub-Divisional Magistrate concerned at the earliest as per the prescribed proforma. If any person has any objection or difficulty regarding the receipt of ex gratia, he/she can approach the Grievance Redressal Committee. TNSVaccinate 10K daily: Mohali DCMohali: Isha Kalia, Deputy Commissioner, on Thursday held a meeting with Health Department and senior administrative officials regarding taking precautions against the new variant of coronavirus, Omicron, and achieving the target of testing and vaccination. She directed the Civil Surgeon to sample at least 3,000 persons per day and vaccinate 10,000 beneficiaries daily. She also directed the authorities to maintain the availability of oxygen in hospitals. TNSCricket meet from Dec 6Mohali: The 3rd edition of Panna Lal Memorial U-23 Cricket Tournament will start from December 6 at IVCA Cricket Academy Ground, Dera Bassi. As many as 10 teams - Chandigarh Cricket Academy, YJR Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, S Tinku Cricket Academy (A&B team), Mohali, Kurukshetra Cricket Association, Haryana, Dashmesh Cricket Academy, Zirakpur, Century Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, Royal Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, Champion Cricket Academy, Kharar (Punjab) and DAV School CA, Chandigarh, - will participate in the championship. All teams will play four league matches and top two teams will qualify for the final. TNSDAV college-10 win tennis finalChandigarh: DAV College, Sector 10, won the Panjab University Inter-College Tennis Championship (men) on Thursday. The Panjab University campus claimed second position and GGDSD College, Sector 32, finished third. TNSBasketball: GCG, Ludhiana, champsChandigarh: Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, won the Panjab University Inter-College Basketball (Women) Championship. Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, claimed the second position and the Panjab University campus stood third. In the men’s league matches, the Panjab University campus defeated CCET, Sector 26, and GGDSD lads overpowered PGGCG, Sector 11. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-345761
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with heroin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-heroin-345760
03-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||2 sentenced to three-years rigorous imprisonment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2Sanjay, Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Chandigarh, has sentenced two persons - Vikram Kumar and Alok Kumar Yadav – to three-year rigorous imprisonment in a five-year-old cheating and impersonation case.The two accused were apprehended during an examination conducted for the recruitment of clerks in the Engineering Department of the Chandigarh Administration in 2016.Jasminder Kaur, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 23-A, Chandigarh, filed a complaint with the police on June 5, 2016. In the complaint, she said an examination for the recruitment of clerk/steno typist in the Engineering Department was conducted in the school on June 5, 2016. During the checking, the flying squad caught a person namely Vikram Kumar, a resident of Bihar, while appearing for the paper in the place of a candidate, Alok Kumar Yadav.On her complaint, the police registered a case against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 17 police station. After the completion of investigation, a challan against the accused was presented before the court.After hearing the arguments, the judge said the evidence was sufficient to prove a criminal conspiracy between both accused. Vikram appeared for the examination impersonating as Alok. Thereby, he committed an offence of cheating and making the invigilator deliver the relevant documents. He forged the signatures of Alok Kumar with an intention to cheat the authorities concerned. In view of the above discussion, the accused are held guilty of commission of offence punishable under Sections 420, 419, 468 and 120-B of the IPC and are accordingly convicted. The court sentenced the accused to three-year RI each.“The offence is not only against the person but also against the authority and the public at large. Therefore, no lenient view will be taken against the accused,” says the court in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-sentenced-to-three-years-rigorous-imprisonment-345759
03-12-2021||---||NDPS case:  Nawanshahr youth gets 10-yr RI, to pay Rs1L fine||Chandigarh, December 2A local court has sentenced a 23-year-old resident of Nawanshahr, Lovepreet Singh, to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and has imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh after convicting him under Section 22 of the NDPS Act.Lovepreet was arrested by the police on July 7, 2018, in Sector 43, Chandigarh, in the case. As per the prosecution, the accused was apprehended with 70 injections of buprenorphine (2 ml each) and 70 injections of pheniramine maleate (10 ml each). The police had claimed that the accused failed to produce a licence for the injections. Counsel for the accused claimed that the accused was falsely implicated in the case. After hearing arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Judge, Special Court, Chandigarh, said the prosecution had successfully proved the case against the accused.The court said the period of detention already undergone by the convict during the course of the investigation or trial shall be set off against the sentence of imprisonment imposed upon him as per provisions of Section 428 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ndps-case-youth-gets-10-yr-ri-to-pay-1l-fine-345758
03-12-2021||---||Chandigarh elderly woman’s murder case committed to Sessions Court||Chandigarh, December 2Dr Aman Inder Singh, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh, has committed the murder case of a 98-year-old woman of Sector 8, here, to the Sessions Court.“Since the offence punishable under Sections 302 and 460 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, is exclusively triable by the Sessions Court, the case is committed to it,” says the Trial Court in its order.After the completion of investigation, the police have already submitted the challan in the Trial Court against the accused.The police had arrested a 31-year-old cook, Kailash Bhatt, one week after the victim, Joginder Kaur, was found murdered in her house on August 6.The police have charged the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 302, 460 and 411 of the IPC in the chargesheet. The FIR was registered on a complaint of the victim’s relative Tejinder Singh, a resident of Panchkula.He told the police that the victim’s maid, Bhavna, told him that when she returned after an evening walk, she found Joginder lying unconscious with blood oozing out of her throat.Bhavna called the relatives of the victim living in Panchkula. A PCR team rushed the victim to the GMSH, Sector 16, where she was declared brought dead.During investigation, the police arrested Kailash Bhatt, a native of Uttarakhand, who was living in servant’s quarters in the same area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/case-committed-to-sessions-court-345757
03-12-2021||---||Stone of Kharar bus stand laid, again||Mohali, December 2Fifteen years after the Congress government first laid the foundation stone of the Kharar bus stand, a new foundation stone was laid today with Chief Minister Charanjit Channi at the helm.The work of the terminus still might not get complete by the end of this term of the Congress government, admitted Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring. He, however, gave an assurance that the tender process would be completed soon and the construction work would begin by the month-end.Warring said the new facility, built at a cost of Rs6.57 crore, would be spread over 16 kanals with a space for 20 buses at a time. Transit space has been earmarked for five buses.A cafeteria, shops, clean drinking water, toilet facilities, separate men and women restrooms, and cabins have also been planned.Informing about the new initiatives, he said close to Rs400 crore would be spent on the upgrade of various bus stands in the state.Referring to the cancellation of bus permits and tax evading operators, Warring claimed that the income of the PRTC and the Punjab Roadways had increased by Rs1.15 crore per day after the stern action.Capt Amarinder laid the stone in 2006The foundation stone laying exercise has something to do with the elections. Former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had first laid the foundation stone of this bus stand on September 7, 2006, six months before the 2007 Assembly elections. It was mooted as a joint venture of the Transport Department, Municipal Council and the Rural Department to be built over 19 kanals. A sum of Rs5 crore was sanctioned for the construction of the multi-storeyed bus stand. Six months later, the SAD wrested power from the ruling Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stone-of-kharar-bus-stand-laid-again-345756
03-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula MC to use modern technology for patchwork||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 2The Panchkula Municipal Corporation will soon start using a specialised automatic pressurised injection patch repair machine, jetpatcher, which uses modern technology for repairing roads.“The technology will help the Municipal Corporation save both time and money. The work carried out by the jetpatcher also lasts long,” said civic body officials.A sample repair work using this technology was carried out in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, here, today. It was observed by Commissioner Dharamvir Singh and other senior officials of the civic body.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said: “It takes less effort and time to fix potholes. Using this technology, we can also save money as compared to the traditional methods.”Unlike a conventional hot mix machine, this machine can fix potholes at any time during the year.MC officials said these machines could be used during rain or peak winter season. Its pollution-free component also allowed its use when pollution level was high.“At present, departments can only carry out road construction or repair work between February and May as well as September. We cannot carry out road repair work in June, July and August due to rainy season. In January, the temperature is too low for initiating bitumen-related work. With the new technology, it will be possible to ensure potholes are filled as soon as these are noticed,” an official said.The machine uses a high-pressure spray hose for proper cleaning of the surface. It then sprays a mix of aggregate and cold asphaltic emulsion to fill potholes or patches. Finally, a layer of emulsion is blown into the laid patch to seal the surface and prevent any water percolation in future.The civic body has already floated a tender to empanel an agency that will maintain all roads under its jurisdiction by using this new technology to fill potholes.Sample repair workSample repair work using this technology was carried out in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, on Thursday. It was supervised by Commissioner Dharamvir Singh and other senior officials of the MC.How it worksThe machine uses a high-pressure spray hose for proper cleaning of the surface. It then sprays a mix of aggregate and cold asphaltic emulsion to fill potholes or patches. Finally, a layer of emulsion is blown into the laid patch to seal the surface and prevent any water percolation in future.Less effort needed: MayorIt takes less effort and time to fix potholes. Using this technology, we can also save money as compared to the traditional methods. — Kulbhushan Goyal, Mayor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-to-use-modern-technology-for-patchwork-345755
03-12-2021||Mohali||Mohali civic body starts Rs 40-lakh works||Officials of the Municipal Corporation today started development works worth Rs40 lakh, including a special park in Phase 1 and the construction of a wall around eateries in Phase 7.The Municipal Corporation will construct a wall around the eateries so that the parking menace faced by residents could be solved permanently.Sidewalks will be constructed and grills will be installed in a special park at Phase I. New swings will be installed for children and benches for the elderly.Extension of MC boundariesFormer Health Minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu and MC officials today met the Director, Local Government, regarding the next phase of extension of boundaries of the Mohali Municipal Corporation. Other issues related to the extension of boundaries of Mohali and taking over the work of the Public Health Department under the Mohali Municipal Corporation were also discussed. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-starts-40-lakh-works-345754
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||No role in move to name Chandigarh Sector 16 stadium after me, says Kapil Dev||The 1983 Cricket World Cup winning captain, Kapil Dev, today said he had nothing do to with the move of the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, to name the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium after him.Kapil, who was in the city to inaugurate an institute, interacted with young students and teachers.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Kapil said he had nothing to do with the naming of the stadium and he had not approached anyone in this regard.In December last year, during a visit of BCCI secretary Jay Shah to the city, the UTCA had reportedly approached the government to spruce up the stadium as they wanted to name it after Dev. However, no development has been made on this front as the complex belongs to the UT Administration. Kapil, who is also a member of the Union Territory Cricket Association, had started his career at the Sector 16 stadium and had trained under DP Azad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-role-in-move-to-name-sector-16-stadium-after-me-says-kapil-dev-345753
03-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Excise Policy 2022-23: Soon, get liquor licence for functions online in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2Soon, residents will be able to obtain the liquor licence for family functions from the comforts of their homes.To provide seamless services, the UT Excise and Taxation Department is going to digitalise the process of obtaining various permissions such as liquor licence for bar, weddings etc, in the Excise Policy 2022-23.A senior UT official said the department was preparing the Excise Policy for the fiscal 2022-23, which would be effective from April 1, 2022. “We are trying to complete the digitisation process so that all permissions can be obtained from the online portal,” he said and added that it would not only improve the department-citizen interface, but also lead to increase in tax collection.On 27 per cent increase in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in November this year, he said it was an indicator of revival of economic activities in the City Beautiful. The city collected a revenue of Rs180 crore in November, whereas the collection in the same month last year stood at Rs141 crore.Keeping in view the spread of Covid-19, the UT Administration had not increased the excise duty on beer and wine for the financial year 2021-22, but there was a hike of 6 per cent in the excise duty on the India-made foreign liquor (IMFL).To promote low-alcoholic content, a new category of beer — super mild beer — containing alcoholic content up to 3.5 per cent was introduced in the Excise Policy.For issuance of permit, the allotment of licensing units were made through e-tendering system and to curb the menace of cartelisation and monopolistic practices, a single entity of firms, companies and individuals were entitled to allotment of the maximum 10 vends only.To give a boost the hospitality industry and tourism in Chandigarh, there was no increase in the licence fee of the hotels, bars and restaurants. The Administration also allowed the facility of mini bar in 3-star and 4-star hotels in addition to 5-star or above category of hotels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/excise-policy-2022-23-soon-get-liquor-licence-for-functions-online-in-chandigarh-345752
03-12-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula foreign returnees under watch||The local Health Department has increased surveillance on foreign returnees in the wake of the new variant of the coronavirus, Omicron.A health official said every person coming from abroad would have to undergo the RT-PCR test and remain in home isolation for the next seven days if they tested negative.After the seven-day quarantine, people would be retested for Covid on the eight day.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Mukta Kumar, said, “For effective monitoring of foreign returnees, we have also sought help from residents’ welfare associations.” Since November 26, at least 161 foreign returnees have entered the city, of whom 74 have been traced and 87 are “under investigation”.“No one is untraced,” mentioned the daily Covid bulletin today. Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik yesterday presided over a meeting of the Covid monitoring committee.He directed health officials to strengthen Covid measures and reviewed arrangements for an anticipated third wave of the pandemic amid the Omicron scare.The police, the MC and all incident commanders have been instructed to strictly challan people found without a mask in public space and ensure implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour in crowded places such as the bus stand and markets.A decision to set up a Covid care centre at Nirankari Satsang Bhavan in Sector 9 for better care of new patients was also taken by the DC.The centre can accommodate up to 50 patients. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-foreign-returnees-under-watch-345751
03-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh gets its act together as Omicron scare grips city||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2As the concern over the Omicron variant of Covid-19 grips the city, the UT Health Department has started preparations for a possible third wave.Chandigarh will have four more oxygen plants of 590 LPM capacity and oxygen tanks of 1,829-litre capacity in private hospitals. This will be in addition to the existing 3,600 LPM oxygen plant capacity of the city.The department has stated that there is a need for remaining prepared for handling the positivity rate, which may be even higher than the second wave.Dharam Pal, Adviser to the UT Administrator, is monitoring the preparedness and has issued directions to ensure proper co-ordination with private hospitals.As per the plan, Eden Hospital has placed an order for the installation of a PSA oxygen plant with a 50 LPM capacity, while Healing Hospital has placed a supply order for a PSA oxygen plant with a 150 LPM capacity.Both these oxygen plants will be functional by December-end. Mukat Hospital has placed a supply order for a PSA oxygen plant with a 140 LPM capacity and has provided two tanks of liquid medical oxygen with a capacity of 430 litres each.Dhanwantry Hospital is in an advanced stage of finalising the purchase of a 250 LPM PSA plant. Landmark Hospital has decided to install a tank of liquid medical oxygen with a capacity of 999 litres. However, the Health Department has advised it to go for a PSA oxygen plant without any delay.Chaitanya Hospital has installed four tanks of liquid medical oxygen with a capacity of 200 litres each. These tanks will be functional from tomorrow. Santokh Hospital will get one tank of liquid medical oxygen with a capacity of 200 litres in the next few days.The Health Department will hold a review meeting with private hospitals within 15 days.Four contract virus in cityChandigarh: The city logged four fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday. The overall case tally has reached 65,475. The number of deaths remained at 820. Five patients were cured. TNS3 infected in MohaliMohali: Three new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Thursday. Among the new cases, two were reported from Mohali and one from Gharuan. Of the 68,957 positive cases reported from the district so far, 67,840 patients have recovered. TNSPanchkula sees one casePanchkula: The district recorded just one fresh case of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,838. The toll remained at 379. While 30,436 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 23 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.69 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-its-act-together-as-omicron-scare-grips-city-345749
03-12-2021||Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: BJP declares 7 more candidates||The BJP today released its second list of nominees for the MC elections. Three sitting councillors are among those named in the list.Councillor and former Mayor Arun Sood has left his ward seat for city Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha president Vijay Rana. He will contest from ward number 25.“Unlike the Congress, which is promoting ‘parivarwad’, we are promoting youth. I am not fighting from ward number 25, but from all 35 wards as the party president,” he said. He said barring two, all party candidates announced so far were below 50 years of age.Sitting councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu will contest from ward number 2, Shakti Prakash Devshali will contest from ward number 30 and councillor Sunita Dhawan from ward number 18.Harjeet Singh, an agriculturist, has been given ticket from ward number 8. Ex-sarpanch of Dhanas Kuljeet Singh Sandhu has been named from ward number 14 while Yogita Vicky Shera, vice-president, District Mahila Morcha, will contest from ward number 19.It may be mentioned here Devshali has replaced Sanjeev Grover, who was earlier announced as the party candidate from ward number 30.Now, the party has declared candidates for 29 of the total 35 wards. Meanwhile, uncertainty continues over the candidature of three councillors and ex-Mayors Raj Bala Malik, Davesh Moudgil and Rajesh Kalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-bjp-declares-7-more-candidates-345740
03-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: In Congress list of 30, leaders' family members get priority||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 2Family members of Congress leaders got a priority in the first list of 30 candidates for the Municipal Corporation elections, announced by the party today.City Congress president Subhash Chawla’s son Sumit Chawla has been named from ward number 14. The wife (Harpreet Kaur) and sister (Balwinder Kaur) of Leader of the Opposition and Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla, whose ward has been reserved for a woman candidate, have been nominated from ward number 10 and 22, respectively.Atinder Singh Robby, son of former Congress councillor Bhupinder Singh Badheri, has got the party ticket from ward number 30. Davinder Kumar Gupta, son of former city Congress president Kulbhushan Gupta, and Jagjit Singh Kang, brother of former Punjab minister Jahmohan Singh Kang, have been named as candidates. The Congress list has the names of wives, daughters and a daughter-in-law of party leaders.Three sitting councillors — Satish Kumar Kainth (ward number 31), Gurbax Rawat (ward number 27) and Ravinder Kaur Gujral (ward number 23) — have been retained as candidates for the December 24 elections.No candidate has been declared for ward number 16 where Sheela Devi is the party councillor. Sources said her candidature was said to be final, but to avoid a conflict, the candidate would be named in the second list. The Congress has five councillors in the current MC House. Jannat Jahan, who was fielded by the Bahujan Samaj Party for the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, has got the Congress ticket from ward number 4.The list also has the names of six former councillors and a former Mayor. Most candidates come from a business background.Denying any “parivarwad”, city Congress chief Chawla said, “They have been considered as they were active in the party for a long time and not because of ‘parivarwad’. We have a balanced team, with mostly young faces. We have given a representation to all communities.”List triggers argumentsHeated arguments were witnessed after the names of candidates were announced. One of the probable candidatesquestioned city Congress president Subhash Chawla why some outsider given the ticket and not him. On this, Subhash Chawla said the election committee had finalised the names.Ward No. and candidate2 Harmohinder Singh Lucky, ex-Deputy Mayor, lawyer3 Ravi Thakur businessman, Congress leader4 Jannat Jahan ex-BSP councillor, homemaker5 Darshana Rani wife of ex-Mayor Gurcharan Dass Kala6 Mamta Giri homemaker, daughter-in-law of district Congress president7 Om Parkash Saini Congress leader, chairman of door-to-door garbage collectors’ society8 Thakur Kartar Singh former sarpanch of Mauli Jagran9 Mamta Devi homemaker, Mahila Congress leader)10 Harpreet Kaur homemaker, Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla’s wife11 Rajiv Moudgil businessman, district Congress president12 Deipa Asdhir Dubey lawyer13 Sachin Galav NSUI leader14 Sumit Chawla businessman, son of city Cong president17 Naseeb Jakhar INTUC president18 Saroj Sharma (homemaker, daughter of ex-Deputy Mayor Pushpa Sharma19 Kamlesh Banarshi Dass, ex-Mayor21 Basant Singh Chaudhary Congress leader from Faidan22 Balwinder Kaur homemaker and sister of Babla23 Ravinder Kaur Gujral councillor24 Jasbir Singh Bunty businessman, district president26 Gurcharan Singh, Congress SC leader27 Gurbax Rawat, IT firm employee, councillor28 Nirmala Devi, Mahila Congress activist29 Jagjit Singh Kang ex-councillor, brother of former Punjab minister Jagmohan Singh Kang30 Atinder Singh Robby son of ex-councillor Bhupinder Singh Badheri31 Satish Kumar Kainth two-time councillor)32 Abhishek Sharma Shanky businessman, Youth Cong leader33 Vijay Singh Rana ex-Deputy Mayor, businessman34 Gurpreet Singh Gabi businessman, city Cong gen secy35 Davinder Kumar Gupta, ex-chairman of Housefed, Chandigarh, son of former Congress president Kulbhushan Gupta||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-in-congress-list-of-30-leaders-family-members-get-priority-345738
