05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Indian, US lawyers pen book on landmark military-related judgements worldwide||A book on landmark judgements and legal developments pertaining to military service in different countries has been written by an Indian and a US lawyer, both of who have served in the armies of their respective countries.Titled ‘March to Justice: Global Military Law Landmarks’, it is an anthology of short essays and commentaries by jurists, judges, and academics from around the world on milestone judicial decisions that changed the course of military law in different jurisdictions.The book, edited by Maj Navdeep Singh and Lt Col Franklin D Rosenblatt, contains contributions related to various nations, including India, USA, Canada, UK, The Netherlands, Colombia, China, Australia, Georgia, Israel, Pakistan, Ukraine, Sri Lanka, Brazil, Denmark, Nepal, and Turkey.“Although unique on its rules, the military justice system should be recognized as a full partner in administering justice for certain matters within its competence alongside the ordinary civilian justice system,” Diego García-Sayán, United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Independence of Judges and Lawyers and former Justice Minister of Peru, said in his foreword for the book.“The purpose of military justice has been to ensure that military leadership can maintain discipline, efficiency and morale. Also, military justice had adapted in several countries to legal, military and societal changes. While many challenges remain, it become relevant to study and analyze the outcome of decisions, impact and scope to better understand the consequential effects on military courts in democratic settings,” García-Sayán observed.“The book aims to provide information on the diverse course taken by military law, justice and reform in various nations, and generate lessons and learning from these experiences, besides triggering a comparative analysis,” Maj Navdeep said. “It should appeal to those interested in the military, law, politics, public policy, governance and human rights, as well as the general reader,” he added.Navdeep Singh is a lawyer at the Punjab and Haryana High Court and has been a member of a High-Level Committee of Experts constituted by a former defence minister for reducing litigation pertaining to military service and pension-related matters. He has authored several books on service-related matters.Franklin D Rosenblatt is a retired Lieutenant Colonel from the Judge Advocate General’s Corps of the United States Army and presently teaches Law at Mississippi College School of Law in Jackson, USA. He is also a Judge of the Military Court of Appeals, Mississippi, and remains active in law practice too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indian-us-lawyers-pen-book-on-landmark-military-related-judgements-worldwide-346516
05-12-2021||---||Rally organised in Mohali to celebrate repeal of farm laws||Chandigarh, December 4Hundreds of motor vehicles, cars, bikes and tractors rallied through Mohali to celebrate the repeal of the three farm laws. Scheduled for 12:30 pm, the cavalcade took off from Amartex parking in Phase 1, Mohali, at 1:30 pm and traversed through Madanpur Chowk, YPS Chowk, Phases 8, 9, 10 and 11 to Bestech Mall, IISER, Gurdwara Sohana, Radha Soami Chowk, Phase 3-5 lights, Phase 3B2 and Phase 7. The rally culminated at Gurdwara Amb Sahib, Phase 8, here, at 6 pm.The rally was organised by president of the BKU Charuni (Mohali) Sukhpreet Gill, Angad Singh Gill, Fatehsher Singh Mann, and @foracausechd.Sukhpreet said: “We took out this rally to celebrate the repeal of agro-market laws and took due permission from the SSP Office, Mohali. In fact, the police managed the traffic quite well too. Our volunteers also helped to coordinate the traffic. Thisrally is a show of thanks to all those who protested at the borders of Delhi for over a year now and all those who protested against these laws at various chowks and traffic light points in Chandigarh and Mohali.”He said: “We were served langar at four or five chowks during the rally.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rally-organised-in-mohali-to-celebrate-repeal-of-farm-laws-346464
05-12-2021||---||Golf meet: Chandigarh’s Abhijit Singh Chadha cruises to comfortable 6-shot win||Chandigarh, December 4Chandigarh’s Abhijit Singh Chadha cruised to a comfortable six-shot win after shooting a solid last round of 4-under 66, his third consecutive bogey-free round, at the Pune Open Golf Championship, today.Chadha (63-65-64-66), leading by one shot at the end of round three, sank four birdies on Saturday to end up with an impressive winning total of 21-under 258. He negotiated tough conditions to perfection through the week as he went error-free for 71 holes after his bogey on the first hole in round one. He thus lifted his third title, which also accounted for his first win in six years. He took home a prize money cheque worth Rs6,46,600 to move up nine spots to 15th place in the PGTI Order of Merit.Rookie Kartik Sharma (66-60-67-71) of Gurugram, who was placed second, one shot off the lead, after round three, returned a one-over 71 on the final day to finish second at 15-under 264. His round featured a birdie and two bogeys as the putts didn’t roll in for him. Nonetheless, it was a career-best finish for the left-hander who moved up seven spots to the 18th place in PGTI’s merit list. It was also his fifth top-10 this season.Kolkata’s Sunit Chowrasia shot the day’s best score for the second day in succession to finish third at 13-under 266.In round four, Chowrasia’s 65 was matched by Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (tied 8th at 7-under 272), Bengaluru’s C Muniyappa (tied 17th at three-under 276) and Gurugram’s Ankur Chadha (tied 26th at 2-over 281). The par for the course was 70 during round four. Play commenced on time on Saturday. The day witnessed a light drizzle in the afternoon towards the closing stages of the tournament.Chadha, a silver medallist from the 2010 Asian Games, dominated the proceedings from the outset in round four as he began pulling away from the rest of the field early on.Chadha, who is a football fan and enjoys listening to Punjabi music, said: “I am proud of my effort as I handled myself really well the entire week, especially with the conditions not being favourable. I didn’t expect it to be so calm today, but Sharma made a few mistakes early on and I capitalised on them. From there on, it was just about keeping the ball in play. So I was quite relaxed for most of the round.”Bengaluru’s Syed Saqib Ahmed (69) took fourth place at 9-under 270. Among Pune golfers, amateur Rohan Dhole Patil (75-67-68-70) had the best finish as he secured tied 24th place at one-over 280. Delhi-based amateur Krishnav Nikhil Chopraa, son of former cricketer Nikhil Chopra, struck a hole-in-one on the 16th hole during his final round of 67. He claimed tied 26th place at 2-over 281.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golf-meet-chandigarhs-abhijit-singh-chadha-cruises-to-comfortable-6-shot-win-346462
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two accused get bail in Chandigarh||A local court has allowed bail to two accused - Anand Ramesh Nair, alias Bunty Nair, and Kamal Sadashiv Koche - who were arrested by the Chandigarh Police for allegedly fraudulently withdrawing money from the bank account of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.A special team of the police arrested the accused in the last week of October from Maharashtra. The police registered the case on a complaint of Varinder Singh Thakur, Chief Accounts Officer, MC. Thakur reported that some persons presented two forged cheques at Bank of Baroda, Sector 37, Chandigarh, on October 18, 2021 and tried to withdraw money. It was then discovered that Rs28.51 lakh was already withdrawn at the same bank by presenting a forged cheque on October 11, 2021.Payment of the cheques was stopped as these were not issued by the authorised signatories of the MC.On checking with the bank, it came to light that an amount of Rs28.51 lakh had been paid to Kartikya Fish Plant in Wani on October 11. The cheque was also found forged. The account is used by the MC to deposit money collected from cow cess. The account belongs to the Medical Officer of Health, which is entrusted with the responsibility of looking after Gaushalas.During investigation, a team from the Chandigarh Police went to Maharashtra and arrested three accused in the case. The police said the three were hired by the prime suspects to commit the crime. The police claimed that the three received their share of the amount for helping the prime suspects in committing the crime.The counsel for the accused claimed that there was no role of the accused in the alleged fraud. After hearing the arguments, the court granted bail to the accused. Another accused arrested in the case was granted bail earlier. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-accused-get-bail-in-chandigarh-346345
05-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Youth gets 5-year RI for snatching cellphone||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4Sending a strong message to snatchers, Narender, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, has sentenced a youth, Abhishek, alias Badri, to five years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) after convicting him of the offence punishable under Section 379-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The court also imposed a fine of Rs25,000 on the convict. In case of default of payment, he will further undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of two months.“Cases related to snatching have attained alarming proportions, which pose a threat to society at large, especially women and old-age persons who are mainly targeted. In view of this, a person, who has been found guilty of snatching a cellphone, cannot be allowed to go away lightly. Sentencing has to be such that may serve as a lesson not only for the convict but also for all those of his ilk. Keeping these facts in mind, deterrent punishment is the need of the hour,” the Judge said in the order.In a complaint filed before the police, Aarti, a resident of Dhanas, said she went to buy medicines on July 15, 2020. When she was returning home and reached near an ATM of ICICI Bank in Dhanas, the accused snatched her mobile phone. The woman recognised the snatcher as he was not wearing a mask at the time of the incident.The police registered a case against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 379-A and 411 of the IPC. The police arrested the accused and recovered the stolen mobile phone from him.After investigation, the police presented a challan against the accused in the court. After finding prima facie case against the accused, the court framed charges to which he pleaded not guilty.After hearing the arguments, the court said the prosecution had been able to prove all charges against the accused. Accordingly, the accused was held guilty and convicted under Section 379-A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-gets-5-year-ri-for-snatching-cellphone-346346
05-12-2021||---||Ambala Railway Division collects Rs 8.17-cr fine in November||Chandigarh, December 4The Ambala Division of Northern Railways earned ‘the highest-ever’ amount of Rs 8.17 crore from 1.35 lakh cases of irregular travellers and travellers without ticket in November.Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said: “The Ambala Division has recorded the highest-ever ticket checking earnings during November this year, thereby surpassing the previous best of Rs6.14 crore registered during October (previous month). This is a gallop jump by the quantum of Rs2.03 crore (35 per cent)”.Highest-ever earningsThe Ambala Division has recorded the highest-ever ticket checking earnings during November this year, thereby surpassing the previous best of Rs6.14 crore registered during October (previous month). This is a gallop jump by the quantum of Rs2.03 crore (35 per cent).RsGurinder Mohan Singh, Divisional Railway ManagerA total of 826 checks were conducted during the month across the division. To ensure Covid norms, 255 cases without masks were implicated and a penalty of Rs65,400 was realised.The division is laying special emphasis on curbing the menace of littering to make railway stations clean. In November, a total of 132 passengers were apprehended under the Anti-Littering Act and Rs24,475 had been realised from them.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan appreciated Pankaj Goyal, commercial inspector/ticket checking and the ticket-checking staff of the division.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-railway-division-collects-rs-8-17-cr-fine-in-november-346347
05-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Notify Eco-Sensitive Zone around Sukhna at the earliest: Chandigarh to Punjab, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4The UT Administration has taken up the issue of early declaration of Eco-Sensitive Zone (ESZ) around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary by the states of Haryana and Punjab during the 19th meeting of the Standing Committee of Northern Zonal Council in Shimla yesterday.Earlier also, the Administration had raised the issue with the Centre and the Haryana and Punjab governments for the declaration of the ESZ at the earliest.Raising the issue at the meeting, which was organised by the Inter-State Council Secretariat, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said both governments had been requested to notify the ESZ in their areas at the earliest. If the declaration of the ESZ was delayed further, more encroachments and illegal constructions would take place and then it would be difficult for them to remove it.“To preserve greenery around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, it is important to notify the ESZ as early as possible,” said the Adviser.The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has already issued a notification on ESZ around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary for Chandigarh alone whereas the Punjab and Haryana governments have not declared such zones in their territories so far.The UT Administration has been pushing for the declaration of the ESZ by Punjab and Haryana after it declared the area of 2 km to 2.75 km from the boundary of the sanctuary as the ESZ.The UT Administration had already opposed the proposal of the Punjab Government to declare only 100 m from the boundary of the sanctuary as the ESZ on its side.However, the Haryana Government had recently intended to declare 1 km to 1.5 km area as the ESZ and the government had sought suggestions and objections.On September 17, 2015, the Ministry had issued draft notification for the sanctuary area that fell in Chandigarh and not for the areas that came under Punjab and Haryana. The UT Administration then urged the Ministry to issue a notification for the entire ESZ to protect the sanctuary, whose 90 per cent area fell in Punjab and Haryana. However on January 25, 2017, the Ministry had declared ESZ only for Chandigarh.‘Delay will lead to more encroachments’Raising the issue at the meeting, which was organised by the Inter-State Council Secretariat, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said both governments had been requested to notify the ESZ in their areas at the earliest. If the declaration of the ESZ was delayed further, more encroachments and illegal constructions would take place and then it would be difficult for them to remove it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notify-eco-sensitive-zone-around-sukhna-at-the-earliest-chandigarh-to-punjab-haryana-346348
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||A guided tour of Pierre  Jeanneret's house on his death anniversary||To commemorate the death anniversary of Pierre Jeanneret, the Department of Tourism, UT, organised a guided tour of the Jeanneret Museum here today.On the occasion, a discussion on the relevance of his works was conducted by Deepika Gandhi, Director, Le Corbusier Centre. Students of architecture from tricity colleges were explained the basic philosophy and finer nuances of Jeanneret’s works, which spanned from the sculptural Gandhi Bhawan at Panjab University to austere peons’ housing.To reinforce the design ideology of Jeanneret, a workshop on furniture designed by him was held wherein the students had to carefully study his work and create a side table with light inspired by one of his buildings or furniture. Kamal Passi, who had produced the miniature furniture displayed at the museum, guided the students during the workshop.It was hoped that more citizens and tourists would visit the Jeanneret Museum, which was the house where the architect lived for 11 years as did Le Corbusier when he came to India. The house was restored to its original state and a museum dedicated to Jeanneret established here in 2017. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-guided-tour-of-pierre-jeannerets-house-on-his-death-anniversary-346349
05-12-2021||---||Preparations for Khelo India youth games to complete by December 31: Manohar Lal Khattar||Panchkula, December 4Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Saturday that all preparations would be completed by December 31 for the successful conduct of the fourth edition of the Khelo India Youth Games in Panchkula, which is scheduled to be held at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3 here from February 5 to 14 next year.Khattar was addressing mediapersons after taking stock of the preparations being made for the games at Tau Devi Lal Stadium here.Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh was also present on the occasion.As many as 25 different types of sport events will be organised during the games, in which about 10,000 players from across the country will participate. While 20 sports events are already being organised during the games, five regional games — Gatka of Punjab, Thang-Ta of Manipur, Kalaripayattu of Kerala, Malkhamb of Maharashtra and Yogasan — have been included in the 2022 season.A sum of Rs250 crore will be spent on the development of necessary infrastructure for these games. While Rs150 crore will be spent on infrastructure development, Rs100 crore will be used on other equipment and facilities.The CM said along with Panchkula, these games would be organised in Ambala, Shahabad, Chandigarh and Delhi. He said the final matches of most of the games would start on February 8 and would be telecast live on a private channel.He said compliance of the Covid-19 guidelines would be ensured during the games.The Chief Minister said Haryana was continuously progressing in sports. The state government was increasing the budget of sports every year, he added. From Rs151 crore in the financial year 2014-15, it has increased to Rs394 crore in 2021-22.He said 500 sports nurseries, which were closed due to Covid-19, had been reopened. These nurseries aimed at nurturing sports talent under the government’s ‘Catch them young’ policy. In addition, 500 more such nurseries would be developed, Khattar added.The Chief Minister said sports stadiums were being renovated at the village level. He said the government initiative to give Rs5 lakh in advance to Olympic players for preparations was being appreciated. Besides, Haryana was giving the highest cash awards to its Olympic medal winners.He said a scientific training and rehabilitation centre was being set up in Panchkula to prepare players mentally and physically. Such centres would also be set up in Karnal, Hisar, Rohtak and Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/preparations-to-complete-by-december-31-manohar-lal-khattar-346350
05-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Slow proceedings in divorce case 'matter of concern': Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court has described as a “matter of concern” the pendency of a divorce matter before a local court. Taking up the matter, the Bench has also called for a report from the court concerned. It has been asked to explain why the proceedings were being conducted at a slow pace as alleged in the petition. The Chandigarh District Judge has also been directed to append his own comments on the report before furnishing it to the High Court.The direction by Justice HS Madaan of the High Court came on a revision petition filed by a husband through counsel Varinder Chhibbar. As the case came up for preliminary hearing, Justice Madaan observed that the revisionist was also the petitioner in the divorce petition filed by him against his wife. He was aggrieved by the slow pace of the proceedings in the matter pending before the court of an Additional District Judge, Chandigarh.Justice Madaan also took note of the contentions by the counsel for the revisionist-husband that the divorce petition was filed in 2016, but it was still pending. Furthermore, two applications filed on behalf of the respondent-wife seeking constitution of a medical board by the PGI, Chandigarh, for conducting the husband’s medical examination were also pending for the past about two years.“This is definitely a matter of concern. Let the report from the court concerned be called as to why the proceedings are being conducted at a slow pace as alleged in the revision petition and why the applications for constitution of medical board for medical examination of the petitioner are pending for the past two years,” Justice Madaan asserted.Before parting with the order, Justice Madaan further made it clear that the trial court would also enclose the copies of the interim orders passed in the case right from the institution of the petition before it till date. The matter will now come up for further hearing before the High Court in the last week of January next.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/slow-proceedings-in-divorce-case-matter-of-concern-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-346351
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Club owner booked in Chandigarh||Man arrested with stolen bikeChandigarh: The police arrested a Nayagaon resident, Ajay, near the Transport Area light point in Sector 26 on December 3 and recovered a stolen bike from his possession. A case has been registered. TNSHit-&-run claims Pedestrian’s lifeChandigarh: A pedestrian was killed after an unknown car driver hit him near the FR light point on December 2. The pedestrian was declared brought dead at the Mani Majra Civil Hospital. On the complaint of Constable Pardeep Kumar, a case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. In another hit-and-run case, an unidentified SUV driver hit a biker, Naveen Kumar of Maloya, at the mini market in Sector 39 on November 22. He got injured and was admitted to the GMSH-16. TNSTwo bikers flee with girl’s bagChandigarh: Two unknown persons on a motorcycle ran away after snatching a bag of a Rajpura girl containing Rs2,000, Aadhaar card, voter ID card, PAN card, etc near the NCB office in Sector 25 on Friday. A case under Section 379-A of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSOne held with marijuanaChandigarh: The police have arrested a Mauli Jagran resident, Gaurav, 24, with 11.2 kg of marijuana near Makhan Majra on December 3. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at Mauli Jagran police station. TNSTwo incidents of vehicle theftChandigarh: Two cases of two-wheeler theft have been registered in the city. In a complaint to the police, Sarabjit Singh of Sector 29 reported that unknown person stole his bike parked in front of his residence on the night of December 1. A case was registered at the Industrial Area police station. In another case, Satish Sharma of Sector 45 reported that unknown person stole his scooter parked in front of his house on November 29. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNSDengue: 2 new cases in MohaliMohali: Two new cases of dengue fever while 16 suspected cases were reported from the district on Saturday. With this, the count of the vector-borne disease has touched 3,913 this year. As many as 39 dengue deaths have been recorded in the district. TNSPU campus in tennis finalChandigarh: Panjab University Campus registered a 2-1 win over GGDSD College, Sector 32, to march into the final of the Panjab University Inter-College Tennis Championship (women), on Saturday. The hosts will face DAV College, Sector 10, in the final. The Sector 10 team logged 2-1 win over MCM DAV College, Sector 36. TNSSCD College win basketball meetChandigarh: SCD Government College, Ludhiana, won the Panjab University Inter-College Basketball (men) Championship for session 2021-22. Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, finished second and GGDSD College, Sector 32, claimed the third position. TNSOffice-bearers of MCA electedMohali: The annual general meeting of the Mohali Cricket Association (MCA) was held at the PCA Stadium, here, on Saturday. The house elected Vishwajit Khanna as patron-in-chief, followed by DP Reddy (president), BK Uppal, Gurkirat Kirpal Singh and PS Gill (vice-presidents), GS Walia (honorary secretary), Kailash Chander (honorary general secretary) and Arun Sharma (treasure). TNSCoordinators appointedChandigarh: Harish Chaudhary, who is in-charge of Punjab and Haryana Congress, has appointed Rajinder Rana, MLA from Sujanpur, Himachal Pradesh, and Abhishek Dutt, Delhi Congress vice-president, as All-India Congress Committee (AICC) Coordinators for the forthcoming Municipal Corporation poll. TNSSelja slams BJP governmentAmbala: Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja on Saturday slammed the BJP government and said it should reconsider its foreign policy. She was here at a state-level event organised by the Congress to commemorate and celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War, 1971, at the Police Auditorium in Ambala City. Nearly 200 war heroes and kin of martyrs, who reached from across the state, were honoured on this occasion. A photo exhibition and documentary related to the 1971 war were also shown at the event. War heroes shared their experiences. — TNSChess c’ship from Dec 11Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Parents Shatranj Association will organise the 25th edition of practice tournament “Open Chess Championship” on December 11 and 12 at Learning Paths School, Sector 67. The tournament will be open to all age categories and players. As many as 28 prizes will be distributed among the winners. Interested players can confirm their entries with the organisers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/club-owner-booked-in-chandigarh-346352
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports three fresh Covid cases||Three more contract infection in MohaliMohali: The district reported three new cases of Covid, all from Dera Bassi, on Saturday. Nine patients have recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. The total cases in the district stand at 68,974 and the recoveries 67,854. There are 48 active cases in the district. The toll remains unchanged at 1,072. — TNSTwo test positive in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported just two fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the overall tally to 30,841. The toll, however, remained at 379. While 30,447 patients have recovered from the infectious disease, 15 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-three-fresh-covid-cases-346353
05-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Weekly vaccination up 22%  in Chandigarh amid Omicron scare||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4Covid-19 vaccination in Chandigarh has increased by 22 per cent this week, logging the highest weekly doses administered since first week of October. Courtesy, the threat posed by the South African variant, Omicron, and the suspected cases detected in the city.“There was a sudden increase in the vaccination numbers. There was a daily average of about 4,500 vaccinations, but today we crossed 6,000 doses. It is probably the highest number of doses administered in a day during the past 30 days. The reason for this sudden increase could possibly be the Omicron threat and people realising the importance of vaccination,” said Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary.The week ending December 3 witnessed 31,527 doses administered in Chandigarh, while only 25,761 doses were administered in the preceding week. There has been a 22 per cent rise in vaccination numbers this week. A number of people who had skipped their second dose due to vaccine complacency have now starting turning up.This week, as many as 25,312 people turned up for their second dose. In the city, around 1,80,000 people had skipped their second dose due to which the overall vaccination turnout has been only 75 per cent.Experts have strongly suggested residents should take their vaccination doses in order to stay protected from Omicron. The new variant is believed to be highly transmissible with possible characteristics of evading vaccine-induced immunity. Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “The only way to stay protected against the new variant is vaccination and following basic Covid-appropriate behaviour. Vaccines will reduce hospitalisation and deaths even if the virus spreads rapidly.”‘SA returnee stable’The genome sequencing report of the resident of Sector 36, who returned from South Africa and tested positive on 8th day, is still awaited. The SA-returnee, his wife and the maid have been put under isolation at the GMCH-32. All three are fine and didn’t require oxygen support or any special treatment, clarified the UT Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekly-vaccination-up-22-in-ut-amid-omicron-scare-346354
05-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Congress councillor denied ticket||Sitting Congress councillor Sheela Devi has lost her ticket for the MC elections.The Congress, at the last moment, announced the final list of six candidates fearing rebellion. Monika Sharma (Ward No, 1), Dheeraj Gupta (Ward No, 15), Sonia (Ward No. 16), Gurcharanjit Singh Kaka (Ward No. 20), Mohan Singh Rana (Ward No. 25) and Jatinder Kumar Toti (Ward No. 26) were named today. Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Dhanak Samaj and the Kabirpanthi Samaj protested against the Congress for not considering the candidature of Sheela. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-councillor-denied-ticket-346355
05-12-2021||---||Shot in the arm for BJP as disgruntled Congress, AAP leaders join party||Chandigarh, December 4Disgruntled leaders of the Congress and AAP joined the BJP today. Jora Singh, former state president of SC, ST cell in AAP; Ashok Beniwal, former general secretary of Ward Number 4; and a large number of AAP leaders, including youth president Aniket from Ward Number 16, Rajesh, president of Ward Number 16, senior AAP member Dalbir Mama, joined the BJP camp.Meanwhile, state general secretary of Mahila Congress Jyoti Hans, Mahila Congress Mandal president Neeta Lahori from Ward No. 16, Congress Mandal president Rajesh Malhotra from Ward No. 16, and a large number of Congress leaders also joined the BJP. Welcoming the leaders, BJP state president Arun Sood said with the end of the nomination process, there had been panic among the Opposition parties in Chandigarh. In the coming days, many big leaders of AAP and the Congress would join the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shot-in-the-arm-for-bjp-346356
05-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh  MC polls: Congress candidate from Ward 22 richest with Rs 35.5-crore assets||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 4Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla’s sister turned out to be the richest candidate while his wife emerged as the second richest candidate on the last day of filing of nominations for the Municipal Corporation elections scheduled to be held on December 24. The declared assets worth crores belong to the candidates and their respective spouses.A total of 322 candidates filed their nomination papers as the process concluded today. The scrutiny of nominations will take place on December 6 while December 9 has been fixed as the date for withdrawal of candidature.Congress candidate from Ward Number 22 Balwinder Kaur (Babla’s sister) and her husband Roopinder Singh, a senior party leader, have assets worth Rs 35,51,74,856. The couple’s income has grown significantly in the past five years. In the 2016 MC elections, they had total assets worth Rs 26,03,01,696.Among moveable assets in their affidavit submitted to the election commission, Balwinder has jewellery worth Rs 40 lakh while her husband has Rs 10 lakh worth of jewellery. Besides, they have mutual funds, PPF, insurance, FDs and a car each with VIP numbers. Their immovable assets comprised of a 17,000 sq ft plot in Industrial Area, Phase 8-B, Mohali; a house in Sector 27-A, investments in development construction and rental income. They have no liabilities/dues to any public financial institution and the government. By profession, the candidate is a homemaker and her husband is into road construction business. Balwinder, who was earlier in the BJP, had contested the previous election on SAD ticket, but lost by a thin margin.Congress councillor Babla and wife Harpreet Kaur Babla, who is contesting from Ward Number 10 (a seat reserved for women), have the second highest assets (Rs32,79,33,928) among the candidates. The couple’s income has increased by a big margin in the past five years. In the 2016 MC poll, they had declared about Rs23 crore worth of their assets in an affidavit filed before the election commission.In this year’s affidavit, Babla and his wife have listed their moveable asset as Rs1.25 lakh and Rs1 lakh cash in hand, besides FDs, PPF, FDRs, glexi deposits, bonds, shares, postal savings and insurance.It seems the couple has a fancy for cars. Babla, a businessman, owns five vehicles, including a Mercedes Benz, KIA Seltos, Toyota Innova, Maruti Esteem and an E-vehicle golf cart.Harpreet Kaur, a homemaker, has a Mahindra Thar. The current councillor has jewellery worth Rs48.90 lakh while his spouse has Rs45.36 lakh worth of gold and Rs12.90 lakh worth of diamonds. Babla also owns a licensed .30 BA rifle and .30-bore pistol worth Rs2.50 lakh.Among thir immoveable assets is agriculture land in Parol village. The duo owns commercial buildings, including plots in Industrial Area, Phase 2, Sector 82, Mohali, an SCF in Sector 27-D, share in SCOs in the grain market, Sector 26, and Mullanpur, and several other properties the total worth of which is Rs29,40,00,000. The two have a small loan of Rs7,72,659.BJP’s Neetika Gupta, who is contesting from Ward Number 5, is one of the richest candidates from her party. She, along with her husband, both business persons, has total assets worth Rs10,82,47,163. Jagjeet Singh Kang, Congress candidate from Ward No. 29, along with his spouse, has assets worth Rs22.94 crore.Crorepati candidate has Rs7k loan liabilityThe Congress candidate from Ward Number 33, Vijay Singh Rana, a businessman, and his spouse, a housewife, have assets worth Rs26,32,00,000. They have properties in Burail, Sohana and a house in Sector 21-C. Interestingly, the crorepati couple has a Rs7,000 loan to repay which they had taken to buy a Honda Activa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-candidate-from-ward-22-richest-with-rs-35-5-crore-assets-346357
