06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs highest Covid cases in four months||Chandigarh reported 12 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the highest number of cases the union territory has seen in four months.Chandigarh currently has 62 active cases with a positivity rate of 0.44 per cent over the last seven days, a health bulletin issued by the UT administration said on Monday.According to the health bulletin, 1,969 samples were tested for Covid-19 over the last 24 hours. Chandigarh’s fatality count since the pandemic began in March 2020 is 820.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-highest-covid-cases-in-four-months-347027
06-12-2021||---||Inter-State Cricket meet: Punjab defeat Goa, confirm semi-finals berth||Chandigarh, December 5Punjab lads confirmed their semi-finals berth by registering a 45-run win over Goa in the ongoing BCC’s U-25 Inter-State Cricket Tournament at Alur Cricket Stadium (III) in Bengaluru.After winning the toss, Goa’s skipper put Punjab to bat. The side posted 235/9 in the allotted 50 overs. Nehal Wadhera (46 off 55 balls) was ably supported by Vishwa Pratap Singh (36 off 73 balls). Mohit Redkar (4/43) was the pick of the bowlers, while SA Mishra and Nihal S claimed two wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, Goa lads were bowled out for 190 runs in 48 overs. Dheeraj Y (41 off 46 balls) and Avishkar (31 off 19 balls) were the main contributors to the chase. Prince Balwant Rai (4/42) was the pick of the bowlers, while Abhinav Sharma (3/14) and Paras Jaidka (2/42) also shared wickets for the bowling side.Punjab will now play their semi-finals on December 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inter-state-cricket-meet-punjab-defeat-goa-confirm-semi-finals-berth-346650
06-12-2021||---||Chandigarh State Cross Country Championship on December 12||Chandigarh, December 5The Chandigarh Athletics Association will conduct Chandigarh State Cross Country Championship at the Chandigarh Botanical Garden (near PGI) on December 12. Athletes residing, studying or working in Chandigarh and registered with the Chandigarh Athletics Association will be eligible to participate in this championship.Interested athletes can send their entries before December 10. Athletes born between January 16, 2006, and January 15, 2008, will be eligible to participate in the U-16 category, while athletes born between January 16, 2004, and January 15, 2006, will be eligible to participate in the U-18 category. Those born between January 16, 2002, and January 15, 2004, will be eligible to participate in the U-20 category and there will no age bar for senior group.Top performers of the championship will be selected to participate in the 56th National Cross Country Championship, scheduled to be held at Kohima, Nagaland, on January 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-state-cross-country-championship-on-december-12-346651
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||GGDSD-32 pugilists champs||GGDSD College, Sector 32, won the Panjab University Inter-College Boxing (Men) Championship by scoring 45 points. Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, scored 41.5 points to claim second position and Panjab University Campus finished third with 12.5 points.In the 48-kg category, Kuldeep Kumar, Shubham and Akashdeep claimed top three positions, respectively, while in the 51-kg event, Rishabh, Kavi Kumar and Aditya claimed top three positions, respectively. In the 54-kg final, Mewa Singh defeated Vishal and Karan claimed third position. Rohan defeated Prashant to claim 57-kg title, while Vansh and Rohit claimed joint third position. Rahul won the 60-kg category by defeating Hritik, while Vishal Kumar and Ravinder were joint third. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ggdsd-32-pugilists-champs-346653
06-12-2021||---||Man killed, another hurt in hit-&-run cases||Zirakpur, December 5A person was killed while another injured in separate hit-and-run mishaps in Zirakpur and Dhakoli, respectively.On November 29, Nand Lal (40), a resident of Zirakpur, had left home for work here, but did not return. His relative Sukhwant Singh, a resident of Solan, was today informed that his brother had met with an accident. A recklessly driven truck hit him. Passersby shifted the victim to the GMCH-32, where he succumbed to his injuries. The police said action had been initiated against the truck driver, who fled from the spot, on the basis of the registration number of the vehicle.In another incident, Jatinder Verma, along with his 16-year-old son Rohit, residents of Dhakoli, was on his way to Mani Majra on a scooter for some work on December 3. While returning, a recklessly driven car hit them near MS Enclave on the Kalka road. The car driver fled the spot.Complainant Jatinder stated he received minor injuries, while his son was admitted to the GMCH-32. The police have registered cases of negligent driving.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-another-hurt-in-hit-run-cases-346655
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fraudster dupes woman, nabbed||A fraudster has been arrested by the Chandigarh Police for duping a woman on the pretext of providing a job.The complainant, a resident of Mani Majra, had reported that she was looking for a job and uploaded her profile online. Later, she got a call from an unknown person who asked her to first deposit a sum of Rs2,800 as registration charges.The fraudster again called her and threatened her of legal action for not depositing the registration charges. The victim then deposited Rs2,800 and another amount of Rs5,222.The victim later realised that she has been duped following which she lodged a police complaint. During investigation, the police found that the money was deposited in an Axis Bank account in Delhi. They later managed to arrest one suspect, Rustam Saifi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraudster-dupes-woman-nabbed-346657
06-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Youth walks free in rape case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Swati Sehgal, Judge, Fast Track Special Court, Chandigarh has acquitted a 22-year-old youth, Ram Sajivan, in a rape case after the police failed to prove charges against him.As per the prosecution, the accused was arrested on the victim’s complaint. The prosecution claimed that the victim had told the police that the accused, who was her friend, took her to the forest area in Dariya village and forcible made physical relations with her.The police registered the case against the accused under Section 376 (3) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 6 of the POCSO Act at the Industrial Area police station, Chandigarh, on April 8, 2019. The police arrested the accused on April 10, 2019.After investigation, the police submitted a challan against the accused in the court. After finding prima facie case against the accused, the court framed charges to which he pleaded not guilty.The prosecution claimed that the victim, who was minor, become pregnant. Later, her pregnancy was terminated. The public prosecutor said the prosecution had proved the case against the accused.Rahul Rana, counsel for the accused, claimed that the accused was innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. Rana argued that the victim was not minor and she got admission in the school on the basis of an affidavit not on the basis of the birth certificate.Rana said the victim’s medical was also not done. He also pointed out the contradictions in the statements of the victim during the hearings. Rana claimed that the mother of the victim also submitted an affidavit that the accused was falsely implicated in the case. He said even the DNA report of the foetus did not match with the accused.On the basis of these facts, he prayed for the acquittal of the accused. After hearing the arguments and examining the witnesses, the court acquitted the accused for the offences registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-walks-free-in-rape-case-346659
06-12-2021||---||Panchkula RWA to stage 5-day protest against paid parking||Panchkula, December 5The Sector 20 Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) has decided to intensify its campaign against the introduction of paid parking and the poor state of civic issues in the locality.The residents cited ignorance of the green belt and linking of sewerage and storm water pipes as the main civic problems.After finalising the action plan, the RWA, in its meeting held today, passed a resolution criticising the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP, formerly HUDA) and the Municipal Corporation for their failure to provide the basic amenities to people from the past 20 years.The RWA said it would stage a five-day protest from December 18, near the sector community centre and opposite the main market.The last day of the dharna (i.e. on December 22) will be held outside the HSVP office, Sector 6, to mount pressure on the administration to look into the matter, said KK Jindal, president of the Sector 20 RWA.Shopkeepers of the market would be mobilised to join the protest, he said.The RWA representatives said they would further escalate their protest if the government did not respond to their demands. Last month, the RWA members had staged a protest outside the MC office in Sector 14, seeking rollback of the paid parking system.The Congress and the BJP’s alliance partner JJP also opposed the paid parking in Sector 14 and 20 markets.Letters have also been dispatched to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-rwa-to-stage-5-day-protest-against-paid-parking-346660
06-12-2021||---||Dr Mansukh Mandaviya interacts with doctors, patients at PGI||Chandigarh, December 5Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya visited PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Sunday evening. He was accompanied by Anurag Thakur, Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs and Minister of Information and Broadcasting.The institute gave a power-point presentation on its history and academic growth. The ministers were apprised of the hospital structure, advanced centres of patient care, training and research as well as upcoming new centres such as the Advanced Neurosciences Centre and the Advanced Mother and Child Care Centre. They were also told about the progress of the three PGI satellite centres at Sangrur, Ferozepur (Punjab) and Una (HP).The ministers were also apprised of the difficulties being faced by the institute. Dr Surjit Singh, PGIMER Director, said, “We also told the Health Minister about the vacant sanctioned posts at PGIMER, and he assured us of addressing the issue soon.”The minister sought ideas and viewpoints on improving patient care and infrastructure from all stakeholders, including the staff, patients and their relatives. Later, Mandaviya visited the Advanced Trauma Centre, where he interacted with doctors, paramedics and patients to enquire about the facilities being provided there.The Faculty Association of PGIMER pointed out that the institute has not proportionately expanded in terms of infrastructure and support staff. This is resulting in suboptimal functioning of the staff due to lack of office space, accommodation, sufficient OT tables, etc. The association, through a charter of demand, requested the minister to support a robust plan for the expansion of the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-mansukh-mandaviya-interacts-with-doctors-patients-at-pgi-346662
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh sees 7 fresh cases of virus||Nine more infected in Mohali districtMohali: Nine fresh Covid cases were reported from the district on Sunday. With no fresh death, the toll stands at 1,072. Among the new cases, four are from Kharar, three from Gharuan and one each from Dhakoli and Mohali. The total cases in the district stand at 68,983 and the recoveries 67,859. There are 52 active cases. Five patients have recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNSTwo fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported two fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the overall tally to 30,843. The toll, however, remained at 379. While 30,448 people have recovered from the disease so far, 16 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.71 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-sees-7-fresh-cases-of-virus-346664
06-12-2021||---||Chandigarh BJP leaders discuss poll strategy with JP Nadda||Chandigarh, December 5BJP leaders led by city president Arun Sood met national president JP Nadda and Cabinet Minister Anurag Thakur at the Chandigarh international airport today.Nadda and Thakur were on way to Himachal Pradesh and had a brief stopover at the Chandigarh international airport. Party national general secretary and election in charge Vinod Tawde, national vice-president Saudan Singh, former state president Sanjay Tandon and city unit general secretary Rambir Bhatti met them and gave information in context of the MC election planning here. Sood told Nadda about the strategy of the election campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-leaders-discuss-poll-strategy-with-jp-nadda-346665
06-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC elections: Candidates intensify campaign||Chandigarh, December 5A day after the final day of nominations for the MC elections, candidates intensified their campaign. Congress candidate Ravinder Kaur Gujral took out a cycle rally in her ward. Balwinder Kaur and Harpreet Kaur are carrying out door-to-door campaigns.AAP candidate Anju Katyal took out an ‘ashirwad’ yatra in her ward number 22. BJP candidate Davesh Moudgil held a public gathering in Faidan. Senior Deputy Mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, along with his supporters, kicked off a door-to-door campaign. His rival Harmohinder Singh Lucky also campaigned in his ward. His office in Sector 8 was opened by former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal.Scrutiny of nominations todayThe scrutiny of nominations will take place on Monday. December 9 has been fixed as the date for withdrawal of candidature. The voting will be held on December 24 and the results will be declared on 27.Parties told not to harm animalsAll parties have been advised to not use animals for their election campaigns. Display of animals in road shows is also banned. Even a party with a symbol depicting an animal is not allowed to make a live demonstration of the animal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-candidates-intensify-campaign-346667
06-12-2021||Modern lifestyle to blame||Open house: Does Chandigarh lack decent facilities for persons with mental disabilities?||The number of patients suffering from mental issues are increasing. Mental problems have accelerated with the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. Studies at the PGI have shown that modern lifestyle habits like late night use of internet, chatting etc have increased cases of depression. Sleeplessness due excessive use of mobiles is a major cause of mental disease, deafness and eyesight problems. Under such circumstances psychiatrists should be posted in sector wise healthcare centres to counsel those suffering from mental diseases and prescribe medicines.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhUse available facilities firstAsk any city resident to list available facilities for mentally challenged and probably they will draw a blank. First make people aware about existing facilities. Only after existing facilities have exhausted the Administration should explore new options.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhSadly, no home for such peopleOur school, St John's High School, works closely with mentally challenged. A person with mental disabilities has been resideing with us (our helper's son) for past many years. Sadly, there is no home for such people. We desperately need a place where mentally ill people can be taken care of, given what they deserve and where their families can get respite, especially those working.Mrs Kavita C DasProblem is stigma attached with disabilityThere are a number agencies both government and private working for people with mental disabilities. The problem is the stigma attached with mental disability. People do not go to doctors for treatment at right time. NGOs can help by educating people about treatment and management of mental problems. There schools/institutions where mentally disabled can be educated and rehabilitated.Bubby Soin, Chandigarhneed to Strengthen monitoring, evaluationPeople with mental disabilities are neglected in the community because of inaccessibility to services, lack of healthcare, schools, vocational education programmes and jobs. Monitoring and evaluation should be strengthened with information dissemination related to disabled. Rehabilitation of disabled persons is a challenge. Such persons should be given medical advice and required facilities.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhModern living behind mental health issuesChandigarh definitely needs care homes for people with mental health issues. The Administration can rope in non-profit organisations for providing recreational facilities, psycho-social care, skill training and basic facilities to ensure comfortable and inspired living for those with special needs.Manu Moudgil, ChandigarhGovt agencies must rise to the occasionLong drawn Covid 19 pandemics has left many people under mental stress. Mental illness is not their fault. Its costly treatment aggravates patients' problems. The government agencies must rise to the occasion and extend a helping hand to unfortunate victims of circumstances instead of leaving them at the mercy of some NGO.SC LUTHRA, ChandigarhUpload info about help on websiteNGOs play a major role in care of persons with mental disabilities. But, the Administration is not focusing on the issue. It should upload details of help, which can be provided to disabled, on the website dedicated to persons with mental disabilities. Free doctor visits, medicines and equipment to improve lifestyle of mentally challenged should be provided by the authorities.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhProtect them from neglect/abuseThe mentally disabled are often left uncared for by society. Apart from their parents (or siblings/ partner), there is no one to take care of their basic needs. The UT Administration urgently needs to come up with some good assisted living facilities to safeguard mentally disabled people. This will reduce their sufferings and protect them from abuse/neglect. Mental healthcare professionals should come forward to help in this noble venture.Dr Manisha Gopal, MohaliThere is no place to liveTreatment and rehabilitation facilities are there for mentally disabled, but for the inclusive living of those in the older age group there is really no place for them to live in the absence of parental and family support should such a situation arise. Therefore, there is a dire need for setting up such healthcare and living facilities of people with mental disabilities. This task can be assigned to committed NGOs.Rajwant Sandhu, IAS (retd)Admn should run rehab facilitiesAs per the MHCA 2017 access to mental healthcare is the right of every citizen. So, the government should make sufficient provisions as may be necessary for a range of services required by persons with mental illness. The Chandigarh Administration should run the rehabilitation facilities as it's a relatively small UT. Managing facilities may be feasible in the UT unlike in bigger states.Dr Kamlesh Kumar Sahu, ChandigarhUT should set an exampleCompared to western countries, there is still lack of good assisted-living options for persons with mental disabilities in India. Chandigarh, with its excellent resources and mental health professionals, can lead the way. Once the UT Administration decides to start some good project of community living, many NRIs, corporates and professional organisations will come forward to help. The City Beautiful must set an example for other parts of the country to follow.Dr Renu Gupta, KuwaitCelebrate 'R U Ok Day'Chandigarh lacks decent facilities for person with mental health issues. One of the common barriers is lack of education, access to mental healthcare, the stigma attached for seeking help and policies and legislations. The Chandigarh Administration should rope in NGOs to create awareness from a young age in schools, colleges and universities. Slogans such as 'It's Okay not to feel Okay' should be used frequently. Says such as 'R U Ok Day' should be celebrated to create awareness and support people struggling with life's ups and downs.Dr Ashima Soni, ChandigarhUT doesn't consider section as importantBeing a mother of mentally disabled child, it breaks my heart to see that the Chandigarh Administration has not considered this section of society as important. Housing facilities and work environments being built for old, physically challenged, orphans and other sections, but nothing for people with mental disabilities. A housing and medical aid facility is the need of the hour. It would give some relief to many parents of such children.Lovleen Sidhu, ChandigarhStart long stay group homesI am 78-year-old taking care of my wife, who is suffering from cancer and a son with mental disability. There are many parents like me, who have similar issues. The Administration should start long stay group homes just as they run old age homes for persons with mental disabilities. The Social Welfare Department can run such group homes for paid and non-paid categories.Satish Kumar, ChandigarhUT lags in long stay facilitiesChandigarh provides adequate treatment facilities to persons with mental disabilities (PMD). However, it lags behind in providing long stay facilities. Prayatan, an NGO, registered with the UT Administration, is running various programmes for the PMD since 2004. Now, the NGO has started residential facility for long stay and treatment of the PMD at Sampla village, Fatehgarh Sahib. The UT Administration should assist NGOs working in this field.Shaminder Singh, ChandigarhRequests have yielded no resultsI lost my husband last year. I am also a cancer survivor. Many parents like me have been requesting the Administration for a long stay group home for persons with mental disabilities in Chandigarh, but nothing has happened till date. It was the suggestion of the previous UT Advisor to make Indira Holiday Home an inclusive place for both senior citizens and persons with mental disabilities.Bhupinder Kaur Sidhu, ChandigarhA new concept has emergedThe Chandigarh Administration has successfully integrated mentally challenged individuals at the primary school level and in vocational training programmes at DART, Sector 32. What is lacking is the assisted lining. A new concept of integrating such individuals with senior citizens is emerging. This has great meaning since both the groups have similar issues like they are lonely and need assistance for living.Dr Bimla Nehru, ChandigarhAssisted living facility is the answerThere is a dire need for a mental health facility for adults in and around Chandigarh. Assisted living facility is the answer for them since their caregivers are also aging. The target demographic or group in and around Chandigarh has voiced their concerns. They should be heard and helped by the Chandigarh Administration. No assisted living facility exists in North India yet. It's high time the Administration should establish one such facility.Ambika Agnihotri, ChandigarhExisting facilities can be used for rehabDue to social and economic changes in society, more and more people are suffering from mental depression and related diseases. There are hardly any facilities to help such persons to adjust and accommodate in society. Some existing facilities in the city can be used to rehabilitate such persons. NGOs or corporate houses can run and provide such facilities for persons with mental disabilities in the city.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhNo sheltered accommodationBeing a psychiatric social worker I work with persons with mental disabilities and their caregivers in Chandigarh. It is unfortunate that such persons have to suffer in the absence of sheltered accommodations, required as per the Mental Health Care Act 2017. I have seen such facilities running successfully in Bengaluru where I underwent training. Similar residential homes are possible in Chandigarh where mental health professionals are available at large.Gurpreet Singh Saroud, ChandigarhThere is nothing on groundAccording to survey among leading psychiatrists in Chandigarh, there is an urgent need for a half-way home for 30 to 40 persons and long-term group homes for 90 to 100 persons (male and female). The new Mental Healthcare Act 2017 specifically mentions about these two community living facilities. Sadly, we have nothing on the ground. The Chandigarh Administration with its resources and help from mental health professionals can easily set up these facilities if they have the will.Anoop Inder Kaur, MohaliWho will take care of the disabled?Chandigarh has all resources (infrastructure, funding and mental health professionals) for providing good residential facilities to persons with mental disabilities. Why the UT Administration is not fulfilling its statutory duty? It is important to provide community homes for such people. Such homes can be jointly run on the pattern of Senior Citizens Home by the Social Welfare Department, parents, NGOs and guided by professionals. The authorities must know that problem gets magnified when parents of wards with mental disabilities become old or die. Who will take care of them?Manmohan (Mac) Sarin, ChandigarhHardly sufficient infraChandigarh should have facilities to deal with persons with mental disabilities. Dispensaries, healthcare centres and polyclinics set up in each sector to deal with health issues hardly meet requirements of persons with mental disabilities. The Administration should arrange psychologists, counsellors, psychiatrists and nursing staff in each dispensary and health centre to cater to needs of such persons. Retired medical staff can be called for providing voluntary services.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliMyth about people with disabilitiesThere is a widespread myth and misunderstanding that persons with chronic mental disabilities cannot live independently in society. Such individuals require assisted living facilities once their parents/caregivers are no longer around. To begin with, in Chandigarh, there could be 8-10 large houses in different sectors or on suitable campus to meet needs and requirements people with mental disabilities. Indira Holiday Home is just perfect for such persons.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliVocational rehab the Need of the hourMany people with severe mental disabilities go to DART, Sector 32, for vocational training. The facilities available there are limited. More day care and vocational centres need to be set up for persons with mental disabilities. NGOs and private players can play a crucial role for rehabilitating such persons. Vocational rehabilitation can provide employment in various sectors to disabled.MS Billa, ChandigarhInfra, facilities yet to be utilisedChandigarh has the infrastructure and facilities, which are yet to be utilised, for providing succour to persons with mental disabilities. For jobs, there is hardly anything for such persons. For public sensitisation and integration, next to nothing. Apart from highly functional younger people with mental health challenges, the subgroup that worries me is older people with early dementia setting in. The number of people, who need is proper care homes with medical facilities available on campus, is larger than we can admit. We must start building these.Unita Vasishta, ChandigarhMental health needs more careMental health needs more care and attention than physical health. NGOs and social organisations can play a vital role in helping people to get rid of mental disorders by taking to yoga, acupressure, meditation, physical exercises and spending more times in open than remaining indoors.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliProvide counsellingMental disability cases are on the rise all around. The pressure of various aspects on humans causes mental disability. There is a need of providing quality counselling to affected people. The Administration can always rope in NGOs for providing facilities to cure mentally ill patients. Awareness campaigns must also be started to inform people about services provided by the Administration and NGOs for mentally disabled.Wg Cdr (Dr) JS Minhas (retd), MohaliA neglected section of societyA section of the community is still neglected and seemingly unheard and unseen. This group is people with mental disabilities. To a large extent, our hospitals are able to relieve acute symptoms and provide long-term medicinal support to such people, but there are multiple other factors, which come into play in these cases. A place is required where they can live, if there's nobody to take care of them. They can also learn other skills. Support from an NGO might be a good way to take this forward.Dr Harkamal, ChandigarhUt Administration should provide infraMostly mentally disabled are abandoned by poor parents especially migrants. They are left to lead miserable lives. They need a highly structured environment, staffed for 24 hours and meals. In Mohali, Parabh Aasra is doing a great job for humanity. They have homes for the destitute at two locations. The Chandigarh Administration should provide infrastructure to establish homes for mentally disabled.Col Balbir Mathauda (retd.) ChandigarhListen to persons with disabilitiesAll facilities and proper guidance should be provided to persons with mental disabilities. One should listen to a person with such disability to find what is actually disturbing him/her. Moreover, teachers must be trained to communicate with mentally disabled. Lessons should be designed according to their needs.Aaffreen Kaur, ChandigarhNeed to help the less fortunateI don't think there is any doubt about the need to help those less fortunate than us. The mentally challenged must have a home where they can live with dignity. If we cannot provide shelter for them then we have failed as a civil society.Rita Singha, ChandigarhSet up A home just like senior citizensI have been working with the mentally challenged people for the past 30 years. All I have heard from their parents is "What after us". It is heart breaking to know about their concern with which they have to live for their whole life. Chandigarh being a modern city can set an example by having a home for persons with mental disabilities.Neelu Sarin, ChandigarhA request to UT admnThis is a fervent request the Chandigarh Administration to establish a home for persons with mental disabilities. This facility is lacking in otherwise well-planned City Beautiful. We do hope that this request of UT residents for this much needed facility will become a reality soon.Sumeet Johar, ChandigarhSociety must take cognisanceThe greatest fear and worry that a parent has is when they have a special child. They often ask themselves 'What happens to my child after I am gone?' It's imperative that a society takes cognisance of this hard reality. I am surprised that Chandigarh, a city with a vision, has not thought of having a home that can nurture and provide security to children and persons with mental disabilities.Neelam Man Singh Chowdhry, ChandigarhIt's govt’s dutyPeople are judged by the way they treat their most misfortunate. Surely, a city like Chandigarh that boasts of being modern and beauty, cannot refuse to shoulder responsibility of those afflicted with mental illness. It is government's responsibility and duty to provide a space for such citizens, who suffer from mental disabilities. This is an urgent appeal for doing so.Farida Khan, ChandigarhStill waiting for tangible solutionThere are many Senior Citizens Homes in Chandigarh run by the UT Administration and private organisations. There is no such home for mentally disabled/ill persons. Many such persons don't have their parents alive or they are old and unable to support them. I along with few parents met the UT Administrator, Adviser and Secretary, Social Welfare, but still waiting for the tangible result for the issue.DR Paul, ChandigarhTheir condition is patheticA home for the mentally disabled persons has been a long-pending requirement in Chandigarh. The Administration, please do look into this matter as soon as possible because some persons have nowhere to go when their parents are no more. Their condition is pathetic and surely they need our and the UT Administration's cooperation.Rekha Singh, ChandigarhAdmn doesn't have positive approachChandigarh is lacking in facilities for persons with mental disabilities on par with those extended to senior citizens. Despite having Indira Holiday Home in Sector 24, the UT Administration is not coming out with positive approach to provide facilities to persons with mental disabilities.Manpreet Singh, ChandigarhAdmn has done nothing to dateThe most important need is sheltered accommodation for persons with mental disabilities, especially when their parents get old or are no more. In July 2019, a list of over 70 such persons was submitted to the Chandigarh Administration. Sadly, nothing has been done till date. Few parents have died in this period and some persons are not traceable.Joginder Kaur, ChandigarhNo one will take care of our daughterI am 73 years old retired engineer residing in Mohali. My wife is 67 years old heart patient. Our 33 years old daughter suffering from intellectual disability is studying in Sorem, Chandigarh. No one in my family is ready to take care of her after our demise. As per disability Act 2016 and Mental Healthcare Act 2017 there should be a community centre facility in the tricity where mentally challenged wards can be accommodated after their parents are no more.Ranjit Singh, MohaliQUESTIONChandigarh is witnessing vaccine complacency as more than two lakh beneficiaries are due for their second dose. In view of a threat posed by Omicron, how can city residents keep their guard on against the new variant and possible third wave?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-does-chandigarh-lack-decent-facilities-for-persons-with-mental-disabilities-346669
06-12-2021||Panchkula||Man run over by truck||Foetus found at Mauli JagranChandigarh: A foetus was found at Mauli Jagran here on Saturday. Residents saw the foetus near the bridge and informed the police about it. The foetus was shifted to the GMSH-16. A case has been registered. TNSDAV College win tennis titleChandigarh: DAV College, Sector 10, won the Panjab University Inter-College Tennis Championship (women) by registering a 2-0 win over Panjab University Campus. Simran defeated Adity Dogra without conceding a single game (6-0, 6-0) and Anaam outplayed Manisha (6-3, 6-0) to ensure DAV’s win. MCM DAV College, Sector 36, claimed the third position by recording 2-1 win over GGDSD College, Sector 32. In the singles’ matches, Khushleen went down against Lavanya (4-3, 2-4, 4-3). However, Himaanshika defeated Shamita (4-0, 4-0) to level the scores. In the doubles’ event, MCM’s pair of Khushleen and Himaanshika overpowered Lavanya and Shamita to claim the third spot. TNSSec 10 college lift volleyball trophyChandigarh: DAV College, Sector 10, won the Panjab University Inter-College Volleyball (Women) Championship for session 2021-22. Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, claimed the second position and Ramgariha Girls College, Ludhiana, finished third. TNS204-run win for P’kula academyChandigarh: Panchkula Cricket Academy recorded a massive 204-run win over St Stephen’s Cricket Academy in a match played during the Inter-Academy Cricket Tournament for U-16 organised by the Chandigarh Cricket Association, affiliated to Haryana. Batting first, Panchkula Cricket Academy scored 296/9 in 35 overs. In reply, St Stephen’s posted 92/9 in 22 overs. TNSTennis meet begins todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) will organise the CLTA-AITA U-16 Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament from December 6 to 8. As many as 38 players have signed in for the main draw events. Players from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal and Telangana will take part in the championship. The main draw matches of both boys and girls categories will be played on December 6. TNSSeven suspected dengue casesMohali: Seven suspected dengue cases were reported from the district on Sunday. However, no new confirmed case surfaced today. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-run-over-by-truck-346671
06-12-2021||---||Will back Independents, says Congress rebel||Chandigarh, December 5Accusing a senior Congress leader of betrayal, Congress general secretary Shashi Shankar Tiwari today said he, along with his supporters, would support independent candidates in the MC poll.Addressing a press conference, president of the Purvanchal Vikash Mahasangh said they would ensure defeat of the Congress candidates. Also, a former BJP leader and ex-sarpanch of Daria, Gurpreet Singh Happy, criticised the BJP accusing it of fielding a candidate from outside. He is now contesting as independent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-back-independents-says-congress-rebel-346672
06-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||BJP goes into damage-control mode in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5In a sort of damage-control exercise, the BJP has asked its nominees to break the ice with the party leaders who are upset after the announcement of candidates for the December 24 Municipal Corporation elections.The senior leaders, including the party’s MC poll in-charge Vinod Tawde and president Arun Sood, held a meeting with all 35 party candidates in this regard last night.“Some of the sitting councillors, some ticket probables or their supporters who could not be accommodated this time may be feeling sidelined. Those candidates who have such leaders in their respective wards have been asked to meet and cheer them up,” said a party leader.“The party nominees have been directed if they are unable to convince the disappointed workers, they should bring it to the knowledge of the senior party leaders. They will accompany them to meet the upset ones,” he added.Sitting councillors Raj Bala Malik, Asha Kumari Jaswal, Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, Farmila and Rajesh Gupta Bittu have been dropped from the candidates’ list this time. Some of them are upset with the party. Some others, including the BJP OBC morcha chairman, who had publicly expressed disappointment along his supporters, had announced he would not vote in the polls. The disgruntled leader had said they would not campaign for the party.City party chief Sood said, “There are one or two rebels, or a few upset ones. The candidates, at a meeting, were asked to contact them and bring them on board.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-goes-into-damage-control-mode-346674
06-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC elections: Amit Shah, JP Nadda, 3 CMs to campaign for BJP||Chandigarh, December 5It may be the local Municipal Corporation elections, but the top brass of the BJP, including Home Minister Amit Shah and national BJP chief JP Nadda, will be among the star campaigners of the party in Chandigarh.Three BJP chief ministers, Yogi Adityanath of Uttar Pradesh, Jai Ram Thakur of Himachal Pradesh and Pushkar Singh Dhami of Uttarakhand, will also campaign for the 35 candidates of the party.Besides, Hamirpur MP and Union Minister for I&B, Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Thakur, Bhojpuri film stars and BJP leaders Manoj Tiwari and Dinesh Lal Yadav, popularly known as Nirahua, are the other star campaigners. A list of a total of eight star campaigners of the BJP has been approved by the Election Commission.If there are more than eight star campaigners, then their expenses are included in the candidates’ account for which there is a limit of Rs 5 lakh per candidate.Other star campaigners are Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya, Hans Raj Hans, Union Minsters Piyush Goyal and Ajay Bhatt.“These all leaders are very famous among residents here. Many residents belong to the state of these campaigners. We have not finalised the dates of their visit. So far, December 10 has been finalised for HP CM and MP Anurag Thakur,” said city BJP president Arun Sood.People of Puravanchal form a large chunk of voters, especially in colonies. By bringing in Bhojpuri stars, the BJP aims at wooing them. Besides, campaigners belonging to neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are also coming here as there is a sizable number of people from these states in Chandigarh.Star campaigners||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-amit-shah-jp-nadda-3-cms-to-campaign-for-bjp-346676
