07-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Once vaccine gets nod, Chandigarh to vaccinate 1.39 lakh children||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6Once Covid-19 vaccine is approved for children, Chandigarh will have a target of administering 1,39,000 doses to children in the age group of 12 to 17 years. The data pertaining to children in this age group was presented by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in the Lok Sabha.OfficialspeakThe Government of India has chalked out a plan for immunisation for children but is very careful in the roll-out. So far, no intimation has been received by the Union Territory in this regard. However, some states have been included in the first batch of roll-out wherein ZyCoV-D will be administered to the adults first in these states.—  Dr Suman Singh, director, Health Services, ChandigarhThe National Expert Group on Vaccine administration for Covid (NEGVAC) and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) are deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to vaccination of children in this age group.As of now, the ZyCoV-D vaccine, manufactured by Cadila Healthcare, has received the approval for “restricted use in emergency setting” by the National Regulator, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), for the age group of 12 years and above, based on the interim clinical data of Phase III clinical trial conducted in the country.The ZyCoV-D vaccine will initially be used in seven states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. It will only be administered to adults in the seven states as of now. The vaccine will be administered using a needle-free applicator called “PharmaJet”, as opposed to the traditional syringes.A needle-free applicator ensures painless intradermal vaccine delivery, which also leads to a significant reduction in any kind of major side effects. ZyCoV-D is the first DNA plasmid vaccine in the world for human use, developed indigenously by the company.At present, four more Covid-19 vaccines are under clinical trials in the country for persons less than 18 years of age, including that of Serum Institute of India which is conducting Phase II/III clinical trials of Nanoparticle Vaccine (Liquid) (COVOVAX) in 920 subjects in the age group 2 to 17 years. The PGIMER, Chandigarh, is one of the trial sites for this vaccine.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said: “The Government of India has chalked out a plan for immunisation for children but is very careful in the rollout. So far, no intimation has been received by the Union Territory in this regard. However, some states have been included in the first batch of rollout wherein ZyCoV-D will be administered to the adults first in these states.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/once-vaccine-gets-nod-city-to-inoculate-1-39-lakh-children-347261
07-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Groundwater depleting in 55 per cent Chandigarh tubewells||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6In a disturbing trend, Chandigarh has registered a decline in groundwater levels in 55 per cent of its tubewells, which were monitored, against the national average of 38 per cent. While 62 per cent of the tubewells across the country showed a rise in groundwater levels, 45 per cent tubewells in the city have reported a similar trend.In reply to a question raised in the Lok Sabha whether the level of groundwater is rapidly depleting in various parts of the country thereby causing a shortage of potable water in the said area, Bishweswar Tudu, Minister of State for Jal Shakti, stated that the Central Ground Water Board was periodically monitoring the groundwater levels throughout the country, including Chandigarh, through a network of monitoring wells.In order to assess the long-term fluctuation in the groundwater level, the water level data collected by the Board during November 2020 has been compared with the decadal means of November (2010-2019).In Chandigarh, of 11 tubewells monitored, three wells registered a rise of 0-2 metre and two recorded an increase of 2-4 metre. On the contrary, five tubewells registered a fall of 0-2 metre and the water level went down more than 4 metre in one tubewell.Analysis of water level data indicates that about 45.5 per cent of the wells monitored have registered a decline in the groundwater level in the range of 0-2 metre whereas, around 27.3 per cent of the wells have also reported a rise in the groundwater level in the same range in Chandigarh.A senior official of the Municipal Corporation, UT, said the main reasons for depleting groundwater was over-extraction and poor recharge of groundwater.To assess groundwater recharge in accordance with the Ground Water Resources Estimation Methodology-2015 and to estimate the status of utilisation of the annual extractable groundwater resource, former UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had constituted an 11-member committee in October last year.The minister, however, stated that important measures had been taken by the Central Government for conservation, management of groundwater and an effective implementation of rainwater harvesting in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/groundwater-depleting-in-55-per-cent-ut-tubewells-347262
07-12-2021||---||High-end bicycle thief arrested by Chandigarh police||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6A 27-year-old youth, who stole costly bicycles from outside houses in southern sectors, has been arrested by the UT police and 13 stolen bicycles have been recovered from him.A team, led by SI Satnam Singh, in charge of the Palsora police post, nabbed the accused, identified as Divesh Sharma Balongi, Mohali.The police said there were complaints of bicycle thefts from houses in Sector 56, Sector 38 (West) and other sectors bordering Mohali. “He was nabbed from the area under the Palsora police post on a tip-off,” said the police.Investigation revealed that the accused sold the stolen bicycles to people at cheap rates. He was produced before the court that sent him to one-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-end-bicycle-thief-nailed-347263
07-12-2021||---||Punjab Police cop booked after tiff with woman at Kurali hotel||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 6A Punjab Police Inspector was booked for assaulting an ASI on duty after an altercation with his woman friend at a hotel room in Kurali today. The suspect, identified as Kulwant Singh, has been booked under sections 379-B, 353 and 186 of the IPC at the Sadar Kurali police station.The complainant, ASI Gurnam Singh stated that a call was received from a woman around 3:40 am Monday. The caller stated that the suspect beat her up and locked her in a hotel room. Her phone, too, was snatched by the suspect.When the duty officer reached the spot, the suspect did not open the door. Later, the suspect, who was in an inebriated state, opened the door and started abusing and attacking the officer.Sadar Kurali SHO Malkeet Singh said,”The inspector is posted with internal vigilance at the headquarters. A case has been registered against him for assaulting a woman, snatching her phone and attacking a duty officer on Monday. He has absconded.”Sources said the suspect had just checked in the hotel with the woman after attending a marriage function. The suspect was earlier posted in Kurali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-cop-booked-after-tiff-with-woman-at-kurali-hotel-347264
07-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC polls: 102 nominations rejected||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6The UT Election Commission today rejected nomination papers of 102 candidates after scrutiny of papers.Now, a total of 214 candidates are left in the competition for the MC poll scheduled for December 24. The final tally of the nominees will be cleared after the last date of withdrawal of nominations i.e. December 9.According to information, the nomination papers of covering candidates and Independents were cancelled. In case of multiple nomination papers filed by candidates, one was accepted and the remaining were rejected.A maximum of five nomination papers were rejected in Ward No. 19 and 21.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma had filed a complaint against his rival candidate Naseeb Jakhar alleging that he was fighting the elections even though he was a government employee. However, the plaint was rejected after Jakhar told the commission that he had already resigned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/102-nominations-rejected-347265
07-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Will rid Chandigarh of corruption, says 'Chandigarh ka Kejriwal'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6A cab driver, who idolises Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and calls himself “Chandigarh ka Kejriwal”, is AAP candidate for MC elections from Ward No. 30.Vikram Singh Pundir has his priorities clear — “eradicating corruption” in the city. This Attawa (Sector 42) resident is one of the founding members of the city AAP.“I am Chandigarh ka Kejriwal. If elected, I will not let people in the MC sit relaxed. I will expose them and get the city MC rid of corruption. Corruption involved in hiring people through contractors and various projects will be put to an end,” he alleged.At a time when several crorepati candidates from all parties are contesting the poll, Pundir is being helped by some of his party men to keep his campaign going.However, the taxi driver said, “I don’t need funds. Unlike others, I am not going to distribute liquor or cash. While others will have big ‘bandobust’, I will stick to person-to-person contact. I will visit each voter’s house and spell out my party’s agenda. “We will implement the Delhi-model in Chandigarh. People here are tired of dark spots and garbage dumps. We will get it fixed,” said Pundir, who is a native of Uttarakhand.“I exposed those contractors who were taking money from contractual workers in the MC, and helped students get admission to various courses, besides taking many other initiatives,” he said listing his works.Pundir has also been seen driving for city AAP convener Prem Garg. “He is not my driver, but sometimes during party activities, he drives the car,” said Garg.He will have his competition with Shakti Prakash Deveshali (BJP), Hardeep Singh (SAD) and young Congress leader Atinder Singh Robby in this ward, which comprises Sector 41, Buterla and Badheri villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-rid-city-of-corruption-says-chandigarh-ka-kejriwal-347267
07-12-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Truck hits bike, pillion rider killed||A rashly driver truck claimed the life of a Pinjore resident while he was riding pillion on his friend’s motorcycle at the Old Panchkula lights last night.The victim, identified as Rajesh, and his friend, Krishan Kumar, were on their way to Chikan village. Both were taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where the doctors declared Rajesh brought dead.The police have booked the unidentified driver who fled the scene leaving the truck behind. – TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truck-hits-bike-pillion-rider-killed-347268
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||12 test Covid positive in Chandigarh, no death||Mohali district reports eight fresh casesMohali: Eight new cases were reported from the district on Monday. Ten patients have recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, five are from Boothgarh, two from Dhakoli and one from Mohali. The number of positive cases reported in the district is 68,991, of which 67,869 have recovered. The active cases are 50. The toll stands at 1,072. — TNSNo case in PanchkulaPanchkula: Panchkula reported no fresh coronavirus case on Sunday, keeping the overall tally unchanged at 30,843. The toll remained 379. While 30,449 people have recovered from the infection so far, 15 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-test-positive-in-chandigarh-no-death-347269
07-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Congress to come up with 'chargesheet' against BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6The city Congress is going to release a ‘chargesheet’ against the ruling BJP, highlighting various “failures” of the Municipal Corporation.Micromanagement — BJP poll strategyAAP candidates take out ‘Ashirwad Yatra’Party leaders said the “chargesheet” would be on falling amount in the civic body’s fixed deposits, hiked water tariff, sewerage cess, door-to-door collection charges, condition of roads, parks and public toilets.“We have prepared a complete ‘chargesheet’ regarding the failures of the BJP-ruled MC. We are going to release it in a day or two. Along with this, we will also issue our manifesto. We have been doing it in other states as well. Now, we are introducing it here,” a senior Congress leader told Chandigarh Tribune.Party leaders said they would separately raise national issues to target the saffron party. “Price rise is the biggest issue. We will also raise unemployment and farmer-related problems during the poll campaign.”HS Lucky, general secretary, City Congress, said, “Yes, we are going to issue a ‘chargesheet’ against the BJP, but cannot disclose much about it right now.”Meanwhile, Congress’ recently-announced MC election coordinators Rajender Rana and Abhishek Dutt will hold a meeting with all candidates tomorrow. A joint poll strategy would be prepared during the meeting. “It will also be decided in which wards our star campaigners like Randeep Surjewala and Kanhaiya Kumar have been to be engaged,” said a party leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-to-come-up-with-chargesheet-against-bjp-347271
07-12-2021||---||Take back sacked NHM staff: Sanyukt Karamchari Morcha||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6Members of the Sanyukt Karamchari Morcha today held a protest against the termination of services of 178 National Health Mission (NHM) employees outside the office of the Director Health here.The protest was held under the leadership of conveners of the working committee of the Sanyukt Karamchari Morcha Gopal Dutt Joshi, Sukhbir Singh, Rajinder Kumar, Ashwini Kumar, Balwinder Singh, Bipin Sher Singh, besides state executive members Dharmendra Rahi, Ranbir Rana, Rajinder Katoch, Raja Ram, Surmukh Singh,Ranjit Mishra, Ashok Kumar and Janardan Yadav.Demanding the reinstatement of the sacked NHM employees, Joshi said the employees had done a commendable work during the Covid-19 pandemic.Joshi said six federations and organisations of employees of the UT Administration and the MC had earlier met the Director, Health, and the Secretary, Health, on the issue. He said the Director, Health, was yet to address the issue and the sacked NHM employees were struggling to join their services for the past 40 days. Due to the lack of decision-making of the Hospital Administration, the employees were forced to go for litigation too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-back-sacked-nhm-staff-347272
07-12-2021||---||Three trains cancelled due to bad weather||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6Three pairs of trains shuttling between Chandigarh and Prayagraj, Lucknow and Dibrugarh have been cancelled in view of the bad weather conditions.An official of Ambala division, Northern Railway, said Unchahar Express (No. 14217/14218), Lucknow Jn.-Chandigarh Express (No. 15011/15012) and Dibrugarh-Chandigarh Express (No. 15903/15904) have not been running since December 1.Virender Kadyan, senior divisional operations manager, Ambala division, said: “Those trains which have low patronage of passengers or those running on congested routes are usually cancelled every year because of bad weather conditions in winter.”Met predicts shallow fog from tomorrowThe city is likely to witness foggy weather in morning and evening from Wednesday onwards.According to the Meteorological Department, it is likely to be a clear sky on Tuesday. The city forecast from Wednesday onwards is mainly clear sky with shallow fog.Meanwhile, the city today recorded the maximum temperature of 23.9°C, which is normal temperature of the day. The minimum temperature was 13°C, which is five degrees above normal. The temperature is not likely to see a major change in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-trains-cancelled-due-to-bad-weather-347273
07-12-2021||Kritika Kanwar||Stray dogs hound residents  of New Chandigarh society||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 6Residents of a residential society at New Chandigarh — Omaxe — are a harried lot due to the rising dog bite incidents on its premises. With 10 such cases reported in just a single phase of the society till now, there has been much hue and cry among residents with kids and the elderly being the worst sufferers.A resident of Silver Birch apartments said, “The dog menace has become a morning walkers’ nightmare. We can’t step out without carrying sticks. The other day, a dog just came from behind and bit me on ankle. It’s been a month that the incident took place. I took up the matter with the facility plus office but they say they can’t relocate the dog.”Residents are also divided over the issue of feeding stray dogs. Dog feeders cite laws that give them absolute right to give food to dogs inside the society. The other section of residents, mostly victims, says otherwise. “Giving stale food to dogs does not amount to social work. They have started attacking residents. Who is going to compensate for this loss? A single shot of the anti-rabies vaccine costs Rs500,” said an aggrieved resident.A retired forest official residing in the society said, “There should be some designated spots for feeding of dogs. Dogs are scavengers and hence, do not depend on us for food.”PK Gupta, president, RWA, said, “We have submitted written complaints to the facility management of the society to set up dog pounds outside the society to feed stray dogs.” Ankur Bakshi, who looks after the facility management, said, “We have roped in PETA over this issue. We have been taking initiatives to get the dogs sterilised. Dislocating stray dogs is against the laws.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-dogs-hound-residents-of-new-chandigarh-society-347274
07-12-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Door-to-door vax drive in Mohali as people fail to turn up for 2nd dose||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 6With more than 2.5 lakh eligible beneficiaries yet to be jabbed for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Health Department has now started door-to-door vaccination in the district.It has not received huge success till now with the vaccination figure touching 5,519-mark (1,655 first dose, 3,864 second dose) on Monday. On an average, around 3,000 persons (both doses) were vaccinated in November daily. The administration had aimed at 10,000 vaccinations daily, but could not keep up the pace.From December 1, the Health Department has started door-to-door vaccination after the November 30 deadline for complete vaccination was breached. Now, the department has revised its deadline to December-end.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia and Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal visited Gharuan to oversee the vaccination drive today.In September this year, the district had jabbed 100% of the eligible beneficiaries with the first dose. But the pace of the second dose has not been at the desired pace.Given the tepid response for the second dose of vaccine in the past one week, it appears to be an uphill task. Officials said the new Covid variant, Omicron, had jolted people following which vaccination had picked up relatively.Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “Special camps are being organised, besides regular vaccination centres. Eligible persons are also being contacted on phone”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/door-to-door-vax-drive-in-mohali-as-people-fail-to-turn-up-for-2nd-dose-347275
07-12-2021||---||Chandigarh: RLA to re-auction leftover vanity numbers from Dec 8||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has decided to re-auction leftover fancy and special registration numbers of previous series “CH01CG”, “CH01CF”, “CH01CE”, “CH01CD”, “CH01CC”, “CH01CB”, “CH01CA”, CH01BZ”, “CH01-BY”, “CH01-BX”, “CH01-BW”, “CH01-BV”, “CH01-BU”, “CH01-BT” and “CH01-BS”.The registration started on December 1 at 10 am and would continue till December 7 till 5 pm. The e-auction and bidding will start from December 8 at 10 am to December 10 till 5 pm.Vehicle owners can register on the national transport website: https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link of the same is available on the Chandigarh Administration’s Transport Department website www.chdtransport.gov.in and obtain the Unique Acknowledgement Number (UAN).Those who have purchased their vehicles at the Chandigarh address only will be allowed to participate in the e-auction.After getting registered on the national transport website or/through the Chandigarh Administration’s Transport Department website, vehicle owners will have to deposit a fee for registration for participating in the e-auction and the reserve amount of the special/choice registration numbers at the Registering and Licensing Authority office in Sector 17.Details of registration fee for participating in the e-auction and procedure for online auction and terms and conditions for the e-auction are available on the UT Administration’s Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov.in. For any further information and query, people can contact at 0172-2700341 or inquiry counter located at the RLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-to-re-auction-leftover-vanity-numbers-from-dec-8-347276
07-12-2021||---||DJ, hotel manager booked for playing loud music in Panchkula hotel||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 6The police booked a disc jockey (DJ) and a hotel manager for allegedly causing noise pollution by playing loud music without permission at a hotel in Chowki village here last night.According to the FIR, the policemen during a routine patrolling in the area found out that loud DJ music was being played at Hotel North Park, causing disturbance to people in its proximity.The police subsequently asked the hotel staff to bring down the sound level, but they refused to do so. When asked about the permission, they failed to show the requisite authorisation to play the music.Those booked have been identified as DJ Amit Kumar, who lives in Baltana, and manager Pawan.They have been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 290 (punishment for public nuisance) and 291 (continuance of nuisance after injunction to discontinue) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) andrelevant sections of the Noise Pollution Control Rules at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dj-hotel-manager-booked-for-playing-loud-music-347277
07-12-2021||---||All Chandigarh samples test -ve for bird flu||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6There is no need to fear as all 88 samples collected from different parts of the city have tested negative for bird flu.‘No need to worry’As a preventive measure, we will be sending samples regularly to the Bhopal institute for examination. A set of around 50 samples randomly collected from different places will be sent for testing on December 10 and another set on December 25. There is no need to fear and we are keeping a close watch on every situation. — Kanwarjit Singh, Joint Director, Department of Animal Husbandry, UTTo prevent any type of ingression of bird flu in the city, the Department of Animal Husbandry collected 48 environmental and serum samples from Sukhna Lake, Meat Market, Sector 21, Dhanas, poultry farms, backyard poultry, etc, on November 1 and sent these to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal for testing. After a fortnight, the department collected 40 more random samples from different locations of the city and sent these to the Bhopal institute.“All 88 samples have tested negative for highly pathogenic avian influenza,” said Kanwarjit Singh, Joint Director, Department of Animal Husbandry, UT.As a preventive measure, they would be sending samples regularly to the Bhopal institute for examination, he said, adding that a set of around 50 samples randomly collected from different places would be sent on December 10 and another set on December 25. There was no need to fear and they were keeping a close watch on every situation.He said the department had started active physical and sera surveillance of all type of birds, which include commercial, poultry, backyard poultry and in particular migratory birds. The migratory birds have started arriving in Chandigarh and these birds usually stay here till February. These birds play an important role in transmission of avian influenza virus. The department had activated its surveillance at Sukhna Lake, which had major/potential area of migratory birds in Chandigarh during the winter season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-samples-test-ve-for-bird-flu-347279
07-12-2021||---||Chandigarh: Woman, co-accused granted bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6Jaibir Singh, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, has allowed the bail applications of a woman accused, Preeti Singh Jakhar, and her co-accused, Atharva Choudhary Jakhar, who were arrested while allegedly trying to forcibly enter the government house of the former Haryana Chief Secretary in Sector 7 Chandigarh, on June 1, 2021.The FIR was registered against the accused on a complaint of a policeman deputed at the official residence of the former Chief Secretary for the offences committed under Sections 379-A, 353, 452, and 34 of the IPC. The court had earlier ordered to conduct a mental calibre test of the accused after they showed unusual behaviour before the court.In the bail applications, the accused pleaded their innocence and false implication at the hands of the authorities.The public prosecutor opposed the bail on the ground that both accused are clever. In case they are granted bail, they may abscond from the trial and harm the witnesses of the prosecution.After hearing the arguments, the court said the accused were behaving abnormally even with the court. Keeping in view the mental state of affairs of the accused, the state was directed to get them treated. They had now been treated at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The court also interacted with the accused and found that there was a complete change in both of them. They behaved in a proper manner. They were ready to abide by the terms and conditions of the bail. They are now in a sound state of mental health. Therefore, without commenting anything on the merits of the present case, the bail applications filed by the accused stand allowed.While granting the bail, the court has put conditions before them that they would not commit any offence similar to the offence of which they were accused and also do not, directly or indirectly, tamper with the evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-co-accused-granted-bail-347280
07-12-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Motorcyclist dies in hit-and-run||A 52-year-old motorcyclist died after a car hit him near the Azizpur toll plaza here today. The deceased has been identified as Davinder Singh of Phase 11, Mohali. The police said the victim was rushed to the GMCH-32 where he succumbed to injuries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/motorcyclist-dies-in-hit-and-run-347281
07-12-2021||---||100-yr-old veteran who served in 3 forces dies||Chandigarh, December 6Col Prithipal Singh Gill, who had the unique distinction of having served in all three branches of the armed forces as well as the para-military forces, passed away yesterday, just a week short of his 101st birthday.A World War II veteran, Colonel Gill had joined the erstwhile Royal Indian Air Force in Karachi in 1942, before he was pulled out by his family. Thereafter, he joined the Royal Indian Navy, serving onboard a minesweeper deployed for escorting ships during the World War II.After independence, he joined the Indian Army in 1951 and was inducted into the Regiment of Artillery. During the 1965 Indo-Pak war, he raised an commanded 71 Medium Regiment. Later, he served with the Assam Rifles in the northeast before retiring in 1970.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-yr-old-veteran-who-served-in-3-forces-dies-347282
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Youths booked for opening fire outside Chandigarh club||Youths riding a Fortuner have been booked by the Chandigarh Police for opening fire outside a night club in the Industrial Area-I, here.The incident was reported on Saturday night. However, the police received a complaint today. Sources said around five suspects came for party at a club named “Tamzaraa”.The police said the suspects had an argument with the club staff over bill. The suspects came out of the club and opened fire. They later then escaped from the spot in a Fortuner.Club manager Ratan submitted a police complaint following which a case has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. The police said the suspects were captured in CCTV footage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youths-booked-for-opening-fire-outside-club-347284
07-12-2021||Mohali||Work affected  as revenue staff go on mass leave||People had to face inconvenience as members of the Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association (PROA), Revenue Kanungo Association, Revenue Patwari Union and DCOE Union, along with the PCS Officers’ Association, went on mass leave today.The two-day mass leave is likely to affect official work on Tuesday as well. There is a holiday in the state on Wednesday.Balwant Singh, a resident of Sector 78, who is visiting the tehsil office for the past 10 days, said: “People are being harassed for no fault of theirs. The strike must end now so that office work resumes.”Jaswinder, a local shopkeeper, who visited the Block Majri tehsil office, complained that a simple work like an RTI reply was not being processed as employees were away with offices locked.It has been almost 14 days since the official work in tehsil offices and other revenue departments has been crippled due to the strike. PROA is on a strike since November 22 after the Vigilance Department arrested naib tehsildar Sandeep Kumar and Mahilpur registry clerk Manjit Singh on corruption charges.The protesting association members have met the Chief Secretary, Financial Commissioner (Revenue) and the Principal Secretary of the Vigilance Department in this regard, but the impasse continues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-affected-as-revenue-staff-go-on-mass-leave-347285
07-12-2021||Mohali||4 held with 20 intoxicant vials||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-held-with-20-intoxicant-vials-347286
07-12-2021||---||Kritika upsets 2nd seed Yana on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6Punjab’s Kritika Sharma recorded a major upset by defeating second seed Yana Gupta of Haryana 9-3 to march into the girls’ U-16 quarterfinals, on the opening day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament today.Top seed Vanya Arora outplayed Punjab’s Saravnoor Kaur 9-0, while Punjab’s Sidak Kaur defeated local contender Rhosyn William 9-3. Radha Sadhra of Himachal Pradesh defeated Chandigarh’s Paavni Panwar 9-1.In the boys’ U-16 pre-quarterfinals, top seed Satvik Singla faced some resistance from Arnav Chaudhary before recording an 8-5 victory.Punjab’s Devanshu Parajuli defeated second seed Shourya Gupta of Uttarakhand 8-0, while Punjab’s Arpit Garg outplayed Chandigarh’s Gaurish Madaan 8-1.Fourth seed local contender Parmarth Kaushik defeated Punjab’s Anant Gupta 8-4, while fifth seed Aditya Bhatnagar got the better of Delhi’s Manav Singh 8-3.Haryana’s Prabhav Sibbal ousted Hardit Singh 8-0, whereas Chandigarh’s Karen Singh struggled hard to defeat Pragun Thakur 8-7(5). Punjab’s Sumukh Marya defeated Haryana’s Devverat Kadian 8-2.Results (1st round)Boys’ U-16: Arnav Chaudhary bt Ayaan Chandel 8-0, Manav Singh bt Anish Sharma 8-4, Anant Gupta bt Pratyush Gupta 8-0, Pragun Thakur bt Tejas Khosla 8-5, Gaurish Madaan bt Samarth Kwatra 8-3, Devverat Kadian bt Sachit Thakur 8-6, Devanshu Parajuli bt Abhinav Sangra 8-1Girls’ U-16: Saravnoor Kaur bt Diza Juneja 8-2, Sidak Kaur bt Akshita Vashisht 8-3, Rhosyn William bt Mehakpreet Kaur 8-4, Paavni Panwar bt Jannat Dudeja 8-7(6), Radha Sadhra bt Mannat Awasthi 8-0, Kritika Sharma bt Dhriti Parashar 8-5, Yana Gupta bt Maaliha Ahuja 8-2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kritika-upsets-2nd-seed-yana-on-day-1-347287
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh shuttler wins International title||Local shuttler Abhishek Saini bagged laurels for the city by winning the BWF Yonex Sunrise Bangladesh International Badminton Tournament held at Dhaka from December 1 to 5.Abhishek ousted Rithvik Sanjeevi in straight games 21-15 21-18 to claim the title. In the semifinals, he overpowered a tough challenge by Kartike Gulshan to register a comeback 17-21 21-15 21-15 victory.Abhishek has already won titles at various state championships and won gold medals at all-India inter-varsity championships. He has represented India in the World University Tournament.This is for the first time that he won a Badminton World Federation-approved international tournament. He is perhaps the first local player to win the gold medal in the championship. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-shuttler-wins-international-title-347289
07-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh club owners defy orders, booked||Theft at house in Sector 15Chandigarh: Unknown person stole Rs24,000 in cash and a mobile phone from a house in Sector 15. The police have registered a case on a complaint of Anmoldeep Singh at the Sector 11 police station. TNSYouth arrested with ganjaChandigarh: The district crime cell nabbed a 24-year-old youth with 7 kg of ganja. The suspect, identified as Arun Kumar of NAC, Mani Majra, was nabbed near the sports complex in Mani Majra. A case under NDPS Act has been registered against him.Musical eventChandigarh: A musical event, “Parbat Ke Us Paar”, was organised at Tagore Theatre by Sur Tarang Kala Manch Society. The programme began with “Mera yaar bada sharmila” by Ashok Bansal. Ramtirth gave a splendid performance with the song “Jab bhi yeh dil”. TNSPainting contestChandigarh: About 5,000 students took part in a painting competition on energy conservation organised at 21 schools here. Students were divided into two groups, from Class V to VII and Class VIII to X. TNSGet-togetherChandigarh: Members of the Chandigarh chapter of the Merchant Navy Officer's Association held their annual get-together here on Monday. Over 100 serving as well as former mariners and their family members attended the event. TNS3 booked for clash in MohaliMohali: The police booked more than three persons involved in a clash between two groups of taxi drivers on the Airport road here on Sunday. Three persons have been named in FIR registered under Sections 323, 341, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC at the Airport police station. Airport police station SHO Amandeep Kaur said: “The incident took place on Sunday. The police are investigating the matter”. Complainant Inderjit Singh stated that Gurdarshan Singh, Manjinder Singh and others stopped a pre-paid taxi over a dispute over picking up passengers. When he objected to it, the suspects attacked him with weapons following which he received injuries and was later admitted to a hospital. TNSChandan is Bar Assn treasurerChandigarh: Chandan Sharma has been elected as the treasurer of the District Bar Association unopposed on Monday. RK Yadav withdrew his nomination for the post on the last day of withdrawal of nominations. Assistant Returning Officer Karam Singh said after the withdrawal process, two contenders - Ravinder Singh Jolly and Sunil Toni - remained for the post of the president. Amirtveer Singh, Rajiv Kumar Rana and Vaneet Sharma will contest for the post of the vice-president. Bhupinder Rana and Mukesh Kumar will contest for the post of secretary, while Navdeep Kaur, Simranjit Kaur and Sonia Kaushik will contest for the post of joint secretary. The DBA has appointed Chaman Lal as the returning officer for the elections to be held on December 17. TNS5 new dengue cases in MohaliMohali: Five fresh dengue cases and 22 suspected cases were reported from the district on Monday. With this, the tally has touched 3,918. As many as 18 cases have been reported from the district in the past five days. As many as 39 suspected dengue deaths have been registered so far. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/club-owners-defy-orders-booked-347292
