08-12-2021||Mohali||Heli taxi service to Mandi, Kullu and Rampur via Shimla from Chandigarh||Passengers can now fly to Mandi, Kullu and Rampur via Shimla from Chandigarh.The Chandigarh-Shimla route is already connected by the helicopter taxi service under UDAN-II.Heli taxi will take around 30 minutes to reach Shimla. After a 25-minute stop there, it will proceed to Mandi, where it will halt for 15 minutes. Thereafter, it will proceed to Kullu. On the way back to Shimla, it will touch Rampur.The heli taxi service operates thrice a week on Monday, Friday and Saturday. The service from Chandigarh to Shimla-Mandi-Dharamshala and Rampur will operate on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.Pawan Hans is operating RCS Helicopter services in the state of Himachal Pradesh. Presently, Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS) helicopter services are available for Shimla, Dharamsala and Kullu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heli-taxi-service-to%C2%A0mandi-kullu-and-rampur-via-shimla-from-chandigarh-347951
08-12-2021||---||Income Tax dept raids premises of Torque Pharmaceuticals director, JW Marriot owner in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 8The Income Tax Department on Wednesday raided the residential and office premises of the Directors of Torque Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, JW Marriot Hotel and their related entities. The residences of Paramjit Singh Chhatwal, Amar Iqbal Singh Bedi, the Directors of Torque Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, and Harpal Singh, owner of JW Marriot Hotel, Chandigarh, have also been covered in the raid. As per sources, the raid has been carried out in 22 various premises located in Chandigarh, Punjab and Mumbai. The raid started at around 7.30 am and the proceedings went on late into the night.Sources revealed that the officers have taken custody of important documents, including property papers and electronic devices, which are found from various premises. The documents and electronic devices are being examined by the tax officers to check the unaccounted income generated by these entities. Sources also revealed that during the raid, various documents related to Benami properties and foreign investments are found which are being examined.The search has been conducted under the guidance of Anand Jha, Pr. Director of Income Tax (Inv.) and is led by Ankur Alya, Addl. Director of Income Tax (Inv.) and Jyotinder Kaur Bajwa, Dy. Director of Income Tax(Inv.).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/income-tax-dept-raids-premises-of-torque-pharmaceuticals-director-jw-marriot-owner-in-chandigarh-347944
08-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||DC asked to prepare report on shorter routes to international airport from Chandigarh in 10 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7For convenience of residents, UT Adviser Dharam Pal today directed the Deputy Commissioner (DC) and the UT Chief Engineer to prepare a report on alternative shorter routes to the international airport from Chandigarh.The Adviser gave 10 days’ time to the officials to submit the report on the options available for the shorter routes to the airport after studying the ground situation.Earlier, the road distance from the Tribune Chowk to the airport was 2.71 km, but people have to now cover an extra distance of 14.5 km to reach the airport through Mohali. To reduce the road distance, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had recently decided to conduct a feasibility study on the connectivity to the airport from the Purv Marg side near Sector 48. The road will run through the Jagatpura area. For this, land acquisition may be required in Punjab which would be done by the state government.In its earlier recommendations, the committee had stated that it was aware that a short approach road towards the airport was functional in the past. “But now, around 30 km extra need to be covered while travelling to the airport as the entry has been shifted to the other side and reaching it is time consuming,” said the panel. In response to the recommendations of the committee, the MHA submitted that three alternative approaches were suggested in the Chandigarh Master Plan, 2031. These alternatives were discussed at various meetings, but failed to reach a conclusion.People have been demanding an alternative route, which will make it easier and shorter for residents of Chandigarh and Haryana to reach the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dc-asked-to-prepare-report-on-shorter-routes-in-10-days-347740
08-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal polls: Friends turn rivals on civic body poll pitch||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Sitting councillors Shakti Prakash Devshali of the BJP and Hardeep Singh of the SAD are locking horns in Ward Number 30. The two had a good friendly equation and had been favouring each other’s policies till the SAD broke alliance with the BJP over the three farm laws. After the separation of their parties, the two have been questioning each other’s works. “Friendship will be there, but it is a fight of ideologies,” quipped Shakti.Sector 41 in Chandigarh on Tuesday. TRIBUNE PHOTOs: NITIN MITTALFormer alliance partnersThe BJP and the SAD have been fighting the MC poll as alliance partners. However, the alliance broke over the three farm laws. In the 2016 MC poll for 26 wards, the BJP contested on 21 seats. While the BJP won 20 seats, the SAD fought on four and could claim one. This time, the saffron party has fielded candidates from all the 35 wards (seats increased after 13 new villages were merged into the MC). The SAD (19 seats) is fighting in an alliance with the BSP (16 seats).Hardeep, the lone SAD councillor in the current MC House, said, “Whether our parties are in alliance or are separated, the issues of public will remain like that. The issues of water tariff hike, sanitation, dumping ground and building bylaws had remained unresolved during the BJP tenure, but we will get them resolved.” Firing a salvo at his rival BJP nominee, Hardeep, who is also city SAD president, said, “He is an outsider in our ward. He lives in Sector 29. If he is elected, people will have to go there for even small works such as getting his signature.” Replying to him, Shakti, said, “How small Chandigarh is? And according to his analogy, other than him, everyone is outsider in his ward. We do not believe in ‘insider’ and ‘outsider’ talks. We will talk on development and vision of Prime Minster Narendra Modi.”The BJP leader also criticised his party’s ex-alliance leader. “For the past 15 years, his (Hardeep) family has been ruling in this ward. People say he is unapproachable and no development has happened during his tenure. We will ensure all works are carried out.” Shakti, who is the sitting councillor from another ward (Sector 29, Industrial Area-I), which has been reserved for a woman candidate now, has been fielded from ward number 30 (Sectors 41, Badheri and Buterla) by the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/friends-turn-rivals-on-civic-body-poll-pitch-347741
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||South Africa returnee not infected with Omicron variant||The 39-year-old returnee from South Africa is not infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus, reveals his whole genome sequencing report this evening.The Sector 36 resident returned from South Africa on November 21 and was quarantined at home on his arrival. He was RT-PCR negative on arrival. However, he was again tested for Covid after eight days as per the protocol and the report came positive. His positive sample was sent to the NCDC, New Delhi, for whole genome sequencing (WGS). The variant of concern detected in the sample sent for WGS is Delta (B.1.617.2). His wife and son had also tested positive for Covid-19 and are currently under isolation at the GMCH- 32. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sa-returnee-not-infected-with-omicron-variant-347742
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 8 Covid-19 cases||1 death, 7 fresh cases in MohaliMohali: One person died of Covid-19 while seven new cases were reported in the district on Tuesday. The deceased is a 52-year-old woman of Adarsh Nagar who died at the PGI on December 4. She was a housewife and suffering from comorbidities like highpertension and diabetes. One patient has recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, three are from Kharar, and two each from Dhakoli and Mohali. The active cases in the district are 55. The toll has reached 1,073. — TNSOne new case in PanchkulaPanchkula: Panchkula reported one fresh coronavirus case, taking the overall tally to 30,844. The toll, however, remains at 379. While 30,450 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 15 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-8-cases-347743
08-12-2021||---||Jaguar driver performs stunt near Chandigarh club, held||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7The police arrested a resident of Sector 18, Samyak Kapoor (19) for rash driving and endangering human lives while reportedly performing stunts near Pipe and Barrel Club in Sector 9 on Sunday.A case under Sections 279 and 336 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. The complainant, constable Parveen Kumar, reported that around 9 pm on December 5, he was on patrol duty in Sector 9. A luxury car (Jaguar) came in the parking area and the driver started driving rashly and performing stunts. When he signalled the driver to stop the car, he sped away.The driver was apprehended by Parveen yesterday. The youth was arrested and granted bail later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jaguar-driver-performs-stunt-near-club-held-347744
08-12-2021||---||Four injured in Chandigarh car crash||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7A speeding luxury car bedecked with flowers for a marriage hit the railing of the road separating Sector 52 and 53 and went on to damaging three cars and an auto on the other side of the road this morning.The driver and the co-passenger on the front seat suffered injuries and were rushed to a private hospital. Two more occupants of the car, both women, were also injured in the accident. The police are investigating the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-injured-in-car-crash-347745
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bicycle thief flees from Chandigarh police custody||A 27-year-old resident of Balongi, who was involved in several thefts of high-end bicycles, fled from police custody here today. The suspect, Divesh Gupta, was arrested under Sections 379, 411 of the IPC at the Sector 39 police station on Sunday.He was produced before the court yesterday and was remanded in one-day police custody. Erring police officials are being identified and strict action will be taken against them, police officials said. Teams have been despatched to nab the accused. A fresh case under Sections 223, 224 of the IPC has been registered. The accused was nabbed with 13 high-end bicycles which he had stolen from houses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bicycle-thief-flees-from-police-custody-347746
08-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula MC councillors, officials to go on study tour to Indore, Bhopal||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 7After its ranking slipped to 99th in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation has decided to send its councillors and officials to Indore and Bhopal to study their ways of solid waste management as both cities in Madhya Pradesh have successfully attained top spots in the Central Government’s annual cleanliness survey for the past few years.‘Learn and emulate’Councillors and MC officials should learn how these cities have successfully managed to secure top positions in the Swachh Survekshan year after year, so that the same can be implemented in Panchkula and our ranking gets better from the next year. — Gian Chand Gupta, Haryana speaker & Panchkula MLAIndore was adjudged the cleanest city in the latest cleanliness survey report for the fifth year in a row, while Bhopal secured seventh position.At a workshop organised by the civic body on solid waste management at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta mooted the idea so that councillors and officials can study the “good practices of waste management being followed in the cleanest cities”.“Councillors and MC officials should learn how these cities have successfully managed to secure top positions in the Swachh Survekshan year after year, so that the same can be implemented in Panchkula and our ranking gets better from the next year,” Gupta told Chandigarh Tribune over the phone.The initiative of cleanliness should begin from every house, he added while seeking cooperation from locals.MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh said they had been contemplating the suggestion forwarded by the Speaker and would finalise it soon. “With a new action plan, I can assure that we will improve our ranking in the cleanliness survey next year,” he said.Meanwhile, the civic body has urged all 20 councillors to further aware citizens in their respective areas on proper disposal of solid waste and plastic to make Panchkula a clean and green city.The event on the solid waste management also saw the participation of representatives of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs).In the Swachh Survekshan 2021 report released last month by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Panchkula slipped to 99th rank in the category of one to 10 lakh population. The city had attained 81st rank last year.After witnessing an improvement for three straight years, the city’s cleanliness rankings have been on the downslide for the past two years. From a ranking of 211 in 2017, the city rose to the 142nd rank in 2018 and further advanced to the 71st position the following year.Local residents and Opposition councillors have blamed inefficient door-to-door garbage collection and the absence of a solid waste management plant at the Jhuriwala dumping ground for the city’s fall in the annual Swachh rankings. Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, on the other hand, has assured action on these issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-councillors-officials-to-go-on-study-tour-to-indore-bhopal-347747
08-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh mulls simplification of Estate Policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7To give a major relief to residents, the UT Administration is considering simplifying the Estate Policy. Important issues taken up at meetDuring a meeting held under the chairmanship of UT Adviser Dharam Pal here on Tuesday, important issues such as conversion of leasehold to freehold properties in case of commercial and industrial plots, review of fee for additional FAR to educational, social, religious and cultural institutions, renewal of lease of LPG godown and petrol pump sites, misuse/building violation charges, etc., were discussed.During a meeting held under the chairmanship of UT Adviser Dharam Pal here today, important issues such as conversion of leasehold to freehold properties in case of commercial and industrial plots, review of fee for additional FAR to educational, social, religious and cultural institutions, renewal of lease of LPG godown and petrol pump sites, misuse/building violation charges, etc., were discussed.The Adviser stressed on resolving the issues pending at the level of the Chandigarh Administration at the earliest and further directed to follow up with the Ministry of Home Affairs regarding the issues pending with the Ministry.The UT Adviser said the Estate Policy was under review and they were working on simplification of the entire processes to make it more transparent and easy to implement.“In the due course of time, a committee can be set up to look into the challenges being faced at the Estate Office,” he said, adding added that on the basis of recommendation of the committee, they would deliberate and simplify the processes.Recently, the UT Administration had even conducted a survey in the Industrial Area for checking leasehold plots. The Administration had set up phases I and II of the Industrial Area during the 1970s on an area measuring 147 acres. The plots are governed by zoning and architectural control, prepared as per the conditions, prevailing at that time. There are 1,884 plots in both phases, of which 700 are of one kanal and above, and 443 and 180 plots measuring 10 and 15 marlas, respectively. There are 381 plots of five marlas. If the MHA allowed conversion of plots, it will have an impact on around 1,200 units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-mulls-simplification-of-estate-policy-347748
08-12-2021||---||19-year-old strangled, husband in Mohali police net||Mohali, December 7The police today arrested a resident of Balmiki Colony, Phase-6, Deepu, for allegedly strangling his 19-year-old wife to death at their house on the night of Sunday.The deceased, identified as Babli Devi, a native of UP, had married the suspect seven months ago. The police have registered a case of dowry death (Section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code).After killing his wife, the suspect took her to the hospital, claiming that she had fainted all of a sudden and died. The post-mortem report confirmed the death by strangulation, following which he was arrested.In his complaint to the police, the deceased’s father alleged that Deepu used to torture his wife, beat her up and demand more dowry. On Sunday night, the couple had arguments following which he strangled Babli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-year-old-strangled-husband-in-police-net-347749
08-12-2021||---||Rs 9-crore bank fraud: CBI court frames charges against 5 accused in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Inderjeet Singh, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Chandigarh, has framed charges against five accused in an alleged Rs9-crore fraud case with Canara Bank.The charges have been framed against Vikas Walia, Vernika Walia, Anil Kumar, Ashwani Kumar and Ved Parkash Gupta for the commission of offence punishable under Section 120-B read with Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.Meanwhile, the CBI court has deferred the hearing in the case for December 10 for framing of charges against the remaining accused - Vishal Mehta, Madhu Verma and Shobhit Verma.The CBI had registered an FIR on the basis of a complaint filed by the General Manager, Canara Bank, Chandigarh, on December 27, 2018, in the alleged fraud case.It was alleged in the chargesheet that Vikas Walia and Vernika Walia approached Canara Bank for loan facility concealing facts. The bank considered the request and sanctioned cash credit limit facility to the extent of Rs15 crore in 2014.During investigation, the CBI found that the accused had misused the loan amount disbursing its 50 per cent among sister companies. It was alleged their only intention was to defraud the bank and misappropriate the funds. The accused did not use the credit facility for business-related purposes. The facility was misused by them for transferring the amount into their own sister concern.The CBI alleged that the act of defrauding was done by them at the time of availing of credit facility allegedly in connivance of the valuer, who managed to show the inflated valuation of the properties offered as collateral security to the complainant bank.While opposing the discharge applications of the two accused, Narender Singh, public prosecutor of the CBI, argued that the documentary evidence reflects that the beneficiary accounts were opened by these accused. A huge amount was transferred into the accounts opened by the accused from the account opened by accused Vikas Walia. These facts reflect the criminal conspiracy of the accused to cheat the bank.The court said at this stage of framing of charges it was only required to take into consideration whether a prima facie case was made out or not on the basis of the material produced before the court by the prosecution/ investigating agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-frames-charges-against-5-accused-347750
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Focus on issues related to Chandigarh : Congress coordinator||Rajendra Rana, Congress coordinator for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections, asked 35 candidates to focus more on issues related to city rather than criticism only.He gave tips to the candidates to give impetus to his campaign with full vigour at the Sector 35 party office today. Abhishek Dutt, second election coordinator, Congress president Subhash Chawla and others were also present. Poll strategy was also finalised in the meeting. Both election coordinators also gave victory mantras to the candidates.In the meeting, Rana said during the tenure of the BJP, Chandigarh had slipped from the first three places to 66th place in the cleanliness rankings, which was a matter of concern. “Increasing prices of petrol, diesel and LPG are taking a toll on the common man. During the BJP rule, house tax, electricity bill, water bill and other taxes were continuously increased,” he said.Cong candidate meets former Haryana CMCongress candidate from Ward No. 2 Harmohinder Singh Lucky on Tuesday met former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Hooda and sought his blessings and support. Hooda assured Lucky of his support and promised to campaign for the party in the MC elections. He said the BJP had failed everywhere, be it Chandigarh or Haryana. Hooda appealed to city voters to defeat the BJP in the forthcoming elections. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/focus-on-issues-related-to-city-cong-coordinator-347751
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sameer swims to glory in 50m butterfly stroke event||Sameer Sejwal claimed first position in the men’s 50m butterfly stroke event on the opening day of the Panjab University Inter-College Swimming Championship. Param Raj finished second and Anurag Dager claimed third position.In the women’s event, Bhavjot Kaur, Deepati Attri and Pallavi claimed top three positions, respectively.In the men’s 50m breaststroke event, Ansh Arora, Param Raj and Siddhant Sejwal claimed top three positions, respectively. Riya, Jasmeet Kaur and Pallavi won the first three positions in the women’s event, respectively. Anmol Jindal claimed men’s 1,500m freestyle gold, followed by Suryansh at second and Aadil Saluja at the third spot. Riya claimed women’s 100m breaststroke event. Jasmeet won silver medal and Nishita claimed third position.In the men’s 100m freestyle event, Anurag Dagar, Siddhant and Sameer claimed first three positions, respectively. Pallavi claimed the top honours in the women’s event, followed by Bhavjot Kaur and Deepati Attri.Siddhant Sejwal won another gold medal by winning the men’s 100m backstroke event, followed by Anurag Dager and Param Raj.In the women’s category, Jasmeet Kaur, Leeza Phogat and Bhavjot Kaur claimed the top three positions, respectively. Anurag won another gold medal in the men’s 50m freestyle event. Siddhant claimed second position and Sameer finished third. Jasmeet Kaur, Bhavjot Kaur and Deepali claimed top three positions, respectively. Siddhant won gold medal in the men’s 200m butterfly stroke event. Sameer and Param claimed second and third position, respectively. Pallavi, Bhavjot and Sudrishti claimed first three positions, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sameer-swims-to-glory-in-50m-butterfly-stroke-event-347752
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP candidates intensify campaign, open offices||After the scrutiny of nomination papers, BJP candidates today intensified their campaigning and opened offices in different wards of the city.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma campaigned by holding a series of nukkad meetings in Sector 22, while Prince Bandula from Ward No. 13 started his campaign by cleaning green belts and roadsides with the supporters in his ward. Ravinder Rawat from Ward No. 27 went door to door seeking votes.Meanwhile, unit president Arun Sood inaugurated the election office of Bharat Kumar from Ward No. 31 in Kajheri village. Former BJP state president Sanjay Tandon inaugurated the office of Sunita Dhawan from Ward No. 18 and sought votes for party candidate Kuljit Singh Sandhu from Ward No. 14 in Dhanas. Similarly, BJP candidates Davesh Moudgil and Ravinder Pathania from Ward Nos. 21 and 29, respectively, also started their election campaign today.BJP to hold ‘dham’ to woo HP natives in cityChandigarh: To woo Himachal Pradesh natives registered as voters in Chandigarh, the city BJP will organise a ‘dham’, a traditional feast, and invite popular singer Karnail Rana on December 10 at the Sector 25 rally ground. Union Minister and Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur will be the chief guest. He is also expected to address a rally. It will be the first big event of the BJP ahead of the Chandigarh MC elections. BJP leaders said nearly 15 per cent of the population in Chandigarh belongs to the Himachali community and could prove to be a game changer in some wards. BJP spokesperson Kailash Chand Jain said in the series of events, a cultural evening blended with traditional dham would be organised by the BJP’s Himachal Cell. Karnail Rana, famous folk singer of Himachal Pradesh, would also perform. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-candidates-intensify-campaign-open-offices-347753
08-12-2021||---||Punjab Governor urges people to follow legacy of Guru Teg Bahadur||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit exhorted people to follow the ideals of secularism, humanism, compassion, tolerance and the spirit of self-sacrifice as preached and practiced by Hindi-Ki-Chadar, Guru Teg Bahadur.Paying tributes to the ninth Guru on the eve of his martyrdom day, the Punjab Governor, in a message, said Guru Teg Bahadur undertook the supreme sacrifice for the protection of the most fundamental of human rights. His Shaheedi Diwas was a solemn occasion to perpetuate the ethos of peace, harmony and national integration as propagated by Guru Teg Bahadur.Purohit said: “Guru Teg Bahadur’s saga of supreme sacrifice is not only unique but also unparalleled in the history of mankind that symbolised the crusade against tyranny and oppression”.The Governor said: “Let us observe this day with fervour, rededicate ourselves to serve society and let us stand up for ourselves and mankind and spread the message of peace and universal brotherhood. This will be a real homage to Guru Teg Bahadur”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guv-urges-people-to-follow-legacy-of-guru-teg-bahadur-347754
08-12-2021||---||Two mechanics held for stealing car silencers in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 7The police have arrested two members of a gang of thieves involved in theft of silencers of cars, at a naka in Sector 23 here. The police also recovered a silencer and a stolen scooter from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Amit Sharma and pillion rider Amir Khan, both residents of Daria. They were carrying a car silencer with them. During interrogation, it was found that they stole the silencer of an ECO car from the Sector 22 market on December 5.A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. The suspects, who are working as mechanics at the Mani Majra motor market, are also habitual of intoxicants, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-mechanics-held-for-stealing-car-silencers-347755
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested with drugs in Chandigarh||Three cellphones stolen from Sector 9 shopChandigarh: Sahashi Vardhan, a resident of Khanna Road, alleged that Sanjeev Khanna, a resident of Mundi Kharar, stole three mobile phones from his shop in Sector 9 here on Monday. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. TNSBag stolen from car in Sec 26Chandigarh: A Sector 33 resident reported that an unknown person stole two bags containing cash, cards, keys and jewellery after breaking open one of the window glasses of her car parked opposite Mahatma Gandhi Institute, Sector 26, here, on Monday. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. TNSThree cheating cases reported in cityChandigarh: An unknown person duped a Sector 11 resident of Rs1,09,600 by sending a link on his mobile phone through an online transaction. A case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered. In another case, an unknown person cheated a Sector 21 resident of Rs13,31,700 on the pretext of sending her gifts through parcel on November 3. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered. In yet another case, an unknown person cheated a Sector 20 resident of Rs16,171 through QR code on an e-commerce portal. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120B of the IPC has been registered. TNS1 arrested for bid to snatch mobile phoneChandigarh: The police arrested Virender, alias Golu, a resident of Sector 28, while snatching a mobile phone from a girl near a park in Sector 26 on Monday. A case under Sections 379A and 511 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. TNSFive arrested for firing outside clubChandigarh: Virender Singh and four unknown persons manhandled Tamzara Club members in the Industrial Area here and fired gunshots on the night of December 5. Later, the suspects – Virender (36), a resident of Sector 7, Panchkula; Virender Mahrishi (33) and Rajat Sukuja (23), residents of Ambala; Jai Deep Rana (24), a resident of Yamunanagar; and Aman Rana (23), a resident of Ambala, were arrested. On a complaint of Tamzara Club assistant manager Pinkal, a case under Sections 307, 336, 323, 147, 148, 149 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-with-drugs-in-city-347756
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress scared of AAP's 'broom' symbol: Jarnail Singh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-scared-of-aaps-broom-symbol-jarnail-347757
08-12-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Truckers continue stir on Day 2||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truckers-continue-stir-on-day-2-in-zirakpur-347758
08-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Volleyball body dedicates Chandigarh meet to Nirmal Milkha Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7The Chandigarh Volleyball Association (CVA) has decided to dedicate the upcoming state junior volleyball championships to late Nirmal Milkha Singh, former captain of Indian volleyball team and wife of former India sprinter late Milkha Singh.}Nirmal was one of the prominent personalities of the city and was very supportive for the development of infrastructure here. It has been unanimously decided to honour her contributions by naming a trophy after her. —  Shashi Bala Sharma, President, Chandigarh Volleyball AssnThe championships for the Nirmal Milkha Singh Trophy will be conducted from December 11 to 12 and the matches will be played under floodlights.The championship will be conducted at the Sector 26 Police Lines volleyball courts, which were built under her supervision, when she was the Director, UT Sports Department (1988-93).Nirmal, who captained the Indian Volleyball team in 1956, had remained two-time president of the CVA and was also its patron-in-chief for nearly 25 years. Under her patronage, the association has conducted junior national championships thrice (1986, 2014 and 2019). Nirmal Milkha Singh died of Covid in June this year.“The CVA will dedicate the state junior volleyball championships (girls and boys) to Nirmal Milkha Singh. It will be an annual feature of our association in her memory. She is remembered as an architect of sports infrastructure in the city,” said Vijaypal Singh, vice-president, Volleyball Federation of India, executive vice-president, CVA, and competition manager, Khelo India Volleyball Games, 2021.Players born on or after January 1, 2003, will be eligible to participate in the championship. The organisers will also shortlist team to represent the city in the upcoming 47th Junior National Volleyball Championship to be held in Burdwan (West Bengal) from December 24 to 30, said CVA president Shashi Bala Sharma.Chandigarh’s first Joint Director, Sports, Nirmal had joined the department in September 1984 when it had come into being and became the Director, Sports, in August 1988. She remained on the post till 1993. During her tenure, the department laid the foundation stone of the Sector 42 Sports Complex and built many other sports facilities in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/volleyball-body-dedicates-ut-meet-to-nirmal-milkha-singh-347759
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Taking care of martyrs' families a collective responsibility: Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit||Deputy Commissioner-cum-President, Zila Sainik Welfare, UT, Vinay Pratap Singh and Brig Satinder Singh (retd), Director, Sainik Welfare Punjab, pinned a flag to Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit’s jacket on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day here today.Donating generously to the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, the Administrator said, “Looking after the welfare of martyrs’ families is a collective responsibility. It is our onerous duty to extend all possible support to rehabilitate the martyrs’ families and the brave soldiers who were disabled during various wars or other operations.”The Administrator said, “Our Armed Forces have been serving the nation with great distinction both during war and peace. Our Armed Forces have ensured the protection of our territorial integrity, fought the scourge of terrorism and provided succour to fellow citizens in the times of natural calamities. They will always remain the pride of the nation.”Purohit also appreciated ex-servicemen for voluntarily helping the civil administration in fight against Covid-19.Contributing Rs 2 lakh to the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, he called upon all citizens to voluntarily extend liberal donations for rehabilitation of war widows, disabled defence personnel, ex-servicemen and their families. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/taking-care-of-martyrs-families-a-collective-responsibility-purohit-347760
08-12-2021||---||Parmarth Kaushik stuns top seed Satvik Singla, reaches final||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7Fourth seeded Parmarth Kaushik of the city stunned top seed Satvik Singla 9-3 to march into the boys’ U-16 final of the ongoing CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament here today. Parmarth will face third seed Punjab’s Arpit Garg, who defeated Sumukh Marya 9-4, in the title clash.In quarterfinals, Parmarth had defeated Prabhav Sibbal 9-3 while Singla outplayed Aditya Bhatnagar 9-3, Garg defeated Karen Singh 9-7 and Marya ousted Devanshu Parajuli 9-5.In the girls’ U-16 semifinals, top seed Vanya Arora of Haryana outplayed Punjab’s Sidak Kaur 9-0 and third seed Radha Sadhra of Himachal Pradesh defeated Punjab’s Kritika Sharma 9-0.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parmarth-stuns-top-seed-satvik-reaches-final-347761
08-12-2021||---||Local shuttler Varun wins silver in Spain||Chandigarh, December 7In another major achievement for the city, local shuttler Varun Sharma won doubles silver medal at the Senior Masters World Championships, held in Spain from November 28 to December 4.Varun paired with Raghvan of Andhra Pradesh to claim the second position in the 35 years category. The Indian pair lost to Boonsak Ponsana and Jakrapan Thanathirat of Thailand 21-12 21-12.In the semifinals, the Indian pair ousted Taipei’s Chao Chun Ken and Tsai Ming Hsin 21-19 21-19.Surinder Mahajan, general secretary, Chandigarh Badminton Association, and Rajinder, general secretary, Himachal Pradesh Badminton Association, accompanied the Indian squad.The Indian contingent bagged one gold medal, three silver medals and five bronze medals at the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/local-shuttler-varun-wins-silver-in-spain-347762
08-12-2021||---||Visual delight, but for how long?||Lt-Gen Baljit Singh (retd)“Visual delight” was an understated caption to a photograph carried by Chandigarh Tribune on November 16. That feisty colour photograph, one of its kind, had a parent spot-billed duck proudly putting out on display to the world at large its progeny, not in twins or triplets or quadruplets, but a dazzling, colourful dozen!As the name implies, the most defining feature of the adult bird is its sturdy long, spatula-shaped bill tipped in polished mustard colour in sharp contrast against the larger part in coal-tar black. And in the case of the male of the species alone, where the beak joins the forehead, there are two conspicuous orange-red, swollen (pimple-like) spots alluding to their spot-billed christening! The female has a single oval-shaped smudge, in faded orange tone instead.Their plumage further enhances the overall colour scheme with a broad, green stripe over a snow white patch short of the wing-tips, whereas legs and webbed feet come in soft, coral-red shade!Not to be outmatched, the adorable ducklings steel hearts with pink beaks, offset by bright yellow heads, necks and breasts and a long mascara black eye-stripe. However, as they grow, the yellow plumage changes into sober greyish-white on head and neck, black-spotted breast and reddish-brown above for ease of merging with the aquatic vegetation in their living habitat and survival against predation. But the magic of growth to adulthood lies in the single-toned pink beak transforming into dual colours — mustard and black — and topped, of course, with their signature twin spots.No matter how diligently the parent strives to shield the perky dozen from nature’s law of ‘tooth and claw’, but raptors will make merry and ultimately only a few will attain adulthood. Occasionally, when a victim may get away but be injured in the struggle, nature has equipped this species with a genetic ability to go under water for recuperation by anchoring around the roots of any aquatic plant but keeping the tip of the beak outside for breathing.Admittedly, the spot-bills are not a novelty on the Sukhna Lake waters but 12 ducklings in tow are certainly a rarity. They breed twice in the year with an average clutch of seven eggs, but on occasions, even a clutch of 12 is not unusual. The female knows when the last egg is laid and, at once, sits to incubate for the next 24 days, flat. The male watches over her, and once the eggs are hatched, he minds the chicks and teaches them the ways of their world.Old residents of Chandigarh may remember the late Mr Sharma of the UT’s Health Department, who from a mini water body, downstream of the Sukhna (now developed and inaugurated with much fanfare as the Bird Park), had photographed a spot-bill with her brood but of just two ducklings! That was around 2002, and one of those perky chicks in that endearing image was caught riding piggyback!Ducks have a fair presence of 32 species among our rich bird life, though only 10 (including spot-bills) are in the permanently residing and breeding category. Regrettably, the pink-headed prima donna resident was lost to extinction way back in 1935. The extinction is forever.The remaining 22 species have all-time visas to India and pandemics or other calamities notwithstanding, they never default on their annual visits. However, the numbers do vary from year to year as at least seven of the 22 are in the vagrant class who, as their category suggests, are prone to wandering into wrong migratory flyways and often miss out destination India.How much longer will we enjoy such “visual delights” is a moot point as we seem determined on reckless “development” sans any concerns for the well-being of our natural world. Would the architects of that development paradigm for once listen to what a poet had pleaded:“What would the worldbe once bereft,Of wet & wilderness?Let them be left.O, let them be left,wilderness & wet,Long live the weeds & the wilderness yet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/visual-delight-but-for-how-long-347763
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh District Courts lawyers suspend work||SGGS-26 win football meetChandigarh: Sri Guru Gobind Singh College (SGGS), Sector 26, registered a 3-1 win over Government College, Sector 50, in the ongoing Panjab University Inter-College Football Championship. Panjab University Campus defeated Rayat College, Rail Majra, 4-0, and the hosts GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, also recorded a 4-0 win over GN College, Muktsar. TNSGGDSD-32 enter table tennis finalChandigarh: GGDSD College, Sector 32, registered a 3-0 win over Government College of Commerce to make it to the final of the Panjab University Inter-College Table Tennis Championship (men). Panjab University Campus won the second semis by defeating DAV College, Sector 10, (3-2). In the women’s semis, GGDSD College defeated AS College, Khanna, (3-0) and Panjab University Campus ousted Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, (3-0). TNSSGGS, Mahilpur, volleyball champChandigarh: Sri Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College, Mahilpur, won the Panjab University Inter-College Volleyball (Men) Championship for session 2021-22. SCD Government College, Ludhiana, and Panjab University Campus claimed second and third positions, respectively. TNSSGGS College win judo c’shipChandigarh: SGGS College, Sector 26, won the Panjab University Inter-College Judo (Men) Championship for session 2021-22 by scoring 29.5 points. Panjab University Campus with 12.5 points and DAV College, Hoshiarpur, with 11 points claimed second and third positions, respectively. TNSPunjab trail by 130 runsChandigarh: Sharandeep Singh scored a brilliant ton to save Jharkhand’s day against Punjab in the ongoing Cooch Behar Trophy at Azam Campus, Pune. Resuming from their overnight total of 90 runs, Jharkhand went on to score 293 runs in 111.5 overs. Sharandeep scored unbeaten 161 off 325 balls, studded with 20 boundaries. He was ably supported by Sikhar Mohan (57). Ashish was the pick of the bowlers as he claimed 7/94, while Harshdeep took 2/65 for the bowling side. In their second innings, Punjab lads were 17/1 in 6 overs at the draw of stumps. Sahil Raj claimed one wicket for the bowling side. Punjab now trail by 130 runs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dist-courts-lawyers-suspend-work-347764
08-12-2021||---||Chandigarh to reinstate 178 NHM employees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 7The UT Health Department finally decided to withdraw the termination of 178 contractual appointments under the National Health Mission (NHM) during a meeting here today.What Admn saysThe representatives of the NHM staff, whose contractual appointments were terminated about a month ago by the Health Department, met the UT Adviser today.The employees requested that the orders for termination of contractual appointments might be withdrawn and the staff be allowed to join their duties at the earliest. Their contractual employment may be counted without any break in service and the intervening period of absence may be regularised with leave without pay.The employees assured that they would like to continue as contractual employees under the NHM and do not opt for the option of outsourced employees on DC rates. They have demanded that in case the salary under the NHM can’t be equal to the DC rates because of the difference in working hours, leaves and other service conditions, then the appropriate revision of salary under the NHM may please be considered sympathetically.After detailed deliberations, the UT Health Secretary decided that each of the terminated employee will submit a request in writing accepting the mistake and giving assurance of better conduct in future. They will voluntary and unconditionally withdraw the pending court case on the issue and submit a copy of the withdrawal petition. The Health Secretary further clarified that the salary under the NHM couldn’t be equal to the DC rates because of the lesser working hours, better leave and other service conditions. However, the possibility for appropriate revision of the salary under the NHM may be examined separately with due consideration to the working hours, leaves and other service conditions.On October 30, the UT Administration terminated the services of 178 contractual employees working under the NHM for holding a strike while the city was reeling under dengue and Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-to-reinstate-178-nhm-employees-347738
08-12-2021||Chandigarh||Public Holiday in Chandigarh today on account of martyrdom day of Guru Teg Bahadur||SCHOOLS TO REMAIN CLOSED, CBSE EXAMS WILL BE HELD AS PER SCHEDULE||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/public-holiday-in-chandigarh-today-347739
08-12-2021||---||Chandigarh resident South Africa-returnee not infected with Omicron variant of Covid-19||Chandigarh, December 7The 39-year-old returnee from South Africa has not been detected for Omicron variant of Covid-19, the results of which came on Tuesday evening.The Sector 36 resident had returned from South Africa on November 21 and was quarantined at home on his arrival at Chandigarh. He was RT-PCR negative on arrival. However, he was again tested for Covid as per the protocol and turned positive.His positive sample was sent to NCDC, New Delhi for Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS). The variant of concern detected is Delta (B.1.617.2) in the recent sample sent to the NCDC.Meanwhile, his wife and son had also tested for Covid-19 and currently under isolation at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. As per the authorities, the family will be sent back home tomorrow after again being tested for covid. The condition of all three members is stable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-resident-south-africa-returnee-not-infected-with-omicron-variant-of-covid-19-347518
