09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's Covid deaths reach 1,076||The number of Covid-19 deaths among Chandigarh residents has increased to 1,076 as per the reconciled data from the existing 820, the administration said on Thursday.Earlier, the administration had recorded 820 deaths. It said the data of the 256 more deaths is being added on the portal of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Also, the detail of these 256 deaths is being shared with the State Disaster Management Authority to consider a total of 1,076 cases for release of ex-gratia of Rs 50,000 to the next of kin of the deceased in accordance with the guidelines of the government of India.The administration said in a statement that efforts are being made to further reconcile 103 deaths by getting documents and connecting with the respective families.As per the existing instructions, the death occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as Covid-19 case is treated as a death due to the coronavirus, even if death takes place outside the hospital or in-patient facility.However, a Covid-19 case, while admitted to the hospital or in-patient facility, and who continued as the same admission beyond 30 days, and died subsequently will also be treated as Covid-19 death.The instructions say deaths occurring due to poisoning, suicide, homicide and accident are not considered as Covid-19 deaths even if the disease is an accompanying condition.In the past, an exercise was undertaken by the Health Department to reconcile the figure of Covid-19 deaths with the record maintained at the cremation ground.During the process of reconciliation, it was observed that there was a mismatch of 359 deaths.On further investigation from records of hospitals and details or documents collected from the family members of the deceased persons it was observed that 256 deaths were recorded at the cremation ground were the deaths due to Covid-19 in accordance with the existing guidelines.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-covid-deaths-reach-1-076-348253
09-12-2021||Rabbi Shergill was in Chandigarh to launch a book||Rabbi Shergill, in Chandigarh for a book launch, says Punjab's literature and history is very rich||Rabbi, who is planning to write a book (in Punjabi as well as English) adds, “Any creative thing has two aspects — art and the craft. If art comes from within, it is the craft that you control through hard work, constant learning and practice. As I have written my songs, I also have sung Heer or Bulleh Shah and credit the original writers. So, it is not necessary to always come with completely fresh topics. Subjects are usually the same; it’s your sensibility and observation that give it shape.”Changing timesRabbi’s first album was Rabbi in 2005 and he credits KJ Singh, the producer of the album, “He knew poetry, so gave my words and music a chance.” About the current Punjabi music scene, “I am not clued in to everything. But, I like Motia Chameli by Satinder Sartaaj and also a singer named Bir Singh.” The independent musician adds, “While earlier musicians had just one or two platforms, now it has all changed, which has helped young talent.” — Sheetal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/rabbi-shergill-in-chandigarh-for-a-book-launch-says-punjabs-literature-and-history-is-very-rich-348216
09-12-2021||Author and columnist Vani Kaushal added yet another feather to her cap by launching her latest novel||Chandigarh-based VaniKaushal launches her latest novel, Seconds Later||Talking about her novel, Vani says she has explored the flip side of fame through this book. Though it is a romantic tale, the story has elements of thrill in it.“It’s a story that many of my readers will be able to relate to, especially women. The drama pans out across different continents, which is why I think it would also appeal to an international audience,” she added.Vani is a Chandigarh-based author and has two other books to her credit. She made a foray into non-fiction genre with her book, Flowers Forever. Her first book, The Recession Groom, was a rom-com.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/chandigarh-based-vanikaushal-launches-her-latest-novel-seconds-later-348222
09-12-2021||---||14 'incident commanders' for Panchkula district||Panchkula, December 8Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik has appointed 14 incident commanders in the district in view of the growing concern for the omicron variant of coronavirus.These 14 officers will ensure the compliance of Covid guidelines issued by the government. They have also been authorised to issue challans to those without face mask in public places.Each officer will be assisted by one policeman.Amid Omicron scare, the district has been ramping up measures to deal with any rise in the number of cases.From increasing sampling, vaccine coverage to ensure compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, the Health Department has taken many steps amid the Omicron scare.Meanwhile, the number of foreign returnees has also gone up. So far, 578 such people have entered the district. Of them, 452 have been successfully traced . — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-incident-commanders-for-panchkula-district-348011
09-12-2021||Mohali||Mohali students win medals in shikara race at Dal Lake in Srinagar||Mohammed Yaqoob Bhat claimed first position in a shikara race organised by the Aryans Group of Colleges at Dal Lake in Srinagar today.Mohammed Altaf Sheikh claimed second position and Abdul Razak Sheikh bagged third position in the event. All top three finishers are students of Aryans College.The event was addressed virtually by Dr Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, Secretary, Tribal Affairs Department, Jammu & Kashmir; and Mohammad Aijaz Asad, Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar.Dr Anshu Kataria, chairman, Aryans Group of Colleges, awarded the winners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-students-win-medals-in-shikara-race-348012
09-12-2021||---||Panjab University: Terminated senator writes to Chancellor||Chandigarh, December 8Days after his election to Panjab University (PU) Senate was declared ineligible by the Vice-Chancellor, Tarun Ghai has written to the Vice-President of India and Chancellor, PU, to not notify the results of the senate membership from the teachers’ constituency until a final decision regarding his issue is taken.“In my representation, I have raised that the PU VC has taken unconstitutional decision (Ref section 38, volume1, Panjab University Calendar). This section 38 still makes it clear that the decision taken by the PU VC is not in his jurisdiction and beyond his purview. Ipso facto, I am very much an elected representative from the college teachers’ constituency,” claimed Ghai.“As per section 38, volume 1 of the PU calendar, if there is a dispute regarding the elected person of any authority or any other body of PU, the same falls in the jurisdiction of the PU Chancellor,” he added..On November 29, Ghai had appealed for an independent probe into this case. Last month, PU VC had issue orders mentioning that Ghai’s services were terminated in June by SPN College, Mukerian, where he was an assistant professor, and is not a teacher in any college. He was elected from the constituency of teachers of affiliated colleges. However, he was not reinstated by the college management even after PU’s directions to revoke his termination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/terminated-senator-writes-to-chancellor-348013
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Remand for cell phone thief||Court today sent Rajesh Bansal, alias Johny, to five-day police remand in a case pertaining to the theft of five mobile phones from the office of the Punjab Lok Congress in Sector 9. Another suspect, Sahil, a shop owner who used to buy stolen mobile phones from the prime suspect, has been sent to three-day police remand. Sanjeev Khanna is already in police remand till December 10.The police nabbed three members of a gang involved in the theft of five mobiles at the launch of Capt Amarinder Singh’s new party office in Sector 9 on Monday. The suspects have been identified as Rajesh and Sahil of Ludhiana, and Sanjeev Khanna of Mundi Kharar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remand-for-cell-phone-thief-348014
09-12-2021||Mohali||Helicopter taxi service from Chandigarh to Himachal Pradesh extended||Passengers can now fly to Mandi, Kullu and Rampur via Shimla from Chandigarh. The Chandigarh-Shimla route is already connected by the helicopter taxi service under UDAN-II.The heli taxi service will take around 30 minutes to reach Shimla. After a 25-minute stop there, it will proceed to Mandi, where it will halt for 15 minutes. Thereafter, it will proceed to Kullu. On the way back to Shimla, it will touch Rampur.The service from Chandigarh to Shimla-Mandi-Dharamsala and Rampur will operate on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Pawan Hans is operating the Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS) helicopter service in Himachal Pradesh from Chandigarh Airport. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/helicopter-taxi-service-to-hp-extended-348015
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Vishwa Pratap Singh, Nehal Wadhera hit tons for Punjab||Punjab defeated Karnataka by 50 runs to reach the final of the Men U-25 Inter-State Trophy at Alur Cricket Stadium, Bangalore.Batting first, Punjab lads posted 317/8 in 50 overs. Vishwa Pratap Singh scored 120 off 128 balls, with 10 boundaries and five sixes, while Nehal Wadhera posted 106 off 94 balls, with 11 boundaries and two sixes.Nishchit N Rao (2/58) and Shubhang Hegde (2/72) shared wickets for the bowling side. In reply, Karnataka scored 267 runs before losing all their wickets in 47.1 overs. Shubhang Hegde (50 off 46 balls with six boundaries) and Aneesh KV (43 off 64 balls, with four boundaries) were the main scorers for Karnataka. Naman Dhir claimed three wickets, while Abhinav Sharma and Paras Jaidka took two each for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vishwa-pratap-singh-nehal-wadhera-hit-tons-for-punjab-348016
09-12-2021||Mohali||Champions Academy log win in U-23 cricket||Champions Cricket Academy, Kharar, defeated YJR Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, by 92 runs in the ongoing 3rd North Zone Panna Lal Memorial U-23 Cricket Tournament.Batting first, the Kharar outfit posted 267/7 in 40 overs. Abhishek Thakur (110 runs) played a brilliant innings, while Rushil Dadwal (43), Bali Choudhary (41), Ravi Karan (22) and Lovepreet Kamboj (19) were the other main scorers for the side. Girish Kumar (3/38) was the pick of the bowlers.In reply, YJR Academy bundled out for 175 runs in 31.1 overs. Yuvraj Rai (51), Jashan (22), Naman Ghai (18 ), Gyan Singh (16), Bheem Kanwar (15) and Ansh Khosla (15) remained the main scorers for the side. Sukhman Singh (3/56), Sahil Thakur (2/16), Rushil Dadwal (2/20), Lovepreet Kamboj (2/10) and Bali Choudhary (1/22) claimed wickets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/champions-academy-log-win-in-u-23-cricket-348017
09-12-2021||---||Panjab University championships: GGDSD paddlers claim twin titles||Mohali, December 8GGDSD College, Sector 32, won twin titles on the concluding day of the Panjab University Inter-College Table Tennis Championship (men and women) today. In the men’s category, the college team defeated Panjab University Campus 3-0. DAV College, Sector 10, claimed third position by defeating the Government College of Commerce, Sector 50, 3-0.In the women’s final, GGDSD defeated PU Campus 3-0. AS College, Khanna, recorded a 3-1 win over the PGGCGirls, Sector 42, to claim third position.GGS eves log win in hockeyGuru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, defeated the Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, 2-0 in the Panjab University Inter-College Hockey Championship (women). MCM DAV College, Sector 36, outplayed Panjab University Campus 2-0.DAV win water polo titleDAV College, Sector 10, won the water polo (men) championship for the session 2021-22. GGD SD College and Panjab University Campus claimed second and third positions, respectively.PU swimmers shinePanjab University Campus won the swimming (men) championship by scoring 120 points. GGD SD College finished second with 38 points and DAV College, Hoshiarpur, claimed third position with 37 points. In the women’s category, PU Campus scored 71 points to claim the top honours. Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, finished second with 30 points and GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, claimed third position with 28 points.SGGS, Mahilpur, log winSri Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College, Mahlipur, logged a one-sided 5-0 win over Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, in football (men). BAM Khalsa College, Garshankar, defeated Panjab University Campus 2-1 and Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, defeated DAV College, Hoshiarpur, 6-0 in other matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-championships-ggdsd-paddlers-claim-twin-titles-348018
09-12-2021||---||CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament: Radha Sadhra, Arpit Garg claim tennis titles||Chandigarh, December 8Third seed Radha Sadhra of Himachal Pradesh won the girls’ U-16 title as top seed Vanya Arora conceded the match on the concluding day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament today.In the first set, Radha gave a tough competition to the top seed before losing 6-7(7). In the second set, Radha was leading 6-4 when Vanya conceded the match. Vanya conceded the title clash for appearing for an examination, said officials.Meanwhile, third seed Punjab’s Arpit Garg registered a comeback win over Chandigarh’s Parmarth Kaushik to claim the title. Garg lost the first set 2-6. He, however, worked hard and bounced back in next two sets 7-6(5) 6-3 to claim the title. Garg was down 3-5 in the second set and registered win in tie-break.Amit Kumar Jain, from Transport Corporation of India; Dr Reet Mahinder Sindh, member, executive committee; Megh Raj, chief operating officer; and Y Romen Singh, chief coach, awarded the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clta-aita-championship-series-cs-3-tennis-tournament-radha-sadhra-arpit-garg-claim-tennis-titles-348019
09-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Finally, Panjab University sprinkler project gets going||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8One of the oldest pending projects, work to install a sprinkler system at the Panjab University grounds has finally started.The project, which is worth Rs 50 lakh (approximately), has been pending for a long time. The system will cover the old grass hockey field, athletics track and parts of the football grounds. “This is an old project. However, the work has been started now. It will help us to take proper care of the grounds in all seasons and thus benefit players to have desirable fields,” said Dr Prashant Kumar Gautam, Director Sports, Panjab University.One of the sources claimed that the project would be completed within two months, followed by the levelling of grounds and testing of the sprinkler system. “The construction and testing process will be cover within a few months. Thereafter, the patches, where the pipes have been laid, will be levelled. The ground will be fully prepared within a few months for players,” said a source in the engineering department.When asked if the work affects the university’s plans on introducing an synthetic track here, Gautam said the system (sprinkler) had been placed accordingly. “The system has been placed considering our future planning for making a world-class synthetic track for athletics here,” said Gautam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-panjab-university-sprinkler-project-gets-going-348020
09-12-2021||---||Chandigarh heritage to go under hammer in France on December 12||Chandigarh, December 8Seven heritage furniture items from the city will be put up for auction in France on December 12.The items that would go under the hammer are a day bed, a set of two armchairs, a table, a file rack, a set of office cane chairs, dining chairs and armchairs, all designed by Swiss architect Pierre Jeanneret. The items are likely to fetch over Rs93 lakh.In a letter to Arjun Meghwal, Minister of State for Culture, Ajay Jagga, Member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, stated the auction would be conducted by Oise Encheres in Chantilly, France. The auction of Chandigarh heritage items was clearly in violation of the Constitution of India and the MHA orders dated February 22, 2011.“There is an emergent need to get the matter examined by the law enforcing agencies of France, as to how these items reached Paris despite the fact that there is a complete ban on their export,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-to-go-under-hammer-in-france-on-december-12-348021
09-12-2021||Panchkula||Over 1-kg ganja seized, two held||In two separate cases, the Panchkula police have arrested two persons and seized 1.380 kg of ganja from their possession.In the first case, a team of the Sector 19 crime branch arrested a Kalka resident from the Rambagh road in Kalka and seized 1.2 kg contraband from him.Inspector Karambir, in-charge of the Sector 19 crime branch, said while they were patrolling the area around 5.40 pm yesterday, they noticed a youth coming from the crematorium side. “He had a carry bag in his left hand. As he saw a police vehicle, he turned and started taking long strides. On suspicion, we caught the youth who identified himself as a local resident. During checking, the police recovered the contraband from his carry bag,” he said.A case under the NDPS Act was registered against the suspect at the Kalka police station.The suspect, Ajay Chapar, was produced in a local court today, which sent him to one-day police remand.In another case, a team of the detective staff arrested a Mauli Jagran resident from near the Chandimandir light point around 4 pm yesterday and seized 180 gm of ganja from his possession.The suspect, Aamir Khan, was produced in a local court, which sent him to judicial custody. A case was registered at the Chandimandir police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-1-kg-ganja-seized-two-held-348022
09-12-2021||---||Allottees of Chandigarh housing scheme to oppose BJP||Chandigarh, December 8Members of the UT government housing scheme employees union held a meeting today and decided to protest against the BJP during the MC poll.They said even after a decade, there was no respite for 3,930 UT employees, who were selected by a draw of lot for the self-financing housing scheme. They will hold a meeting of all employees on Sunday.The draw of lots for the scheme was conducted on November 4, 2010. Under the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built on land measuring 61.5 acre. However, the scheme is yet to see the light of day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allottees-of-ut-housing-scheme-to-oppose-bjp-348023
09-12-2021||---||BJP rebel Ramesh Kumar Nikku takes back nomination||Chandigarh, December 8Former city BJP president Sanjay Tandon today managed to persuade Ramesh Kumar Nikku, who had rebelled against the party and filed his nomination for the MC elections from ward number 32.Nikku withdrew his nomination in the presence of Tandon at the SDM Office.Apart from others, Nikku was also a strong contender from ward number 32. The BJP has fielded Jasmanpreet Singh instead of Nikku on the basis of many political equations and ground reports.Nikku said, “Some misunderstandings had arisen over a period of time, which is now cleared. I will remain a loyal soldier of the BJP and continue to support the party to ensure Jasmanpreet’s victory.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-rebel-takes-back-nomination-348024
09-12-2021||---||Chandigarh civic polls: Manoj Tiwari to woo Purvanchal natives||Chandigarh, December 8The BJP has announced that noted Bhojpuri actor and Member of Parliament Manoj Tiwari will be campaigning for their candidates in the civic body elections here.Tiwari will be addressing as many as seven public meetings in a single day on December 16.There are nearly 3.5 lakhs voters of the Purvanchal community in the city, who can play a vital role in deciding the fate of candidates in the fray.Tiwari had addressed three public meetings here in the last MC elections. In a press statement, BJP spokesperson Kailash Jain said the presence of former Delhi BJP president would be a blessing for candidates and voters of the community hailing from UP and Bihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manoj-tiwari-to-woo-purvanchal-natives-348025
09-12-2021||---||Chandigarh BJYM leaders, workers switch loyalty, join Congress||Chandigarh, December 8Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leaders and workers joined the Congress in the presence of party’s election coordinators Rajendra Rana and Abhishek Dutt and city Cong chief Subhash Chawla at the party office in Sector 35 here today.According to the city Congress, those who joined the party are Shashank Butt, district president, Yuva Morcha, Shorabh Khan, general secretary, Ajay Bhardwaj, vice-president, Abhishek Dhiman, ward president, Khalid Quereshi, executive member, Malkit Singh Kaka, Indira Colony president, and party youth workers Azad, Happy, Ravi and Shahid Khan.In another function held at Congress Bhawan, BJP workers from Maloya led by Parmila, aka Kanya, Raja Khan, district president, Minority Cell, Rajesh Kumar Raju, state secretary, SC Morcha, Ram Singh Rana, Satish Kumar Rana, Nimma Khan, Javed Ali Khan and Taranjeet Singh Brar today joined the Congress.They vowed their support to the party candidate from ward number 28, Nirmala Devi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjym-leaders-workers-switch-loyalty-join-congress-348026
09-12-2021||---||Chandigarh civic poll scene hots up, candidates go on padyatra, campaign door to door||Chandigarh, December 8Some candidates for the MC elections took out padyatra while some did door-to-door campaigning in the city today.Former Mayor and councillor Davesh Moudgil, who is a BJP candidate from Ward No. 21 (Sector 47 and Faidan), initiated his canvassing at Sector 47. He, along with his supporters, also took out a padyatra.Gurpreet Singh Gabi, a Congress candidate from Ward No. 34 (Sector 45 and 46) campaigned door to door in Sector 46-A.During his campaign, Basant Singh Chaudhary, Congress candidate from Ward No. 21 (Sector 47 and Faidan), assured people to work for the welfare of the society and promised that he would get CCTV cameras installed in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-scene-hots-up-candidates-go-on-padyatra-campaign-door-to-door-348027
09-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC  elections: AAP promises world-class security, free 24x7 Wi-Fi||Chandigarh, December 8The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today announced its third guarantee to the people of the city —world-class security and free 24x7 Wi-Fi facility across the city.The party had earlier announced two guarantees if elected to power in the Municipal Corporation. The promises made earlier were to provide 20,000 litre of free water to each household and clearing all garbage dumps, including the waste at the dumping ground in Dadu Majra.Addressing a press conference at the headquarters of the city AAP in Sector 39 today, Chandigarh affairs in-charge of the party and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh, while citing a report of the National Crime Records Bureau, stated that women in the city were the most vulnerable in the country in 2019.“Under a world-class security plan, we promise to install CCTV cameras in inner and outer areas of the city so that the girls/women can remain safe round the clock,” he said.Referring to the Delhi model, he claimed that the Arvind Kejriwal government was the only government in the country to have installed 1,826 CCTV cameras every one and a half kilometres for women’s safety. “Also, all dark areas of the city will be illuminated with a hi-tech lighting system so that no women can feel unsafe and can move freely anywhere anytime,” Jarnail Singh added.Poster boy Kejri among 10 star campaigners||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-aap-promises-world-class-security-free-24x7-wi-fi-348028
09-12-2021||---||800 defaulters yet to pay challan in Chandigarh, may face action||Chandigarh, December 8In order to preserve environment and make the city single-use plastic-free, the UT Administration may initiate legal action against violators.On September 27, 2019, the Chandigarh Administration had imposed a complete ban on identified single-use plastic/thermocol items. Regular checking and inspection are being carried out by the authorities concerned for strict implementation of the ban. However, a large number of residents, shopkeepers, rehriwalas have been found violating the ban and have been challaned by the authorities.If the defaulters fail to deposit the challan before December 15, action may be initiated against them in the form of discontinuation of the electricity and water supply and sealing of the unit/premises. Debendra Dalai, Member secretary, Chandigarh pollution control committeeDebendra Dalai, member secretary, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), said all defaulters who had been challaned by the Administration had to deposit the challan amount in the office of the CPCC, but more than 800 defaulters had not yet deposited the challan amount.He said if the defaulters failed to deposit the challan amount with the CPCC before December 15, action might be initiated against them in the form of discontinuation of the electricity and water supply and sealing of the unit/premises.Further, legal action might be taken against the violators such as imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years or with a fine which may extend to Rs1 lakh or with both.The single-use plastic items banned include cutlery, thermocol or styrofoam cutlery, containers, sealed drinking water glasses, single-use razors, single-use pens, thermocol for decoration purpose and plastic material for decoration purpose such as wrapping sheets, frills, garland, confetti and plastic ribbons.In its directions, the National Green Tribunal had stated that any person found using, storing, purchasing, dealing with or distributing plastic bags, plastic plates or plastic glasses and such allied items would be liable to pay an environmental compensation at the rate of Rs5,000 per event.Prohibited itemsThe single-use plastic items banned in Chandigarh include cutlery, thermocol or styrofoam cutlery, containers, sealed drinking water glasses, single-use razors, single-use pens, thermocol for decoration purpose and plastic material for decoration purpose such as wrapping sheets, frills, garland, confetti and plastic ribbons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/800-defaulters-yet-to-pay-challan-may-face-action-348029
09-12-2021||Mohali||One dengue case in Mohali district||Badminton meet from Dec 11Panchkula: The 29th edition of Smt Krishna Khaitan Memorial All-India Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament, to be organised under the aegis of the Haryana Badminton Association, will be organised from December 11 to1 7 at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3. Interested players can send their entries to the organisers before December 22. The qualifying matches will be organised from December 11 to 13, followed by main the draw matches from December 14 to 17. TNSRowing trials tomorrowChandigarh: The Chandigarh Rowing Association will organise trials to select the local rowing team on December 10 (9 am) at the Lake Sports Complex rowing centre. The selected teams will participate in the 39th Senior Rowing National and 23rd Open Sprint National, to be held at Army Rowing Node, Pune, from January 3 to 9. Interested rowers can send their entries to coach Deepak Kumar. TNSKerala beat ChandigarhChandigarh: The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) suffered a six-wicket defeat in their first match against Kerala at the Vijay Hazare One Day Tournament in Rajkot. Chandigarh posted 184/8 in 20 overs with the help of Manan Vohra (54), Sandeep Sharma (26) and Arpit Sharma (25). In reply, Sachin Baby (59) and Rohan Kunnumall (46) helped Kerala to chase down the easy target in the 34th over for the loss of four wickets. TNSPacer Sandeep to play for cityChandigarh: Punjab pacer Sandeep Sharma has decided to switch to Chandigarh, said Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, through the social media. Sharma has been allegedly overlooked by Punjab selectors for the upcoming Vijay Hazare Trophy. The fast bowler secured a certificate without objection from his mother state, Punjab, and will play his first match for his new team in the Vijay Hazare Trophy against Kerala (Elite Group D) at Madhav Rao Scindia Cricket Ground, Rajkot, on Wednesday. TNSTeachers’ stir continuesChandigarh: The ongoing chain fast by teachers at DAV College, Sector 10, entered its third day on Wednesday. The teachers are demanding the implementation of the revised pay scales as per the recommendations of the 7th Central Pay Commission, notified by the Centre (due since January 1, 2016) and revocation of the delinking of teachers' pay scales from the University Grants Commission (UGC). TNSMan held in NDPS caseChandigarh: The police arrested a Chamba native, Jumman, 30, and recovered around one kg of marijuana from his possession on the road behind the ISBT, Sector 43, on December 7. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. He was produced in a court, which sent him to police remand. A case under the NDPS Act was already registered against him. TNSMan loses Rs8L in bank fraudChandigarh: An unknown person on phone presented himself as an employee of a bank and withdrew Rs8,10,062 from the account of a Mani Majra resident, Hans Raj, by sending him a link. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. In another case, an unknown person withdrew money by using the ATM card of a Sector 34 resident. She alleged that her Haryana Cooperative Bank card was lost some time ago. A case under Sections 379 and 420 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNSBedecked car driver heldChandigarh: The police on Wednesday booked the driver of the speeding car bedecked with flowers for a marriage ceremony that crashed into to grill on the road separating Sector 52 and 53 and also collided with a car and an auto on the other side of the road near a school in Sector 53 on December 7. A case under Sections 279, 337 and 427 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. Sector 52 resident Sunil Kumar, in a complaint to the police, alleged that the driver of the luxury car, Saurab Goel, a resident of Sector 61, rammed into his auto-rickshaw. The complainant's daughter, who was in the auto, also got minor injuries. The suspect was arrested and later released on bail. Investigation of the case is in progress. TNSCulpable homicide bidChandigarh: Five SUV-borne assailants attacked a Phase 4 resident, Sukwinder Singh, a lawyer, and his friends Barinder Singh and Amanpreet Singh and damaged their car. Sukwinder told the police that the suspects snatched their car near the road separating Sector 37 and 38 on December 7. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-dengue-case-in-mohali-district-348030
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh sees seven cases, no fatality||5 cases surface in Mohali distMohali: Five new Covid cases were detected in the district on Wednesday. Three patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, three were reported from Gharuan and two from Kharar. Of the 69,003 positive cases reported from the district so far, 67,873 patients have recovered. There are now 57 active cases in the district. The toll stands at 1,073. — TNSPanchkula reports 10 Covid casesPanchkula: In a significant rise, Panchkula on Wednesday reported 10 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the active case tally to 21. The overall tally reached 30,854. The toll remained at 379. Of the total cases reported so far, 30,454 patients have recovered. The recovery rate stands at 98.70 per cent. In November, Panchkula witnessed 62 Covid infections, a rise of almost 94 per cent over last month. October saw just 32 cases. In terms of fatalities, one death each was recorded in both months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-sees-seven-cases-no-fatality-348031
09-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Sector 39 SHO shifted after bike thief flees from custody||Inspector Juldan Singh, posted in the security wing, has replaced Inspector Ashok Kumar as the SHO, Sector 39 police station, with immediate effect after a 27-year-old resident of Balongi, who was involved in several thefts of high-end bicycles, fled from police custody on December 7.UT SSP Kuldeep Chahal issued the order this evening. Sources said the suspect broke the rusted iron grill of the lock-up and slipped from the police station. Red-faced police officials said teams had been dispatched to nab the suspect, Divesh Gupta, who was arrested under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC at the Sector 39 police station on Sunday.A fresh case under Sections 223 and 224 of the IPC has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sho-shifted-after-bike-thief-flees-from-custody-348032
09-12-2021||---||Torque Pharma directors, JW Marriott owner's places raided by Income Tax||Chandigarh, December 8The Income Tax Department, Chandigarh, today raided the residential and office premises of the Directors of Torque Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd and the owner of the JW Marriott hotel, and their related entities.The residence of Paramjit Singh Chhatwal and Amar Iqbal Singh Bedi, Directors of Torque Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, and the residence of Harpal Singh, owner of JW Marriott, were raided by tax officials. According to sources, the raids were carried out at 22 premises in Chandigarh, Punjab and Mumbai.Raids started around 7.30 am and the proceedings were under way at the time of the filling of this report.Sources in the IT Department said the officers took into custody “important documents”, including property papers and electronic devices, during the raids.The documents and electronic devices were being examined by tax officials on allegations of unaccounted income generated by these entities, the sources said.They said during the raids, various documents related to benami properties and foreign investments were found and were being scrutinised.The searches were conducted under the guidance of Anand Jha, Principal Director, Income Tax (Investigation), and were led by Ankur Alya, Additional Director, Income Tax (Investigation), and Jyotinder Kaur Bajwa, Deputy Director, Income Tax (Investigation).On allegations of tax evasions, the IT officials have also been keeping an eye on other business establishments in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/torque-pharma-directors-jw-marriott-owners-places-raided-348033
09-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||37 fast charging stations to be installed for electric vehicles in Chandigarh by January-end||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8In order to encourage the use of plug-in electric vehicles, the UT Administration will install 37 fast charging stations in different areas of the city soon.The Central Government had sanctioned 70 charging stations for Chandigarh under Phase II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME) India scheme.A senior UT official said the work on the installation of 37 of the 70 fast charging stations had been allocated and it was likely to be completed by the end of January next year.To bring the facility at the nearest place, the charging stations were also being set up in parking lots of sectors, he stated.He clarified that both two-wheelers and four-wheelers could be charged from the same charging station.In reply to a question raised in the Lok Sabha, Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Heavy Industries, stated that for the development of charging infrastructure, the ministry had sanctioned 70 electric vehicle charging stations for Chandigarh and 48 charging stations had already been installed in the UT till November 8 this year under Phase I of the FAME India scheme.As many as 22 charging stations had been sanctioned for the Chandigarh-Delhi highway under FAME 1, whereas solar-based chargers would be installed at 20 locations along the highway, he said, adding that 24 charging stations had already been set up on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway.On bringing the cost of electric vehicles on a par with petrol vehicles, the minister said the government “supported electric vehicles by way demand incentives”. The demand incentive for electric two-wheelers had been increased to Rs15,000/KWh from Rs10,000/KWh with an increase in cap from 20 per cent to 40 per cent of the cost of the vehicle from June 11, 2021, he stated.A senior UT official said they would gradually improve the infrastructure to encourage the sale of electric vehicles in the city.The UT will get a total of 40 electric buses by December 15 and the entire fleet would be put on commercial operations by the end of December this year. UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit had, on November 13, flagged off 11 electric buses for commercial operations in the city. In September last year, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase II of the FAME India scheme.The UT Administration has planned to replace its entire fleet of ordinary buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses in a phased manner under the Green City theme.The UT Administration has also prepared a draft electric vehicle policy to give incentives to city residents to encourage them to buy electric vehicles. The official said the draft policy would be issued soon to invite suggestions and objections, if any, from the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-fast-charging-stations-to-be-installed-in-chandigarh-by-january-end-348034
09-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC  elections: BJP, AAP locked in ad war; Congress stays away||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8An advertisement war has broken out between the ruling BJP and AAP for the MC elections. The Congress, so far, has preferred to stay away from it. While AAP earlier took a lead in capturing 41 hoarding spaces for advertisement, the BJP has now put up advertisements on 40 cycle docking stations and eight public toilet blocks.The BJP has put up pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and its local leaders. Its ad slogans read, “Kaho dil se, Bhajpa fir se.”Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood said, “Through these ads, we will highlight our works such as 24X7 water supply project, additional 29 MGD water for city, CCTV cameras all over the city and cycle tracks. Works done in the transport, health and education sectors will also find space in the ads. Our vision for the next five years will also be displayed.”Taking a pot shot at rival AAP, Sood said, “They are only displaying “jhadu” and Arvind Kejriwal’s picture as they have no local leadership. What has Kejriwal done? During Covid, Delhi people had to rush to Chandigarh to get treatment. Our city is also placed higher in the education and happiness index than Delhi.”In reply, AAP convener Prem Garg said, “Kejriwal is our poster boy because he has proved himself in Delhi. We are new in Chandigarh and will be able to show our local strength the next time. In Delhi, we have given 24X7 water supply with free 20,000-litre supply, 200 units of power free of cost, doorstep delivery of government services and mohalla clinics.”However, Sood alleged that all this was AAP’s gimmick as people ended up paying much more as the tariff was too high above 20,000-litre water supply.Slamming the ad campaign of both parties, city Congress president Subhash Chawla said, “They have no base among the public; that is why they are doing it. They are spending crores on it, will the councillors be honest in the MC after all this? We are instead focusing on a door-to-door campaign to highlight the “failures” of the BJP. The ruling party is bringing star campaigners? Is Yogi going to spell out the Hindutva agenda in Chandigarh or will Amit Shah tell city people why he failed to do work of city people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-bjp-aap-locked-in-ad-war-congress-stays-away-348035
09-12-2021||---||Banwarilal Purohit mourns Gen Bipin Rawat's death||Chandigarh, December 8Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit has mourned the demise of the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and defence personnel aboard the ill-fated chopper that crashed in Coonoor this afternoon.The Governor prayed for peace to the departed souls. In his message, Purohit said, “The news of the passing away of General Rawat is extremely shocking and painful; he was an extremely intelligent, motivated and dedicated officer. The unfortunate demise of General Rawat, highly awarded for gallantry and distinguished service, is a national loss.”“I express my heartfelt condolences to family members of the bereaved and their colleagues,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banwarilal-purohit-mourns-gen-bipin-rawats-death-348036
09-12-2021||---||Panchkula loses decorated Brigadier in crash that killed CDS||Chandigarh, December 8Brig LS Lidder, Defence Assistant to the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), who died in the helicopter crash near Wellington today that killed the country’s top military officer along with 12 others, belonged to Panchkula and was a second generation officer with an impressive career record.‘A gentleman to the core’I have known the family for about 30 years and Brigadier Lidder was an extremely fine person, a gentleman to the core, respectful and affectionate. — A neighbourHe is survived by his wife Geetika, a schoolteacher, and a 16-year old daughter, who stay in Delhi. While Brigadier Lidder’s father, Col Mehnga Singh, is no more, his mother is presently residing with his sister, Sukhwinder Cheema, who is a matron at Lawrence School, Sanawar, near Kasauli. Sources said both left for Delhi immediately on hearing the tragic news.The Mi-17 helicopter carrying the CDS, Gen Bipin Rawat, along with his wife Madhulika, Brigadier Lidder, another staff officer, Lt Col Harjinder Singh, who is from the 11 Gorkha Rifles (GR) and 11 other military personnel, including the aircrew, had a crash while making its way from Salur in Tamil Nadu to Wellington.Brigadier Lidder’s father, who hailed from Punjab, had moved to Panchkula in 1989 and built a house in Sector 12 while he was still in service. According to neighbours, Brigadier Lidder had joined the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, before the family moved to Panchkula. He had studied in various schools across the country during his father’s military service.“We had met him in July when he had visited his house along with his mother and brother, who was here from Canada,” a neighbour said. “I have known the family for about 30 years and Brigadier Lidder was an extremely fine person, a gentleman to the core, respectful and affectionate,” he added. A senior retired Army officer said he had met Brigadier Lidder only a few days ago when he had paid a visit to the tricity.Decorated with the Sena Medal and the Vishisht Seva Medal, Brigadier Lidder was commissioned into the Second Battalion of the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles in December 1990 after passing out from the Indian Military Academy. He later commanded the same battalion.Brigadier Lidder had also served in counter-terrorist environment in Jammu and Kashmir, along the Line of Actual Control in the North-East and commanded a brigade on the border in the northern sector.Apart from serving as the Adjutant of the Indian Military Academy and Director in the Military Operations Directorate, he was posted as the Defence Attaché in the Indian Embassy in Kazakhstan. He is also an alumnus of the National Defence College, New Delhi.No campaigning in Gen Rawat’s memoryChandigarh: The BJP, Congress and AAP have asked their candidates not to campaign on Thursday in memory of the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, who, along with his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 defence personnel, died in a chopper crash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-loses-decorated-brig-in-crash-that-killed-cds-348037
09-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh GMCH-32 suspends elective surgeries, walk-in OPDs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8With resident doctors continuing their strike against a delay in the NEET PG counselling, the authorities of the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, have decided to suspend walk-in OPD registration and elective surgeries till further notice.In view of the strike, the GMCH has decided to continue providing critical services like emergency, ICU and care to Covid patients. It has also been decided that till the strike continues, physical OPDs will be restricted to patients who take online appointment. Telemedicine consultation will also continue. Walk-in OPD registration and elective surgeries will be suspended from December 9 till further notice. — GMCH statementAccording to an official statement issued by the GMCH, “In view of the ongoing strike, the GMCH administration has decided to continue providing critical services such as emergency, ICU and care to Covid patients. It has also been decided that till this strike continues, physical OPDs will be restricted to patients who take online appointment by visiting the GMCH website. In addition, telemedicine consultation will also continue. Walk-in OPD registration and elective surgeries will be suspended from December 9 till further notice.”Junior residents, except those who were posted on emergency duties, are on an indefinite strike from December 6 as part of a nationwide strike by resident doctors to press for early NEET PG counselling. Now, they are also withdrawing from emergency services. In addition, senior residents also gave a notice today to join the strike from tomorrow.In line with the ongoing protest across the nation for expediting the NEET PG counselling, led by FORDA and FAIMA, the resident doctors’ body of the GMCH withdrew elective services from December 6.The United Resident Doctors Association of the GMCH stated that resident doctors had their back against the wall with a delay in postgraduate admissions. Only hollow promises had been made so far and withdrawal of services across emergency and elective areas seemed to be the last resort unless a concrete decision or any statement addressing their concerns to hasten the counselling for NEET PG was made by the Director General, Health Services (DGHS). Resident doctors of the GMCH will organise a candlelight march on December 9 as a part of the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gmch-suspends-elective-surgeries-walk-in-opds-348038
