10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports two new cases||Chandigarh reported two fresh cases, the UT's medical bulletin said on Friday.No new death was reported in the city. The fatality count stands at 1,076.The number of active cases in the city was 56 while the recoveries stood at 64,486.--- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-two-new-cases-348743
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Heart harvested from PGIMER patient transplanted to Chennai man: officials||A heart harvested from a 45-year-old in PGIMER here was transplanted to a terminally-ill patient, some 2,500 kilometres away in Chennai, doctors said on Friday.The donor’s harvested liver, kidneys and corneas were transplanted to five patients at the premier Chandigarh-based health institute itself, they said. The harvested heart was sent to the Chandigarh airport from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) by creating a ‘green corridor’ in 22 minutes and sent to Chennai in an aircraft that departed at 3.25 pm on Wednesday, they said.“After landing in Chennai at 8.30 pm, the retrieved heart was taken to MGM Healthcare Hospital where it was transplanted to a terminally ill 52-year-old male patient,” a statement issued by PGIMER on Friday read.“Timing is the key in transplantation. It is commendable that the heart was retrieved and transported within such a short span of time despite the matching recipient being 2,500 kilometres away,” PGIMER director Surjeet Singh said. Expressing his gratitude to the donor family, Singh said, “We remain indebted to the donor family for consenting to save and enrich others’ lives in their hour of indescribable grief, impacting six lives tangibly and kindling hope in many more ‘in-waiting’ recipients intangibly.”           A 45-year-old man had sustained grievous head injuries in an accident on December 4. He was rushed to PGIMER, where he was declared brain dead three days later, the hospital authorities stated.“The family, amid the grim tragedy of losing their dear one, displayed exceptional courage and magnanimity and consented for organ donation of their deceased relative, when counseled by the transplant coordinator at PGIMER. Following the family’s consent, heart, liver, kidneys and corneas were retrieved from the donor for transplantation to save other lives. Since, there was no matching recipient for heart here; it was allocated for a matching recipient in MGM Healthcare Hospital in Chennai with the intervention of National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (NOTTO),” the PGIMER statement read.In July, the family of a 13-year-old girl, who suffered cerebral edema and was subsequently declared brain dead donated her organs to four patients suffering from end-stage organ failure in Chandigarh and Mumbai, the hospital authorities said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heart-harvested-from-pgimer-patient-transplanted-to-chennai-man-officials-348700
10-12-2021||Vijay Mohan||In letter to his alma mater, sole crash survivor had asked students of Chandimandir Army school never to lose hope||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10Never lose hope, never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be. It will not come easy, it will take effort. It will require sacrifice of time and comfort. Find your calling, it could be art, music, graphic design. Literature, etc. Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best.This is the message Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the Mi-17 helicopter crash that killed Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others in Tamil Nadu on December 8 had for students of the Army Public School, Chandimandir, where he studied.Gp Capt Varun was an alumnus of the school’s 2000 batch, from where he proceeded to the National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla, before joining the IAF as a fighter pilot. His father was an officer in the Army Air Defence.Soon after he was decorated with the Shaurya Chakra for gallantry, he wrote a letter to the school’s principal on September 18, the contents of which he desired to be shared with students, especially the teens to inspire them as they near adulthood with its complexities of societal pressures, academic challenges and sometimes an uncertain and frightening future.“I was mediocre and today I have reached difficult milestones in my career,” he wrote. "It is ok to be mediocre. Not everyone will excel at school and not everyone will be able to score in the 90s. If you do, it's an amazing achievement and must be applauded. However, if you don't, do not think that you are meant to be mediocre. You may be mediocre in school but it is by no means a measure of things to come in life," he said.At NDA, he said, he did not excel either in studies or sports and lacked confidence as he thought he was meant to be mediocre. It was only after being commissioned and posted to a fighter squadron that he realised that he could do well if he put his heart and mind to it. "It was at this point that things started to turn around in my professional and personal life," he wrote.Thereafter, he was selected to undergo the challenging Flying Instructors Course where he bagged two out of the five trophies. Subsequently, he volunteered for the prestigious and rigorous 11-month-long Experimental Test Pilot Course, where only seven out of 59 applicants made it through.Selection to undergo the prestigious Staff College abroad and on return being posted to a newly raised Tejas aircraft squadron, even though he had crossed the seniority bracket, added to his credentials.Last year, he was faced with a grave and critical failure in his aircraft. The standard operating procedures required him to eject and abandon the aircraft. However, he took a few calculated risks and managed to land the aircraft without any damage to either the aircraft or civilians, for which he received the Shaurya Chakra.“I bring out the above not to blow my own trumpet or writing with a desire to seek a pat on the back. I write to share some thoughts about my life which I feel may help and inspire children who might feel that they are meant to be only mediocre in this hyper-competitive world,” he said while crediting the award to all those with whom he has been associated with over the years in school, NDA and thereafter the Air Force as he firmly believed that his actions that day were a result of the grooming and mentoring by teachers, instructors and peers over the years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/in-letter-to-his-alma-mater-sole-mi-17-crash-survivor-had-inspired-students-never-to-lose-hope-348663
10-12-2021||New Delhi||India witnesses 624 more Covid deaths; Chandigarh reconciles 256 old deaths||With 8,503 people testing positive for the coronavirus in a day, India's Covid tally climbed to 3,46,74,744, while the number of active cases rose to 94,943, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.The death toll mounted to 4,74,735 with the addition of 624 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 43 days now.The number of active cases has increased to 94,943, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the Health Ministry said.An increase of 201 cases has been recorded in the active Covid case count in a span of 24 hours.The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.66 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 67 days.The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.72 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 26 days, according to the Health Ministry.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,05,066, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent.The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid vaccination drive has exceeded 131.18 crore. The 624 new fatalities include 256 from Chandigarh, 225 from Kerala, and 94 from Goa.For Chandigarh, 256 deaths since March 2020 have been reconciled keeping in view the broadened definition of Covid deaths according to new guidelines after due field investigation and scrutiny of records. Out of these 256 deaths, 159 deaths are already part of the line list of Covid, the ministry said.Of the 225 deaths in Kerala, 52 were logged over the last few days and 173 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a state government release said on Thursday.According to state media bulletin of Goa, 94 additional deaths from August 2020 to June 2021 are added to cumulative deaths and have been reported late, the ministry said.A total of 4,74,735 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,211 from Maharashtra, 42,239 from Kerala, 38,253 from Karnataka, 36,575 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,575 from West Bengal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/india-records-8-503-new-covid-infections-active-case-count-rises-to-94-943-348658
10-12-2021||Be it Ayushmann Khurrana’s Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui||Know about silver screen's newfound love for Chandigarh?||The actor in a recent interaction said, “I used to get scared when Vaani and I were shooting romantic scenes at Sukhna Lake. This is because during my school days, the police used to drive away young couples from the area.” Vaani added, “It has been fantastic to shoot in Chandigarh because, despite the pandemic, we have managed to create a safe environment for the crew.” — TMS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/lifestyle/the-city-is-beautiful-348610
10-12-2021||Aditi Tandon||Architect Balkrishna Doshi who worked with Le Corbusier to get Royal Gold Medal||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 10Acclaimed Indian architect Balkrishna Doshi who worked with the legendary Le Corbusier will receive the Royal Gold Medal for 2022, one of the world’s highest honours for architecture.Given in recognition of a lifetime’s work, the Royal Gold Medal is approved personally by Queen Elizabeth of the UK and is given to a person or group of people who have had a significant influence on the advancement of architecture.Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailer the achievement and spoke to the distinguished architect on Friday to congratulate him.“His contributions to the world of architecture are monumental. His works are globally admired for their creativity, uniqueness and diverse nature,” the PM tweeted.With a 70-year career and over 100 built projects, Balkrishna Doshi, 94, has influenced the direction of architecture in India and its adjacent regions through both his practice and his teaching.His buildings combine pioneering modernism with vernacular, informed by a deep appreciation of the traditions of India’s architecture, climate, local culture and craft. His projects include administrative and cultural facilities, housing developments and residential buildings.The citation for Doshi says he has become internationally known for his visionary urban planning and social housing projects, as well as his work in education, both in India and as a visiting professor at universities around the world.Doshi’s key projects include: Shreyas Comprehensive School Campus (1958-63), Ahmedabad; Atira Guest House (1958), Ahmedabad, low cost housing; The Institute of Indology (1962), Ahmedabad, a building to house rare documents; Ahmedabad School of Architecture (1966, with additions until 2012) - renamed CEPT University in 2002 - which focused on creating spaces that promoted collaborative learning; Tagore Hall and Memorial Theatre (1967), a 700-seat Brutalist auditorium in Ahmedabad; Premabhai Hall (1976), Ahmedabad, former theatre and auditorium; Indian Institute of Management in Bengaluru (1977-1992), a business school; Sangath (1981), the studio for his architecture practice, Vastu Shilpa; Kanoria Centre for Arts (1984), an arts and creative hub; Aranya Low Cost Housing (1989), Indore, which won the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 1995; and Amdavad ni Gufa (1994), a cave-like art gallery that exhibits the work of artist Maqbool Fida Husain.On hearing the news that he will receive the Royal Gold Medal in 2022, Balkrishna Doshi said: “I am pleasantly surprised and deeply humbled to receive the Royal Gold Medal from the Queen of England. What a great honour! The news of this award brought back memories of my time working with Le Corbusier in 1953 when he had just received the news of getting the Royal Gold Medal. I vividly recollect his excitement to receive this honour from Her Majesty.”Doshi added, “Today, six decades later, I feel truly overwhelmed to be bestowed with the same award as my guru, Le Corbusier - honouring my six decades of practice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/indian-architect-balkrishna-doshi-wins-prestigious-uk-medal-348596
10-12-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Anil Arora arrested from Panchkula for 'making derogatory remarks' against Guru Nanak||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, December 9After playing hide and seek with the police for over 50 days, finally Anil Arora, who had made derogatory remarks against Guru Nanak Dev, has been apprehended by the Ludhiana police from Panchkula on Thursday. He had recently shifted from Vrindavan to a hotel in Panchkula.Arora was nabbed after a chase of hundreds of kilometres in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. For evading arrest, Arora remained hided in Delhi, Mathura, Haryana and various parts of Punjab.Arora had made derogatory remarks against Guru Nanak Dev and his father. A case was registered against Arora under Sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code at the Division Number 3 police station on October 20.A team, led by Crime Branch-III in-charge Beant Juneja, nabbed Arora from a hotel, where he had been hiding from the past few days.Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said police teams had already launched a hunt to nab the accused and today after getting tip-off, a team, led by Inspector Beant Juneja, managed to arrest the accused.The Ludhiana police had already nabbed eight accomplices of Arora, including Vasu Syal of Zira, who had initiated the talk in the audio chat, and now the prime accused Arora was also nabbed, CP Bhullar said, adding that Ashish, who is said to be living in the UK, was also part of the crime and the police have initiated the proceedings to get the accused extradited to India.“Now the police will produce the accused in court to seek his police remand for further investigation. All scientific evidences the police is having will be corroborated and a well-prepared challan will be presented in the court so that the accused face harsher punishment in minimum possible time,” added CP Bhullar.Bhullar said the Commissionerate Police would give commendation certificates to the team members of the CIA staff for nabbing Arora.When this incident came to fore, several Sikh outfits had held protests in the city for demanding arrest of the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anil-arora-arrested-from-panchkula-348564
10-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid toll swells 31% as Chandigarh administration accepts data of crematoria||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9The UT Covid-19 death toll has jumped 31 per cent with the Health Department accepting the data of city crematoria where the bodies were cremated with the Covid protocol in the past two years.The death toll is expected to go up further as the reconciliation of Covid deaths is still underway. So far, the toll stands at 1,076, while the official figures had put the toll at 820 in the UT.Chandigarh fatality rate now 1.6%The fatality rate of Chandigarh has now increased from 1.2 per cent to 1.6 per cent after the addition of Covid deaths from crematoria.The reconciliation of Covid deaths is now being carried out by the IDSP cell of the UT Health Department in view of the ongoing identification of beneficiaries who would be eligible for ex gratia of Rs50,000, an amount that would be given to kin of those who died of the virus.As per the data from crematoria, 359 more deaths took place in Chandigarh due to Covid, but these were not included in the official figures. The bodies were cremated with the Covid protocol and the families were asked to fill a form in which the cause of death was mentioned as Covid.Of the 359 deaths, 256 were recorded at the cremation ground in accordance with the Centre’s definition of Covid death and have been added to the toll, while the remaining were mentioned as Covid deaths but there was no document substantiating that the person was Covid positive or their addresses were not available. “These deaths were further investigated from the records of hospitals and details/documents collected from family members of the deceased persons,” said Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary. As per the previous practice, patients dying of Covid were considered Covid deaths only with a medical certificate.As per the new guidelines, a death occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a Covid case is treated as “death due to Covid” even if the death takes place outside the hospital/in-patient facility. However, a Covid case admitted to a hospital/in-patient facility beyond 30 days, who dies subsequently will also be treated as a Covid death.Health Dept in talks with other statesThe Health Department is in talks with other states regarding Covid deaths of city residents whose last rites were performed in crematoria in their states so that the beneficiaries can be identified. “We have gone a step ahead in identifying Covid victims from crematoria. There may have been Covid deceased who were not cremated with the Covid protocol or may have died at home. Such cases can also avail of the compensation based on the medical history and lab reports of the deceased.”29 applicants get ex gratia of Rs50K eachIn response to a public notice issued by the UT Administration regarding providing ex gratia of Rs50,000 to next of kin of the deceased who died of Covid, 138 applications have been received of which 29 applicants have got a total claim of Rs14,50,000 via the DBT mode. The remaining applications are under process. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-toll-swells-31-as-ut-accepts-data-of-crematoria-348431
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 4 fresh cases of Covid-19||12 test positive in Mohali districtmohali: Twelve new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district on Thursday. Among the new cases, six were from Dhakoli, three from Dera Bassi, two from Mohali and one from Kurali. — TNS3 contract virus in Panchkulapanchkula: The district reported three fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,857. The toll remained at 379. While 30,455 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 23 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.69 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-4-fresh-cases-of-infection-348432
10-12-2021||---||Chandigarh seeks 20 ventilators 'discarded' by PGI||Chandigarh, December 9The UT Administration has sought 20 ventilators received under the PM CARES fund, which were discarded by the PGI on finding these ‘unfit’ for patients.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “All the ventilators received under the PM CARES fund have been installed at the government hospitals in the UT. However, there were some technically unfit ventilators with the PGI and the GMCH, Sector 32. The issue was taken up with the Centre and a team had visited to repair faulty ventilators at the GMCH. There are still 20 ventilators with the PGI that have not been put to use till date. We have asked the PGI to give us those ventilators so that we can get them repaired and install them in our hospitals.”The PGI authorities were asked to submit a report of the status of ventilators to the Director, Health Services (DHS), Chandigarh, regarding the same. Earlier, the PGI had constituted a committee comprising senior faculty members from the Department of Anaesthesia and Pulmonary Medicine to evaluate the functioning of ventilators received on May 23. The committee had checked two ventilators using different modes in adult and paediatric settings. The report was submitted to the DHS on June 11.The PGI report stated that the machines may not be suitable for ventilating critically ill patients with abnormal pulmonary mechanics in its current form. The company was advised to look into these issues before these are used on patients in view of safety concerns.The reports had listed out the technical issues found upon evaluating the quality of ventilators such as the set respiratory rate could not be achieved for paediatric patients and persistent leak of 10 to 20 per cent was observed with adult settings.PGI Director Dr Surjit Singh said, “The committee did not find these ventilators fit for patients. However, the UT Administration may take these from us if they want to install in their hospital settings.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-seeks-20-ventilators-discarded-by-pgi-348433
10-12-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Lalru tree felling: Role of MC president, EO under the scanner||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 9Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) Pooja Syal has submitted an interim report to the Principal Secretary, Local Government, regarding the alleged cutting of trees on 90 acres of forest-like shamlat land under the Lalru Municipal Council (MC) in the Dera Bassi subdivision.“I have submitted an interim report. The final report will be submitted after a week or so. I will be able to share the details after that,” she said. Sources said the report put MC president Bindu Rana and the Executive Officer’s role in the alleged cutting of trees, which led to the loss to the exchequer, under the scanner. The report mentioned that the Lalru police had been intimated to take appropriate action against the bidder, the sources added.On November 26, Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma had flagged the issue and later met Mohali DC Isha Kalia seeking action against the erring officials. “MC officials, in order to benefit near and dear ones, had sold these trees worth around Rs2 crore for just Rs2.25 lakh,” the MLA had alleged. “Trees with a diameter of about two-and-a-half feet were cut. Around 50 people were engaged to cut trees. It was done without the Forest Department’s nod,” he had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/role-of-mc-president-eo-under-the-scanner-348434
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC issues notice to Chandigarh on stilt parking||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the UT Administration on notice on a petition seeking directions for allowing “stilt parking” with at least three stories to address the parking issue and to retain the progressive character of the city.The notice by the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj came on a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Hemant Goswami through counsel APS Shergill.A stilt car parking is a partially covered parking spot on the ground floor of a building. In the writ petition, Goswami has prayed for specific directions to ensure that the respondents put in place their own announcements and policy declaration on allowing stilt parking in residential plots in Chandigarh. The petition demanded that “the respondents should allow at least 50 per cent reduction in house tax and/or such other incentives, as already announced by them in the 2017 policy, for all such new/reconstructed resident units/apartments where additional arrangement for parking is made, whether at the stilt level, or otherwise.”Goswami added that allowing stilt was a step in the right direction as it would help Chandigarh take care of the parking problem and also address the issue of the growing population. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-issues-notice-to-chandigarh-on-stilt-parking-348435
10-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC  elections: BJP releases report card, eyes victory in all 35 seats||Chandigarh, December 9While releasing his party’s report card based on main development works done in the past six years, local BJP president Arun Sood claimed to win all 35 seats in the Municipal Corporation elections.Addressing a press conference, Sood, sitting alongside ex-MP Satyapal Jain and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, said the main issue of the party candidates during the poll would be development.The main issue of party candidates during the poll will be development. Earlier, the BJP contested 22 of the 26 seats and won 20. Now, the number of wards has increased to 35. This time, the target is to win all 35 seats. —Arun Sood, President, BJP city unitHe said the BJP contested 22 out of the total 26 seats and won 20. “At present, the number of wards has increased to 35. This time the target is to win 35 seats,” he added.Listing works during Covid, the BJP leaders said five lakh needy were given food, 11,652 dry ration packets were distributed and Rs2.27 crore was collected and given to the PM’s Relief Fund.Besides, transport facility was given to 3,100 passengers during the lockdown, they added. During the second Covid wave, Chandigarh was the only city in the country where there was no shortage of oxygen, they said.“The party is going to highlight not only its works done in the MC, but also of UT Administration and its allied departments,” they added.Sood said security was given to women by covering entire city with hi-definition CCTV cameras, 11 smart schools opened, 380 new buses, including battery-operated, added, underpass connecting the Rose Garden to Sector 17 constructed, 6,500 LED street lights installed on cycle tracks and construction of Advanced Trauma Centre in Sarangpur were achievements of the party.The city became number one in the education index of NITI Aayog and in solar power category, Sood added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-releases-report-card-eyes-victory-in-all-35-seats-348436
10-12-2021||---||Chandigarh Congress out with 'chargesheet' against saffron party's 'failures'||Chandigarh, December 9The city Congress today released a ‘chargesheet’ against the six years ‘misrule of the BJP’ in the Municipal Corporation (MC). Alka Lamba, Congress’ national spokesperson, released the ‘chargesheet’, which also included 15-point by point report cards on ‘BJP-so called vision document ‘Sankalp Patra’ to expose its real anti-people face’.Speaking on the occasion, Alka said, “This double engine arrangement of the BJP with government at the Centre and power at the MC has crashed. The civic conditions of the city have become miserable.”Chandigarh is no longer seen as the City Beautiful with its ranking slipping to the 66th spot. There is no arrangement for waste disposal. People are under heavy burden of taxes. Roads are in a pathetic state. —Alka Lamba, Congress national spokespersonShe further said, “Chandigarh is no longer seen as ‘City Beautiful’ with its ranking slipping to 66th spot. There is no arrangement of waste disposal. People are under heavy burden of taxes. Stray cattle roam on city roads. Also, roads are in a pathetic state.”Subhash Chawla, president, UT Congress, “The BJP has hiked water, sewerage and property tax. In fact the sewerage tax @ 30% of the water bill is the highest in the country. Despite increase in taxes, the revenue earnings of the Corporation have gone down drastically.” The leaders slammed the BJP for not bringing “required funds from the Centre.”Rajinder Rana, Sujanpur MLA and party’s election coordinator, said, “We have already started work on the ground and revitalise our campaign to highlight our party’s vision.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-out-with-chargesheet-against-saffron-partys-failures-348437
10-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC  elections: Other parties saw bitter fight for ticket, there weren't enough takers in SAD||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9While there was a fight for the ticket among aspirants in most parties, the SAD could not even find all nominees for the MC elections.The BSP’s alliance partner had to field 19 candidates, but could manage only 16 nominees. The BSP, however, managed to field candidates on all its allotted 16 seats as part of an alliance agreement with the Akalis. The BJP, Congress and AAP had witnessed high drama after the announcement of candidates as there were many probables for the ticket. After the first list was declared, upset over the denial of the ticket to a leader, AAP volunteers had burnt effigies of senior leaders, including party supremo Arvind Kejriwal. Some of them had even shifted to the BJP or the Congress or filed nominations as Independent candidates. Even when the BJP and the Congress announced their nominees, there was upheaval in their camps.Senior Congress leader Shashi Shankar Tiwari and others rebelled and announced to support Independent candidates.In the BJP, its OBC Morcha chairman, along with supporters, expressed annoyance in public over not being considered for the ticketThe SAD struggled to find candidates in the city. “Had they told us in time, we would have managed to field candidates from our party,” said city BSP president Gurcharan Singh Kamboj. Lone SAD councillor and city party president Hardeep Singh claimed, “It is not that we did not find candidates. We got late in filing nominations. Three could not find the required documents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/other-parties-saw-bitter-fight-for-ticket-there-werent-enough-takers-in-sad-348438
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: 11 withdraw nominations||Eleven candidates withdrew their nominations for the MC elections, leaving 203 candidates in the fray for the 35 seats. The nominations of 102 candidates were earlier rejected by the State Election Commission (SEC) during the scrutiny of papers.BJP’s Rashmi (Ward No. 9), wife of party leader Devendra Singh, Yashpal Yadav (Ward No. 25) and Ramesh Kumar Nikku (Ward No. 32) had withdrawn their nomination papers yesterday.Some of the BJP rebel candidates Manpreet Kaur (Ward No. 9), Suresh Kumar (Ward No. 15), Narinder Chaudhary (Ward No. 26), Mukesh Kumar (Ward No. 32) and Kripanand Thakur (Ward No. 20), who are fighting as independent, are still in the contest. Among Congress rebel candidates, Kamal Kumar is contesting from Ward No. 3 on Aam Admi Party (AAP) ticket. Former senior Congress functionary Hira Lal Kundra (Ward No. 19) and Prem Lata (Ward No. 14) are also contesting on AAP ticket. Another Congress rebel Rajinder Kaur Panag is SAD candidate from Ward No. 18.Congress candidates contesting as independents include Krishan Lal (Ward No. 3), Prem Pal Chauhan (Ward No. 15), and Roshan Lal Badoni (Ward No. 29). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-withdraw-nominations-348439
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Political parties pay homage to CDS General Bipin Rawat in Chandigarh||Cutting across party lines, all leaders of all political parties today avoided campaigning for the Municipal Corporation (MC) poll and paid homage to the departed soul, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat.The BJP organised a tribute ceremony at the party headquarters in Sector 33 where city president Arun Sood and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, along with others, offered floral tributes to the CDS. Sood said General Bipin Rawat raised the Army’s morale and nation and made all proud.Senior Deputy Mayor and Ward No. 2 BJP candidate Maheshinder Singh Sidhu paid tribute to the General, his wife and other fellow officers, who died in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, at the Sector 3 war memorial.Other BJP candidates Heera Negi, Jasmanpreet Singh, Sachin Lotia, Ravinder Rawat, Davesh Modgil, Anoop Gupta and Shakti Devshali also paid tributes to General Rawat at their respective offices and observed two minutes silence.Cong leaders, including city president Subhash Chawla, national spokesperson Alka Lamba and coordinator Rajinder Rana also paid floral tributes to the CDS at the Sector 35 party’s office. Meanwhile, Congress candidates, including Balwinder Kaur, Harpreet Kaur, Dheeraj Gupta and Harmohinder Singh Lucky, took out a candle light march.AAP candidates, along with party co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra and convener Prem Garg, paid homage to the CDS in different wards today. SAD candidate Hardeep Singh, along with his supporters, also lit candles in memory of the CDS.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/political-parties-pay-homage-to-cds-348440
10-12-2021||---||British diplomat’s molestation in Chandigarh: Chargesheet filed against accused||Chandigarh, December 9The police have filed a chargesheet in the alleged molestation case of a senior British diplomat in Sector 10 here. In her complaint on October 6, the British diplomat had alleged that while she was going to the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association, Sector 10-C, around 5.44 am, a person riding the motorcyclist came from behind and hit her hard with his hand on her back with the intention of molesting her.The accused, Vishwas, a resident of Nayagaon, Mohali, was arrested two days after the incident.The chargesheet has been filed for the offences punishable under 354 and 354-A of the IPC. The court has issued a notice to the accused for December 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chargesheet-filed-against-accused-348441
10-12-2021||---||Cycle thief’s escape: Chandigarh Police to get lock-up examined by CFSL||Chandigarh, December 9The UT police would ask the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) to examine the lock-up from where a 27-year-old youth arrested for bicycle thefts had managed to escape.The suspect, Divesh Gupta (27), was nabbed by a team of the Palsora police post and was kept in the lock-up at the Sector 39 police station after court granted his one-day remand.At night, the suspect had managed to break the two rusted iron grills of the lock-up and escaped from the police station.SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said they would get the spot examined by the CFSL. He added that all SHOs had been directed to ensure that CCTV cameras installed in the police stations were functional and cover all the areas.Sector 39 Station House Officer Inspector Ashok Kumar, who was shifted after the bicycle thief’s escape, has now been posted in the PCR wing. Ashok’s posting order was today issued by the UT Senior Superintendent of Police.Two women cops, including an ASI who was night munshi and a constable, who had her duty on women desk, were suspended after they were found missing from duty.The caseThe suspect, Divesh Gupta (27), was nabbed by a team of the Palsora police post and was kept in the lock-up at the Sector 39 police station after the court granted one-day remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-to-get-lock-up-examined-by-cfsl-348448
10-12-2021||---||Chandigarh court allows Bhagwant Mann's anticipatory bail plea||Chandigarh, December 9A local court has allowed anticipatory bail application of AAP MP Bhagwant Mann and directed him to join the investigation within the next 10 days.Mann had filed the application through advocate Amrinder Vir Singh Barsat in an FIR registered by the UT police on January 10 last year. Besides Mann, the court has also allowed the anticipatory bail application filed through Counsel Ankur Chaudhrie to another leader and MLA Master Baldev Singh in the case.The police had registered a case against 10 AAP leaders, including Bhagwant Mann, Harpal Singh Cheema and Aman Arora, for allegedly pelting cops with stones in a demonstration held opposite the MLA Hostel.Mann’s counsel argued that the FIR was an outcome of a political stunt of the party in power just to tarnish his reputation. The police registered the FIR in haste without verifying the facts and the allegations levelled against Mann are purely a work of fiction. There is no specific role or injury attributed to him. He has not used any type of criminal force upon any public servant to deter him from performing his lawful duty. No injury has been caused to any public servant.In reply, the Public Prosecutor argued that the accused, along with other workers, committed the offences of rioting, disobeying the DM orders and assault on public servant, which were serious in nature.After hearing of the arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, allowed the anticipatory bail application of Mann and directed him to join the investigation before the investigating officer/SHO concerned within 10 working days.“In the event of arrest, the applicant is ordered to be released on bail on furnishing bail bonds of Rs50,000 with one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the SHO/arresting officer for the offences mentioned in the FIR, subject to certain conditions — that the applicant will make himself available for investigation/trial of the case, as and when required; the applicant will not influence the prosecution witnesses; and the applicant will not leave the country,” the order stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-allows-manns-anticipatory-bail-plea-348450
10-12-2021||Mohali||Teachers block road in Kharar||Commuters were inconvenienced as computer teachers from all over Punjab today blocked the Kharar-Landran road and tried to gherao Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s house in Kharar. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed and there was a huge traffic jam on the road as motorists, passersby and residents faced difficulties in and around Kharar.The protesting teachers blocked the Chandigarh-Kharar road near the bus stand, leading to a huge traffic jam in the afternoon. Police officials tried to negotiate with the computer teachers.State president Gurwinder Singh Tarn Taran said, “Computer teachers said they had been struggling for a long time. Instead of accepting their demands, the state government and bureaucracy are exploiting them. Our dharna will continue till orders ae issued regarding demands.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-block-road-in-kharar-348453
10-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lads Harnoor Pannu, Rajangad Bawa in India U-19 cricket squad||Local lads Harnoor Pannu and Rajangad Bawa have been selected to represent India U-19 team for the upcoming Asia Youth Cup, to be held in Dubai, staring from December 23.The duo has been selected on the basis of their performance while representing India A team in the recently concluded Triangular Series. The duo has been asked to report at Bengaluru on December 11, informed UTCA’s spokesperson. In the Triangular Series, held in Kolkata, Pannu had impressed by scoring 191 runs, including one century and one half-century, in three matches with a strike rate of 83.77. He shot 26 boundaries and one six in three matches.Bawa, meanwhile, had claimed four wickets on an economy rate of 6.44.Pannu, who hails from Jalandhar, is pursuing his studies from Chandigarh. He scored 412 runs, including three centuries, during the U-19 Challenger Trophy before playing in the India A for the upcoming Triangular Series. Bawa, who is an all-rounder, had scored a total of 154 runs including a century (119) and eight wickets in three innings with the best bowling figures of 3/45 in the Challenger Trophy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/local-lads-harnoor-rajangad-in-india-u-19-cricket-squad-348456
10-12-2021||Panchkula||Youth held with 550-gm ganja||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-with-550-gm-ganja-348459
10-12-2021||Mohali||Man booked for raping minor||Crash survivor’s Chandimandir linkNew Delhi: Gp Capt Varun Singh, who is battling for his life after the copter crash at Wellington, is an alumnus of Army Public School, Chandimandir. Just three months ago, after being awarded the Shaurya Chakra, he wrote to the school Principal motivating students. TNSThree youths snatch mobileMohali: Three unidentified scooty-borne youths snatched a mobile phone of a Jujhar Nagar resident, Irshad Alam, near a temple in Behlolpur. The complainant stated that he, along with his uncle, was on his way home. Three youths came and asked him to lend his phone to make a call. The trio then dialled a number and started talking. As soon as the complainant turned around, they pushed him and fled the spot. A case has been registered at the Balongi police station. TNSChandigarh cops nail 3 with ganjaChandigarh: A team led by Inspector Rajiv Kumar nabbed a 35-year-old woman, Meenu of Pinjore, at Mauli Jagran while she was carrying 10-kg ganja. Cops on patrol duty arrested another suspect, identified as Laxman Parsad of Sanjay Colony, Industrial Area, Phase-1, with 10-kg ganja. The third suspect, Jamman (30) of Chamba district in Himachal, was arrested at the ISBT, Sector 43, while possessing 1.5-kg ganja. Cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the suspects at different police stations. TNSTributes paid to ’71 war martyrsChandigarh: To commemorate the 75th anniversary of Independence and 50th anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971, a felicitation ceremony for the martyrs of the 1971 Indo-Pak war belonging to the city was organised by the Chandigarh NCC Group here today. Tributes were paid to Major Shashi Pal Singh, Major KJ Singh and Major DP Lakhanpal of the 6 Rajput. TNSMan duped of Rs 60 lakh, 2 bookedPanchkula: The local police have booked a dismissed Tehsilar and his son under Sections 406, 420 and 506, IPC, at the Sector 5 police station for allegedly duping a Sector 2 resident of Rs60 lakh on the pretext of arranging a government job for him. The complainant, Aditya Dutt, told the police that terminated Tehsildar Mohinder Sangwan and his son Sikandar Sangwan took Rs60 lakh from him after promising him the job of Naib Tehsidar. “Neither did the suspects keep the promise nor did they return the money,” the FIR read. TNSExpert dwells on nation buildingMohali: Chandigarh University organised an expert talk in which IAS officer and TEDx speaker Sonal Goyal interacted with students on the ‘Role of youth for nation building’. “There is no dearth of talent, knowledge and resources in the country. The youth is poised to play an important role in nation building. There is a lot of creativity, dynamism and innovation in youth, which needs to be channelised properly,” said Sonal.TNSArchit wins gold in BodybuildingMohali: Kharar bodybuilder Archit Chhatwal won the gold medal in the men’s physique event of the fourth edition of the Olympia Amateur India 2021 held at the Bombay Exhibition Centre from December 3 to 5. Chhatwal hails from Shimla. In 2017, he had won the Mr Himachal fitness competition. TNSTwo held for taking bribeAmbala: A state Vigilance Bureau team arrested a Food and Civil Supplies Department inspector and an agent for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs20,000 from a depot holder on Wednesday evening. The accused have been identified as inspector Vinod Dubey and agent Anish. The inspector was posted in Barara. The complainant alleged that the inspector had taken bribe twice in the past too. He was allegedly pressurising depot holder to pay money else he would issue a depot license to some other person in his area. A case has been registered against them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-raping-minor-348468
