11-12-2021||---||Afghan forces were betrayed by politics and Presidents: Gen Malik||Chandigarh, December 11On the reasons of the collapse of the Afghan National Army before the onslaught of the Taliban, Gen VP Malik (retd) on Saturday said they were betrayed by politics and their Presidents.He was speaking at Military Literature Festival 2021 today.Gen Malik described former President Ashraf Ghani leaving the country as a great betrayal and pointed out that there was no coordination between civil administration and military.He added that the Afghan military was trained on the US model of infantry being aided by airstrikes and helicopter-based reconnaissance. With US forces leaving, the rules of engagement changed overnight.Taliban were fighting with small arms and IEDs. “Many units of the Afghan army surrendered.”He pointed out corruption, drug abuse and illiteracy in the Afghan military. “Many military leaders were chosen for having links with tribal politicians,” he said and added that they lacked credentials. “They didn’t inspire confidence in the Army.”“Nationalism, value system, ethos which are important for any national army were missing in the Afghan military,” he said, besides pointing out the existence of ghost battalions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/afghan-forces-were-betrayed-by-politics-and-presidents-gen-malik-349190
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||2 years on, police fail to crack Chandigarh journalist molestation case||Even two years after a woman journalist was molested during a morning walk at Panjab University’s Botanical Garden, the UT police have failed to crack the case.On December 9, 2019, the complainant, a resident of the PU campus, had gone for a walk at the Botanical Garden when an unknown person came from the rear side and molested her. She fought back and gave a tough fight to the middle-aged perpetrator, who later fled from the spot. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Sector 11 police station.During the investigation, a sketch of the suspect was made to trace the molester and the police visited areas near the PU campus. Class VI employees at the PU, mess and canteen workers and security guards were also verified by the police. However, all efforts turned futile.Dump of mobile towers was also scrutinised by the police but the investigators did not find any lead.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-years-on-police-fail-to-crack-case-349015
11-12-2021||Mohali||Inflating sand rates: Mohali administration to take against erring retailers, crusher owners||The Mohali administration today reiterated that strict action will be taken against any retailer or crusher owner, who charge more than the stipulated rates of sand in the district.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said the rates of crushers and retailers had been fixed in three zones, including Mubarakpur, Handesra and Majri. “Any panchayat has to go to the BDPO concerned for its development work. Sand can be obtained from any mining site absolutely free of cost after getting certified by the government,” she added.Officials said after the new mining policy was announced, any customer could purchase sand/gravel directly from mining sites at Rs5.50 per cubic foot. “If any customer is charged more than mentioned rates, he can lodge a complaint at 0172-2219505,” they added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/action-to-be-taken-against-erring-retailers-crusher-owners-349016
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Scribe's 'Silent Conversations' released in city||Award-winning journalist and author Jupinderjit Singh’s fourth book, “Silent Conversations”, was launched at Tagore Theatre with a uniquely designed performance poetry - “Ardhnarishvara”.Jupinderjit credits the Chandigarh Literary Society with waking up the writer and poet in him as he informs, “It was at a Chandigarh Literati Festival where I came up with the idea of writing a book on Bhagat Singh titled, ‘Discovery of Bhagat Singh’s Pistol and his Ahimsa’.”Jupinderjit is not new to poems. He wrote his first poem when he was in Class IX, which was a love letter for his Hindi teacher. He believes journalism actually helped him in understanding emotions and sensitivities of different gender and class, especially of crime victims.“My lead poem, ‘I bleed’ is based on the suffering of rape victims. It is based on brutal rape and murder of Delhi girl Nirbhaya and Canadian girl Jassi, about whom I also wrote a book, ‘Justice for Jassi’,” he adds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scribes-silent-conversations-released-in-city-349019
11-12-2021||Ambala||Ambala: 3 booked for murder attempt||The police have booked three persons under attempt to murder charge and illegal mining after they attempted to run over mining officials with a dumper in Naraingarh on Thursday.A case has been registered against Bhima, Manish, and unknown dumper driver under Sections 186, 307, 332, 34, 353, IPC, and 21(1) and 4(1) of Mines and Minerals (Regulations of development) Act at the Naraingarh police station.In his complaint to the police, Roshan Lal, a guard of the Mining and Geology Department, stated that he, along with his team, were going towards Toka village around 9 am on Thursday. “On reaching near Taprian village, we saw a dumper loaded with illegally mined gravel going ahead of us. We chased the vehicle and stopped it. Meanwhile, the dumper driver fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind,” he said.The complainant further stated that dumper owner Bhima, along with Manish, reached the spot. Bhima started the dumper and with the help of Manish, he offloaded gravel at two-three places, he added. “They manhandled our team, attempted to run over us with his dumper and then fled towards Himachal Pradesh,” he said.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-booked-for-murder-attempt-349021
11-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Fatehgarh Sahib: Four days on, missing man found dead||Fatehgarh Sahib, December 10The body of a man who went missing was found in the pond of Sampli village.The deceased has been identified as Harjinder Singh, a resident Chunni Kalan village. On December 4, he had gone to attend the wedding ceremony of his friend at Sampli.In a complaint to the Chunni police, Nachhatar Singh, the victim’s father-in-law, stated that Harjinder had gone to Sampli on December 4 to attend his friend's wedding and did not return home. He said on Wednesday, he got information that a body was lying in the pond of Sampli village. He went there and found that it was his son-in-law’s body.The complainant stated that the hairs of the deceased were loose and his lower body was naked. He suspected that someone had killed his son-in-law and threw the body in the pond.Giving information today, the police said they had registered a case following the statement of the victim’s father-in-law and started an investigation into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-days-on-missing-man-found-dead-349022
11-12-2021||---||Mohali: No arrest in Youth Akali Dal leader's murder||Mohali, December 10Even after four months, the police are yet to arrest any suspect in connection with the cold-blooded murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera at a market in Sector 71, here. The kin of the deceased will take out a justice march in the Phase 3B2 market tomorrow.Ajaypal Singh Middukhera, brother of the deceased, said: “It has been four months, but the police are yet to make any arrest in the broad daylight murder. The police say it is a contract killing, but they have not been able to clarify the motive behind the murder. We demand justice in the case and appeal to the police to arrest the suspects.”The kin of the deceased complained that the assailants and the incident were captured in the CCTV footage. The shooters are still roaming freely.According to the police, the contract killing was carried out at the behest of Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, who is running the Davinder Bambiha gang from Armenia. He took the help of Kaushal Chaudhary and Amit Dagar, who is lodged in the Mandoli Jail. On Amit Dagar’s instructions, Sajjan, alias Bholu, from Jhajjar, and Anil Kumar from Dwarka in Delhi, had chased and shot dead Middukhera.Kaushal Chaudhary and Amit Dagar have been questioned by the Mohali police, but there has been no headway.Middukhera was shot dead by two men while he was boarding his SUV after visiting a property dealer in Sector 71 on August 7. The same day, the Devinder Bambiha gang had claimed the responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-arrest-in-yad-leaders-murder-349023
11-12-2021||---||Child dies during treatment, kin create ruckus at Mohali hospital||Mohali, December 10Attendants of a patient created ruckus at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here, after a four-month-old child, Saudagar, died during treatment here this morning.The child’s maternal grandfather Jatinder Goswami, a native of Bihar, alleged that doctors administered a wrong injection to the child due to which he died.HS Cheema, SMO, Phase 6 Civil Hospital, said: “The child’s condition was not good when he was brought to the hospital. The patient was taken to the PGI earlier from where he was sent home. When his condition deteriorated, he was brought here. The police reached the spot and pacified the protesters.The family members of the child and other visitors protested against the staff alleging negligence. A woman suffered injuries during the protest.Patients had to bear inconvenience as commotion erupted outside the Emergency ward. Security guards later removed the protesters from outside the Emergency ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-dies-during-treatment-kin-create-ruckus-at-hospital-349024
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||FIR can't be quashed on basis of compromise: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that an FIR involving non-compoundable sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) could not be quashed on the basis of a compromise, once the charges had been framed, and the framing of the charges accepted by the petitioner-accused.The Bench also refused to quash, on the basis of a compromise with the complainant, an FIR registered under Section 304-A of the IPC for causing death by negligence.Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi asserted he had heard the counsel for the parties and gone through the record. It was a conceded fact between the parties that the challan was presented against the accused after investigation in the present case. Even the charges had been framed against the accused under Section 304-A of the IPC. Not only this, the counsel for the petitioner as well as the complainant conceded that the offence under Section 304-A IPC was a non-compoundable.Justice Sethi also relied upon a High Court judgment stating that intervention in favour of the accused in such cases was indeed a dangerous proposition. Justice Sethi quoted the judgment as saying intervention had a potential to provide an impetus to a proclivity on part of the drivers to continue with their rash and negligent act buoyed by the thought that they would get away with the crime by affording sufficient compensation to the victim’s legal representatives.Justice Sethi added the counsel for the petitioner had not been able to rebut the proposition of law. “That being so, the prayer of the petitioner in the present petition cannot be accepted in view of the settled principle of law,” said Justice Sethi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fir-cant-be-quashed-on-basis-of-compromise-hc-349025
11-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CBI files chargesheet against nine accused in Rs 33-crore SBI fraud case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet against nine accused in an alleged fraud case with the State Bank of India (SBI).The accused named in the chargesheet are promoters, directors and former directors of Vardhman Life Sciences Private Limited and one more company.The CBI has registered a case against the accused in 2016 on a complaint filed by officials of the SBI alleging that the bank had been duped of over Rs33 crore by the firm.It has been alleged in the chargesheet that the loan was taken by the Chandigarh-based company to set up a plant in Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu. However, the money was diverted to personal accounts. The complaint alleged that inspection of the plant was also manipulated by installing used machinery.The CBI alleged that that the accused in connivance and criminal conspiracy had siphoned off the bank funds by misrepresentation, fabrication and forgery of documents and falsification of financial records. An alleged loss of Rs33.79 crore (approximately) was caused to the bank.Promoters and directors of the company Suyog Jain, RS Gujral, Vivek Gupta, SK Singla, RK Goyal, Sandeep Aggarwal and Deepak Mahajan have been named in the chargesheet. The other accused named in the chargesheet include Maheda Ram Chaudhary, Rane Engineers and Surveyors and Viraj S Rane, engineer, Rane Engineers and Surveyors.After the investigation of more than five years, the CBI filed a chargesheet against the accused.In the complaint before the CBI, the bank said Vardhman Life Sciences Private Limited approached the commercial branch of the bank in Sector 17, Chandigarh, and three other banks for grant of financial assistance by way of term loan under Multiple Banking Arrangement for the brownfield project for the manufacture of 6-APA and potassium clavulanate at a projected cost of Rs295 crore at the manufacturing plant at Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu.The CBI said term loans aggregating to Rs175 crore were afforded to the company in September 2010 from four national banks — Rs40 crore from SBI, Rs40 crore from State Bank of Hyderabad, Rs40 crore from State Bank of Patiala and Rs55 crore from Exim Bank.The CBI said when the commercial production of the proposed plants was delayed, the bank conducted an inspection on its own to examine the viability of the project. The inspection reports found several discrepancies in the project. The reports indicated the diversion of the money.It said despite the dispersal of the entire term loan, a sum of Rs65 crore was still needed to complete the project. It has been alleged in the chargesheet that the company had purchased an old broiler against the requirement of the new one for its power plant. The bank again conducted another study, which also revealed many alleged other irregularities.The CBI also alleged that the surveyor, Rane Engineers and Surveyors, in connivance with the accused company, submitted a faulty inspection report to mislead the bank.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-nine-accused-349026
11-12-2021||---||2 walk free in minor's rape, abduction case||Chandigarh, December 10Swati Sehgal, Judge, Fast Track Special Court, Chandigarh, has acquitted two persons in a three-year-old rape and abduction case after the police failed to prove charges against the accused.As per the prosecution, the case was registered against the accused under Sections 363, 506, 366, 120-B and 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act on a complaint of the victim, a minor girl, in 2017.As per the complaint, one accused abducted the victim and took her to the house of the co-accused.The accused were later arrested by the police. After investigation, the police submitted a challan against the accused in the court.After finding prima facie case against the accused, the court framed the charges to which they pleaded not guilty. Public Prosecutor claimed that the victim was minor and the prosecution has proved the case against the accused.PIP Singh and Aanchal Thakur, counsels of the accused, claimed that they were innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case. They argued that there were contradictions in the statements of the victim. The counsels said the prosecution had failed to prove charges against the accused.After hearing the arguments and examining the witnesses, the court acquitted both accused of the offences registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-walk-free-in-minors-rape-abduction-case-349027
11-12-2021||Mohali||2 days on, Mohali cops still groping in the dark||Two days after four miscreants took away the car of Rajesh Tripathi, Additional Secretary, Information and Technology, at gunpoint near the road dividing Sectors 86 and 87 on Wednesday night, the police are still groping in the dark. They are still relying on the CCTV footage of the area to identify the miscreants.Four car-borne youth took away the car of a PCS officer near the road dividing Sectors 86 and 87 around 10:45 pm on Wednesday.The police said the miscreants waylaid him while he was returning to his home in Sector 88. Three youths took away the car from him at gunpoint and fled the spot.DSP (City-2) Sukhjeet Singh said: “We have formed teams to nab the suspects. However, no arrest has been made so far.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-days-on-mohali-cops-still-groping-in-the-dark-349028
11-12-2021||Panchkula||Migrant killed in accident||One arrested on extortion chargeMohali: The police have arrested a Jalandhar resident, Varinder Singh, for demanding a ransom of Rs5 lakh from two Kharar-based immigration company owners. The suspect made a WhatsApp call from an international number to the complainant Rajkamal, a Kharar resident, and demanded money on behalf of gangster Jaggu Bhagwania on November 27. The police said the suspect also used to operate a Facebook account of the gangster. The suspect was sent to two-day police remand. TNSTruckers’ protest enters Day 4Zirakpur: Commuters were inconvenienced for close to two hours in the evening after truckers’ union members blocked the traffic in protest against the state government at the Chhat light point on the Airport road here on Friday. The protesters are demanding restoration of unions that were dissolved by the Congress government in 2018. On the fourth day of their protest, the union members said they were in dire straits as there were no official rates and the annual hike of five-six per cent was also not implemented. TNSSector 9 club manager bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked a club manager for serving hookah to customers. The police said hookah was being served to customers at the club, Pipe and Barrel, in Sector 9, here, on December 9. A case has been registered against the manager, Gurpeet Singh, at the Sector 3 police station. TNSPU girls beat Sec 42 collegeChandigarh: Panjab University, Chandigarh, defeated (2-1) Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, in the Punjab University Inter-College Football Women Tournament at PGGC-11 here on Friday. Muskan and Anisha of Panjab University and Deepshikha of PGGCG-42 scored one goal each. Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11, defeated MR Government College, Fazilka, (7-0). GHG Khalsa College, Gursar Sudhar, Ludhiana, will take on Panjab University Campus and PGGC-11 will face MCM DAV, Sector 36, on Saturday. TNSChess tourney begins todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Parents’ Shatranj Association has announced the revival of offline chess tournaments in the tricity. The 25th edition of the practice tournament will be held on December 11 and 12 at Learning Paths School, Sector 67, Mohali. The tournament will be open for all age categories and players from any state of India can participate in it. The entry fee will be Rs800 for the two-day event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migrant-killed-in-accident-349029
11-12-2021||---||Speeding car runs over 5 sleeping on footpath in Panchkula||Panchkula, December 10A speeding car ran over a family of five sleeping on a footpath near Singh Dwar in the Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) area on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, leaving one of them critically injured and the others with minor injuries.The seriously injured victim, Ranjeet, who was first referred to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, is battling for his life at the PGI.After selling brooms during the day, Naru Lal, his wife, mother, sister and brother-in-law, all natives of Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, were asleep around 1 am when a rashly driven speeding car, bearing the registration number, HR03V-2902, ran over them and hit a pole.According to an FIR, the car driver fled from the spot on foot following the incident, leaving the vehicle behind.The family had arrived in Chandigarh on December 8 by train to sell date palm brooms. The police have impounded the car for investigation, the police said.The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed near the spot was being examined. The suspect would be nabbed soon, the police added.A case has been registered against the unknown suspect under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by an act endangering the life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life) of the Indian Penal Code at the MDC police station.Family had come from RajasthanAfter selling brooms during the day, Naru Lal, his wife, mother, sister and brother-in-law, all natives of Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, were asleep around 1 am when a rashly driven speeding car, bearing the registration number, HR03V-2902, ran over them and hit a pole.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speeding-car-runs-over-5-sleeping-on-footpath-348930
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 2 Covid-19 cases||The city on Friday reported two cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Nine patients were cured in the past 24 hours. — TNS11 cases in Mohali Mohali: Eleven new Covid-19 cases were detected in the district on Friday. Four persons were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, five surfaced in Kharar, two each in Dhakoli and Mohali, and one each in Dera Bassi and Boothgarh. There are now 76 active cases. — TNS5 +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported five fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 30,862. The toll remained at 379. While 30,457 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 26 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-2-cases-348931
11-12-2021||---||Heart travels 2,500 km from PGI to Chennai to save life||Chandigarh, December 10A harvested heart from a deceased organ donor at the PGI here travelled around 2,500 km for a matching recipient in Chennai. The harvested heart was sent from the PGI to the international airport in Mohali in 22 minutes by creating a ‘green corridor’ for the Vistara airlines flight scheduled for departure at 3.25 pm on Wednesday.After landing at 8.30 pm at Chennai, the retrieved heart was taken MGM Healthcare Hospital in Chennai where it was transplanted to a terminally ill 52-year-old male patient. The harvested liver, kidneys and corneas were transplanted to five patients here at the PGI.Green corridor createdProf Surjeet Singh, Director, PGI, while expressing his gratitude to the donor family, said, “Timing is the key to transplantation. It is commendable that the heart was retrieved and transported within such a short span of time despite the matching recipient being 2,500 km away. We remain indebted to the donor family for consenting to save and enrich others’ livesin their hour of indescribable grief, impacting six lives tangibly and kindling hope in many more ‘in-waiting’ recipients intangibly.”Commending the contribution of the PGI team, he said, “The entire team, right from neurosurgeons, intensivists, nephrologists,hepatologists, testing labs, transplant surgeons, transplant coordinators and nursing officers, worked in tandem to translate the noble wish of the donor family into actually saving precious lives.”In an extremely unfortunate turn of events, a 45-year-old man met with a fatal accident, sustaining grievous head injury on December 4. He was rushed to the PGI. However, as his condition deteriorated and became irretrievable, he was declared brain dead at the PGI following the protocol of THOA at 11.30 pm on December 7.The family, amid the grim tragedy of losing their dear one, displayed exceptional courage and magnanimity and consented for organ donation of their deceased relative, when counselled by the transplant coordinator at the PGI. Following the family’s consent, the heart, liver, kidneys and corneas were retrieved from the donor for transplantation to save other lives.Since there was no matching recipient for heart here, it was allocated for a matching recipient in MGM Healthcare Hospital in Chennai with the intervention of NOTTO. The remaining retrieved organs, including liver and kidneys, were transplanted to terminally ill organ failure patients at the PGI, thereby giving them a second lease of life. The harvested corneas, on transplantation, restored the sight of two corneal blind patients, thereby influencing six lives in all, one in Chennai and other five at the PGI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heart-travels-2-500-km-from-pgi-to-chennai-to-save-life-348932
11-12-2021||Mohali||6 dengue cases in Mohali district||Six confirmed and seven suspected dengue cases were reported from the district on Friday. With this, the count has reached 3,935. As many as 39 dengue deaths have been registered in the district so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-dengue-cases-in-mohali-district-348933
11-12-2021||---||Chandigarh: Rs10-lakh reward for info on Sippy Sidhu's murder||Chandigarh, December 10The CBI has announced a reward of Rs10 lakh for anyone providing credible information about the murder of national-level shooter and advocate Sukhmanpreet Singh Sidhu, aka Sippy Sidhu, that leads to the arrest of of the killer. This is the second time the CBI has announced a reward. Earlier in 2016, it had announced a reward of Rs5 lakh.The CBI has stated that members of the public are requested to come forward if they have any credible information regarding the murder or any relevant information.Sippy was shot dead on September 20, 2015. A .12 bore gun was used in the crime and four bullets were fired from it. The UT police had registered a case of murder at the Sector 26 police station.In January 2016, the case was transferred to the CBI, after which the investigating agency registered a murder case and began a probe.The role of a woman in Sippy’s murder cropped up during the CBI investigation. However, they wanted to gather more clues following which, around seven months later, in September 2016, CBI sleuths announced a reward ofRs5 lakh for anybody providing a clue that could help crack the case.The CBI also gave a newspaper advertisement stating that “there is reason to believe that a woman was accompanying Sippy’s killer at the time of the murder. The said woman is also being given this opportunity to come forward and contact us if she is innocent. Otherwise it shall be presumed that she was a party to the offence”.However, the investigating agency failed to make a headway in the case. Last year, the CBI had filed an “untraced report” in the court and had mentioned that investigation may be allowed to open and continue as it has brought strong suspicion qua the role of a woman to eliminate Sippy Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-lakh-reward-for-info-on-sippy-sidhus-murder-348934
11-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Construction of floors triggers conflicts among Panchkula people||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 10Pawan Kumar of Sector 11, DD Sharma of Sector 2, and RS Kathuria of Sector 11........the list of those, who call themselves victims of amendments in the Haryana Building Code of 2018, which allows people to build ground plus three floors, and in case of a stilt parking, a stilt plus four floors, goes on.The “indiscriminate construction of new floors” by their neighbours, as they put it, has left irreparable damages like cracked walls and floors, damaged roofs in their houses, leading to conflicts among them.They said, “It is putting burden on adjacent houses and infrastructure, particularly in old sectors and depriving them of basics of life – privacy, air, and sunlight.”Obstructing air and lightIn some cases, the issue has even led to people ending in a physical confrontation and subsequently filing police complaints against each other. A few, like DD Sharma of Sector 2, have also approached the court.Almost all claim, they had approached the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and other authorities concerned for a resolution, but to no avail.Take the case of Pawan Kumar, who lives in house number 706, Sector 11. He said his house developed cracks and suffered damages due to the ongoing construction of a stilt plus four floors in the adjoining plot. The dispute led to a quarrel. Eventually, both parties filed FIRs against each other.Meanwhile, Pawan Kumar approached the HSVP with his complaint.The Estate Officer of the HSVP, Panchkula, subsequently issued a show-cause notice to the owner of his adjoining house under Section 17(3) of the HSVP Act, 1977 and asked him to stop the construction.Urging the HSVP to amend bylaws, Pawan Kumar said, “The construction of additional floors should not be allowed in old sectors. Old structures develop cracks and walls get damaged as these are common between two houses.”RS Kathuria, a residential of the area said, “Due to construction of stilt parking plus four floors in the adjoining plot, my house developed cracks. It even caused dampness and structural damaged in our residence. But, the HSVP didn’t take any action against our neighbour despite several letters dispatched to the authority in this regard.”SK Nayar, president, Citizens’ Welfare Association, said, “With the permission for additional floors, the old houses adjacent to under-construction homes are unable to bear the load. The major reason was the increase in the floor area ratio (FAR).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/construction-of-floors-triggers-conflicts-among-panchkula-people-348935
11-12-2021||---||Governor releases PEC calendar||Chandigarh, December 10The Centenary Year Calendar 2022 of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, was released today by Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit, along with Adviser to the Administrator and Secretary, Technical Education, Chandigarh Administration, Dharam Pal, and SS Gill, IAS, at the Governor House today.The calendar captures the aesthetics, iconic structures and natural beauty of the PEC Campus photographed by hobbyist photographer Dr Arun Khanna.The photograph of the PEC auditorium, one of Chandigarh’s iconic structures as it housed the first Legislative Assembly of Punjab in 1953, was presented to the Governor by the institute Director as a memento.The Governor appreciated team’s efforts led by the PEC Director in celebrating the centenary year and conveyed his wishes for the institute to keep progressing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/governor-releases-pec-calendar-348936
11-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Construction not over yet at Sec 17 football stadium||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10There’s no end to construction at the Sector 17 football stadium. Earlier, UT Engineering Department replaced concrete floor at the stadium entrance and repaired water pipelines.The stadium was handed over to the UT Sports Department on trial basis recently. And within days, flaws have started to emerge. The Engineering Department has already failed to satisfy football experts over the structure of the stadium. However, in order to cover-up, the department has repaired everything overnight.The work to replace the present concrete floor has started at various patches around the stadium. Not only this, sources claimed that a survey by experts revealed that more such major repair work was needed at many other places. The current situation is expected to delay the process of officially handing over the stadium to the UT Sports Department.“Many cracks have started to emerge on the concrete floor, which is now being replaced. The boundary of the upcoming open basketball court has the same issue. We can’t say anything officially,” said a worker at the stadium.Sports Department officials maintained that they were yet to get possession of the ground.“These are minor works, which will be completed before handing over the ground to the Sports Department. We have yet to install a steel-fence behind goal posts and prior to that minor works will continue,” said an official present at the spot.The stadium, built in 1960s, has been reconstructed under the ‘Urban Park’ theme. As per the actual plan, the stadium and its surroundings were to undergo a major revamp with the inclusion of cycling/skating park, badminton hall, multipurpose ground and many other facilities. The new stadium is also stated to have a 25x16m live screen, which is yet to be installed.“Officials should be blamed for the delay and problems occurring at the stadium. Since four years, the Engineering Department is constructing this ground. As time to handover the arena comes near, flaws have started emerging at the stadium,” said a senior coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/construction-not-over-yet-at-sec-17-football-stadium-348937
11-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Health Dept collects samples of Badwala school staff, students||Teams of the District Health Department collected samples of all staff and students of Government High School, Badwala, where a teacher had tested positive for Covid.The Senior Medical Officer, Dr Bhupendra Singh, said 109 samples were taken from the school. He said due to increasing cold and pollution in the weather, people were facing health problems. In such a situation there were chances of spreading many diseases, he added. Everybody, especially pregnant women, the elderly or those, who were suffering from any disease, should get their health checked from time to time and follow doctors’ advice, he said. He urged people to get inoculated and follow instructions of the department regarding Covid prevention. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-dept-collects-samples-of-badwala-school-staff-students-348938
11-12-2021||---||Chandigarh: Vehicles parked on pavements, roadsides  inconvenience residents||Chandigarh, December 10Vehicles parked on pavements, roadsides and parks outside houses are causing congestion on roads and inconvenience to residents.For want of space in some areas, people park vehicles at non-designated places. At some places, even if there is parking space inside the houses, people park vehicles outside. Residents face inconvenience as sometimes vehicles are parked in front of the gates of their houses and they are unable to drive out their cars. At times, fights break out among residents in such cases.Vehicles are parked even on pavements in residential as well as commercial areas, leaving little space for pedestrians. Inner roads of sectors are narrow and at some places, cars are parked on both sides of the road.Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), said, “Residents are fed up with this. Every other day, we get a call from some or the other sector about fights due to parking issues outside houses. The problem is more in southern sectors.” He added that the need of the hour was community parking facility and stilt parking in new houses.However, the UT Administration seems to be moving at a snail’s pace to resolve the issue. After a long delay, the Administration had earlier notified the parking policy with the aim to decongest the city. It has been proposed to impose congestion charges, link availability of parking space with vehicle’s registration and open community parking facilities in different areas.Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vehicles-parked-on-pavements-roadsides-inconvenience-residents-348939
11-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC polls: BJP, Congress rebels join hands, form 'Azad Front'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10In what may cause some trouble for the BJP and the Congress, their rebels, who filed nominations as Independent candidates for the Municipal Corporation elections scheduled for December 24, have now formed ‘Azad Front’.It is spearheaded by former Congress general secretary Shashi Shankar Tiwari, who rebelled against the party after he was denied the ticket. Since then, Tiwari, president of the Purvanchal Vikas Mahasangh, has been trying to form a common forum of Independents to take on the BJP and the Congress.We have managed to bring all these Independent candidates under one platform. We will hold meetings and jointly chalk out our campaign strategy. The Congress and the BJP have used us and gave the ticket to their near and dear ones. Both parties ruled the MC, but did not resolve the pending issues. —Shashi Shankar Tiwari, Former Congress general secretary “We have managed to bring all these Independent candidates under one platform. We will hold meetings and jointly chalk out our campaign strategy. The Congress and the BJP have used us and gave the ticket to their near and dear ones. Both ruled the city MC, but did not resolve the pending issues,” he said.Ambitious Tiwari is also eyeing the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “Under the Azad Front, we will contest the next Lok Sabha elections too. We will be the actual voice of Chandigarh residents. Mainstream parties have served no purpose,” he said.“Our forum is getting stronger day by day. We already have 12 candidates joining hands and more are still coming,” he said.The group primarily has representation from the colony areas of Chandigarh.Tiwari said the 12 Independent candidates, who joined hands, are Krishan Lal (Ward No. 3), Manpreet Kaur (Ward No. 9), Veeru (Ward No. 35), Prempal Chahuan (Ward No. 15), Harvansh Singh (Ward No. 29), Sushila Pathak (Ward No. 10), Kripanand Thakur (Ward No. 20), Asha Rani (Ward No. 7), Mukesh Goyal (Ward No. 32), Sohan Singh Mauli (Ward No. 8), Narendra Chaudhary (Ward No. 26) and Parmajit Kaur (Ward No. 4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-congress-rebels-join-hands-form-azad-front-348940
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP chief Tandon counters 'chargesheet' against saffron party||Former city BJP president Sanjay Tandon today slammed the Congress over its “chargesheet.” Addressing a press conference, he alleged that “The Congress’s tenure in the Chandigarh MC will always be remembered for a series of scams and scandals ranging from rail, booth and clothes theft. The Congress is in quarantine for the past six years and is trying to recover from it in these elections. People are preparing to send them to quarantine again.”While countering the “chargesheet” filed against the BJP, Tandon said the Congress had not only indulged in scams during its 14-year tenure, while the BJP gave impetus to development in the city.He said when the entire country was facing the problem of oxygen, Chandigarh was not only self-sufficient in this area, but also the needs of neighbouring states were fulfilled by the city.Tandon, while taking BJP’s side on the issue of pollution, said an oxygen purifier had been installed at the Transport Chowk to keep the city’s air clean and all this happened during the BJP’s tenure. Greenery in the city had increased from 38 to 46 per cent. He said Chandigarh did not need the Delhi model, but Delhi need the Chandigarh model. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tandon-counters-chargesheet-against-saffron-party-348941
11-12-2021||---||Congress coordinator slams BJP, raises inflation issue||Chandigarh, December 10Rajender Rana, Congress coordinator for the Chandigarh MC elections, slammed the ruling BJP during public meetings held in support of Congress candidates in Ward Nos 18 and 1 here today.Rajender Rana wanted to know from the BJP that “who has damaged the pride of Chandigarh despite being in power in the corporation” for the past six years and government at the Centre.“BJP leaders should answer to public that how Chandigarh, which was at the third place in the cleanliness rankings in the country, slipped to the 66th position during its rule?,” he said.“Who is responsible for the deteriorating condition of roads and parks of Chandigarh and what the BJP did for the pride of the city during its rule in the corporation? People want to know why the BJP is advocating privatisation of Electricity Department while it is running in profits,” Rana further asked the BJP.He also raised the issue of inflation. “The way the public showed doors to the BJP in the recently held Himachal Pradesh elections, people in Chandigarh will also go for the Congress for a strong leadership,” added the Sujanpur MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-coordinator-slams-bjp-raises-inflation-issue-348942
11-12-2021||---||Shot in the arm for Congress in Chandigarh as senior AAP leader crosses over||Chandigarh, December 10Daisy Walia, a senior AAP leader, and Inderjeet Ahluwalia, a senior activist, along with other AAP workers, joined the Congress here today.They joined the party in the presence of Rajinder Rana, MLA, Sujanpur, HP, Deepa Asthir Dubey, president, Chandigarh Mahila Congress, and Bhupinder Badheri and Dr OP Verma, both senior leaders, at the Congress Bhawan in Sector 35.Daisy Walia alleged the local leadership of the AAP was totally ignoring its genuine workers. They were only wooing people with rich resources and denying tickets to grassroots level workers. She alleged that the AAP party is doing pure commercial business in the name of politics.Meanwhile, Sanyum Grover, son of BJP leader Sanjeev Grover, also joined the Congress with his team of youngsters. People attended a nukkad meeting of the Congress at Buterla village falling under Ward No. 30.Rawat’s election office inauguratedAlka Lamba, spokesperson for the Congress, inaugurated an election office of Gurbax Rawat, Congress candidate from Ward No. 27, at the Ramlila Ground, Sector 40.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shot-in-the-arm-for-congress-348943
11-12-2021||---||AAP MP praises Delhi model||Chandigarh, December 10Former ICAI president and Rajya Sabha MP ND Gupta from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) attended a special evening, “Conclave of Chartered Accountants”, organised by the AAP here today. Rajya Sabha MP from Delhi Sushil Gupta also shared his views.Speaking on the occasion, MP Sushil Gupta from the AAP said the party had changed the status as well as the direction of the country’s politics by eliminating the VIP culture in Delhi.He said along with education to all children, people had been provided with electricity, clean water and other basic facilities at affordable rates. He said their aim was not to do politics, but to change the old corrupt system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-mp-praises-delhi-model-348944
11-12-2021||Amit Bathla||No space, can't set up O2 plants, claim Panchkula private hospitals||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 10The Panchkula Chief Medical Officer (CMO) has written to the Director General of Health Services (DGHS), Haryana, for further action after private hospitals in the district cited space crunch as the reason for their failure to set up oxygen generation plants on their premises to cater to Covid patients.CMO Dr Mukta Kumar said, “The six-month period fixed by the state government for private hospitals with 50-plus beds to set up their own oxygen plants is already over. Yesterday, private hospitals finally submitted their reply, in which they claimed no space to install oxygen plants.”Were given 6 monthsThe six-month period fixed by the state government for private hospitals with 50-plus beds to set up their own oxygen plants is already over. —Dr Mukta Kumar, Chief medical officer, PanchkulaWhen asked about further action, the CMO said she had written a letter to the DGHS and attached alongwiththe response of local private hospitals.Three private hospitals – Alchemist, Ojas and Paras – submitted their replies to the CMO yesterday after pressure mounted on them for information on installation of oxygen plants despite two reminders sent to them.In case of non-compliance, Health Minister Anil Vij had warned of strict action against private hospitals.The Civil Hospital in Sector 6 had, earlier this year, increased its liquid medical oxygen storage capacity to 16 kl to strengthen its preparedness for a possible third wave of Covid and reserve the supply of life-saving gas for indoor patients.An oxygen plant with a capacity of 300 litres per minute was also made functional at the Civil Hospital after the infirmary faced medical emergency due to a delay in the arrival of an oxygen tanker from Roorkee during the second wave in May this year.The unit, installed by Absstem Technologies, can ensure supply of uninterrupted oxygen to 30 beds 24x7.Amid Omicron scare, the Panchkula administration has held several meetings on Covid preparations recently. Setting up a Covid care centre in Sector 9, strict instructions to challan people without face mask and improving vaccine numbers (for the second dose) are among fresh measures announced by the district authorities to combat the spread of pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-space-cant-set-up-o2-plants-claim-pkula-pvt-hospitals-348950
11-12-2021||Mohali||Chitkara University to host BAJA SAEINDIA series||SAEINDIA, a professional Society of Automotive Engineers, announced the start of the virtual rounds of the 15th edition of much-awaited BAJA SAEINDIA series (Digital event), which will be hosted by Chitkara University.As many as 203 entries from 185 engineering colleges in India have been received for BAJA SAEINDIA 2022, out of which 130 teams are registered for conventional m-BAJA and 73 teams for the e-BAJA event. Teams across 25 cities have registered, along with two international teams, from North America and Nepal.The event has been fractionated into three phases, the preliminary round, which was conducted in September, the virtual round, and a physical round, in February and March, 2022.“All-terrain vehicle (ATV) will take part in a series of events, being conducted in three phases this year, giving the teams an opportunity to participate virtually in Phase I and II or physically in Phase III or both. ,” said Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-university-to-host-baja-saeindia-series-348957
