12-12-2021||---||IG Ishwar Singh Duhan assumes command of ITBP training Centre near Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 12Inspector General Ishwar Singh Duhan has assumed command of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force’s (ITBP) Basic Training Centre at Bhanu near Chandigarh. Prior to this, he was serving as Inspector General (Training) at the ITBP Headquarters in New Delhi, responsible for formulating, executing and reviewing all training policies and activities.A highly experienced officer and sportsman, he had joined the ITBP in 1986 as an Assistant Commandant. Later he commanded a battalion tasked for internal security duties in Kashmir and then a battalion deployed on the border in Uttarakhand. He has also headed the ITBP’s commando contingent in Kashmir and served in Naxal-hit areas.His appointments include the command of ITBP’s Ladakh Sector that includes areas of Galwan and Daulat Beg Oldie as a Deputy Inspector General and overseeing operations, intelligence and training in the north-east.Duhan has also had a stint with the United Nations Peacekeeping Mission in Bosnia–Herzegovina. He was also closely associated with the raising of ITBP’s 37 Battalion and the force’s Disaster Management Institute. He is a qualified mountaineer, with four expeditions under his belt, and a rafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/ig-ishwar-singh-duhan-assumes-command-of-itbp-training-centre-near-chandigarh-349487
12-12-2021||---||Teachers protest at PU, DAV college||Chandigarh, December 11Members of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) staged a protest at Gate No. 2 of the university campus to pressure the Punjab Government to resolve the long-pending issues of the university and college teachers.Teachers have been observing complete ‘Education Bandh’ since December 1 and boycotting teaching, exams, research and other academic activities.PUTA secretary Prof AS Naura said they were planning to approach AICC president Sonia Gandhi, vice-president Rahul Gandhi and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and submit a petition on their demands after running a signature campaign on the campus.Meanwhile, a meeting of the District Council of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union was held at DAV College, Sector 10, regarding the ongoing protests in Punjab and Chandigarh against the Punjab Government for its failure to implement the UGC 7th Pay Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-protest-at-pu-dav-college-349232
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Saupin's Gold Cup cricket tournament: YMCA academy in final||In the first semifinal of the 8th Saupin’s Gold Cup Cricket Tournament, the YMCA Cricket Academy defeated the Chandigarh Cricket Academy by one wicket.Batting first, the Chandigarh Cricket Academy scored 118 runs before getting all out in 29.3 overs. Shubham Verma scored 30 off 44 balls with five boundaries, while Ankan Latka and Shivaraj S Sekhon contributed 17 runs each. Dhruv Joshi and Ram Gopal claimed four wickets each for the bowling side. In reply, the YMCA academy scored 119/9 in 32 overs with the help of Shivansh Choudhary (51) and Nipun Kumar (16). Latka claimed three wickets for the bowling side. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/saupins-gold-cup-cricket-tournament-ymca-academy-in-final-349233
12-12-2021||---||Ludhiana girls' team beat PU Campus in football||Chandigarh, December 11GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar (Ludhiana), recorded a 3-0 win over the Panjab University Campus in the PU Inter-College Football (women) Tournament.Pooja, Shipa and Ekamjor scored a goal each for the Ludhiana team.In another match, MCM DAV College, Sector 36, posted a 1-0 win over Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11. Anjali scored the lone scoring goal for the side.On Sunday, Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11, will play against GHG Khalsa College, while MCM eves will take on Panjab University Campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ludhiana-girls-team-beat-pu-campus-in-football-349234
12-12-2021||---||Vijay Hazare Trophy: Punjab defeat Assam by 10 wickets||Chandigarh, December 11A fine unbeaten contributions by Prabhsimran Singh, who scored 73 off 55 balls with nine boundaries and three sixes, and Abhishek Sharma who made 56 runs off 38 deliveries studded with nine boundaries and one six, helped Punjab register an easy 10-wicket win over Assam in the Vijay Hazare Trophy at the JSCA Oval Ground in Ranchi.Batting first, Assam lads bundled out for 125 runs in 34.5 overs. Sarupam Purkayastha (36) and Sibsankar Roy (28) were the two main contributors for the side. Left-arm pacer Arshdeep Singh led the bowling attack and took four wickets by conceding 30 runs, while Mayank Markande (3/27) and Abhishek Sharma (2/14) were the other successful players for the bowling side.In reply, Punjab achieved the target without losing any wickets in 15.2 overs. The side will now play its next match on December 12 against Services at the same venue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vijay-hazare-trophy-punjab-defeat-assam-by-10-wickets-349235
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||GGDSD women fencers win PU inter-college championship||The GGDSD College, Sector 32, won the Panjab University Inter-College Fencing (women) Championship by scoring 30 points. The Panjab University Campus claimed the second position with 26 points and the Post Graduate College for Girls, Sector 11, claimed the third position with 17 points.In the foil team event, GGDSD eves claimed the top podium position, followed by the Sector 11 College and the Panjab University teams. In the epee event, the GGDSD College, the Panjab University Campus and the MCM DAV College, Sector 36, claimed the top three positions in the order.The Panjab University Campus claimed the sabre title, followed by the Sector 11 outfit and the GGDSD College.In individual category, Kajal claimed gold medal in the foil event and Chhavi the second position. Kusam and Simran claimed the joint third position. In the epee event, Yashkirat and Chaavi claimed gold and silver medals, respectively, while Mumtaz and Ashyana claimed the joint third position. In the sabre event, Sanya claimed gold medal, Shubhjot silver and Babita and Riya a joint bronze. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ggdsd-women-fencers-win-pu-inter-college-championship-349236
12-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Advocate Rajbir Singh Grewal elected president of Fatehgarh Sahib Bar Association||Advocate Rajbir Singh Grewal was elected president of the District Bar Association, Fatehgarh Sahib, here today. He defeated Virendra Singh Dhillon by 33 votes.Returning officer advocate Nirmal Puri said that 16 candidates from three groups participated in the election for the post of president, secretary, vice-president, joint secretary, cashier and librarian. He said 542 advocates out of 593 members of the bar association cast their votes in the election.Inderjit Singh Cheema has been elected to the post of vice-president. The other members who have been elected to the executive body include Rakesh Dhiman (secretary), Beant Kaur (joint secretary), Gaurav Kumar ( library in-charge) and Sukhwinder Singh (cashier).Rajveer Singh Grewal said he would work for the welfare of advocates throughout his tenure. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/advocate-rajbir-singh-grewal-elected-president-of-fatehgarh-sahib-bar-association-349237
12-12-2021||Panchkula||Omicron threat: 55 foreign returnees in Panchkula untraced||The number of foreign returnees entering the district has been growing at a rapid pace posing a key challenge for the district health authorities in the wake of Omicron threat.Since November 26, as many as 872 foreign returnees have arrived in the district. Of them, 817 have been traced.Chief Medical Officer Dr Mukta Kumar said they had deployed dedicated health teams to deal with the situation. They were involved in tracing and testing returnees, she added.As per the protocol, it is mandatory for every person coming from abroad to undergo the RT-PCR test and remain in home isolation for the next seven days even if tested negative. After the seven-day quarantine, people would be retested for Covid on the eight day.For effective monitoring of foreign returnees, residential welfare associations were also being involved, health officials said.With Omicron still a threat, the district administration is taking all preventive measures to avoid any rise in Covid numbers. The police and incident commanders have been told to challan people without face masks in public places. Covid testing has also been strengthened. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/omicron-threat-55-foreign-returnees-in-panchkula-untraced-349239
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chander Verma elected Chandigarh traders' body head||Businessman Chander Verma has been unanimously elected as the new president of the Chandigarh Business Council (CBC), a city-based traders’ body.During a meeting today, members of the council thanked Neeraj Bajaj, the outgoing president, for actively performing his duties for nearly two terms.On the occasion, the new CBC president said he would continue to take up issues concerning traders of the city with the UT Administration, the Municipal Corporation and other departments concerned.He said he would approach the Chandigarh Administration to complete the VAT assessment on the lines of the Punjab Government. Verma said the Administration should issue completion certificate, passing of building plans online and should adopt public and business-friendly approach. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/verma-elected-city-traders-body-head-349240
12-12-2021||---||Hockey Championship: Chandigarh lads log 14-0 victory||Chandigarh, December 11Hockey Chandigarh trounced Hockey Rajasthan (14-0) in the 11th Hockey India Senior Men National Championship in Pune today.Mohit (6th, 42nd, 55th) and Amandeep (23rd, 25th, 57th) scored a hat-trick each, while braces from Angad Bir Singh (14th, 28th), Harpreet Singh (14th, 39th), Rajveer Singh (12th), Harmanpreet Singh (21st), Yograj Singh (35th) and Jaspreet Singh (37th) guided Chandigarh to a comfortable victory.Hockey Punjab, led by Olympic bronze medallist Rupinder Pal Singh, beat Hockey Uttarakhand (11-0) to kick off the proceedings. Goals for Hockey Punjab were scored by Lovepreet Jainth (4th, 46th, 56th, 58th), Parampreet Singh (6th), Surdarshan Singh (7th, 18th), Vishal Yadav (21st), Gurshahzad Singh Pirzada (30th), Gautam Kumar (35th) and a penalty stroke by Rupinder Pal Singh (50th).Hockey Karnataka didn’t take long to score the opener against Hockey Jammu & Kashmir. Captain Mohd Raheel scored the goal in the second minute of the game. From there, Hockey Karnataka cruised on for a 14-0 win, with braces scored by Mohammed Raheel (2nd, 14th), Somanna BP (4th, 47th), Punith R (20th, 55th), Bharath KR (23rd, 30th), S Deekshith P (27th), Chiranth Somanna ND (42nd) and Likhith BM (43rd, 60th), Kumar Yathish B (52nd) and Shamanth CS (60th).Le Puducherry Hockey trounced Hockey Arunachal (14-0). Puducherry’s victory came via well-taken goals by Arun T Kumar (1st, 3rd, 25th, 35th), Veerathamizhan V (10th, 43rd, 56th, 58th) and R Ranjith (20th, 22nd , 42th), A Tamilarasan (12th), Pooviyarasan (23rd) and Sellamuthu N (34th).Manipur Hockey beat Tripura Hockey (21-0) to kick start their tournament. Manipur’s victory was built on goals by Laishram Mantosh Meitei (2nd, 9th, 13rd, 17th), Bhakar Ningombam (45th, 47th, 48th, 53rd) and Dinachandra Singh Moirangthem (35th, 53rd, 56th, 59th). Other goals were scored by Captain Abung Ningombam Singh (4th, 33rd) and Keisham Rohit Meitei (26th, 28th), Ibungo Konjengbam Singh (10st), Debeshor Konjengbam Singh (37th), Dayananda Chanamthabam Singh (41st), Dollar Kshetrimayum (51st) and Romeshkumar Heisnam Singh (60th).Hockey Andaman and Nicobar forfeit their Pool D game against Hockey Andhra Pradesh who was awarded a 5-0 win by default.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-championship-chandigarh-lads-log-14-0-victory-349241
12-12-2021||---||RoundGlass Punjab FC coach shows confidence in his team||Chandigarh, December 11RoundGlass Punjab FC (RGPFC) head coach Ashley Westwood believes that the upcoming I-League season, starting from December 26, will be a fruitful affair for the squad.The pre-season training of the club began in October and the team has been already in Kolkata with the players and support staff being housed in a bio-secure environment.“We want to create a hard-working team and aim at inspiring young people with our performances and style of play. The pre-season has been good. It’s a new team. The more time we spend with each other, the better it will be. Being in this environment brings the team together and allows us to find out more about one another and understand the character of each member of the team. Another benefit of being together is that we can focus on football as there are no distractions, and we can control the environment. We are trying to keep things challenging for the players and, at the same time, ensure that it is not monotonous,” said Westwood.A two-time I-League winner with Bengaluru FC and seasoned professional with over 25 years of experience as a player and coach, Westwood joined the RGPFC as the head coach in July. The club, after an impressive I-League debut under the new ownership last season, made a strong statement of intent in the summer transfer window as well.Two-time I-League winnerA two-time I-League winner with Bengaluru FC and seasoned professional with over 25 years of experience as a player and coach, Ashley Westwood joined the RGPFC as the head coach in July. The club, after an impressive I-League debut under the new ownership last season, made a strong statement of intent in the summer transfer window as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roundglass-punjab-fc-coach-shows-confidence-in-his-team-349242
12-12-2021||---||Panchkula woman duped of Rs 70K||Panchkula, December 11A 22-year-old woman was allegedly duped of Rs70,703 in an OTP fraud on Friday. Pallavi Gupta, a resident of Sector 15, told the police that she got a call from a SBI customer service number. The caller sought the details of her card on which she wanted to discontinue her insurance.“I provided the card details to the caller, who subsequently told me that I would get an OTP. As soon as I shared the OTP, a sum of Rs70,703 was deducted from my account,” the complainant said. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-woman-duped-of-rs-70k-349243
12-12-2021||Mohali||4 held with 30 stolen cellphones||The police today busted a gang of mobile phone thieves with the arrest of four persons and recovered 30 cellphones from their possession near the Sohana chowk yesterday.A case under Sections 379, 379-B, 411 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the suspects - Sohana resident Monu Khan, alias Sonu, Khush Kumar, alias Chhotu (22), Rohit Mahto (23) and Sanju Kumar (24).The police said Monu Khan, alias Sonu, was also involved in drug trafficking.The accused were involved in looting and theft of mobile phones in Mohali since long time. They were also addicted to drugs. Two theft and snatching cases are already registered against Monu Khan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-held-with-30-stolen-cellphones-349244
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man gets 10-year rigorous imprisonment in NDPS case||A local court has sentenced a resident of Mani Majra, Gurwinder Singh, to undergo 10-year rigorous imprisonment after convicting him under Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The court also imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on the convict.The police had arrested Gurwinder Singh on August 27, 2018, with 10,000 ‘lomotil’ tablets and 800 ‘pyeevon spas’ plus capsules. Five injections each of ‘buprenorphine omgesic’ ‘pheniramine meleate’ were also recovered from his possession.As per the prosecution, the accused was arrested near the Sector 26 light point, Chandigarh. He was coming in a car. After seeing the police, he tried to flee. However, the police apprehended him on the spot. The accused failed to produce any valid permit or licence for the drugs.After investigation and getting CFSL reports, the police presented a chargesheet against the accused in the court. Charges were framed against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.Inderjit Bassi, counsel for the accused, claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case. She also claimed that the contraband recovered from the accused was not commercial quantity.Public prosecutor Hukam Singh, while arguing on the quantum of sentence, demanded that deterrent punishment should be awarded to the convict.After hearing the arguments, Jaibir Singh, Judge, Special Court, Chandigarh, said the prosecution was successful in bringing home the guilt against the accused beyond every shadow of reasonable doubt. It awarded 10-year RI to the accused and also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-gets-10-year-rigorous-imprisonment-in-ndps-case-349245
12-12-2021||---||Balbir Sidhu trains guns on ex-Mayor Kulwant Singh||Mohali, December 11Former Mayor Kulwant Singh signed an MoU with GMADA and took over its parks, but failed to bring even a single penny of the Rs50 crore annual maintenance charges the authority had agreed to pay.Brought about Rs35 crore from GMADA: MLAAfter the election of the new corporation, I took personal interest and brought about Rs35 crore from GMADA. Negotiations are on with the state minister of housing and the Punjab Government for more funds. Balbir Sidhu, former cabinet minister and mohali MLAFormer Health Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu stated this on the sidelines of the launch of development works worth Rs8.5 crore in Sector 79-80. Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present on the occasion.Balbir Sidhu said, “After the election of the new corporation, I took personal interest and brought about Rs35 crore from GMADA. Negotiations are on with the state minister of housing and the Punjab Government for more funds.”The MLA said similarly, the MC collected Rs10 crore from the PSPCL, which had been collecting excise duty on electricity bills. The previous mayor had not taken any action to recover this amount, he alleged.He said GMADA had neglected development in Sectors 76 to 80 and people had to even pay water bills five and a half times more than what was paid by residents of the rest of the city. He said he first solved the problem of water bills following which the whole area was taken under the MC and development works were started here. He said development of roads and parks in Sectors 79 and 80 would change the face of the entire area.Mayor Amarjit Singh said additional funds received by the MC had been a major contributor towards the development works being carried out in the city. He said it was the money of the people of Mohali and it was being spent on them, according to their needs.He said under the leadership of MLA Sidhu, councillors were keeping a close watch in their respective wards so that there was no negligence in development works.Former Mayor Kulwant Singh did not respond to calls made to him to seek his views over the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balbir-sidhu-trains-guns-on-ex-mayor-kulwant-singh-349246
12-12-2021||Mohali||On way back home, farmers get grand welcome at Lalru||Delirious scenes were witnessed at the Dappar toll plaza as protesting farmers from the Delhi border started returning home on tractor trolleys. Since afternoon, sweets were distributed and dhol kept reverberating as members of various farm unions were accorded a warm welcome here.They described it as a “historic victory” and a result of the sacrifices of the farmers who laid down their lives in the year-long struggle.Clusters of elderly, women and youngsters broke into impromptu Bhangra jigs repeatedly.Bakshi Singh Bhatti, a Lalru resident, said, “Celebrations will continue as farmer union members are returning triumphant after almost one year. We will honour them and accord them grand welcome as they step into their homeland.”Local farm union members showered flower petals and garlanded the incoming members as the music blared through the day at the toll plaza. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-way-back-home-farmers-get-grand-welcome-at-lalru-349247
12-12-2021||---||Traffic hit as visually impaired protest at Kharar bus stand||Mohali, December 11Members of the National Federation of the Blind today staged a massive protest against the state government at the Kharar bus stand. The visually-impaired protesters clashed with the police and tried to cross the barricades on their way to Punjab CM Charanjit Channi’s house in Kharar.‘Govt indifferent’The Punjab Government is pushing the blind to the brink. They have been protesting here for the past one week, but their demands have not been met. Balwinder Singh Chahal, general secy, National Federation of Blind, PunjabThe normal movement of traffic was hampered as the protesters came on the road. Commuters were harassed as they had to take long detours and face massive jams. Long queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the road for close to three hours in the daytime.Chanting slogans against the Punjab Government, the protesters demanded that the visually-impaired should be given reservation in government jobs, their monthly allowance be hiked to Rs5,000 per month and their electricity bills should be fully waived.Balwinder Singh Chahal, general secretary, National Federation of Blind, Punjab, said, “The Punjab Government is pushing the blind to the brink. They have been protesting here for the past one week, but their demands have not been met.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-hit-as-visually-impaired-protest-at-kharar-bus-stand-349248
12-12-2021||---||3,818 cases settled at Lok Adalat in Mohali||Mohali, December 11A total of 3,818 cases were disposed of during the National Lok Adalat held at the Mohali District Courts by virtue of compromise. Awards worth Rs562 crore were passed by the Lok Adalat Benches.RS Rai, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), said a total of 17,016 cases were taken up at 26 Benches - 19 in Mohali, four in Kharar and three in Dera Bassi.Cases comprising criminal compoundable offences, check bounce, bank recovery, MACT, matrimonial disputes, labour dispute, land acquisition, electricity and water bills (excluding non-compoundable theft cases) were settled. Service matters relating to pay and allowances and retiral benefits, revenue cases, other civil cases (rent, injunction suits, specific performance suits), were also taken up for hearing.Rai said a case of a couple living separately for the past nine years was taken up. They were provided opportunities to enter into a dialogue and interact with each other. After sittings in pre-Lok Adalats and counselling at the National Lok Adalat, the duo agreed to live together.Baljinder Singh, Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Mohali, made the people aware of the benefits of the Lok Adalat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-818-cases-settled-at-lok-adalat-in-mohali-349250
12-12-2021||---||‘Illegal’ felling of trees at Lalru: Role of civic body chief, then EO under spotlight||Mohali, December 11Alleged illegal felling of trees on the shamlat land in Kolimajra village under the Lalru Municipal Council has put the role of MC president Bindu Rana and then Executive Officer Ashok Kumar under the spotlight.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development) Pooja Syal has submitted an interim report to the Principal Secretary, Local Government, highlighting the role of the officials which led to loss to exchequer. It reportedly also mentions how due procedure laid down by the Forest Department and the MC was not followed.The administration officials have also written to the police to take action against the bidder. The final report will be submitted within a week.Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma said, “We will approach the High Court if an FIR is not registered against the MC president and the then Executive Officer. Police action against the contractor is not enough. MC president Bindu Rana was present on the spot.”Replying to the MLA’s charges, Bindu Rana’s husband Mukesh Rana said, “An FIR should instead be filed against NK Sharma who is trying to stop the process of providing shelter to the poor and homeless on this land.”On November 25, Sharma had flagged the issue and later met Mohali DC Isha Kalia seeking action against the erring officials. “MC officials, in order to benefit near and dear ones, had sold these trees worth about Rs2 crore for just Rs2.25 lakh,” the MLA had alleged. “Trees with a diameter of about two-and-a-half feet were cut. It was done without the Forest Department’s nod,” he had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-felling-of-trees-at-lalru-role-of-civic-body-chief-then-eo-under-spotlight-349251
12-12-2021||---||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to seek votes for BJP candidates today||Chandigarh, December 11Haryana Chief Minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar will be in the city tomorrow to campaign in support of BJP candidates for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections scheduled for December 24.BJP spokesperson Kailash Chand Jain said the Haryana CM, along with several senior leaders, will seek votes for the party candidates. He would be addressing a public meeting for Nikita Gupta from Ward No. 5 in Mani Majra, Usha from Ward No. 16 in Sector 25 and Ravinder Rawat from Ward No. 27 in Sector 39.Khattar will again be here on December 16 to campaign for party candidates Ravi Kant Sharma from Ward No. 17 in Sector 22, Rajinder Sharma from Ward No. 35 in the Sector 49 market and Harjit Singh from Ward No. 8 in Mauli Jagran.Jain said Haryana Minister Anil Vij and former Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria would also be campaigning in support of Rajesh Kalia from Ward No. 26, Manoj Sonkar from Ward No. 7, Bharat Kumar from Ward No. 16 and Usha from Ward No. 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-to-seek-votes-for-bjp-candidates-today-349252
12-12-2021||---||Support BJP, Coimbatore MLA urges Tamil voters||Chandigarh, December 11With an eye on wooing Tamil voters in Chandigarh, Vanathi Srinivasan, BJP Mahila Morcha national president and MLA from Coimbatore, addressed a series of public gatherings here today. Vanathi urged the local Tamilians to vote for the saffron party.In her address, she said the BJP at the Centre was committed for the uplift of Tamils. She supported party candidate Dalip Sharma from Ward No. 3, Manoj Sonkar from Ward No. 7, Jaswinder Kaur from Ward No. 28 and Vijay Rana from Ward No. 25.Later in the evening, she went to Karthik Temple with candidate Heera Negi and Ayyappa Temple with Davesh Moudgil in Sector 47.Earlier in a press conference, she said Chandigarh had ensured the safety of women as well as all sections of society by installing CCTV cameras in every nook and corner of the city during the BJP tenure in the past six years.Srinivasan further said Chandigarh as a city was driven by the ‘double engine’ Administration which was having a privilege of being directly benefited from Central Government’s schemes.Earlier, welcoming Srinivasan, city BJP president Arun Sood said her visit would strengthen the Mahila Morcha and candidates here.Several leaders, including Chandigarh’s co-incharge Rajya Sabha MP Indu Goswami and National General Secretary Deepti Rawat, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/support-bjp-coimbatore-mla-urges-tamil-voters-349253
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP to speed up public welfare works if voted to power: Leaders||The city Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today promised to speed up public welfare works through good governance in Chandigarh, if elected to power, said AAP leaders in a press conference today.The AAP also claimed to beautify all wards, especially rural areas, which have been ignored by the BJP and the Congress.While addressing a press conference at the Press Club, AAP senior leader and Rajya Sabha MP Shushil Gupta said just like Delhi, AAP would provide 24x7 electricity, water and free health services to everyone in Chandigarh. He was accompanied by Rajya Sabha MP ND Gupta and city AAP president Prem Garg.“Parking is a major problem in the city. If AAP gains power in the MC, proper parking arrangements will not only be made in markets but also in residential areas,” said Gupta.ND Gupta said AAP had introduced politics of good governance in Delhi by freeing people from the clutches of corruption-free nepotism. Garg said dumping ground, garbage collection and Lal Dora were the major problems of the city that the BJP and the Congress had failed to resolve during their tenure.Teach a lesson to BJP, Congress: AnmolAnmol Gagan Mann, Youth Wing president of the AAP, interacted with people in three wards here on Saturday. During an interaction with the people of Ward Nos. 1, 14 and 10, she shared the roadmap for development works of the city. Anmol said the BJP and the Congress cheated the people of Chandigarh in the name of development for years. She appealed to people to teach a lesson to both these parties for such false propaganda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-to-speed-up-public-welfare-works-if-voted-to-power-leaders-349254
12-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC elections: Congress hits back at Sanjay Tandon||Chandigarh, December 11The City Congress lambasted Sanjay Tandon, former president of the Chandigarh BJP, for making “false claims” on his party’s performance.In a statement issued today, Rajiv Sharma, spokesperson for the Chandigarh Congress, said instead of patting their own back, the BJP should actually apologise to the people of Chandigarh for failing on all fronts.When the BJP took over in 2015, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation had a fixed deposit of Rs500 crore, thanks to efficient working of the Congress led-MC from 2001 to 2014. Today, this entire amount has been squandered by the BJP-led MC by indulging in corrupt practices and wasteful expenditure. Rajiv Sharma, spokesperson, Chandigarh Congress“BJP councillors have indulged in a massive corruption in the past six years. This is evident from the fact that despite backbreaking increase in taxes, the corporation finds it even difficult to pay salaries to its employees,” he alleged.“When the BJP took over in 2015, the corporation had a fixed deposit of Rs500 crore, thanks to efficient working of the Congress led-MC from 2001 to 2014. Today, this entire amount has been squandered by the BJP-led MC by indulging in corrupt practices and wasteful expenditure,” he alleged further.He said the Congress would recommend an inquiry into the “rampant corruption” that prevailed in the MC in the past six years in order to expose the BJP.Rebutting the insinuation that the Congress was in quarantine so far, Sharma stated that the Congress was continuously engaged in highlighting the real issues of the city in the past six years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-congress-hits-back-at-sanjay-tandon-349255
12-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: AAP candidate from Ward No. 21 not so 'Aam'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11Thirtysix-year-old Jasbir Singh Laddi, a candidate of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), is not so “Aam”, as he, along with his wife, owns 10 vehicles, including a Toyota Fortuner and a Ford Endeavour.The couple also owns a Hyundai Verna, Mahindra Bolero, Swift, Swift Dezire, an Alto, an auto, a Royal Enfield motorcycle and a scooter. Jasbir had come by a motorcycle to file his nomination.He is a resident of Faidan village and is contesting from Ward No. 21, comprising Sector 47 and the villages of Bair Majra, Faidan Burail and Chahar Taraf Burail.He also owns land in Faidan Nizampur village, Chandigarh and the villages of Jagatpur and Kouramajra in Mohali district, measuring six kanals and nine marlas.His wife also owns land measuring 14 marlas in the villages of Kandala and Khouramajra. The couple together owns jewellery worth Rs 11,25,000. Jasbir has a rental income and runs a property sale-purchase business.Sources in AAP said Jasbir had a liking for cars and SUVs. But, he likes to stay low-profile in his political life.Speaking to Chandigarh Tribune, Jasbir said, “It is not that I have a liking for cars. Some of these vehicles I bought for my relatives. The auto-rickshaw was bought for my worker. But, all vehicles are on my name.”He shared, “I got paver blocks laid at Faidan village at a cost of about Rs20 lakh and also got 1800-ft water supply line laid, as the MC had failed to do it. I am contesting so that I can get more public works done through the MC.”He said maintenance of parks, dark spots and water supply are major issues in the ward. “Politicians come here only to take votes and do no work. If elected, I will get all public works done,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-aap-candidate-from-ward-no-21-not-so-aam-349256
12-12-2021||---||Need to focus on future warfare, threats: NN Vohra||Chandigarh, December 11Former J&K Governor NN Vohra today urged experts to contribute to the current and future thinking about warfare, the kind of threats emerging in the region and beyond and how the country’s defence services should prepare to meet the future contingencies.He was speaking at the inaugural session of the fifth edition of the Military Literature Festival, which was held virtually. The event was inaugurated by Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit.Vohra said, “An element of the festival focuses on the geopolitics of the region, the emerging threats and what India as a nation and our military need to do to prepare for future contingencies?” The focus of the festival this year is the golden jubilee of the victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war.The festival’s pattern, he said, had remained broadly the same since its inception, with military experts paying tributes to war heroes, discussing past campaigns and then focusing on the current threats to the nation from land, sea and air frontiers, besides holding serious discussions on books on these subjects. Stating that this year was also the golden jubilee of the victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, the former Governor said, “War is a question of life and death and a question of honour for the countries as well as the officers and men who fight for the security, integrity and unity of their country.”Vohra expressed sincere condolences on the passing away of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other service personnel in a helicopter crash on December 8.He said he had known General Rawat for many years and had consultations with him several times on matters of national security when he was the J&K Governor and General Rawat was the Army Chief. Lt Gen Nav K Khanduri, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, attributed the Indian victory in 1971 to the bold leadership, careful operational planning and execution and the courage and valour of soldiers.Lieutenant General TS Shergill (retd), Chairman of the Military Literature Festival Association, gave an overview of the prevailing situation in 1971 and highlighted various challenges on the eastern as well as the western front and discussed the doctrinal approach to the war.Former diplomats Satinder Lambah and Aftab Seth, both of whom were foreign service officers during the 1971 war, discussed the political situation prevailing in East Pakistan as well as India’s foreign policy initiatives and challenges in the run-up to the war. The victory of Sheikh Rahman of the Awami League in 1971 elections was a turning point in the history of the subcontinent and the subsequent dissolution of the General Assembly was the beginning of the breakup of Pakistan, they said.Brigadier PK Ghosh, a Vir Chakra recipient who was a Captain with the Para Brigade during the war and carried out covert missions behind enemy lines; Major Chanderkant Singh, a Vir Chakra recipient with 4 Guards who was involved in infiltrations and other operations; Brigadier OS Goraya, a gunner who has authored books on the war; and Sarabjit Singh, an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer who served the Special Service Bureau (SSB); recounted their experience of operations undertaken between April and November 1971.The SSB was tasked with the requisition of weapons not traceable to India and training of Bangladeshi recruits for the liberation of East Pakistan. Different units of the Army were involved in training and supporting Bangladesh’s Mukti Bahini fighters and carrying out special missions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/need-to-focus-on-future-warfare-threats-nn-vohra-349295
12-12-2021||Ropar||Man, son from Pinjore washed away in canal||A man drowned while his son was washed away when they went to perform some ritual at Bhakra canal at Bada Pind near here today.Passersby managed to rescue Balbir Singh (70), but he was declared dead by doctors. The body of his son Gurpreet Singh (45), however, could not be traced. The father-son duo belonged to Pinjore in Haryana.ASI Surjit Singh said Balbir and Gurpreet reached on the banks of the canal by a car to perform some ritual in the afternoon. As Balbir slipped into the canal and was washed away in the heavy current of canal water, Gurpreet threw his turban in the water to save his father, but Balbir could not reach him. Then Gurpreet jumped into the water and was washed away.Passersby tried to save both of them but Gurpreet could not be traced while Balbir was found dead, said Surjit Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-son-from-pinjore-washed-away-in-canal-349257
12-12-2021||Panchkula||MDC accident: Injured dies at PGI, car driver arrested||The man, who had suffered severe injuries after a speeding car ran over a family of five from Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, on a footpath in the Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) area, died at the PGI.Ranjeet and the other members of his family were sleeping on the pavement near Singh Dwar in the MDC area when a rashly driven car, bearing the registration number, HR03V-2902, ran them over and rammed into a pole.Investigating officer Ramesh said they handed over the body to the family after post-mortem.The police have arrested the car driver, identified as Bobby Soni, a resident of the MDC area. He had fled the scene on foot following the accident. The driver apparently lost control over the vehicle after a tyre burst, the police said. The family had arrived in Chandigarh on December 8 by train to sell brooms. The police have impounded the car.A case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by an act endangering the life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life) of the IPC at the MDC station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mdc-accident-injured-dies-at-pgi-car-driver-arrested-349259
12-12-2021||---||Chandigarh: Bicycle thief lands in police net||Chandigarh, December 11Four days after a 27-year-old bicycle thief escaped from the police lock-up, the police arrested him today. The accused, Divesh Gupta (27), was nabbed by a team of the Palsora police post, led by SI (SI) Satnam Singh.The police said the accused, after escaping from the Sector 39 police station, went to Ropar and then to Amritsar. During the run, he stayed in gurdwaras. Sources said Divesh did not have a mobile phone due which the police couldn’t track his movement. The police team conducted raids in parts of Himachal Pradesh (HP) and Punjab and finally nabbed him at Sector 56.Divesh, a native of Shimla, had left his parental home about five years ago and was living at a PG in Balongi with his wife and daughter. He returned back to the city today to meet his wife and a three-year-old daughter.“He had planned to take his wife and daughter along. However, before he could execute his plan, our team nabbed him,” said a police official. Divesh was earlier arrested on December 5 by a team of the Palsora police post for stealing high-end bicycles. A total of 13 bicycles were recovered from his possession.He was put in a lock-up of the Sector 39 police station after the court granted his one-day police remand. During the night of December 6, he broke two rusted iron grills of the lock-up and escaped.The accused’s father works in Solan while his mother is a housemaker. He has three siblings, including two brothers and a sister. Among the brothers, one is a teacher and the other a software engineer.Second escape in less than two monthsDivesh was earlier arrested by the Mohali police in a case of theft. However, he escaped from the Mataur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bicycle-thief-lands-in-police-net-349260
12-12-2021||---||I-T Raid at Torque Pharma, JW Marriott Hotel: Rs 3.5 crore, 4-kg jewellery seized||Chandigarh, December 11A search operation conducted by the Income Tax Department at Torque Pharmaceuticals Private Ltd and JW Marriott Hotel has resulted in the seizure of over Rs3.5 crore in cash, 4 kg of jewellery and several incriminating documents.Sources said a large number of incriminating evidences in the form of documents, diary notes and digital data showing a huge unaccounted income by the group, and its investment in assets have been found.Sources added “A preliminary analysis of the flow of funds indicates that there has been unaccounted cash income generated from mining, brick-kilns and other various businesses. The funds, so generated in a dubious manner, have been utilised for the acquisition of various assets, such as office buildings, marriage hall, club/hotel in prime localities in Chandigarh and Mohali.”A preliminary analysis of the documents unearthed during the search has indicated that unaccounted income is likely to be in several crores, they stated.It is also revealed during the preliminary analysis of the seized documents that the group has entered into a huge cash transaction to purchase a prominent hotel in the tricity and the same has been admitted by the party during investigation process.Sources also claimed that a final figure of unaccounted income and tax evasion will be higher when all seized documents are analysed in due course of time.As per sources, the department carried out searches at 22 premises in Chandigarh, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Mumbai which include the residential and office premise of the directors of Torque Pharmaceuticals Private Ltd, JW Marriott Hotel and their related entities.22 places raidedThe department raided 22 premises in Chandigarh, Punjab, HP and Mumbai of the directors of Torque Pharmaceuticals, JW Marriott Hotel and their related entities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-t-raid-at-torque-pharma-jw-marriott-hotel-rs-3-5-crore-4-kg-jewellery-seized-349261
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclist hit by car, injured||Owners of three clubs bookedChandigarh: The police have registered three cases for violating the DM’s orders against three night clubs. The police said Culture in Sector 26, was found open around 12.15 am, following which a case under section 188 of the IPC was registered against its owner Satender Singh and club manager Deepak. Sultan in Sector 7 was found open at 12.20 am and its owner Rajat and manager Vikram Singh were booked. A similar case was registered against owner Pulkit Maan and manager Rishi Khanna of the Kakuna culb, Sector 7. — TNSBike stolen from parkingChandigarh: A person stole the motorcycle of a Ram Darbar resident, Ashish Kumar, from a parking near the Eye OPD, PGIMER, here on November 22. A case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the unknown person at the Sector 11 police station. Further investigations are on into the matter. TNSMan booked on charge of fraudChandigarh: The police have booked a Sector 51 resident for duping a Zirakpur resident of Rs4,35,66,000 in connection with the allotment of HIG flats between April 16, 2018, and July 10, 2019. On a complaint of Peer Muchalla resident Vishal Sagar, a case under Section 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. TNSBasketball trials todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Basketball Association will organise trials to select junior (U-18) probable squad on December 12 (4.30pm) at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26. Players born on or after January 1, 2003, and presently studying in Chandigarh will be eligible to participate in the trials. After the completion of the camp, the selected players will represent Chandigarh in the 71st Junior National Basketball Championship to be held at Indore (Madhya Pradesh) from January 4 to 10. TNSCricket meet from Dec 21Chandigarh: Livewire Coaching Centre will organise Ashwini Luthra Memorial T20 Cricket Tournament at Divya Public School, Sector 44, from December 21. The matches will be on league-cum-knockout basis. Only institutes, companies, registered bodies and clubs are eligible to participate in the tournament. The final match will be played under floodlights. The interested teams can confirm their entries with the organisers before December 18. TNSNetball trials tomorrowChandigarh: The Netball Sports Promotion Association, Chandigarh, will organise trials to select senior men and women teams on December 13 (3 pm) at the Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46. The selected team will participate in the 39th Senior National Netball Championship to be held at Maharashtra from January 4 to 7. TNSVolleyball body defers tourneyChandigarh: The Chandigarh Volleyball Association (CVA) has postponed the State Junior Volleyball Championships for Nirmal Milkha Singh Trophy, which was scheduled to start today. CVA officials said the new dates would be announced soon. The championship has been rescheduled due to various reasons, including unavailability of ground, officials on election duty and examinations of players, informed a CVA official. TNsKho Kho trials tomorrowChandigarh: The Chandigarh Kho Kho Association will organise trials to select men and women teams for the 54th Senior National Kho Kho Championship to be held at Jabalpur from December 26 to 30. The trials will be held at St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, on December 13 (3 pm). TNSWebinar on human rightsChandigarh: The Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, organised a webinar on the theme, “Human Rights are Key to Human Dignity”. Speaking on the occasion, Nemi Chand Goliaya, Associate Professor in Public Administration, PG Government College for Girls, Sector 42, said there was a need to focus on creating awareness on laws related to human rights and garnering support from the legal services authorities in this regard. TNSCulinary demonstrationChandigarh: Chitkara University organised a culinary demonstration for the students of hospitality and culinary arts with chef Sambhavi Joshi, alumna of Le Cordon Bleu London. She was accompanied by Saima Siddiqui, sales and marketing manager – India, Le Cordon Blue. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-hit-by-car-injured-349263
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 5 test positive in Chandigarh||2 new cases in MohaliMohali: Two fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 69,028 in the district. No death was reported on Saturday evening while six patients got the better of the disease. A case each came from Mohali (urban) and Kharar. No case was reported from Dera Bassi, Dhakoli, Gharuan, Kurali and Banur. TNS3 infected in P’kulaPanchkula: Panchkula on Saturday reported three fresh coronavirus cases, taking the case tally to 30,865. The toll, however, remained at 379. While 30,457 people have recovered from the disease so far, 29 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.67 per cent. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-5-test-positive-in-chandigarh-349264
12-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19: November sees lowest testing this year in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11Only 28 persons per 1,000 population were tested for Covid in Chandigarh last month, which is the lowest monthly average of testing this year. The data pertaining to monthly average number of tests undertaken since January was tabled in the Lok Sabha yesterday.The highest number of tests were conducted in May with 83 Covid tests per 1,000 population, when the second wave had gripped the city. It remained the worst month on the Covid front with the city seeing more than 17,000 cases and 275 deaths.The number of tests reduced to half (44 tests per 1,000 population) during June and July but gathered some momentum in the subsequent two months of August and September.Chandigarh has yet again failed to maintain the pace of testing as the number reduced to barely 34,000 tests in November. As the reports of the Omicron variant surfaced, the Chandigarh Administration was again prompted to upscale testing by issuing directions to the city hospitals to tests all patients coming to their OPDs. So far, testing per 1,000 population in December stands at only six tests.The World Health Organisation states that the number of persons tested per 1,000 population per week (averaged over a two-week period) is a measure of public health response capacity, and above four persons tested per 1000 population per week is considered adequate.Panchkula fares poorest in 6-month averageAs far as monthly average for six months (June to November) is concerned, Chandigarh has fared slightly better than Mohali and Panchkula. As many as 53,802 tests on an average were conducted in Chandigarh in the past six months, while 44,951 persons on an average were tested for Covid in Mohali and only 24,808 in Panchkula district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-november-sees-lowest-testing-this-year-in-chandigarh-349266
12-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Only 35.7 per cent residents of Chandigarh register for health IDs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11Only 35.7 per cent population of the city has been covered under the Central Government’s project of making digital health cards for the citizens of India. The Chandigarh Administration had launched the National Digital Health Mission in August last year and proposed to cover the entire population of Chandigarh within a month.OfficialspeakWe need to accelerate this mission. We held a review recently and are working on improving the target. Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32The government has made a provision for every citizen to generate his or her health ID free of cost. As of December 6, a total of 14,15,49,620 health IDs have been created in the country, of which 4,31,813 IDs are from Chandigarh. The number makes only 35.7 per cent of the city population (12,08,000).Only 35-40 per cent healthcare workers have created their health IDs at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and the PGI.The creation of health IDs is voluntary. However, the National Health Authority (NHA) is creating awareness among the citizens about the usage and advantages of these health IDs to ensure their maximum participation.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “Health ID is a hassle-free method of accessing and sharing your health records digitally. It enables your interaction with participating healthcare providers, and allows you to receive your digital lab reports, prescriptions and diagnosis seamlessly from verified healthcare professionals and health service providers. You can opt to create a digitally secure health ID, which allows you to access and share your health data with your consent, with participating healthcare providers and payers.”Way off targetThe Chandigarh Administration had launched the National Digital Health Mission in August last year and proposed to cover the entire population of Chandigarh within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-35-7-per-cent-residents-of-chandigarh-register-for-health-ids-349267
12-12-2021||---||Webinar dwells on equality||Chandigarh, December 11To mark Human Rights Day, Aryans College of Law organised a webinar on "Equality, Reducing Inequalities, and Advancing Human Rights".Justice Iqbal Ahmed Ansari, former Chief Justice of the Patna High Court and Chairperson, Punjab State Human Rights Commission, was the keynote speaker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-dwells-on-equality-349268
12-12-2021||---||Kin, friends take out 'justice march' in Mohali||Mohali, December 11Family members, friends and well-wishers of Youth Akali Dal leader Vicky Middukhera took out a justice march from the Phase 3B2 market, Mohali, till Amb Sahib Gurdwara, seeking immediate arrest of those behind his killing. Middukhera was shot dead by two men while he was boarding his SUV after visiting a property dealer in Sector 71 on August 7.A large number of youth, advocates, members of civil society, various NGOs, retired bureaucrats among others joined the march holding placards and banners with messages “Justice for Vicky Middukhera”. The march also formally signalled the start of #justiceforvickymiddukhera campaign on the social media.Vicky’s brother Ajaypal Singh Middukhera said: “Our family is living in a fear as the motive behind his killing is still not known. We can also be targeted by people behind Vicky’s murder. I demand security cover for me and Vicky’s immediate kin.”Those participating in the ‘justice march’ claimed that the entire incident was captured on CCTV camera. On the day of the incident, the Davinder Bambiha gang claimed the responsibility for the murder, but the police were yet to arrest the culprits.“We want early extradition of the main accused, Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, who is running the Davinder Bambiha gang from Armenia. We also want to know the main conspirators behind the barbaric murder of Vicky,” said Ajaypal.On a complaint of Ajaypal Singh Middukhera, the Mohali police had registered an FIR against unknown persons on August 7, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kin-friends-take-out-justice-march-in-mohali-349269
12-12-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Draft plan for Guerrilla operations during 1971 Indo-Pak war was prepared within 24 hours: Brig Sukhjit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11While recalling his service at the Directorate of Military Operations in 1971, Brig Sukhjit Singh (retd) on Saturday revealed that it was he who prepared the draft plan of Guerrilla operations in East Pakistan.Brig Singh later won the Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) for his role in the Battle of Basantar in the Shakargarh sector. He was Lt Col at that time. He was sharing his experience at the Military Lit Fest, which started today.His boss Lt Gen KK Singh asked him and his senior Lt Col Rai Singh Yadav to prepare a paper on Guerrilla operations. They were to report back at 7 am in morning. “We used our imagination and worked through the night. Those were the days of the typewriter,” he remembered.Lt Gen KK Singh, while going through their 30-page long paper, with a red pen either said nonsense or rubbish but noted each detail. “He redid it in a precise military language and reduced it to 12 pages.”The plan started taking its shape.“I was asked to contact Capt Oscar Stanley Dawson who later rose to Chief of Naval Staff. At that time, he was Director Naval Operations. Lt Gen KK Singh had underwater operations for Guerrillas (Mukti Bahini) in his mind,” said Brig Sukhjit.He added that when he met Capt Dawson in his room, there were a number of the officers present. But the message was to be sent across. So, he started asking him about his favourite dish in French cuisine during his naval tours to Europe. Though he named few, but Brig Sukhjit pressed him to tell about a very special dish. When Capt Dawson said frogs, Brig Sukhjit nodded, and this was how the message was sent across.Dawson was to provide training to Geurillas who later blew up enemy ships in East Pakistan under Operation Jackpot.Brig Sukhjit also revealed that while leading a tank column in Pathankot, a milkman led him to Dinanagar in Punjab. “He was going there only, so our whole regiment followed him. So a milkman led the regiment to a war zone,” said Brig Sukhjit.Lt Gen Depinder Singh (retd), who was military assistant to Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw in 1971, revealed about a meeting of PM Indira Gandhi, her ministers, and Manekshaw.The Chief of Army Staff wanted to delay the war but the ministers wanted an early start of the operations.“The Chief got up and went up to her table and said that if she liked him to resign, he would do it on mental health or something. She laughed and said Sam, of course not.”“She said you are right and will give you time. You take all the time and when you are ready, let me know. We can commence the operations,” said Lt Gen Depinder.For 13 days of the war, neither the PM or defence minister had questioned any single action by the Chief of Army Staff, he added.Former IAS officer SS Boparai, who won Kirti Chakra for his contributions in the 1971 war as Ferozepur DC, shared that the civil administration never said no to Army for any support right from digging an anti-tank ditch to fulfilling their entertainment needs.“While the first show was being inaugurated in a cinema hall in Fazilka, we heard the sounds as the war started,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/draft-plan-for-guerrilla-operations-during-1971-indo-pak-war-was-prepared-within-24-hours-brig-sukhjit-349185
