13-12-2021|| Mohali||Miss Universe Harnaaz is the centre of the Sandhu clan's world||Harnaaz Sandhu's the apple of her family's eye and the centre of her family's universe---mainly because she's the only girl in a band of boys.The extended Sandhu clan has 17 brothers, and she's the only girl. Her family is from Kohali village Batala in Gurdaspur and now lives in Mittal Apartments in Shivalik City on Kharar Landran road in Sector 125.  Her father, who already had a son then, was ecstatic when she was born."I distributed sweets in the hospital," says her proud PS Sandhu.The current Miss Universe, who's done her BA (IT) from PG Govt College Sector 42 and is currently pursuing Masters in Public Administration, has her family firmly behind her.   "I am very happy and proud. We are waiting for her to give her a grand party. She has made the whole country proud. Bhangra pavan ge!"Mother Rabinder Kaur Sandhu, a medical officer at a hospital in Sohana, said she can’t put her joy into words."I’m super excited,” she says. “She wanted to go into the judiciary and had into a university but changed her mind."From horse-riding, singing, cooking, to poetry and theatre, her accomplishments are endless, and her family can't stop gushing about her. "She’s a confident, down-to-earth person from a middle-class family. Beauty pageants and the glamour industry have always excited her and she was focused on her goal. We have never stopped her,” her mother adds proudly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/miss-universe-harnaaz-is-the-centre-of-the-sandhu-clans-world-349837
13-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Chak De Phatte': What Harnaaz Sandhu said after she won Miss Universe||The words “Chak De Phatte, India” were among the first that 21-year-old Harnaaz Sandhu said after she beat South Africa’s Lalela Mswane and Paraguay’s Nadia Ferreira to win the Miss Universe title on Sunday.Miss Universe’s official Instagram page shared a video of Chandigarh’s Sandhu speaking to the camera after her victory.   Commenting on the video, Miss USA 2011 Alyssa Campanella wrote, "Congratulations @harnaazsandhu_03!!!!!! You are a beautiful queen inside and out! You will be an excellent @missuniverse!!! Cannot wait to follow your reign!!!!!"A post shared by Miss Universe (@missuniverse)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/chak-de-phatte%C2%A0-what-harnaaz-sandhu-said-after-she-won-miss-universe-349820
13-12-2021||Jerusalem||Chandigarh's Harnaaz Sandhu crowned Miss Universe 2021||Actress-model Harnaaz Sandhu made history on Monday as she was crowned Miss Universe 2021 -- beating contestants from 80 countries -- 21 years after India last brought home the title.Only two Indians before Sandhu have won the title of Miss Universe -- actresses Sushmita Sen in 1994 and Lara Dutta in 2000.The 70th edition of the event was held in Eilat, Israel, where the 21-year-old bagged the coveted pageant.The new Miss Universe is...India!!!! #MISSUNIVERSE pic.twitter.com/DTiOKzTHl4  The Chandigarh-based model, who is pursuing her master’s degree in public administration, was crowned by her predecessor Andrea Meza of Mexico, who won the pageant in 2020.WHO ARE YOU? #MISSUNIVERSE pic.twitter.com/YUy7x9iTN8  While Paraguay’s Nadia Ferreira, 22, finished second, South Africa’s Lalela Mswane, 24, came third.“I am immensely grateful to the Almighty, my parents, and the Miss India Organisation for guiding and supporting me throughout.Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Harnaaz Sandhu on being crowned Miss Universe. Congratulations to Harnaaz Sandhu on being crowned Miss Universe. Best wishes to her for her future endeavours.  Loads of love to everyone who prayed and wished the crown for me,” Sandhu said.FINAL STATEMENT: India. #MISSUNIVERSEThe 70th MISS UNIVERSE Competition is airing LIVE around the world from Eilat, Israel on @foxtv pic.twitter.com/wwyMhsAyvd  “Bringing the glorious crown back after 21 years to India is a moment of greatest pride,” she said.Mazal Tov! बधाई हो! 🎉Congratulations @HarnaazKaur for winning the #MissUniverse! We couldn't be more proud that #India won the crown in #Israel!👑#MissUniverse2021 #HarnaazSandhu pic.twitter.com/oAKwW1KnAS  During the final question and answer round, Sandhu was asked what advice would she give to young women on how to deal with the pressure they face today.“The biggest pressure the youth of today is facing is to believe in themselves, to know that you are unique and that’s what makes you beautiful. Stop comparing yourselves with others and let’s talk about more important things that’s happening worldwide.“This is what you need to understand. Come out, speak for yourselves because you are the leader of your life, you are the voice of your own. I believed in myself and that’s why I am standing here today,” she said to a thundering applause.Sandhu started her journey in pageantry when she won Times Fresh Face in 2017, representing Chandigarh at the age of 17. She later won the LIVA Miss Diva Universe 2021 title.Sandhu has also worked in a few Punjabi films, including “Yaara Diyan Poo Baran” and “Bai Ji Kuttange”.The ceremony was hosted by Steve Harvey and saw performances from American singer JoJo.The selection committee included actor and Miss Universe India 2015 Urvashi Rautela, Adamari López, Adriana Lima, Cheslie Kryst, Iris Mittenaere, Lori Harvey, Marian Rivera and Rena Sofer. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/chandigarhs-harnaaz-sandhu-crowned-miss-universe-2021-349799
13-12-2021||Mohali||One more dengue case in Mohali||Youth takes poison, diesChandigarh: A 28-year-old youth, son of a lady constable, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. The police on Saturday had received information that a person, named Himesh of the Police Lines, Sector 26, attempted suicide. Cops reached the spot and found that the victim was already rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16. The victim passed away on Sunday. The police have initiated an inquest proceeding into the matter at the Sector 26 police station. TNSClub owner bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked the owner of a night club for defying the District Magistrate’s order. The police said a patrolling party found Terminal, a club in Sector 7, open beyond permissible time limit on the intervening night of December 11 and 12. A case has been registered against the club owner, Gaganpreet Singh, under Section 188 of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station. TNS2 arrested on betting chargeMohali: The police have arrested two persons involved in betting on Australia’s T20 Tournament, Big Bash League (BBL), at Savitry Greens, a housing society in Zirakpur. Three persons involved in the case are absconding. Sachin, a resident of Fazilika, and Rahul, a resident of Zirakpur, have been arrested. Prime suspect Gora, Gurpal Singh and Vishu, Delhi residents, are still absconding. A laptop, two mobile phones and Rs450 were recovered from them. TNSTelangana Hockey beat HimachalChandigarh: Telangana Hockey defeated Hockey Himachal (13-1) in the ongoing 11th Hockey India Senior Men National Championship Pimpri Chinchwad 2021, in Pune on Sunday. Earlier in the day’s opener, Odisha took on Hockey Gujarat in a Pool F encounter. After a feisty and goalless first quarter, Odisha took control of the game, notching up a comfortable (8-0) victory. Hockey Bengal overwhelmed Goans Hockey (8-0), Uttar Pradesh Hockey beat Kerala Hockey (9-0), Hockey Jharkhand defeated Assam Hockey (11-0), Hockey Bihar beat Chhattisgarh Hockey (4-2) and Hockey Maharashtra trounced Hockey Mizoram (18-0) in other matches of the day. TNSNCC beat SD Cricket ClubChandigarh: Namaste Chandigarh Complex (NCC), Dera Bassi, defeated SD Cricket Club, Sector 32, in the opening match of Salute Indian Army Cup. Before the start of the match, both teams paid homage to late CDS General Bipin Rawat. Batting first, the Sector 32 team scored 130 runs before getting all out in 19.2 overs. In reply, NCC scored 131 runs. TNS8-wicket win for Chandigarh AssnChandigarh: Riding on superb bowling from Harnoor (5/21) and Chetan (3/25), Chandigarh Cricket Association (CCA) recorded an eight-wicket win over Kurukshetra Cricket Academy (KCA) in the final of the Inter-Academy Cricket Tournament for U-16, organised by the Chandigarh Cricket Association, affiliated to Haryana. Batting first, KCA lads were bowled out for 68 runs in 17.3 overs. In reply, CCA lads scored 70/2 in 13 overs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-dengue-case-in-mohali-349750
13-12-2021||---||Vijay Hazare Trophy: Abhishek's ton guides Punjab to 9-wkt victory||Chandigarh, December 12Abhishek Sharma came up with a brilliant ton as Punjab recorded a nine-wicket win over Services in the ongoing Vijay Hazare Trophy at JSCA International Stadium, Ranchi, today.Chasing the target of 260 runs, Punjab scored 261/1 in 37.5 overs with the help of Sharma’s unbeaten 169 off 117 balls. Sharma’s innings was supported by Prabhsimran Singh who contributed 72 off 98 balls.Earlier, Services skipper Rajat Paliwal opted to bat first. The side posted 260/5 in the allotted 50 overs. Paliwal remained the main scorer for the side as he scored 85 off 104 balls, while Mohit Ahlawat (71 off 93 balls) was the other notable scorer for the side. Harpreet Brar (2/41), Arshdeep Singh (1/41), Sanvir Singh (1/34) and Abhishek Sharma (1/25) were the most successful wicket takers for the bowling side. Raj Bahadur Pal claimed the lone wicket for Services.Punjab will now face Goa in the next match on December 14 at MECON Stadium, Ranchi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vijay-hazare-trophy-abhisheks-ton-guides-punjab-to-9-wkt-victory-349749
13-12-2021||---||MCM DAV College-36 eves win||Chandigarh, December 12Panjab University Campus team went down 0-7 to MCM DAV College, Sector 36, in the ongoing Panjab University Inter-College Football (Women) Championship, on Sunday. Anjali, Habeer and Nikita scored two goals each, while Poonam added one goal to the winning team’s tally.In the second match, GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, overpowered hosts Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11, by a solitary goal. Jaspreet scored the lone goal of the match. On Monday, the host team will face Panjab University Campus, while GHG College will take on MCM eves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mcm-36-eves-win-349748
13-12-2021||We have to understand that Omicron is like a deadly enemy and we must fight individually like a soldier. We can not leave it to the Administration only. We have to use masks||Open house: How can Chandigarh prevent possible third wave amid omicron threat?||Capt Amar Jeet, KhararQUESTIONWith the Chandigarh MC set to go to the polls on December 24, what expectations do you have from your next representatives?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comExpedite second dose vaccinationIn view of the third wave fears and the Omicron variant threat, the Administration should expedite the second dose vaccination at the various health centres in the city. Private labs can also be roped in for administering second dose. Other usual measures such as the wearing of masks, social distancing and frequent washing of hands must be adhered to. The risk of virus spread is high amid the ongoing MC elections. The administration should take strict action against defaulters.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhCreate awareness among publicIt is surprising that there are still some people who have not come forward for their second dose of vaccine. Spread awareness on the Omicron effect on vaccinated and unvaccinated people and they will fall in line to follow the guidelines issued by the Administration.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhNeed to behave in a responsible mannerIt is a matter of serious concern that residents of the tricity have become so complacenttowards Covid vaccination when the danger of a possible third wave is looming large everywhere. With a few cases of new Omicron variant surfacing, the possibility of a third wave cannot be ruled out. While the government has taken certain steps such as strengthening the health infrastructure, residents also need to behave in a responsible manner by following the guidelines relating to testing, treatment and vaccination.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaMake vaccination compulsoryPersuasion/advisory to take both jabs has attained its desired results. Since the Omicron variant is reported to be more infectious, it is time taking jabs be made compulsory through enacting legislation and enforcing it strictly.BS Dhillon, MohaliVaccinate people on their doorstepSince most people are not coming forward to take their second dose, even weeks after the due date, the authorities must now become proactive and jab them at their doorstep. They are not only jeopardising their own safety by becoming soft targets for Omicron variant but also becoming a source of faster spread of this variant.SC Luthra, ChandigarhGuidelines should be followed sincerelyDespite Omicron becoming a cause of concern for the Health Department, vaccination is not being taken seriously by people. Strict action should be taken by the Administration. All visitors from abroad should be fully checked at airports. People should be motivated to take both doses. The authorities should force and advise the public to follow the guidelines issued by the Administration. People should avoid wandering out and taking part in gatherings.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliDon’t delay second dose of vaccinationThere is no justification for not taking the second dose of vaccine particularly at this time when Omicron has caused a scare in India. Moreover, it is free of cost. By delaying the second dose, such persons can put themselves, their families and society at risk. The Administration can send text message to such beneficiaries as all mobile numbers are on record. Vaccine can be administered at home in deserving cases.AK Jindal, PatialaSincere cooperation by public neededThe more infectious Omicron is already spreading. Guidelines such as maintaining social distancing, hygiene and wearing masks should followed properly. Unnecessary gatherings, rallies and processions should be banned. Cinema halls, gyms, pools be closed for sometime and vaccination stepped up. Stringent measures by the government and sincere cooperation by the public may help in containing the third wave.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhVax proof must for availing of servicesThe UT Administration should make it compulsory for all who wish to avail of any public service to provide full vaccination proof. This will have a cascading effect on the vaccination drive. The Administration should also not provide free medical treatment or compensation to anybody who has not taken two doses of vaccine. Taxpayers’ money should not be wasted on those who avoid vaccination.KC Rana, ChandigarhDo not lower the guard against virusIt is true that people have started showing a casual attitude towards the Covid-19 norms. But in view of the possible the third wave as well as the Omicron threat, there is an urgency to not lower the guard with respect to the guidelines. People must take the two doses of vaccine. The Health Department, too, should go a step ahead and make arrangements for doorstep vaccination.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhBe strict on second dose of vaccineWith the 3rd wave fears growing strong, any laxity at this stage will prove dangerous. I urge the authorities to be very strict on this issue and ensure that the second dose is taken by all. The authorities should arrange doorstep vaccination. Outsiders coming to the tricity should be asked to produce proof of full vaccination. Help of NGOs and other social organisations must be taken to ensure compliance on this issue.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliCovid-appropriate behaviour a mustThe new Omicron variant has posed a new threat to the entire nation. People should maintain social distancing and wear properly fitted masks all day long when they cannot maintain social distancing. People should make sure they maintain hygiene by washing and sanitising hands frequently and avoid crowded areas.Aahana Soni, ChandigarhFollow Covid-19 protocol strictlyPeople should follow the protocol strictly by properly wearing masks, keeping social distance and getting inoculated. Step out of home only when necessary. Offices and educational institutions should make a mandatory Covid-19 check at entry points to check the spread of the virus. Residents who have returned from abroad should isolate themselves, go for Covid-19 test and report to the government.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliVax best tool to contain OmicronExperts have warned the new variant can be more lethal that the earlier ones. It frightening to know that more than 2 lakh eligible beneficiaries are yet to be administered second dose. The only way to stay safe from the new variant is vaccination. People who had skipped their 2nd dose should come forward for full vaccination. The authorities concerned should persuade them. We have no choice but to learn to live with it. but we do have the option of safeguarding ourselves by adhering to the safety protocol.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaPut foreign returnees under isolationThe Central Government and the states must be strict when it comes to dealing with persons coming from abroad. They should be tested and quarantined at least for 14 days before going home. The Chandigarh Administration should chart out a programme and see to that all residents are fully vaccinated. It is imperative to take precautions sincerely and only then can we prevent the third wave.MR Bhateja, NayagaonAvoid visiting eateries, maintain hygienePeople must keep taking necessary precautions to prevent the third Covid wave. It is best to avoid visiting restaurants. Always keep hand sanitiser with you whenever you go out. Get vaccinated and follow the guidelines issued by the government. Watch out for symptoms and you must know what to do if you experience them.Anita K Tandon, KhararVaccination is the best bet against omicronAlthough the new variant is in its initial stage, it’s already shaking the whole world. We must take seriously the advice of South African scientists that this variant will dominate all earlier variants. Timely air travel curbs on countries affected by Omicron are necessary. High surveillance will be required like in Hong Kong and Israel, to identify and isolate travelers carrying the new strain. Vaccination continues to be the best bet. Narrowing down the 84-day Covishield gap should help.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliPrevention is better than cureThe Omicron variant is six times more infectious than the Delta strain. The new variant has 50 mutations overall with 32 mutations on the spike protein alone. Even fully vaccinated people have been infected with Omicron. The principle of “Prevention is better than cure” must be followed by each and everyone. Use sanitiser and soap, have good indoor ventilation, wear a mask, maintain social distance and avoid crowded places. The primary symptoms of this variant are fever, fatigue, scratchy throat etc.Sood Amloh, AdishBe responsible citizens, wear masksThe first and the foremost duty of all citizens not only in the tricity but also all over India should be to wear masks properly, wash hands frequently and keep surrounding clean. By bringing about a simple change in lifestyle, we can overcome any pandemic. As a responsible citizen, one should inform the respective authorities about the arrival of any guest or family member from abroad. Last but not least, one should avoid going to markets, malls, marriage palaces and large gatherings.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhDon’t think it’s just a hypeEverybody needs to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Gatherings should be avoided. Wear masks properly and maintain social distance. We have seen lakhs of people losing their lives to Covid. Don’t think it’s just a hype, it is ready to strike if we do not take precautions.Opinder Kaur Sekhon ChandigarhCovid-19 scare is still a realityThe emergence of Omicron has made us realise that the Covid-19 is still a reality. The constant mutation of the virus has baffled scientists as well as governments and we do not have much data to ascertain the lethality of the new variant. People should act responsibly and get their second dose at the earliest. Door-to-door vaccination should be started by the Administration. Health facilities should be ramped up. All of us should follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour. We have to remain vigilant and should not lower our guard.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhStick to corona protocolThe threat of Omicron is not being taken seriously by citizens. Door-to-door vaccination is the need of the hour. If necessary, help from political and religious leaders may be taken for creating awareness on vaccination. The corona protocol should be enforced strictly. Put a cap on the number of people at social and public celebrations.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, SharmaLaunch drive for doorstep vaccinationAs people are becoming complacent, the Administration must go for door-to-door vaccination. Create awareness, educate public on corona-appropriate behaviour and ensure that people are ready to get vaccinated.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaBar defaulters from contesting electionsThe government should take action against defaulters especially government officials and political leaders who go out without mask. They should not be allowed to contest elections or come to office. The government can take the help of NGOs and the MC to administer second dose to beneficiaries.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhFull vaccination only way forwardThe City Beautiful, like many other states of the country, has witnessed a gross vaccine complacency with more than two lakh beneficiaries yet to get their second dose. With the Omicron threat looming large, residents cannot afford to lower their guard. The possible third wave may strike in a big way. The government should motivate people to have the vaccine shot, sooner than later, apprising them of the far-reaching consequences of any complacency on their part. It can also rope in NGOs and sector welfare associations to spread awareness. There is a need to take strict action against those flouting the Covid protocol with impunity.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhRealise your responsibilityWe do know the benefits of vaccination and still become complacent. There could be no sorry state of affairs than this. If we don’t want to take care of ourselves, then why would or should the Administration take the onus of vaccinating all? The Administration must continue with the vaccination drive to improve public health.Garv Bhupesh, Panchkulawe must Shun careless attitudeMany people in the city have become complacent that coronavirus is no more now. They can be seen roaming without masks and or not wearing these properly. In order to keep the third wave at bay, precaution is the key. The police should constitute special teams to challan violators so that others learn a lesson. Restrictions on gatherings should also be imposed, not after the spread of Omicron, but well in advance as a precautionary measure.Capt Jagdish Verma (retd), ChandigarhGive incentives for vaccination on timeWith Covid cases witnessing a decline, many people have become careless. The authorities should give incentives to those who have taken their vaccine doses on schedule. If someone has not taken his shot within five days of the due date, he or she should be reminded over the phone. If he or she does not come to the vaccine centre even then, the authorities should vaccinate the beneficiary at home. The offices should also check whether their employees are fully vaccinated on time.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhAdministration needs to be geared upThe WHO advises that the most effective steps individuals can take to check the spread of Omicron are keep the physical distance of at least 1 metre from others, wear a mask, keep windows open to improve ventilation, avoid poorly ventilated spaces, keep hands clean and get vaccinated. The Administration needs to be geared up to face every eventuality.SK Khosla, ChandigarhDon’t let voters sans vax proof enter boothThe danger of Covid is not yet over. We need not be complacent and lower the guard. Two doses are a must for everyone to safeguard against the viral infection. No voter should be allowed to enter a polling booth without having a valid proof of vaccination in the coming MC elections. Health teams should vaccinate eligible persons on doorstep and on refusal by anyone, the house should be marked as “confirmation zone”.Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-how-can-city-prevent-possible-third-wave-amid-omicron-threat-349747
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||General council meeting of SBI held in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/general-council-meeting-of-sbi-held-349728
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers take out march in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-take-out-march-in-chandigarh-349723
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Purse stolen from SUV in Mani Majra||A boy stole a purse containing cash and a mobile from an SUV. The complainant, a Sector 19 resident, said her purse containing Rs5,000, a mobile, debit and credit cards and documents, was stolen from her SUV in front of a nursery at Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra. A case has been registered at the IT Park police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/purse-stolen-from-suv-in-mani-majra-349721
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||IG Ishwar Singh Duhan assumes command of ITBP training centre||Inspector General Ishwar Singh Duhan has assumed the command of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force’s (ITBP) Basic Training Centre at Bhanu near Chandigarh. Prior to this, he was serving as the Inspector General (Training) at the ITBP Headquarters in New Delhi, responsible for formulating, executing and reviewing all training policies and activities. A highly experienced officer and sportsman, he had joined the ITBP in 1986 as an Assistant Commandant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ig-duhan-assumes-command-of-itbp-training-centre-349719
13-12-2021||---||Elderly man held with tablets, banned drugs in Panchkula||Panchkula, December 12A joint team of the Sector 26 Crime Branch of the local police and the Drugs Control Department arrested a 65-year-old man carrying 2,820 tablets (47 strips) and 24 capsules of banned drugs (3 strips) on Saturday.The suspect, identified as Bahadur Singh, a resident of Barwala, was arrested near Bangla Basti in Barwala.During a patrolling, the police spotted the suspect carrying a polythene bag.“When the suspect saw a police vehicle, he threw the bag into bushes and started running away. On the basis of suspicion, the police nabbed him after a brief chase. On checking, 2820 tablets of lomotil and 24 capsules of spasmo proxyvon were recovered from the bag,” said Inspector Aman Kumar, in-charge of the Sector 26 Crime Branch.The police subsequently called the Drugs Control Officer, Panchkula, to the spot for further investigation.Praveen Kumar, District Drugs Control Officer, confirmed the recoveries as banned drugs. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against the suspect.He was today produced in a court, which sent him to two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-man-held-with-tablets-banned-drugs-in-panchkula-349718
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Maloya gunpoint robbery case committed to Sessions Court||Mayank Marwaha, Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Chandigarh (JMIC), has committed an alleged robbery case in Maloya to the Sessions Court for trial.The police arrested an accused Sandeep, alias Khurmi, for allegedly committing a robbery at gunpoint posing as a cop two months ago.“On close scrutiny of facts, it comes out that the accused had prima facie committed the offence punishable under Sections 149, 420, 452, 392, 397, 506, 120-B, 170 and 411 of the Indian Penal Code. The offence punishable under Sections 392 and 397 of the IPC are exclusively triable by the Sessions Court. Hence, the case is committed to the Sessions Court, Chandigarh, for trial for December 17,” says the order of the JMIC.As per the police, Sabndeep (30), along with a female co-accused Seerat Gill, looted a Maloya resident, Priyanshu, on October 4.In his complaint, Priyanshu, a resident of Maloya, said he, along with his mother, was at his house when someone rang the doorbell at 3 am on October 4. When he opened the door, he saw a man with cropped hair and a woman. On questioning, the duo said they were from the Panchkula police. They entered the house and went to the room where his mother was present.Priyanshu alleged that the man told him that his name had cropped up in the investigation of a murder of a girl in Panchkula. They asked him to accompany them.The complainant refused to go with them. Later, they demanded money from him to remove his name from the investigation. When the complainant refused to give the money, the man took out a pistol from his pocket and threatened him. The complainant gave them Rs15,000.He said they also took his signatures on some blank papers. They also took away his mobile phone and a purse. On the basis of the complaint, an FIR was registered. The police later arrested both accused.After completing formalities and investigations, a chargesheet was filed before the court. The police filed the chargesheet against them for the offences punishable under Sections 149, 420, 452, 392, 397, 506, 120-B, 170 and 411 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maloya-gunpoint-robbery-case-committed-to-sessions-court-349711
13-12-2021||---||BJP's anti-farmer face again to fore: Subhash Chawla||Chandigarh, December 12The anti-farmer face and mindset of the BJP has again come to the fore by inviting Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal to campaign for party candidates contesting the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections. This was stated by Subhash Chawla, president of the Chandigarh Congress, here today.“How could the BJP ask the Haryana Chief Minister to campaign for the MC poll. He’s the same leader who has ordered to crush the farmers’ protest with muscle power by advising party cadres for tit-for-tat action and pick up the lathis and not to worry about the bail if they decided to retaliate,” Chawla questioned.“The Haryana CM is on record stating if you stay inside (in jail) for a few months, you will learn more than what you learn at these meetings. You will emerge as a big leader. Your name will go down in history. This is dishonouring the pride of city people by inviting such leader who has indulged in such reckless statements,” he said.Mayor hits back at CongChandigarh: Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, while countering Covid-cess related allegations levelled by the Congress on Saturday, said the revenue generated by the Municipal Corporation was being spent on Covid relief and other health facilities. During a press briefing held at the BJP office “Kamalam”, the Mayor said the corporation generated a sum of Rs28 crore in the form of Covid cess during the pandemic which was now being spent in various relief works and health services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjps-anti-farmer-face-again-to-fore-subhash-chawla-349705
13-12-2021||---||Chandigarh Congress files plaint with EC||Chandigarh, December 12The City Congress has filed a complaint with the State Election Commission regarding early opening of warehouse where electronic voting machines (EVMs) are presently kept.“It is requested that the EVMs to be used in the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections, scheduled for December 24, should be kept in the warehouse under proper security and surveillance and such these should only be removed from there only 2-3 days prior to the elections for distributing among all returning officers at their respective strong rooms,” read the letter by the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-files-plaint-with-ec-349704
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Employees' Housing Scheme: Allottees hold rally, express anger over failure to build their houses||Taking their fight forward, allottees of the UT Employees’ Housing Scheme today held a rally at a park in Sector 20 here and expressed their anger over the failure to build houses.The agitated allottees rued it has been around seven to eight years to the current dispensation, but their case has not reached its logical end. Later in the day, city BJP chief Arun Sood called them for a meeting.Sood assured them of taking up the matter with Home Minister Amit Shah and getting the needful done. He said due to model code of conduct, they would not be able to do much at this moment. However, his assurances failed to cut any ice with the angry allottees.Dr Dharmender, president of the union, said if the needful was not done soon, they would campaign against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.The members said even after over a decade, there was no respite for 3,930 allottees, who were selected through a draw of lot for the self-financing housing scheme. The draw of lots for the scheme was conducted on November 4, 2010. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-employees-housing-scheme-allottees-hold-rally-express-anger-over-failure-to-build-their-houses-349703
13-12-2021||---||BJP changed the face of politics in City Beautiful: Haryana CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the BJP had changed the face of politics in Chandigarh in the past five years. Now, the elections are being contested in the name of development done by the BJP and not scams.Khattar was addressing an election rally in Sector 39 in support of party candidate Ravinder Rawat from Ward No. 27 here today.Khattar earlier addressed public meetings in support of party candidates Savita Gupta from Ward No. 4; Nitika Gupta from Ward No. 5; Sarabjit Kaur from Ward No. 6 at Rana Haveli in Mani Majra and Usha from Ward No. 16 Sector in Sector 25.Khattar said there was a time when Chandigarh and its corporation were remembered only for scams. Ever since the BJP governments came to the Centre and Chandigarh, only development was being talked about here.He said the government with ‘double engine’ gave impetus to the development in Chandigarh. To maintain this momentum, city residents are ready to elect the BJP once again.Khattar said this election would work as a testimony to the development works carried during the BJP tenure. As soon as the elections were announced, there was a panic among the opponents, he said, adding that several Independents have joined the BJP. By the time the elections come closer, candidates from several political parties would also withdraw their candidatures in support of the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-changed-the-face-of-politics-in-city-beautiful-haryana-cm-349700
13-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: BJP, Congress, AAP claim victory in internal surveys||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12Riding high on their internal surveys, confident BJP, Congress and AAP claim they will win a majority of the seats in the Municipal Corporation elections scheduled to be held on December 24.According to party leaders, the AAP got various surveys done in the run-up to the civic body elections for 35 wards.“Our latest survey found that we are going to win 15 seats and will finish close in the remaining seats,” said an AAP leader.Presenting Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal as its “poster boy”, the AAP is contesting the elections in the city for the first time. It is seeking votes in the name of “development” done in Delhi.The survey done by the Congress found that it will win 20 seats and will give a tough competition to the opponents in other wards.“Unlike other parties, our survey is practical and based on our position on the ground. We are comfortably going to win 20 seats and will have a neck-and-neck fight in other 15 seats,” said Subhash Chawla, president of the city Congress.The Congress, which won four seats in the previous elections, is fighting poll this time on the issues of poor Swachhata rankings, dilapidated roads, increased water tariff, 30 per cent sewerage cess and door-to-door waste collection mismanagement.The BJP claimed to win all 35 seats. “As per our local as well as the high command’s assessment, we are going to outdo our previous performance. We won 20 seats in the 2016 MC poll. This time, we are going to win all 35 seats,” said Arun Sood, city BJP president.The BJP is highlighting its “development” work like 24/7 water supply project, additional water supply, CCTV surveillance for city, works done in education, health and transport sectors.Leaders’ claimAs per our local as well as the high command’s assessment, we are going to outdo our previous performance. We won 20 seats in the 2016 MC poll. This time, we are going to win all 35 seats. — Arun Sood, city BJP presidentOur latest survey found that we are going to win 15 seats and will finish close in the remaining seats. — AAP leaderUnlike other parties, our survey is practical and based on our position on the ground. We are comfortably going to win 20 seats and will have a neck-and-neck fight in other 15 seats. — Subhash Chawla, president of city Congress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-bjp-congress-aap-claim-victory-in-internal-surveys-349699
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 10 fresh cases of Covid||The city on Sunday reported 10 cases of Covid. There was no death due to the virus, while four patients were cured of the disease. — TNS7 +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported seven fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,872. The toll remained at 379. — TNS3 new Covid cases surface in MohaliMohali: Three new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Sunday. Three persons were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, one each surfaced in Kharar, Dera Bassi and Dhakoli. There are 72 active cases in the district. The toll stands at 1,073. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-10-fresh-cases-of-covid-349697
13-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Women candidates a force to reckon with this time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12This time, women candidates are a stronger force in the local Municipal Corporation elections, scheduled for December 24. While 12 wards of the 35 have been reserved for women, breaking the glass ceiling, they are contesting as many as 21 seats.There are a total of 203 candidates from different political parties or Independents in the fray. Of them, 69 are women candidates.In ward number 1, seven women are contesting, the highest in any ward. Ward numbers 16, 9, 6 and 28 have six women contestants each, the second highest. Some parties have given the ticket to more women than the reserved quota of 12, indicating the influence of the fairer sex in general wards as well.The Congress has given the ticket to 14 women. Other than the 12 reserved seats, two seats have been given from general wards — ward number 27 (Gurbax Rawat) and ward number 12 (Deipa Asdhir Dubey).“They are our strong candidates, that’s why they were given the ticket from even unreserved seats. They are going to defeat their male rivals from other parties. Our party leader Priyanka Gandhi spoke of 40 per cent seats for women in Uttar Pradesh, we have given 42 per cent representation to women,” said Subhash Chawla, president, city Congress.Sitting councillor Gurbax Rawat said, “Women should not be dependent on quota seats. They should not be in politics only because they happen to be the daughter or wife of ‘actual candidates’ in reserved seats. They have their own standing and caliber and should come forward.”AAP has also given the ticket to a woman on a general seat. “Our candidate Sukhraj Sandhu (ward number 2) is highly educated and understands people’s issues; thus, we have given her the ticket. It’s women empowerment,” said AAP convener Prem Garg. Other parties such as the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Samajwadi Party and Independents are also vying from unreserved seats.BJP’s sitting councillor Sunita Dhawan, who is contesting from ward number 18, reserved for women, said, “Women are coming forward in every field. Some women, who come from political families, should become self-dependent after they come to the MC; then only can they understand the problems of the ward better.”However, there is another side to the story. Many women candidates are disinterested in politics and are contesting only as their councillor husband’s ward has been reserved for women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-women-candidates-a-force-to-reckon-with-this-time-349696
13-12-2021||Panchkula||Year on, Chandimandir toll plaza back to business||After being vacated by farmers, the Chandimandir toll plaza resumed its operations today – almost after a year.According to officials, the toll plaza was shut since December 26 last year and suffered a loss of around Rs12 lakh each day. On Saturday, farmers had started leaving the toll plaza after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of protesting farm unions, called off the year-long agitation.The protesters were in a jubilant mood and celebrating their “victory”. A path of ‘Sri Sukhmani Sahib’ was also organised to mark the occasion. As farmers started returning home since yesterday, toll plaza officials had started preparations to roll out operations by ensuring cleanliness and security arrangements. Banks and agents were seen selling Fastags near the toll plaza. Pawnesh Chauhan, an official at the toll plaza, said after the protesters vacated the spot today, the fee collection at the toll plaza resumed around 3 pm. The Chandimandir toll plaza had been a major protesting site in the district where farmers had been camping for one year against the agri laws.Several protests here saw confrontation between farmers and the police, the gherao of BJP and other ruling party leaders and visits by senior farm leaders, including Gurnam Singh Charuni. On a few occasions, the police also detained protesters and filed FIRs against them, but nothing could stop them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-chandimandir-toll-plaza-back-to-business-349692
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rakesh Tikait celebrates repeal of three farm laws with activists at Matka Chowk, Chandigarh||A large number of activists, who were protesting at several chowks in the city against the farm laws, rejoiced as one of the SKM leaders, Rakesh Tikait, visited Matka Chowk to celebrate the repeal of the laws by the Centre.The crowd waited for Tikait to show up at the chowk for nearly three hours as Tikait arrived in the city at 9 pm. Standing atop a tractor-trailer, parked near Labh Singh’s makeshift tent, Tikait extended gratitude to the city folks who protested against the laws. “I would also like to thank the youth of the country, who extended their invaluable support to us. This protest is the protest of the people, for the people and by the people. In this protest, everyone, from safai karmchaaris to NRIs, contributed,” he said.The elated crowd sang and danced to express their happiness over Tikait’s arrival and eagerly waited to click selfies with the farm leader.‘Fateh rally’ at Mani MajraMembers of the Mani Majra Youth Unity organised a “fateh rally” to celebrate the repeal of the farm laws. Several people toured the streets of Mani Majra and raised pro-farmer slogans to announce their victory as they marched from Gurdwara Dehra Sahib to the Motor Market, Jama Masjid, Pipliwala Town, Modern Complex and then to Dehra Gurdwara Sahib. Rattan Singh, one of the organisers, said, “The rally was organised to express happiness over the repeal of farm laws. About 100 people marched on foot throughout Mani Majra. They danced and rejoiced and were served langar at the rally.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tikait-celebrates-repeal-of-three-farm-laws-with-activists-at-matka-chowk-349690
13-12-2021||Naina Mishra||77% of those tested Covid-19 +ve in Chandigarh in November were fully vaccinated||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12About 77 per cent of the new cases of Covid reported from the city in November were fully vaccinated, as per the data shared by the UT health authorities. Only 10 per cent of those vaccinated and tested positive for the virus, including patients with co-morbidities, required hospitalisation.However, the month also recorded zero fatalities due to Covid-19, which reiterated the fact that the vaccine reduced severity of the disease and hospitalisation of the patient.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, said, “Vaccines do not stop transmission but reduces hospitalisation. We can deduce this from the fact that even as 77 per cent of the infected cases in November were fully vaccinated, there has been no death in the city due to Covid-19.”While Omicron continued to pose a greater risk to the community, vaccine protection was still considered a safer bet against the new variant, said experts.“The person from Italy, who has been detected with Omicron variant, has been asymptomatic throughout his course of coronavirus disease as he was fully vaccinated with Pfizer. All those residents who have not yet taken their second dose of the vaccine should get it without any delay,” added Dr Suman.“Most patients who are fully vaccinated do not need hospitalisation. Those who are coming to our hospitals are those who have not taken any dose of the vaccine. Vaccines protect against severe disease,” she said.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work against Omicron. Some of the mutations reported on Spike gene may decrease the efficacy of the existing vaccines. However, vaccine protection is also by antibodies as well as by cellular immunity, which is expected to be relatively better preserved. Hence, vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and vaccination with the available vaccines is crucial.Women candidates a force to reckon with this timethe Bahujan Samaj Party, the Samajwadi Party and Independents are also vying from unreserved seats.BJP’s sitting councillor Sunita Dhawan, who is contesting from ward number 18, reserved for women, said, “Women are coming forward in every field. Some women, who come from political families, should become self-dependent after they come to the MC; then only can they understand the problems of the ward better.”However, there is another side to the story. Many women candidates are disinterested in politics and are contesting only as their councillor husband’s ward has been reserved for women.80% of UT residents double vaccinatedAs much as 80 per cent of the city population has been fully immunised with the Covid vaccine, while 113.14 per cent of the target population has taken the first dose of the vaccine. Around 4,300 people are administered the shot daily in Chandigarh now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/77-of-those-tested-ve-in-chandigarh-in-november-were-fully-vaccinated-349688
13-12-2021||---||Italy returnee is Chandigarh's first case of Omicron||Chandigarh, December 12The city reported its first case of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 today with a 20-year-old Italian resident testing positive for it.The youth, a resident of Italy, landed in India on November 22 and tested negative for Covid-19 on his arrival at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar. He then travelled to Chandigarh to meet his relatives and was staying in the Mani Majra area.The youth, who is fully vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine and has been asymptomatic, was put under home quarantine and was tested again on December 1 after he completed eight days in quarantine. The Italy returnee tested positive for Covid-19 on December 1 after which his sample was sent for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi.The Health Department shifted the man to institutional quarantine at the Mani Majra Civil Hospital. His seven high-risk family contacts were also put under quarantine and tested negative for Covid-19 on December 1.According to the Health Department, the traveller was kept in isolation for 11 days. The youth was tested for Covid-19 again today and returned negative. A health official said he would now be put under home quarantine for seven days.His seven high-risk contacts were also tested again today as a precautionary measure and five of them tested positive for Covid. Their samples will be sent for genome sequencing to Delhi tomorrow and they have been home-quarantined for now. Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services (DHS), Chandigarh, said, “There is no need to panic. The Health Department appeals to all citizens to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and those who have not taken the Covid vaccine or have had only one dose should complete their vaccination at the earliest.”5 contacts test +ve, samples to be sent to DelhiHis seven high-risk contacts were also tested again on Sunday as a precautionary measure and five of them tested positive for Covid. Their samples will now be sent for genome sequencing to Delhi on Monday and they have been home-quarantined for now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/italy-returnee-is-chandigarhs-first-case-of-omicron-349686
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fully-vaccinated 20-year-old international traveller becomes Chandigarh's first Omicron case||A fully-vaccinated man who tested positive in December when he came down to visit relatives in Chandigarh has become the first case of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in the city.He has been tested as Covid negative today whereas out of his seven family members tested, five have returned a positive test today while one result is awaited. The 20-year-old man who lives in Italy and came down to visit some relatives in the city tested positive for Covid-19 on December 1. He’s been in quarantine since. His swab samples were sent for genome sequencing to NCDC, New Delhi.“He was currently living in Italy. He had come to see some of his relatives here recently. His report for whole genomic sequencing has been received late night on December 11 and found positive for Omicron variant,” Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, Dr Suman Singh told PTI over the phone.Also read: 3 more test positive for Omicron variant in India; tally reaches 36The traveller had taken the Pfizer vaccine in Italy and remains asymptomatic.“He is fully inoculated with Pfizer vaccine which he got in Italy. He has been kept in isolation for the last 11 days,” a statement from the administration said. “His report for whole genomic sequencing was received late night on December 11 and has been found positive for Omicron variant,” the statement said.He underwent a second test on Sunday, the statement said.“If he tests negative, he will be put under home quarantine for seven days and if positive, institutional quarantine will continue till his report turns out negative,” the administration had said earlier.The Chandigarh health department also urged those eligible for vaccines to vaccinate themselves soon and asked the public to adhere to Covid protocols such as masks and social distancing.—     With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fully-vaccinated-20-year-old-international-traveller-becomes-chandigarhs-first-omicron-case-349488
