14-12-2021||New Delhi||Menstrual hygiene, films high on Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu's agenda||As the newly crowned Miss Universe 2021, Punjab's Harnaaz Sandhu says she wants to nurture an environment where fellow women feel comfortable about expressing their concerns regarding health and hygiene.Also read: Be unique, believe in yourself: Miss Universe Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu'Har Hindustani Ki Naz': Celebs congratulate Harnaaz SandhuCan't take my eyes off the crown: Harnaaz SandhuIt’s so much more than just glamour, says Harnaaz SandhuThe 21-year-old, who has already starred in a few Punjabi films, including "Yaara Diyan Poo Baran" and "Bai Ji Kuttange" both 2021 releases, is also looking forward to creating a niche for herself not just in Hindi cinema but also Hollywood.    On Monday, Sandhu became the third Indian to be crowned Miss Universe -- actors Sushmita Sen and Lara Dutta won the title in 1994 and 2000, respectively.It's a huge celebration for the whole country because an Indian has got a chance to wear this crown after 21 years, Harnaaz Sandhu said."I feel so grateful and my heart is filled with so much respect for all those who have shown their faith in me and showered me with all their love. I want to use this platform to talk about the issues which we should all be concerned about," the pageant winner told PTI in a telephonic interview from Eilat, Israel, where the 70th edition of the event was held.Next stop for Sandhu is the New York City, her home for now from where she will discharge her duties as a spokesperson for various causes alongside the Miss Universe Organisation.Her mother and gynaecologist Ravinder Kaur Sandhu has been an inspiration for Sandhu, who wants to lead the way for women empowerment with special focus on menstrual hygiene and breast cancer awareness."My advocacy is all about women empowerment with menstrual hygiene, my mom being a gynaecologist. Women should talk about their health. In my community, women still feel uncomfortable talking about their body and anything that's to do with their health."This is what I've been majorly working on along with different organisations regarding breast cancer surgery and the fact that it's curable when detected well in time. I'll also talk about all those issues that the Miss Universe organisation is related to. I'd like to talk about the causes with the help of my mother," she added.Sandhu, who is pursuing her master's degree in public administration and started modelling when she was 17, also talked about how beauty pageants are trying to keep up with the times.She started her ramp journey early, winning the Times Fresh Face in 2017, representing Chandigarh at the age of 17. She later won the LIVA Miss Diva Universe 2021 title.Events like Miss Universe are undergoing change, she said, adding that they are helping people embrace "the real meaning of beauty"."After my win, in my community people realise that it's not only about looking beautiful, it's about having that persona, aura, and having the depth in your voice to speak out for what you believe in... you are the leader of your own life.. I think I've already broken stereotypes of what women are and can be and now I want to take this forward at large."  Sandhu emerged victorious edging out contestants from 79 countries to bring the title back to India after over two decades. She was crowned by her predecessor Andrea Meza of Mexico, who won the pageant in 2020.Her Paraguay counterpart Nadia Ferreira, 22, finished second, South Africa's Lalela Mswane, 24, came third.For Sandhu, all her co-contestants are winners as they represented the people of their countries on the global stage with "enough confidence about your opinion"."... to have that throw in your voice that this is the difference you want to bring in your life... that's more than enough to conquer anything in this world. You get to share your culture, country, background with every contestant. That's a huge achievement in itself. I'm going to take a lot of things from my co-contestants because I believe we all are winners. Every girl is a Miss Universe," she added.While Sandhu can't wait to come back to India and celebrate this victory together with the people, her travel plans are being worked out.She wants to eat her favourite 'makki di roti, sarson da saag' first thing, she shared.But her win will remain somewhat incomplete till she gives her mother "the tightest hug" as she would now return home realising this dream they had dreamt together."Months ago, we were watching the Miss Universe 2020 edition and I was telling my mom, 'Look the way the girls are walking'. Who knew that I would be on that stage one day representing my country!" Sandhu recalled.Her win will also generate new interest in her films."They are very excited to have me as part of their movies and I'm looking forward to showing my talent on the big screen," she said.Like former beauty queen, Miss World 2000 Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Sandhu too aims to further bridge the distance between Indian and international cinema."I'd love to be a part of not just Bollywood but Hollywood too, through that I'd love to break the stereotypes. I think 21st century people get inspired by movies and web series, so I'd like to inspire people and try to talk about the issues that should be eradicated from society." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/menstrual-hygiene-films-high-on-miss-universe-2021-harnaaz-sandhus-agenda-350325
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Club caught on the wrong foot||MCM DAV win football titleChandigarh: MCM DAV College, Sector 36, won the Panjab University Inter-College Football (women) Championship that concluded at Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11. In the final league match, the Sector 36-based college defeated GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar (Ludhiana) 2-0. Harveer Kaur scored both goals. The host team claimed third position as they defeated PU Campus by a solitary goal scored by Monika. TNSTBRL Cleanliness fortnightChandigarh: A cleanliness fortnight is being undertaken by Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) as part of the Swatchh Bharat Mission, during which several initiatives have been undertaken. Following a Swachhta pledge by officers and staff, a drive to clean the premises of the TBRL office and residential colony in Chandigarh and its ranges in Ramgarh was launched. Tree plantation at TBRL range in Ramgarh, weeding out of old records and files, disposal of e-waste, an awareness campaign against single-use plastic items and a poster-making competition were other events undertaken during the fortnight. TNSRailway staff awardedChandigarh: Gurinder Mohan Singh, Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala Division, Northern Railway, awarded GM safety awards to nine employees for showing awareness and alertness while on duty. The awards were given to Sanjay Kumar, Chief Loco Inspector/Safety/Ambala Cantt; Sandeep Kumar, cabin man/Rup Nagar; Rajesh Kumar, Station Master/Sarsawa; Narender Kumar, gangmate/Ambala City; Balvinder, points man/Bhatinda; Raju, gate man/Yamunanagar, Jagadhri; Sushil, Station Master/Rajpura; Manikant Pathak, Station Master/Shambhu; and Shiv Prasad, points man/Rajpura. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/club-caught-on-the-wrong-foot-350250
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himanshi, Ravi win cross-country gold||Himanshi claimed gold medal in the 2-km run in the girls’ U-16 category during the Chandigarh State Cross Country Championship organised by the Chandigarh Athletics Association at Botanical Garden, Sarangpur. Anshika claimed silver medal and Neelam bagged bronze. In the boys’ U-16 category, Ravi Yadav, Rajat and Vaibhav claimed the first three positions, respectively.Preeti bagged gold in the 2-km event of the girls’ U-18 category, followed by Aman at second position and Komal at third. Mukul Kumar won gold in the same age-group of the 6-km event, while Ranjan Yadav finished second and Kunal third.Sonakshi won the 6-km run in girls’ U-18 category, followed by Sakshi and Luxmi at second and third position, respectively. In the boys’ U-20 (8 km) event, Mahtab Khan, Mahendra Kumar and Abhay Sharma won the top three places, respectively.Basant Chauhan won men’s 10-km run, while Rishav Tiwari and Suresh Kumar claimed second and third position, respectively. In the women’s 10-km event, Manisha, Suman Saini and Jyoti claimed top three positions, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himanshi-ravi-win-cross-country-gold-350241
14-12-2021||---||National Championship: Hockey Chandigarh defeat Manipur||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13Hockey Chandigarh defeated Manipur Hockey by a solitary goal in the 11th Hockey India Senior Men National Championship at Pune. It was a battle among equals. After a goalless two quarters, where both sides defended resolutely calling their keepers into action more than once, the game hung on a knife edge.It was Chandigarh that broke the deadlock in the third quarter. Amandeep finished off a sweeping move in the 42nd minute to give them the lead. It was a lead they hung on to, despite a flood of Manipur pressure to secure three points and jump to top of the group.Hockey Punjab also moved ahead by trouncing Hockey Andhra Pradesh (7-1). Hockey Punjab started their onslaught early, with captain Rupinder Pal Singh slotting home a penalty corner as early as the 2nd minute of the game. From thereon, goals by Lovepreet Jainth (5th), Ranjot Singh (19th), Sudarshan Singh (29th, 55th), Parampreet Singh (40th) and Sankalp Singh (42th) ensured they secure three points. Hockey Andhra Pradesh’s solitary goal was scored by Venkata Sree Aripineni Balaji in the 26th minute.Hockey Jammu & Kashmir defeated Hockey Arunachal (10-3) in a high-scoring encounter. A hat-trick by Jasprit Singh (13th, 19th, 33rd, 44th) and a brace each by Karanjit Singh (16th, 26th) and Manpreet Singh (42nd, 59th) consolidated the victory. Sandeep Singh (21st) and Hussain Mohd Dar (56th) also got a goal each for Jammu & Kashmir. Goals for Hockey Arunachal were scored by Sandeep (30th, 33rd) and Ucha Singh (22nd).Hockey Rajasthan overwhelmed Tripura Hockey (18-0). A double hat-trick by Vijendra Singh (25th, 28th, 40th, 48th, 50th, 57th) was the highlight of the game where eight Rajasthan players got goals. Shyam Singh Chouhan (14th, 52nd, 53rd, 58th), Hashanpreet Singh (12th, 45th), Karanjot Singh Mann (16th, 44th), captain Chandransh Sharma (34th), Akhtar Shoyab Qureshi (39th), Chetan Kalot (43rd) and Amit Kumar Saini (59th) were among the goal scorers as Rajasthan took three points.In the day’s opener, Hockey Karnataka beat Le Puducherry Hockey (4-0) in Pool C. Goals for Karnataka were scored by Harish Mutagar (5th), S Deekshith P (25th), Shamanth CS (40th) and Pavan Madivalar (49th).Delhi Hockey defeated Hockey Madhya Pradesh (3-2), while Hockey Andaman and Nicobar forfeit their Pool D game against Hockey Uttarakhand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-championship-hockey-chandigarh-defeat-manipur-350239
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula's Shubhankar to make a comeback after 5 yrs||Panchkula’s Shubhankar Sharma, Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Sandhu and Hamreet Kahlon will be among several other golfers from the region to feature in the TATA Steel Tour Championship at Beldih and Golmuri golf courses in Jamshedpur, starting from December 16 to December 19.The event offers a handsome prize money of Rs1.5 crore and will feature an elite field of 74 professionals. The TATA Steel Tour Championship is the season-ending event of the 2020-21 season. The tournament will be a 72-hole stroke-play championship and there will be no cut applied. There is guaranteed prize money for all participants. The Pro-Am event preceding the tournament will be played on December 14.Sharma, two-time European Tour winner and former Asia No. 1, will return to play in Jamshedpur after five years. Sharma, a European Tour regular, last played in Jamshedpur at the 15th TATA Open 2016, an event he went on to win. Sharma will also be playing a PGTI event for the first time since February 2020.The tournament will feature a glittering field, including some of the biggest names in Indian golf such as defending champion Gaganjeet Bhullar (10 international wins), Jyoti Randhawa (nine international wins), Olympian SSP Chawrasia (six international wins) and Olympian Udayan Mane (2019 champion). The field will also feature the top-60 from the PGTI Order of Merit with the prominent names being PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar, Rashid Khan, Khalin Joshi, Viraj Madappa, Chikkarangappa S, Aman Raj, Veer Ahlawat and Manu Gandas among others. The tournament will decide the PGTI Order of Merit champion for the 2020-21 TATA Steel PGTI season, a race which is likely to be a closely-contested one.“Some of the biggest names of Indian golf such as Shubhankar Sharma, Gaganjeet Bhullar, Olympians SSP Chawrasia and Udayan Mane and PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar will compete with the emerging stars of the country. There is also an added excitement of the tournament deciding the PGTI Order of Merit champion for the 2020-21 season, a contest which is likely to go down to the wire, said Uttam Singh Mundy, CEO, PGTI.A putting contest featuring some of the leading Indian professionals will be organised on December 15. — TNSRs1.5-cr prize moneyThe event offers a handsome prize money of Rs1.5 crore and will feature an elite field of 74 professionals. The TATA Steel Tour Championship is the season-ending event of the 2020-21 season. The tournament will be a 72-hole stroke-play championship and there will be no cut applied. There is guaranteed prize money for all participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkulas-shubhankar-to-make-a-comeback-after-5-yrs-350236
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Defence products on display||Ordinance Factory of Chandigarh (OFC) organised an exhibition of Defence products on the occasion of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’.The Defence equipment session was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh through a virtual platform. In his opening remarks, he emphasised self-reliance in the production of Defence equipment and modernisation. The minister also dedicated a museum related to Defence products to the nation through the virtual medium. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/defence-products-on-display-350233
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Monga inaugurates advocates' room||Member, Judicial-cum-HoD of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh Bench, SK Monga inaugurated a fully equipped advocates’ room on the premises of the tribunal today.Rohit Seth, president of the CAT Bar Association, said the room had been equipped with latest furniture and other facilities in which allotment of space had been given to 35 Bar members .The association also honoured Monga on the occasion. He felicitated the members of the Bar who had immensely contributed to causes, development works etc of the association as well to the legal fraternity and profession.Seth thanked Monga for restlessly working on two Benches simultaneously i.e. CAT Chandigarh and Bangalore Bench for the past one year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monga-inaugurates-advocates-room-350231
14-12-2021||---||SFS stages protest on Panjab varsity campus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13Members of the SFS, Panjab University, organised a protest against the alleged attack by supporters of the ABVP on their activists today, while the ABVP submitted a memorandum to the authorities concerned against the protest on the campus.“It was not a mere fight between two organisations, but an attack on voices of dissent in democratic spaces like Panjab University. Other student organisations also participated in the protest,” said Gagan from SFS. Panjab University student organisations such as ISA, NSUI and SOI also said to have participated in the protest.“The police authorities have been taking necessary action in this case and even then the SFS planned the protest. They are seeking false sympathy and spreading anti-national ideology,” said Paras Rattan, campus president of the ABVP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sfs-stages-protest-on-panjab-varsity-campus-350229
14-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||CLTA to pay Rs 1.22-lakh lease money annually||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13After a wait of more than four years, the UT Sports Department has finally renewed the lease contract of the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA), which was pending since January 15, 2017.According to the new agreement, the complex, which is located at Sector 10, has been leased out on an annual average rent of Rs1, 22,585. The department has charged no security amount on this contract.Unlike the previous contract, the complex has been leased out for five years and eight months.Earlier, the CLTA, which is a private body, was given this prime piece of land on an annual lease (ground rent) of only Rs100. The contract was signed for a 20-year period, which ended on January 15, 2017. The agreement had begun on January 16, 1997.The department will make available the tennis stadium, comprising two main synthetic courts, four cemented courts, two clay courts, eight synthetic courts (practice), area in which partial buildings are constructed, tensile mesh all around its extension and open area (others) to the CLTA from January 1, 2017, to September 9, 2022. The CLTA will pay lease money and ground rent of Rs16,058 (per acre) per annum for the open area with 5 per cent compounded annual increase and Rs100 per building per year to the UT Estate Office. Besides, the department will also look after the maintenance of the building, including expenditure on maintenance. All other points in the agreement are the same as the previous contract.Notably, the Sector 10 complex is the only facility, under the department, which has the option of charging a usage fee on an hourly basis. Interestingly, the booking for the stadium is approved by the CLTA management, while all other sports complexes are controlled by the department.“The department took a long time to sign the deal. It was worth noting that for four years, there was no contract and who would be responsible for decisions taken during this period?” questioned an official of the department.In reply to an RTI query filed last year, the department had accepted having no specific rules for leasing out their sports complexes to any particular private body. Besides this complex, small area at the Sector 16 cricket stadium has been leased out to the local cricket association, making it only two private associations in Chandigarh to have their own space in buildings owned by the UT Sports Department (UT Administration). Paid Rs100 annual lease money earlierEarlier, the CLTA, which is a private body, was given this prime piece of land on an annual lease (ground rent) of only Rs100. The contract was signed for a 20-year period, which ended on January 15, 2017. The agreement had begun on January 16, 1997.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clta-to-pay-1-22-lakh-lease-money-annually-350228
14-12-2021||---||ITBP's 35th inter-frontier shooting contest begins||Chandigarh, December 13Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) force’s 35th inter-frontier shooting competition began at its Basic Training Centre (BTC) at Bhanu near here today. As many as 125 personnel are participating in the event.The competition was inaugurated by Ishwar Singh Duhan, Inspector General, BTC. He said besides skill enhancement and furthering esprit de corps, the aim of the event was also to select shooters to represent the ITBP in the All-India Police Shooting Competition.The participants are drawn from ITBP’s four frontiers and one training zone across the country. There are a total of 13 events, which include 5.56mm INSAS rifle, 9mm pistol and 9mm sub-machine gun.13 eventsThere are a total of 13 events, which include 5.56mm INSAS rifle, 9mm pistol and 9mm sub-machine gun.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/itbps-35th-inter-frontier-shooting-contest-begins-350227
14-12-2021||---||Sexual harassment: Rs 1 lakh relief each given to two minor victims||Mohali, December 13The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Mohali, has awarded an interim compensation of Rs1 lakh each to two minor victims of sexual harassment.Finding merit in both applications, the Special Court for POCSO cases, presided over by Ranjan Kumar Khullar, Additional District and Sessions Judge, Mohali, awarded a compensation of Rs1 lakh each to both victims aged seven and 10 years.Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Baljinder Singh Maan said under the aegis of Justice Ajay Tewari, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, Punjab State Legal Services Authority, the District Legal Services Authority, Mohali, had been able to get the compensation released to both victims.After reading news about the crime in newspapers about two FIRs registered under the POCSO Act at the Dera Bassi police station in November, 2021, Baljinder Singh Maan, on the directions of Mohali District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai, immediately contacted the families and investigating officers.Maan said separate applications in both cases for grant of interim compensation under Section 33(8) of the POCSO Act were filed by the District Legal Services Authority, Mohali, through its retainer lawyer Aksh Chetal on the very next day. He said after receiving the orders, the DLSA, Mohali, immediately made a request to the Punjab State Legal Services Authority, to place funds for the disbursement of amount. Arun Gupta, Member Secretary, Punjab State Legal Services Authority, immediately released the amount, which was given to the survivors without any delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sexual-harassment-1l-relief-each-given-to-two-minor-victims-350226
14-12-2021||---||Bribery case: CBI court frames charges against JE in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 13Jagjit Singh, Special Judge, CBI court, Chandigarh, has framed charges against Akshay Kumar, a junior engineer, Central Public Works Department (CPWD), Chandigarh, who was arrested by the CBI for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 55,000 from a contractor.“After hearing the submissions of the public prosecutor for the CBI and the counsel for the accused and going through the documents on record, a prima facie case is made out against the accused for having committed the offence punishable under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, (as amended in 2018). Accordingly, the accused has been chargesheeted to which the he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial,” says the CBI Judge in the order.Special public prosecutor PK Dogra argued the case on behalf of the CBI. As per the CBI complainant, the contractor finished the work of renovating a gym and a creche in a government building. When the complainant requested the accused to clear his bills for Rs14 lakh (approximately), the junior engineer allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs55,000 in lieu of releasing the payment.After receiving the complaint, the CBI laid a trap and caught the accused while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs55,000.The CBI registered the case against the accused for committing the offence punishable under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, in September 2021.The CBI has already submitted the challan against the accused after receiving the sanction to prosecute the accused by the competent authority.The CBI court has fixed March 3, 2022, as the next date of hearing for the prosecution witnesses. The court has also issued a notice to the CBI for December 21, 2021, to give a reply on the application of the accused filed for the release of articles/documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bribery-case-cbi-court-frames-charges-against-je-350225
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Manjinder Singh Sirsa seeks votes for BJP candidates in Chandigarh MC elections, goes door to door||Manjinder Singh Sirsa, former president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), was here today to seek votes for BJP candidates contesting the MC elections scheduled for December 24.Apart from addressing a series of public meetings, he went door-to-door seeking votes for party candidates in various sectors. Manjinder Singh campaigned for Manjit Kaur from Ward No. 1, Bhupinder Sharma from Ward No. 34, Jasman from Ward No. 32 and Neha Arora from Ward No. 23 in the evening.Addressing the public meetings, he said the election results of the MC would decide the direction of polls to be held not only in Punjab but also in other states of the country. “Due to the favourable policies of the Central Government, Chandigarh continues to be favourite of local residents with the unprecedented win in the last Lok Sabha elections,” he said.City BJP expels five rebelsThe city BJP has expelled five rebels who are contesting against official candidates of the party. Party spokesperson Kailash Jain said state president Arun Sood had expelled Gurpreet Singh Happy from Ward No. 9, Kripanand Thakur from Ward No. 20, Narender Chaudhary from Ward No. 26, and Mukesh Goyal and Ashwani Gupta from Ward No. 32. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-ex-dsgmc-chief-seeks-votes-for-bjp-candidates-goes-door-to-door-350224
14-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC elections: Congress writes to EC over non-use of VVPAT machines||Chandigarh, December 13The city Congress today sent a letter to the State Election Commission, Chandigarh, expressing its concern over “non-use of VVPAT machines” in the forthcoming Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections.The party also objected to “distribution of EVMs in strong rooms across over the city” 13 days before the polling day.In the letter, city Congress president Subhash Chawla, said: “Denial of use of VVPAT machines with EVM CUs and the proposed use of outdated M2 EVMs for voting to be held on December 24 is causing anxiety among the voters of Chandigarh. The commission has allowed the use of VVPAT in the local body elections in West Bengal scheduled to be held on December 19.”“The commission here has ordered the use of EVMs without VVPAT in the Chandigarh MC poll,” said Congress leaders.Meanwhile, a delegation of the Chandigarh Congress also met K Bhandari, OSD to the State Election Commissioner, today and complained about the non-use of VVPAT with the EVMs and sought the reasons behind it.“The commission could not explain as to why the VVPAT is not being used to ensure transparency in the electoral process,” a statement by the Congress said.The letter readsIn the letter, city Congress president Subhash Chawla, said: “Denial of use of VVPAT machines with EVM CUs and the proposed use of outdated M2 EVMs for voting to be held on December 24 is causing anxiety among the voters of Chandigarh. The commission has allowed the use of VVPAT in the local body elections in West Bengal scheduled to be held on December 19.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-congress-writes-to-ec-over-non-use-of-vvpat-machines-350223
14-12-2021||---||Punjab CM lays stones of projects worth Rs 100 cr in Kharar, Morinda||Mohali, December 13Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today laid foundation stones of a slew of projects worth Rs100 crore aimed at overall development of Kharar and Morinda. The Chief Minister also announced an additional Rs10 crore for the all-round prosperity of Morinda.Laying the foundation stones of an ITI, an indoor sports hall, including an auditorium, and a football field at Tripri village in Kharar at a cost of Rs20 crore, the Chief Minister, while thanking the Tripri village panchayat for donating 8 acres of land, said the ITI would be a milestone in giving a chance to the youth of the region to hone their skills. The indoor sports hall would comprise of facilities such as gymnastics, basketball, volleyball among others, thus giving a major boost to the sporting infrastructure of the area.“The ITI building will be completed by the end of January next year, while the indoor sports hall will be completed by August 2022,” said Channi, adding that the football field would be completed by April 2022.The Chief Minister laid the foundation stones of 100 per cent water supply, sewerage, canal water supply and other development works at a cost of Rs74.32 crore in Morinda. He also laid the stone of the new SDM office building, which would come up in 2 acres at a cost of Rs5 crore.The Chief Minister pointed out that the water supply project would ensure clean water to Morinda and Kharar the towns from the Kajauli waterworks.Channi, while attacking Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chaddha over spreading false rumours that four of his Cabinet Ministers might join the AAP, warned the party to desist from mouthing lies in order to create unnecessary hype.“The AAP only wants to create its nuisance value by indulging in misleading and malicious talk, but these tactics will backfire,” added the Chief Minister.The Chief Minister also handed over cheques for Rs6.85 crore to 140 youth clubs/welfare societies of Sri Chamkaur Sahib, Rupnagar and Morinda blocks of the Sri Chamkaur Sahib constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-lays-stones-of-projects-worth-100-cr-in-kharar-morinda-350222
14-12-2021||---||Teachers protest at SGGS College, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 13Members of the Panjab University Teachers Association, along with the local unit of the PCCTU, took out a protest march under the banner of PFUCTO against the Punjab Government seeking the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission and withdrawal of the decision to delink the UGC scales for university and college teachers.Teachers assembled outside SGGS College, Sector 26, and marched towards the Governor’s House. However, they were stopped by the police at the gate of the college. Later, a delegation of teachers, including PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar and secretary AS Naura, reached the Governor’s House and submitted a memorandum to the ADC of the Punjab Governor & UT Administrator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-protest-at-sggs-college-350221
14-12-2021||---||Department invites objections to extension of Mohali MC limits||Mohali, December 13The Local Bodies Department has invited objections and suggestions from the general public with regard to the extension of the MC boundaries, a resolution for which was passed by the MC on June 28. The objections and suggestions have to be filed within 30 days.This was revealed today by former Health Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu. He said a resolution was passed on June 28 under the leadership of Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu to extend the boundaries of the Mohali Municipal Corporation. He had promised the residents that after winning the municipal elections, he would bring a resolution to extend the demarcation of the Mohali Municipal Corporation. He recently held a meeting with the Director (Senior), Local Government, the Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor. The residents of adjoining villages of Badmajra, Balongi, Green Enclave and Baliali would hugely benefit, he added.Sidhu said there was no doubt that there would be a huge expenditure on providing urban amenities to the villages, but governments were for public service and the cost was not taken into consideration for their welfare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/department-invites-objections-to-extension-of-mohali-mc-limits-350220
14-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Khuda Ali sher plot sale 'scam': Court rejects discharge application of accused||Tribune Nnews ServiceChandigarh, December 13A local court has rejected the discharge application of accused Narinder Kapoor booked by the Chandigarh police in a case of alleged illegal sale of plots 10 years ago.The police had registered the case against the accused in 2011 under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station.The case was registered on a complaint of an official of the Deputy Commissioner’s office, Chandigarh, who alleged that Kapoor illegally sold plots situated in Khuda Ali Sher village.The counsel for the accused, in the discharge application, claimed on the basis of plots carved out by the accused, the purchasers of plots raised loans from banks against property and in case there was any illegality, the bank would not have sanctioned the loans. He also said all plots had been carved out within the extended Abadi Deh area which was allowed with the condition that distance from the main road was maintained at 300 ft. He also said the electricity and water connections had been given to the constructions raised on the disputed property and therefore, no offence as alleged was made out against the accused. The entire exercise was carried out by the accused in the area inside the “Phirni”.The Public Prosecutor said private people had filed complaints against the accused to the effect that they had issued power of attorney to the latter to look after the land but he misused the authority and sold the property after carving out plots and therefore did not give even a single penny to the real owner.After hearing the arguments, the court said, “The allegations against the accused are duly supported by separate affidavits filed by different purchasers. It is alleged that the accused, without the approval of the competent authority, earned huge amounts of profit by carving out a colony. Keeping in view the allegations against the accused, at this stage, it cannot be said that no prima facie case U/s 420, 506 of the IPC and Section 12 of the Punjab New Capital (Periphery) Control Act is made out against the accused. Consequently, the application is dismissed.”The charges against the accused would be framed on the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khuda-ali-sher-plot-sale-scam-court-rejects-discharge-application-of-accused-350208
14-12-2021||Mohali||Mohali car-pickup mishap toll rises to four||The death toll in the car-pickup truck accident in Sector 89 yesterday afternoon has risen to four with Sarangpur resident Usha Rani (67) succumbing to her injuries today. The police have booked pick-up driver Kanwarpal Singh, a resident of Kumbhra village, for causing death by negligence.Two persons, including a two-year-old child, are still recuperating from injuries. The accident took place near Sector 89 when a car and a pickup truck collided head-on. Three occupants of the car, Anuj Bansal (28), Kirti Gupta (24) and Navansh Gupta (6) died yesterday while the others were rushed to hospital in a critical condition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-pickup-mishap-toll-rises-to-four-350198
14-12-2021||Sheetal||Chandigarh girl Harnaaz Sandhu brings home the Miss Universe title after 21 years!||Chandigarh girl Harnaaz Sandhu has made the nation proud by winning the Miss Universe title. Born in Gurdaspur, Punjab, the model-actor is taking the responsibility of the crown head-on as she shared a video message on her official handle, which started with the salutation in Hindi and Punjabi for the universe as she implores, “Now, it’s time to save the universe and let’s do it together.”The magic of 21Harnaaz has also shared an official statement post the big win, “I am immensely grateful to the Almighty, my parents, and the Miss India Organization for guiding and supporting me throughout. Loads of love to everyone who prayed and wished the crown for me. Bringing the glorious crown back after 21 years to India is a moment of greatest pride.”Born in 2000, when India had last won the same title by Lara Dutta, it seems it was meant to be as 21-year-old won it in the year 2021.An insider’s takeBefore Harnaaz headed to Israel to represent India in the Miss Universe pageant, she had a telephonic interaction with The Tribune. Calling herself a raw contestant at the time she competed for Femina Miss India back in 2019, she says, “I had won Miss India Punjab title and it was then in that competition that I got to know what it meant to be representing your country. I developed a purpose and since then working on achieving it.”This is the time to take action and talk less. ... Prevent and protect is better than repair and repent.From being an outsider aspiring to win to becoming an insider who won it at the national level and now another feather to her cap with the title of Miss Universe, her perception for pageants is firm, “It’s not at all about looking glamourous. It’s so much more than that. Having a huge stage to speak your mind, it demands a lot of courage which you instill through your ideas and perception towards different issues and problems. To win one has to showcase the world what’s inside you and baring your thoughts tests your mettle in the competition.”One thing that she counted in her strengths while preparing for the pageant was, “Holding on to the aura I was born with. And rather than compromising it with world’s view, just polished it with my own opinions, thoughts and strong personality.”The Punjabi in herAsk her the first Punjabi thing she would like to do post the win, and there goes a long list. “Once I land in Punjab, I would first have mithi lassi with malai. And may be order a big thali, which should have rajmah-chawal, makki di roti and sarson da saag. I know it feels rather exaggerated but I can have a bowl of ghee and jalebi too.”When it comes to her favourite spots in City Beautiful or places in Punjab, Harnaaz vouches for Sukhna Lake and Sector 17 for they are good places to go for cycling or simply sitting with your favourite person and also because they are very close to nature. She adds, “As far as the most peaceful place in the world goes, it is definitely the Golden Temple for me. Punjab is full of places that give a peaceful vibe but Amritsar is a place which has it all, historical significance, Wagah border to celebrate our differences as well as togetherness, the Golden Temple and great food. If somebody has to come with me to see Punjab, he/she has to come down to Amritsar.”Know Miss UniverseWinning statementSandhu’s final statement at the pageant was about the pressures that young people face across societies today. She said: “The biggest pressure the youth of today is facing is to believe in themselves, to know that you are unique and that’s what makes you beautiful. Stop comparing yourselves with others and let’s talk about more important things that’s happening worldwide. “This is what you need to understand. Come out, speak for yourselves because you are the leader of your life, you are the voice of your own. I believed in myself and that’s why I am standing here today.”Family albumOverwhelming response from friends, family and media, Harnaaz’s brother Harnoor Singh Sandhu points out at his phone and shows the number of missed calls he has received since morning. Elder to Harnaaz, he says they enjoy a great bonding with almost no fights and more understanding. “We have always kept a positive atmosphere at home where we give each other honest feedbacks about each other’s work and at the same time respect each other’s space.”While Harnoor couldn’t sleep the whole night before the competition which telecast early morning live according to Indian Standard Time, Harnaaz’s mother went to Gurdwara Sahib and prayed for her daughter’s win. “I was getting texts from near and dear ones as she was competing and winning each round to bring this proud moment for India, Punjab and then to us as parents.”She always dreamt of representing her country on international platform, says her father Pritam Singh Sandhu. The first time she participated in a pageant in 2017 and told her family about it only after winning the title. He adds, “Being from a Jat Sikh family, she and her mother thought that I won’t be accepting this decision of hers but I was rather proud as I am today. With this achievement I would say that there are many girls who have the potential to become something more than what they are if only they are not restricted in any way. As far as Harnaaz goes, she always had chosen her own path and with her hard work and dedication has achieved what she sets her eyes on. She will decide for herself what awaits her now.”Her mother, Dr Rabinder Kaur Sandhu has always been the motivation and inspiration for Harnaaz.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/lifestyle/chandigarh-girl-harnaaz-sandhu-brings-home-the-miss-universe-title-after-21-years-350021
14-12-2021||Panchkula||2 fresh cases of Covid, 1 death in Panchkula district||2 fresh Covid cases in Mohali districtMohali: Two fresh cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 69,033. No death was witnessed on Monday, while 11 patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each came from Kharar and Mohali. Of the 69,033 positive cases reported from the district so far, 67,897 cases have been cured. There are now 63 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,073. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-fresh-cases-of-covid-1-death-in-panchkula-district-350150
14-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Omicron: Administration mulls genome sequencing in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13For the timely detection of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19, the UT Administration is considering starting whole genome sequencing of positive samples in the city to prevent further spread of the virus.At present, the health authorities send samples for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, and it takes one week to two weeks to get the report.“In the wake of detection of the first case of Omicron in the city, we are exploring the possibilities of conducting whole genome sequencing of samples in the city to save precious time,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. He said the Director, Health Services, had been directed to look into the issue. To check further spread of the virus, the vaccination drive has also been stepped up in the city, he said. In July and August, the Department of Virology, PGI, had conducted a pilot project on genome sequencing of some samples and the samples were then sent to other national laboratories and the PGI reports were found matching with their results.An official of the PGI said they were in the process of applying for authorisation from the Central Government within a month and it would take a few more months to start the genome sequencing in the institute.The PGI has an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved laboratory providing round-the-clock diagnostic services.At present, the PGI is also sending samples for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi.12 found infected in city, no fatalityChandigarh: The city on Monday reported 12 cases of Covid-19. There was no death due to the virus, while two patients were cured of the disease. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-mulls-genome-sequencing-in-chandigarh-350148
14-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Social media war erupts among parties||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13Ahead of the Municipal Corporation poll, a social media war has erupted among the BJP, the Congress and AAP.Other than city issues, the BJP and the Congress are mainly attacking each other through various posts, videos and memes while AAP is criticising both of them. The parties are sending their messages through Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and WhatsApp.City AAP has a team of around 60-70 volunteers operating behind the scenes. It is posting messages on the social media related to works done by the party in Delhi.With pictures of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, it is promising mohalla clinics, smart government schools, lighting up dark spots, clearing of waste dumps and free 20,000 litres of water among other things. “Na kamal, na haath, Chandigarh mein kewal AAP...Yuva shakti ki pukar, Chandigarh nagar nigam mein jeete AAP abki baar..,” such slogans are being posted on the social media by the party.“We are posting videos of our leaders and also of the general public. We are sharing our vision with the public and what other parties failed to do. We ensure that our online content reaches every ward,” said Kanchan Bhupal, who is heading the social media team of AAP. The Congress is attacking the BJP on the social media and raising various unresolved issues. “Badlav ki bayar hai, Congress is baar hai,” is the pinned Tweet on the Congress Twitter account and its common hashtag on different issues.To take a swipe at the BJP, some of its graphic posts read “Chandigarh puchata sawal, kyun hua hai sehar behal and why city’s roads and parks are in poor state; why are there waste dumps?”The party is also sharing news reports related to the statements of the BJP. In the run-up to the elections, it has raised its per day post count from two-three to 10-12.“We have a core team of 10 persons with 40-50 volunteers. Through videos and graphics, we are highlighting the financial mishandling of the MC, increased water tariff, door-to-door waste collection mismanagement, undue taxes, corruption and the national issue of inflation,” said Mayank Puri, state coordinator, social media, Chandigarh Congress.The BJP is also taking the Opposition head-on on the social media, besides posting achievements of the MC and the UT Administration during its rule. “Jab sehar ko jarurat thi rakt ki, kahan thi Congress-AAP?” reads one of its graphic pictures highlighting its donation of 697 units of blood during Covid.“Our party has done 400-450 works. We are highlighting installation of 2,200 hi-definition CCTV cameras, solar power energy works, electric buses/e-rickshaws, LED street lights on roads, cycle tracks, Mani Majra underpass, hospitals, sports stadia and 24X7 water supply project among other achievements. Besides, works done by the BJP during the Covid pandemic when other party leaders were sitting at home are also being shared,” said Rajesh Jaswal, social media head.It has a core team of five to six members with 100-150 volunteers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-social-media-war-erupts-among-parties-350141
14-12-2021||---||Chandigarh municipal polls: Setback for Cong as councillor joins BJP||Chandigarh, December 13The Congress suffered a major setback as three-time councillor and former Deputy Mayor Sheela Phool Singh, who was recently denied the party ticket, along with a few others, joined the BJP on Monday.The sitting councillor expressed annoyance against the Congress and said it was an honour for her to be in the BJP camp. Sheela represented the Congress twice and also contested the election in the Independent capacity from ward number 15 in the past.Congress leader Prem Pal Chauhan also announced to join the BJP in the presence of city BJP president Arun Sood during a press conference at the party office Kamalam in Sector 33. Sheela, who represents the Dalit community, said the Congress had gone into a “political abyss”. There was no importance of party workers in the Congress while the party high command was with sycophants.Sood said important responsibility would be given to them in the coming days.On the occasion, president of the Dhanak Mahasabha and vice-president of the BJP SC Morcha Gurjit Chauhan said the Congress had insulted the Dhanak Samaj, which had decided to boycott the Congress and support the BJP. Chanchal Mahi, president of the Street Vendors (Rehri Phari) Association also joined the BJP and assured that all vendors would mobilise support for the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/setback-for-cong-as-councillor-joins-bjp-350136
14-12-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu is lone sister of 17 brothers in extended family||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 13Miss Universe-2021 Harnaaz Sandhu’s family lives in Mona Paradise Apartments in Shivalik City on the Kharar-Landran road in Sector 127. The Sandhu family hails from Kohali village near Batala in Gurdaspur.Her father PS Sandhu, a realtor, said, “I am very happy and proud. We are waiting for her to give her a grand party. She has made the whole country proud. Bhangra pawaan ge!”The Sandhu clan has 17 brothers and only one sister, Harnaaz, in the extended family. At the time of Harnaaz’s birth in Batala, her father, who already had a son, had distributed sweets in the hospital. Her mother, Dr Rabinder Kaur Sandhu, a medical officer in a Sohana hospital, said, “I am super excited as it has come for India after 21 years. I don’t have words to express my joy. She wanted to go into judiciary and had got admission to a university, but later changed her mind.”“She is very confident, down to earth and belong to a middle class family. Beauty pageants, glamour industry always excited her and she was focused on her goal. We have never stopped her from pursuing her goals, she added. The family listed horse riding, swimming, cooking, singing, poetry writing, reading, theater and acting as her passion. She is multi-talented, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lone-sister-of-17-brothers-in-extended-family-350133
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Be unique, believe in yourself: Miss Universe Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu||“You are unique and that’s what makes you beautiful. Stop comparing yourself with others.” This heart-stealing closing statement of Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu at the Miss Universe, 2021, pageant has a distinctive relevance from her early years.Also read: Menstrual hygiene, films high on Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu's agenda'Har Hindustani Ki Naz': Celebs congratulate Harnaaz SandhuCan't take my eyes off the crown: Harnaaz SandhuIt’s so much more than just glamour, says Harnaaz SandhuWatching her narrate the same words which she used to recite in the morning assembly at school made her teachers feel nostalgic. “Be unique. Believe in yourself. Don’t compare yourself” is what Harnaaz used to recite in the morning assembly. Her thoughts were always inclined towards being unique even as a child. She would always come up on stage and echo those words and there was a clear distinction in her thought process. Hearing her recite the same words was so endearing and emotional, said her teacher, Preetinder, who taught her English in Class VIII.Also read: Here's the question that won Harnaaz Sandhu her Miss Universe title'Chak De Phatte': What Harnaaz Sandhu said after she won Miss Universe“These were her pet sentences as she was a firm believer in what she preached on the global stage,” said another teacher. Sandhu studied for six years at Shivalik Public School, Sector 41-B, Chandigarh. “I recall her as a girl with a calm and composed demeanour. She was articulate and would often express herself with poise and elegance. She was a quiet child otherwise and amiable. Watching her performance on the big stage makes me feel she possessed all these qualities right from the beginning,” said Kulmit, who taught her in Class X.Her class teacher in Class VI, Inderjeet, who taught her for three years, recollects, “I remember Harnaaz from her beautiful smile. She would lit up the whole classroom with her smile. I would tell children in my class that be the first to greet someone with a smile. Whenever I used to see someone without a smile, I used to tell Harnaaz to give them a smile.”Her favourite cup of tea was extracurricular activities as she would always participate in dance competitions and other activities. She would come in traditional attires and was rooted in her culture, said Inderjeet.“A firm believer in pursuing her dreams, she has accomplished her long cherished dream. Harnaaz’s feat has made all of us proud,” said Gurkiran Jeet, Principal of Shivalik Public School.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/be-unique-believe-in-yourself-harnaaz-kaur-sandhu-350128
14-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Fellow Chandigarh students, faculty celebrate Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu’s feat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu lived up to her name, meaning “everyone’s pride”.A wave of happiness spread across the Post-Graduate Government College, Sector 42, premises soon after Harnaaz, a student of Master’s in Public Administration (third semester), was named Miss Universe.While faculty members praised Harnaaz for her simplicity and dedication towards her passion, fellow students felt proud of her achievement and celebrated throughout the day.A well-known figure of the college, Harnaaz had earlier also bagged many laurels. Her achievements include Miss Fresh Face in 2017, Miss India World, 2020 (among the top 20 finalists), Miss India Universe, Times Fresh Face, 2017, Miss Chandigarh winner, Miss Max Emerging Star, 2018, finalist from Chandigarh in Miss Diva India, 2018, Fabb Colours Femina Miss India Punjab, 2019, and Miss Diva title, 2019 (awarded by the college). Besides representing Chandigarh at national-level beauty pageants in Mumbai, she has also played a lead role in a Punjabi movie. Along with participating in beauty pageants, she had won laurels in mimicry and skit competitions at youth festivals.She completed her Bachelor’s in IT from the same college and secured the first division. “She is an obedient student. We must appreciate her journey. Not only us, the entire nation is proud of her. She was focused on winning the title, and I am happy that she attained it at the right time,” said Prof Jagan Nath, Head, Department of Public Administration, and Vice-Principal of the college.“Compliments to her relentless efforts and dedication. The education and values, which she acquired over the years, have paid off today. She is a role model not only for students but for every person in our country. She displayed great courage in facing a tough competition from across the world,” said Prof (Dr) Nisha Aggarwal, Principal.A role model, says PU VCProf Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU, extended his heartiest felicitations to Harnaaz Sandhu, who brought laurels to Panjab University. “She can be a role model and an inspiration for students aspiring to reach such heights in their careers,” he said.‘Simple to special girl’Assistant Professor Mohit Verma, who heads the theatre group of the college, termed Harnaaz’s life a perfect story of a “simple to special girl”. “She is down to earth and simple. Like other students, she joined the theatre group as a medium to express herself. In 2017, she was adjudged the best actress for playing a role in the “Gulab ya Tezab” play. The story was based on acid victims. She continued her passion throughout these years,” said Verma. Harnaaz’s journey also included some lows, when she lost in the finals of the Miss India World event. “She was disheartened. However, she didn’t lose hope,” said Verma.Students’ takeCollege students enjoyed Harnaaz’s crown-wearing moment. “She made us all proud and has become a role model for every student of this college. I am eagerly waiting to see her in college among us to celebrate her feat,” said Bhumkia Manchanda, a student. “We will organise a special function in her honour. We will try to organise a play depicting her struggle of becoming Miss Universe from Chandigarh,” said Deeksha Sharma, another student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-top-of-the-world-nay-universe-350127
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu||Kharar resident Harnaaz Sandhu won the Miss Universe 2021 pageant, beating contestants from 79 countries to bring the title back after 21 years.Before Harnaaz, an actor-cum-model, Sushmita Sen (1994) and Lara Dutta (2000) bagged the title.Harnaaz will move to New York City where she will become a spokesperson for various causes.Prime Minister Modi congratulated her on her feat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/miss-universe-harnaaz-sandhu-350039
14-12-2021||Mohali||3 killed, 3 injured as car, pick-up collide head-on in Mohali||Three persons were killed and three others injured when the car they were travelling in collided head-on with a pick-up truck near a housing society in Sector 89 here around 3 pm today.The deceased have been identified as Sarangpur residents Anuj Bansal (28), Kirti Gupta (24) and Navansh Gupta (6). Three others seriously inured have been identified as Usha Devi (68), Aina Gupta (2) and Raj Rani (68). The police said the injured were in coma and had been admitted to a hospital in Sohana. Eyewitnesses said such was the impact of the collision that the cylinder-laden pick-up truck overturned, throwing empty cylinders on the road. Panic gripped the area. The police said fortunately the cylinders were being transported for refilling. The driver of the pick-up truck also sustained injuries and has been admitted to the hospital.Investigating officer SI Sanjay Singh said kin of the deceased were yet to record their statement. “Six members, including two children, living in the Green Valley housing society were coming from Lehragaga after attending the bhog of a relative. The accident took place around 3 pm,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-killed-3-injured-as-car-pick-up-collide-head-on-349698
