15-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Miss Universe Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu signs her first autograph; posts videos||Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu posted videos of the first autograph she signed after being crowned Miss Universe.   She posted videos of her first autograph on Instagram.In a separate development, Sandhu, who's back in India for the holiday season, met Congress Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor, who posted photos of their meeting on Twitter.“Delighted to congratulate Miss Universe @HarnaazKaur Sandhu in person on her triumphant return to India. She’s excited to be back in India for the New Year holidays & India, of course, is proud to welcome her,” he wrote. “She’s just as poised & charming in person as on the stage.”To this, the reigning beauty queen from Chandigarh wrote: “Such an honour to meet you in person sir. Thank you for your kind words”.She also shared a video of her first autograph in her Instagram stories.Miss India Harnaaz Kaur Sandhu beat Miss South Africa  Lalela Mswane and Miss Paraguay  Nadia Ferreira to win Miss Universe title on Sunday. She became the third Indian to bring back the title after Sushmita Sen in 1994 and Lara Datta in 2000.  Delighted to congratulate Miss Universe ⁦@HarnaazKaur⁩ Sandhu in person on her triumphant return to India. She’s excited to be back in India for the New Year holidays & India, of course, is proud to welcome her. She’s just as poised & charming in person as on the stage. pic.twitter.com/OBj0KeTkoQ||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/poised-and-charming-says-congress-mp-shashi-tharoor-after-meeting-miss-universe-harnaaz-kaur-sandhu-350745
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with 131-gm heroin in Chandigarh||Mohali resident duped of Rs99KChandigarh: A Mohali resident was duped of Rs99,000 by unknown persons at a bank in Sector 23. Complainant Ganesh Singh, a resident of Baltana, reported that two unknown persons duped him of Rs99,000 on December 9. A case of cheating has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNSWoman booked for cheatingChandigarh: The UT police have booked a woman, a resident of Sector 51, for allegedly cheating two women of Rs83 lakh on the pretext of getting them HIG flats allotted in Sector 51. A case has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. TNSBiker flees with woman’s purseZirakpur: A bike-borne youth snatched a purse from a woman near a gurdwara in Dhakoli here on Monday evening. Complainant Palak said she was returning home from her office when the miscreant snatched her purse containing Rs14,000 and a mobile phone near New Generation Apartments. A case has been registered at the Dhakoli police post. TNSSeth elected CAT Bar chiefChandigarh: Rohit Seth has been elected president of the Central Administrative Tribunal Bar Association, Chandigarh, again. The election was held at a general house meeting of the association on Tuesday. Also, the general House unanimously re-elected the earlier executive committee of association for 2021-22. The other office-bearers include KK Thakur, vice-president; Jagdish Ram Syal, secretary; Monika Koundal, joint secretary; and Sukhwinder Singh, treasurer. The senior executive members are Sanjay Goyal, Senior CGSC; RK Sharma, Vinay Gupta, Lakhinder Bir Singh, Rakesh Verma, senior DAG, Punjab; Rohit Sharma, Vinod Arya, TS Hundal apart from executive members Ram Pyare Lobana, Sanjay Kaul and Anil Kumar Sharma. TNSRBU freeship for HarnaazMohali: Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor of Rayat Bahra University (RBU), has offered a free MBA course as a token of appreciation to Harnaaz, who has been crowned Miss Universe, as she has brought laurels to the country, especially Punjab. Bahra said Harnaaz would be provided with all kinds of administrative and other support during the course of her study at the university. TNSNidhish wins boxing goldMohali: Nidhish Bakshi, a student of Desh Bhagat University, has won gold in the Open Punjab State Boxing Championship held in Sangrur. Bakshi claimed the top podium position in the senior 48-51 kg weight category. He was honoured by the university management on Tuesday. TNSPanjab varsity resultsChandigarh: Panjab University on Tuesday declared results of MA Hindi (1st year), MA Hindi (2nd year) and MA English (1st semester) examinations held in September. The results can be seen at the respective departments/colleges or on the Panjab University website. TNS1 booked for assaulting copChandigarh: An unknown person has been booked for assaulting a UT police constable while performing duty. According to the police, complainant Sachin, who is posted at the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit, Sector 17, reported that an unknown person assaulted and deterred him from performing his duty on December 13. TNSCash, jewellery stolen at weddingZirakpur: A miscreant took away Rs25,000, a gold chain, two rings and a mobile phone from the purse of a woman attending a marriage function at a wedding resort near the K-Area light point here on Monday. TNs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-131-gm-heroin-in-chandigarh-350537
15-12-2021||---||Three held on betting charge||Chandigarh, December 14The District Crime Cell of the UT police has arrested three persons for allegedly betting on cricket matches. Six mobile phones, a laptop, a printer and Rs47,000 were recovered from them.The suspects, identified as Sanjeev, alias Sonu, Vikram Singh, both residents of Jind district, Haryana, and Manpreet, a resident of Khuda Lahora village, were betting online on cricket matches in Sector 18 on December 13. A case under Section 420 of the IPC and Sections 13-A, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act has been registered against the suspects at the Sector 19 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-on-betting-charge-350532
15-12-2021||Mohali||Former bank employee held for fraud||The police have arrested a former bank employee, Sarabjit Singh, for duping a person of Rs20 lakh on account of a land deal (150 yards). The suspect was produced before the court on Tuesday and was remanded in police custody for three days. Complainant Balbir Singh said the suspect had taken a Letter of Intent (LOI) and Rs20 lakh from him but did not execute the deal. The police said Sarabjit has already booked in two cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-bank-employee-held-for-fraud-350531
15-12-2021||---||Refresher course for teachers at Panjab University||Chandigarh, December 14A refresher course sponsored by three science academies of India is being organised for physics teachers at the department of physics, Panjab University, from December 14 to 29. Participants from various states have joined the course.Prof Manohar Nayate, Dr JS Shahi, Dr Neeru Chaudhary and Dr Manish Dev Sharma are the resource persons for the course. Delivering the first lecture, Dr Manish Dev Sharma elaborated on passive filter experiment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/refresher-course-for-teachers-at-panjab-university-350529
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||'HACKDAY-2021' held at Chitkara University||Chitkara University organised “HACKDAY 2021” under its entrepreneurship cell (E-cell), “JAZBA”, formed under the aegis of the Centre for Entrepreneurship Education and Development (CEED).Seventeen teams of potential start-ups from CSE (first year) took part in this world’s first AI technology-based hackathon. The first prize was secured by “Pirates of Fire” founded by Harsh Srivastava. The teammates included Ayushi Pathak, Ishan Chaudhary, Kunyalik Kanwar and Ankita Thakur. The team’s idea revolved around an AI-based fire extinguisher robot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hackday-2021-held-at-chitkara-university-350528
15-12-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Rs27 lakh for rainwater harvesting in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 14In order to recharge groundwater, the local Municipal Corporation has allocated a sum of Rs27 lakh for setting up the rainwater-harvesting system at government buildings under the jurisdiction of the civic body.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu today gave approval to the scheme. He said it was an urgent and important initiative of the MC to recharge the groundwater.Bedi said under this scheme, pipes would be installed which would carry rainwater from buildings to deep holes filled with sand, gravel, coal and other materials to recharge the groundwater.Thanking the Mayor, Bedi also emphasised the need for storing rainwater at all municipal properties. He said proposals would be prepared for saving rainwater at land under the Public Health Department, parks under the MC, community centres and other such places. There would be no shortage of funds for this project.Bedi said the conservation of rainwater was the need of the hour and it would be given due attention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/27-lakh-for-rainwater-harvesting-in-mohali-350527
15-12-2021||---||Teachers protest at Matka Chowk||Chandigarh, December 14The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA), along with teachers of local colleges, the city unit of the PCCTU and others held a rally to press for the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission and protest the Punjab Government’s decision of delinking college and university teachers’ pay scales from the UGC, at Matka Chowk today.“Taking advantage of the busy office hours and a huge rush of office goers, the protesting teachers, who were holding placards, expressed their anguish against the Government of Punjab, particularly the Chief Minister, the Finance Minister and the Minister of Higher Education, for having repeatedly made false promises and fooling the teaching community,” said a note of PUTA.Meanwhile, a delegation of leaders, under the banner of PFUCTO, including Sumit Goklaney, president, DAVCTU, submitted a memorandum to the authorities concerned. The chain fast at DAV College entered its 10th day today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-protest-at-matka-chowk-350526
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Development, trust enshrined in BJP, says Union Minister||People of the city have been introduced to the fact that the development and trust are enshrined in the BJP, said Union Minister of State for Defence and Culture Ajay Bhatt, adding that this is the only party which is capable of giving a stable government to the city as well as at the Centre.Bhatt was in town for campaigning in favour of the BJP candidates. He addressed a series of public meetings in support of party candidates Heera Negi (Ward No. 22), Bhupinder Sharma (Ward No. 34), Rashi Bhasin (Ward No. 10) and Vimla Dubey (Ward No. 9). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/development-trust-enshrined-in-bjp-says-union-minister-350525
15-12-2021||---||A shot in the arm for Aam Aadmi Party in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 14Laxman Bajina, vice-president of BJP OBC Cell and Kapoor Singh, secretary of BJP Yuva Morcha, joined AAP along with their supporters today.Meanwhile, Lala Ram, vice-president and general secretary of youth wing, who had been associated with the Congress for the past 40 years, also joined AAP along with his supporters. Rampal, Sewa Singh Bedi, Talib, Rampal and Dule Ram also joined the party on the occasion.In charge of Chandigarh and AAP MLA from Delhi Jarnail Singh formally inducted all leaders into the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-shot-in-the-arm-for-aam-aadmi-party-350524
15-12-2021||---||Chandigarh municipal polls: Cong starts 'nukkad nataks'||Chandigarh, December 14Intensifying its poll campaign, the city Congress launched a series of “nukkad nataks” today.These plays, which are a satire on the “misdeeds of the BJP perpetrated during the past six years”, were held at the Sector 17 Plaza, Sector 20-B, Dariya and Daddu Majra villages.“The Congress volunteers gave voice to people’s anguish on account of poor sanitary conditions in the city. It is a matter of shame that the ranking of the city, which was known for its excellent civic standards the world over, has now nosedived to 66 in the country in terms of sanitation and cleanliness. The rising mountain of garbage at Daddu Majra besides heaps of garbage scattered all over the city came up as a special mention in the report,” said a Congress leader.“The artistes also highlighted the hardships faced by the masses on account of unbridled inflation. They also highlighted rampant corruption in the corporation in the past six years besides the mismanagement of community parking in the city,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-starts-nukkad-nataks-350523
15-12-2021||---||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Top AAP leaders join BJP||Chandigarh, December 14Top leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today joined the BJP ahead of the MC elections, scheduled for December 24. They include AAP state vice-presidents Arun Goyal and Sunil Shingari, executive member Rakhi Sharma, state general secretary Gulshan Kapoor, Adarsh Goyal, Vijay Puri, Charanjit Kumar, Mohan Lal, Sarojini and Vinod Sharma.While inducting the new members into the BJP, city party president Arun Sood alleged AAP was simply doing the politics of lies and flaws by misleading voters.Terming AAP as a B-team of the Congress, Sood said it provided refuge to leaders expelled from the Congress and other parties. BJP expels six more rebelsChandigarh: The BJP expelled six more rebels on Tuesday. A press note issued by party spokesman Kailash Chand Jain stated that city party president Arun Sood had taken a serious note of anti-party activities and expelled from the party Gopal Attri from Ward Number 3, Sohan Singh from Ward Number 8, Suresh Gupta from Ward Number 15, Sunita Sharma from Ward Number 21, Kulmeet Singh from Ward Number 17 and JJ Singh from Ward No. 35 with immediate effect. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-top-aap-leaders-join-bjp-350522
15-12-2021||Mohali||2 cabbies rob passenger at knifepoint in Mohali, held||The police have arrested two taxi drivers for allegedly robbing a Kerala native of Rs80,000 and a mobile phone at knifepoint on December 10.The duo, identified as Zubair and Zirakpur resident Mohit Sharma, alias Aman, have been booked under Sections 379-B, 395 and 34 of the IPC at the Sohana police station.The victim, who had come to Morinda for a hair transplant procedure, had hired a taxi from the airport to return to Delhi after he could not take the flight. The driver of the car asked him to sit in the front seat and later called his accomplice, who also boarded the taxi.The duo, along with the victim, kept roaming in the Mohali area for close to two hours on one pretext or the other. Later, one of the taxi drivers looted the passenger of his cash and mobile phone at knifepoint, pushed him out from the moving car and fled the spot. The duo was produced in the court and sent to three-day police custody. — TNS2 held with 39,000 intoxicant pillsMohali: The police arrested two suspects with 39,000 intoxicant pills and seized a bike from them near the Kharar-Landran road. The suspects have been identified as Shamli (UP) native Mange, alias Ravi (33), and Talwandi Bhai resident Vijay Singh (23), and have been booked under the NDPS Act at the Balongi police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-cabbies-rob-passenger-at-knifepoint-in-mohali-held-350521
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets 2nd spot in energy conservation||The UT was awarded today for securing the second position in energy conservation among UTs. On National Energy Conservation Day, the Ministry of Power presented the awards at a function at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi. Union Minister of Power and Renewable Energy RK Singh awarded the UT.Ranjit Singh, SE, Electrical, received the award on behalf of the Administration in New Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-2nd-spot-in-energy-conservation-350520
15-12-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Rs 49.5 cr for Gurdwara Nada Sahib, Mansa Devi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 14The Ministry of Tourism has approved Rs49.51 crore for the development of Gurdwara Nada Sahib, Panchkula, and the Mansa Devi temple under the “Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive” (PRASAD) scheme of the Centre.The work is in progress at both these places. Today, G Kishan Reddy, Union Minister of Tourism and Culture, convened a meeting with the Secretary, Tourism, Punjab, Haryana and the UT, along with the principals of central IHMs in Chandigarh, Kufri and Gurdaspur, at the Haryana Raj Bhawan to review the status of various projects under PRASAD and Swadesh Darshan schemes of the Tourism Ministry to revive the tourism sector after a two-year lull caused by the pandemic.The inflow of financial resources at the two religious places spells infrastructural development, which will be executed by the Haryana Tourism Corporation. In January last year, the Haryana Director General (Tourism) had submitted a proposal to the Centre for developing Gurdwara Nada Sahib and the Mansa Devi temple at a cost of Rs4,951.70 lakh. The estimated cost of renovating Gurdwara Nada Sahib was pegged at Rs2,501.68 lakh and the Mansa Devi temple at Rs2,214.22 lakh.The sanctioned amount will be invested to rev up facilities for devotees visiting the shrines. At Nada Sahib, the amount will be invested in surface parking, façade illumination, a toilet block, rainwater harvesting, boundary wall, sewage treatment plant, multi-level car parking, RCC bridge, retaining wall and integrated area development, which includes pathways, structural and tensile roofing, provision for benches, dustbins, signages, solar photo voltaic power generation system and drinking water coolers.At the Mansa Devi temple, the money has been sanctioned for the construction of a first aid facility, eight gazebos, plaza development and flooring (souvenir shop), façade illumination and parking area development, including Suvidha Kendra and multi-level and surface parking. The temple may soon develop a cultural activity area (open air), rainwater harvesting and a sewage treatment plant. The ministry has also sanctioned money for drinking water coolers, dustbins, signages, benches, solar photo voltaic power generation system and dustbins to be provided to devotees visiting the temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/49-5-cr-for-gurdwara-nada-sahib-mansa-devi-350519
15-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||RITES to prepare mobility plan for tricity within eight months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 14To provide seamless connectivity, the Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) will prepare a comprehensive mobility plan for the tricity within eight months. A kick-off meeting, chaired by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, was held today with officials of RITES to discuss the comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) for the tricity.At the meeting, study objectives and vision for sustainable mobility for horizon year 2041 were highlighted. Some other deliberations such as ways to integrate mobility plan with land-use plan and determine the optimal mix of multi-modal public transport network were held. Focus was laid on providing safe, secure, efficient, reliable and seamless connectivity for residents of Chandigarh.In addition to this, the officials also focused on low-carbon mobility plan for the city. It was stressed that the existing transport system with current and future demands for public transport system would be kept in mind.RITES had also prepared a report on the city’s mobility plan in 2009. However, the report was found to be outdated as the city’s requirements have changed drastically in the past more than a decade and also, the guidelines set by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry of the MRTS project have changed. RITES had suggested Metro, which was opposed by MP Kirron Kher. The MP had said that she would never want a small city like Chandigarh get uprooted for Metro.To reduce air pollution, the United Kingdom (UK) will also suggest an alternative eco-friendly transport system for the city. The project would be funded by the UK for a duration of 12 months and would tentatively start in January 2022. The broad objective was to provide support for decarbonising the city transport and contribute to the climate change agenda.The study would focus on suggesting an alternative eco-friendly transport system for the city. On conducting the study, the British High Commission would look at various options available across the world and depending upon the requirements of the city, it would give recommendations regarding combination of modes that would be feasible in Chandigarh keeping in view the requirement for the next 20 to 30 years.The Adviser said both recommendations would be studied and then a final proposal would be prepared, which would be sent to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning for approval.Kick-off meetingAt the meeting, study objectives and vision for sustainable mobility for horizon year 2041 were highlighted. Some other deliberations such as ways to integrate mobility plan with land-use plan and determine the optimal mix of multi-modal public transport network were held. Focus was laid on providing safe, secure, efficient, reliable and seamless connectivity for city residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rites-to-prepare-mobility-plan-for-tricity-within-eight-months-350518
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: City AAP promises slew of freebies||AAP today promised a slew of freebies, if voted to power in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections.The party, which is contesting the Chandigarh MC poll for the first time, promised free smart parking, crèche, ambulance, e-rickshaws for senior citizens, Wi-Fi hotspot, 20,000 litres of drinking water, garbage collection and “chautha” event booking in community centres.Sharing how the party would fulfil the promises, AAP’s election campaign committee chairman Chandermukhi Sharma said: “These are not freebies. People pay tax for these facilities. We will provide all these for free by getting revenue from advertisements on these facilities and through corporate social responsibility (CSR). Better management of corporation affairs will also make it possible.”Sharma said he, along with his team, had recently conducted a survey regarding problems of city residents. The survey, “Jan Ki Awaaz”, was conducted in all 35 wards. People were asked about their problems and suggestions were taken from 21,987 residents falling in the age group of 18 to 35.Taking a jibe at the ruling BJP, Sharma said by installing CCTV cameras at all main roads in the city, only challans would be issued and these would not serve the purpose of safety. After winning the corporation elections, AAP would install CCTV cameras in all internal streets and alleys of the city for the safety of women.He said mohalla clinics would also be set up in every ward of the city on the lines of Delhi. Mentorship programmes would be conducted on the lines of Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-city-aap-promises-slew-of-freebies-350517
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron case: 130 samples collected from Mani Majra area||The UT Health Department is taking pre-emptive steps to check the spread of Covid-19 after the city reported its first case of the new Omicron variant with a 20-year-old Italy resident testing positive for it.A team of the Health Department collected 130 samples from small pockets of Mani Majra, including from the neighbourhood of the Italy returnee.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services (DHS), Chandigarh, said, “We do not want to take any chances and are testing pockets of Mani Majra to check any cluster outbreak. The results of these samples are awaited.”The youth, a resident of Italy, landed in India on November 22 and tested negative for Covid-19 on his arrival at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar. He then travelled to Chandigarh to meet his relatives and was staying in the Mani Majra area. Along with him, his five high-risk contacts also tested positive for Covid. As per the protocol, the samples of five high-risk contacts have been sent to the NCDC, Delhi, for genome sequencing and the reports are awaited.Meanwhile, the Italy returnee is under home quarantine for seven days after has now testing negative for the virus.St Kabir School shut after student tests +veAccording to the St Kabir School authorities, a student who last attended school on December 10 has tested positive for Covid with mild symptoms. The school authorities have been instructed to close the school for two days by the UT Administration. The school has advised parents to observe their child and get the RT-PCR test done in case of symptoms. The school authorities have decided to revert to online mode of education for three days. — TNSUT sees six fresh Covid casesChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported six fresh Covid-19 cases. There was no death due to the virus, while three patients were cured of the disease. TNS3 more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: Three fresh Covid cases surfaced from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 30,877. There was no fatality due to the virus on Tuesday, while one patient recovered from the disease. Of the 30,877 cases reported from the district so far, 30,462 patients have been cured. There are now 35 active cases. The death toll stands at 380. TNS2 fresh Covid cases surface in MohaliMohali: Two fresh cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 69,035. No death was witnessed on Tuesday, while three patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each was reported from Dera Bassi and Dhakoli. Of the 69,035 positive cases reported from the district so far, 67,900 patients have been cured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/omicron-case-130-samples-collected-from-mani-majra-area-350516
15-12-2021||---||Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS, PRTC contractual employees to protest in Kharar today||Ludhiana, December 14The contractual bus service staff continued their strike on Tuesday and announced to participate in a state-level protest that will be held at Kharar on Wednesday.Meanwhile, passengers have been facing inconveniences due to the strike of the contractual employees for the past one week as many of the buses are not plying on roads.Members of the Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and PRTC Contract Workers Union had gone on an indefinite strike on December 7 in protest against the state government not fulfilling their demands. The contractual employees have been demanding regularisation of their services.Shamsher Singh, a leader of the union, said the government has not met their demands yet. So, the union has decided to protest outside the CM’s residence in Kharar on Wednesday, he said.The union members said the Punjab Government did not conduct a meeting with the employees today due to which they are forced to intensify their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/roadways-employees-to-protest-in-kharar-today-350473
