16-12-2021||Mohali||One dengue case in Mohali district||Farm activists end protestChandigarh: All farm activists and pro-farmer people who were protesting at chowks in the city ended their protest against the three farm laws on Wednesday, in accordance with a call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. The protesters assembled at Gurdwara Shahpur, Sector 38, in the evening and offered "ardaas" after which a jaago was carried out. "There was a DJ at the Sector 38 chowk and people sang and danced to celebrate the repeal of three farm laws and acceptance of all other demands by the Centre," said Kirpal Singh of Naujawan Kisan Ekta. TNSBalbir Rajewal felicitatedMohali: Industrialists and members of the Mohali Chamber of Industry and Commerce on Wednesday felicitated farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal at Industrial Area, Phase 9, for successfully leading the peasant movement to victory. The industrialists presented Rajewal with a turban and an insignia of Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar insignia. TNSPanel Member visits villagesMohali: The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes has expressed concern over the alleged attack on the sarpanch of Shatabgarh village, Usha Devi, and the demolition of houses of a Dalit family at Roorkee a few days ago. Raj Kumar Hans, a member of the commission, visited the villages of Roorkee and Shatabgarh. The SP has ordered the officials concerned to complete the investigation in both cases by December 21. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-dengue-case-in-mohali-district-350937
16-12-2021||---||Athletes, coaches get cash awards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Punjab Sports Minister Pargat Singh handed over a total amount of Rs 11.8 crore to 3,309 players and 10 coaches of Punjab, here today.Encouraging the sportspersons to make more strides in the field of sports, the Sports Minister said Punjab’s Sports Policy was amended as per the need of the changing times. Director Sports Parminder Pal Singh Sandhu said Rs 9.37 crore was given to 3,309 players and Rs 2.43 crore to 10 coaches. Out of these, 1,298 players were given Rs 4.84 crore for the year 2018-19 and 2011 players were given Rs. 4.49 crore for 2019-20.Out of 10 coaches, Dronacharya Awardee Mahinder Singh Dhillon and Dronacharya Awardee Sukhdev Singh Pannu got Rs 40 lakh each, badminton coach Vijaydeep Singh was awarded Rs 30 lakh, weightlifting coach Sandeep Kumar was given Rs 28 lakh, Suresh Kumar was bestowed with Rs 20 lakh, hockey coaches Avtar Singh, Gurdev Singh and Yudhwinder Singh received Rs 16.66 lakh each and athletics coach Jaspal Singh awarded Rs 16 lakh.Out of 14 players, Olympian shooter Anjum Maudgil was awarded Rs 1.12 crore, Arjuna Awardee shooter Gurpreet Singh (Rs 61 lakh), Badminton player Dhruv Kapila (15 lakh), fencing players Jagmeet Kaur (7 lakh), Ina Arora (Rs 6.57 lakh), Varinder Singh (Rs 5.30 lakh), Komalpreet Shukla, Anushka, Navjit Kaur Dhillon, Kripal Singh, Jasleen Singh Saini, Harwinder Kaur and Ranjit Singh were given Rs 5 lakh each.Earlier, Secretary General of Punjab Olympic Association Raja KS Sidhu said that this move will create a sports friendly environment in the state in the near future. On behalf of the sportspersons Commonwealth Games bronze medallist Navjit Kaur Dhillon and SAF Games gold medallist Marathon Athlete Rashpal Singh also shared their thoughts.Rs11.8-cr distributedPunjab Sports Minister Pargat Singh said Punjab’s Sports Policy was amended as per the need of the changing times. Director Sports Parminder Pal Singh Sandhu said Rs 9.37 crore was given to 3,309 players and Rs 2.43 crore to 10 coaches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/athletes-coaches-get-cash-awards-350936
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||SDS, GCE-20 win overall trophy||SDS College of Education Women, Lopon, won the Panjab University 73rd Annual Athletics Meet (women) for Education Colleges, today. The squad scored 38 points to win the championship.Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, claimed second position by scoring 29 points and the Government College of Yoga, Sector 23, finished third with 27 points. In the men’s category, the Government College of Education, Sector 20, won the championship by scoring 36 points. The Government College of Yoga claimed second position with 30 points and DAV College of Education, Abohar, scored 21 points to claim the third position.In the women’s event, Harpreet Kaur was named best athlete with 697 points and Kunsang Dorjee of Government College was adjudged best in men’s category.Meanwhile, in the men’s category, Ankit Deshwal claimed 10,000m gold medal by clocking 30:36.66s to set a New Meet Record. Reenu Kumar (31:01.90s) claimed second position and Kunal Meena (32:44.56s) finished third. Paramdeep Mor set a New Meet Record in the 20kmwalk event by clocking 01:21:18.71s. Harsh Kumar Tyagi (01:36:24.17s) and Rahul (01:49:12.57s) claimed second and third position. In the women’s category, Amandeep Kaur set a New Meet Record in 400m event by clocking 56.60s. Gug Kaur (01:01.74s) and Shreya (01:02.51s) claimed second and third position.Amandeep Singh clocked 48:77 seconds to claim men’s 400m gold medal. Harpreet Singh (49:56s) and Varun Sharma (49:78s) claimed second and third position. In the 100m event, Deepak Yadav (12:87s), Harinder Singh (13:12s) and Rahul Yadav (16:12s) won top three positions.Lakshya claimed the 1,500m gold by clocking 04.08:15s. He was closely followed by Anuj (04.08:17s) and Gaurav (04.08:20s). In 800m event, Stanzin Sonam (2.34:19s), Vishal (2.53:66s) and Honey Singh (3.05:61s) claimed top three podium positions, while in high jump, Chirag Gupta (1.90m), Adarshpreet Singh (1.85m) and Visal (1.85m) won medals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sds-gce-20-win-overall-trophy-350935
16-12-2021||---||Blood donation camp organised||Tribune News ServiceFatehgarh Sahib, December 15Over 100 units were collected by a team of the Rotary and Blood Bank Society, Chandigarh, during a blood donation camp organised by Baba Moti Ram Mehra Blood Donation Society at historical Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib on the eve of ‘Sangrand’, the first day of a month as per the Indian traditional calendar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/blood-donation-camp-organised-350934
16-12-2021||Mohali||Centre for autism inaugurated in Mohali||Punjab Medical Education & Research Minister Dr Raj Kumar Verka on Wednesday inaugurated the Centre of Excellence for Autism and Neuro-developmental Disorders here at Sector 79, Mohali. Verka said the centre is first-of-its-kind institute in Punjab and it will provide comprehensive, integrated and responsive services for persons with autism and other neuro-developmental disorders in India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-for-autism-inaugurated-in-mohali-350933
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Electoral awareness campaign||Session on Type 1 Diabetes at PUDr HSJ Dental College and Hospital and Rotaract Club HSJ Dental College in collaboration with The Diabetes Foundation and DATRI organised a joint awareness session on type 1 diabetes awareness and stem cell donation awareness at Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital.6th Prof BM Anand Memorial LectureThe 6th Prof BM Anand Memorial Lecture organised in online mode by Department of Physics, Panjab University. Prof S Ramakrishnan, Director Tata Institute of Fundamental research (TIFR) Mumbai delivered a talk on “Achieving ultra-low temperatures and Physics at those temperatures”.Int’l webinar on gender researchThe Department of Sociology in collaboration with Population Research Centre organised an international webinar on Importance of Field Work in Gender Research by Dr Sharada Srinivasan, Associate Professor and Canada Research Chair in Gender, Justice and Development, Department of Sociology and Anthropology, University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/electoral-awareness-campaign-350932
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Book on '71 war released||A book, ‘War In The East, Liberation of Bangladesh,1971,’ authored by Col Ranbir Singh was released here today.The book, released by former Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Puducherry, Lt General Bhopinder Singh, illustrates the courage of Indian soldiers which resulted in the liberation of Bangladesh and focuses on the leadership at the junior level.Former Northern Army Commander, Lt Gen HS Panag, former Southern Army Commander, Lt Gen GS Sihota and a number of veterans were present on the occasion. Col Ranbir said while most of the books on the 1971 war have been written from the higher perspective of top military commanders, his book highlighted battalion level operations focusing on junior commanders’ leadership. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-71-war-released-350931
16-12-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Truckers continue stir on Day 10, commuters in a fix||Commuters were inconvenienced as the Punjab Truck Union protest against the state government at the Chhat light point on Airport Road entered the 10th day today.The protest has disrupted the normal movement of vehicles. Visitors to the airport frequently get late for flights and bus passengers too have to bear delays due to the traffic jam. Eyewitnesses said ambulances too are seen stuck in the traffic jam during the rush hours in the evening. The protesting truckers are demanding restoration of unions that were dissolved by the Congress government in 2017. The union members said they were in dire straits as there were no official rates and the annual hike of 5-6 per cent was also not being implemented. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truckers-continue-stir-on-day-10-commuters-in-a-fix-350930
16-12-2021||Our Correspondent||Voter awareness van flagged off in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, December 15To educate voters to cast their vote without any pressure, fear, lust, greed or influence, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Poonamdeep Kaur today flagged off a special van fitted with audio-visual devices to create awareness on importance of voting.The van will cover all the three Assembly constituencies falling in the district — Fatehgarh Sahib, Amloh and Bassi Pathana — and spread the message of the Election Commission of India that people should exercise their franchise.The DC said the Constitution gave the right to vote, and it became the duty of every citizen to cast vote to strengthen the democracy. She said as per the directions of the Election Commission, anyone who attained the age of 18 could enrol as a voter by filling Form No. 6. One could also call on helpline ‘1950,’ she added.Poonamdeep said the awareness campaign would be taken to the grassroots level, even in remote rural areas, and the SDMs were directed to supervise the drive in their respective areas. She said the awareness van would provide information about the Election Commission’s c-VIGIL app and Voter Helpline ‘1950’. People would also be made aware about the importance of voting. She said signboards, hoardings and banners were also being put up in public places to spread awareness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/voter-awareness-van-flagged-off-350929
16-12-2021||---||Teachers hold protest outside Panjab University admn block||Chandigarh, December 15On the call given by the PFUCTO for a complete ‘Education Bandh’, Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) members assembled in front of the Panjab University Administrative Block to register their protest for delay in the implementation of revised UGC pay scales as per the 7th Pay commission by the Punjab Government. Prof AS Naura briefed the teachers about the developments that took place yesterday during the meeting of Punjab Cabinet.Later, teachers marched towards various departments raising slogans in favour of their demands and closed the classrooms. PUTA delegation including Dr Jasbir Singh, Dr Sudhir Mehra, Dr Kulwinder Singh, Dr Rajesh Kumar Jaiswal and Harmail Singh submitted the memorandum of their demands to Kumari Shailja, president Haryana Pardesh Congress Committee. Meanwhile, a similar protest continued at DAV College, Sector 10.PU suspends mandatory attendance rule for examsPanjab University has decided to suspend mandatory attendance for appearing in examinations for odd-semester students. The authorities issued a circular stating, “In view of Covid-19 pandemic and looking at the problems of students, the mandatory condition of attendance for appearing in examinations is suspended for odd semester only (2021-22) for classes of teaching departments as well as all affiliated/constituent colleges and this should not be made as a precedent in future. However, the teachers shall submit their attendance record in the office of their departments concerned as usual.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-hold-protest-outside-admn-block-350928
16-12-2021||---||Suspending  work for poll unlawful, says Bar Council||Chandigarh, December 15The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has termed unlawful a resolutions passed by the various Bar Associations suspending work or deciding to abstain from work on the ground of election activities ahead of the elections scheduled for December 17.Minderjeet Yadav, Chairman of the Bar Council, and Lekhraj Sharma, Chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Bar Council, in a general order issued today has requested all Bar Associations not to pass the resolution of the Bar casually for suspending work/abstaining from work. They said such a resolution might be passed only in the rarest of rare circumstances. All such resolutions are not appreciated, neither by the court nor by the Bar Council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspending-work-for-poll-unlawful-says-bar-council-350927
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage furniture auctioned in France||Seven items of the UT’s heritage furniture were auctioned in Chantilly, France, for Rs75.38 lakh on December 12 by Oise Encheres. Ajay Jagga, a member of the UT Heritage Items Protection Cell, has intimated the Union Minister of Culture G Kishan Reddy, state ministers of culture Arjun R Meghwal and Meenakshi Lekhi, raising concern over the auction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-furniture-auctioned-in-france-350926
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC grants bail to Sector 37 property case accused||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today granted bail to liquor contractor Arvind Singla in the alleged fraud case involving a Sector 37 property. Allowing his plea, Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted the co-accused had been granted bail by the court.“Considering the custody period and the fact that conclusion of the trial is likely to take time, the petitioner is granted bail, subject to his furnishing bail bonds to the satisfaction of the Chief Judicial Magistrate/ Duty Magistrate concerned and surrendering his passport,” Justice Jhingan added.Singla had moved the High Court through senior advocate RS Rai with Anurag Arora for regular bail.Among other things, Rai contended the petitioner was in custody since June 11, the investigation in the matter was complete, and no further recovery was to be made. Rai added the petitioner had himself surrendered before the court. He also relied upon the fact that “the ultimate purchaser of the propertySaurabh Gupta and his brother Manish Gupta were granted bail and one co-accused Satpal Dagar were granted bail by this Court”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-grants-bail-to-sector-37-property-case-accused-350924
16-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bribery case: CBI granted sanction to prosecute Uttarakhand cop||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been granted prosecution sanction against Hemant Khanduri, a Sub-Inspector of the Uttarakhand Police, who was arrested while allegedly taking a bribe in Chandigarh in March 2021. The CBI had been awaiting the sanction for the past three months after filing the charge sheet in the case.The CBI has registered a case against Khanduri on a complaint of a taxi driver of Chandigarh who alleged that Khanduri was allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh for not taking action against him whose name had allegedly cropped up in a case of cheating lodged at the Police Station Cantt, Dehradun .The complainant had stated that the police arrested travel agents for allegedly cheating people and a case was registered against them in Dehradun. The SI was threatening him with implication in the case and demanding a bribe while he had nothing to do with them. The complainant also submitted the audio recording of the alleged conversation he had with the police officer to the CBI also.Khanduri was posted at the Police Station Cantt, Dehradun. The accused was arrested while allegedly taking a bribe from the complainant at Sector 52, Chandigarh.Senior Public Prosecutor for the CBI PK Dogra told the court that the prosecution sanction order from the authority concerned of the Uttarakhand Government had been received. He also filed an application to include the name of the sanctioning authority in the list of witnesses. Dogra also informed the court that the CFSL report was awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bribery-case-cbi-granted-sanction-to-prosecute-uttarakhand-cop-350921
16-12-2021||---||Tehsildar to issue income certificates in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 15For the coming academic session, the income certificate for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) will be issued by the Tehsildar (Revenue).The official spokesperson said the income certificates would be issued by the Tehsildar (R), UT, in respect of the residents of Chandigarh who come under the EWS quota for the purpose of admission to educational institutions situated in the city only.The applicants can download the application form from e-district portal i.e. (http://chdservices.gov.in) from December 20 and these forms can also be obtained from any Sampark Centre. The applications can be submitted to any Sampark Centre in Chandigarh along with all required documents (as per a checklist attached with the application form) by January 31, 2022, and no form will be accepted/submitted after January 31, 2022.The applications under objection will be dealt till February 3, 2022. On completion of all formalities and procedure, the applicants can collect their income certificate from any Sampark Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tehsildar-to-issue-income-certificates-in-chandigarh-350919
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Northern Frontier wins ITBP shooting meet||Northern Frontier of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has bagged the top position at the 35th Inter-frontier Shooting Competition that concluded at the Basic Training Centre (BTC) in Bhanu, near here, today.Training Zone and North East Frontier got the 2nd and 3rd positions, respectively. Rajesh Sharma, Deputy Inspector-General from the Training Zone was declared the best pistol shooter, while Shivender Singh, Assistant Commandant from Training Zone, was declared the best carbine shooter.Training Zone was declared the best team in pistol shooting, North East Frontier was declared the best team in carbine shooting and Northern Frontier was declared the best team in rifle shooting.Sandeep Singh, Youth Affairs and Sports Minister, Haryana, said the purpose of these competitions was to uplift the shooting skills of personnel to the national and inter-national levels. Inspector-General, BTC, Ishwar Singh Duhan said a total of 500 participants participated in the three-day competition which included 13 events related to 9mm pistol, 9mm carbine and 5.56mm INSAS rifle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/northern-frontier-wins-itbp-shooting-meet-350917
16-12-2021||---||e Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and PRTC contract staff protest chokes Kharar-Chandigarh road||Mohali, December 15Commuters and residents had a tough time as members of the Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and PRTC Contract Workers Union staged a protest against the state government on roads and staged a sit-in near Kharar bus stand today.A massive turnout of 7,000 contract employees of 27 depots from all over Punjab were demanding regularisation of the employees’ services.The protests led to a massive traffic jam on the Kharar-Chandigarh road. The protesters had gathered at the spots since morning and continued the protest till around 7 pm. The police tried to negotiate with the protesters by giving them an alternative protest site, but the employees did not agree.The police had put up barricades at several junctions which further inconvenienced commuters. Residents of TDI City, Shivalik City, SBP Homes and other colonies on the Nijjher road were also inconvenienced as their entry and exits were clogged with vehicles stuck in traffic jams. Commuters vented their ire against the police for stopping the traffic near Cheema Boilers Ltd before the traffic lights on Airport Road and TDI.The union leader, Resham Singh, said: “It is ninth day of the strike but no one in the Punjab Government is hearing us. Employees are being outsourced temporarily. I have had five meetings with the newly appointed Chief Minister and also with the newly appointed Transport Minister, but nothing has come out. I apologise to the people of Kharar for the inconvenience caused to them but our protest will continue till the Punjab Government comes up with a solution. The farmer organisations are also coming out in out support.”‘Take strict action against agitators’A resident of Kharar, Akashdeep Singh, who was caught up in the traffic jam for close to two hours in the morning, said, “The police should take strict action against the protesters and remove the barricades immediately. The protesters should not harass residents here and protest at designated sites.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roadways-staff-protest-chokes-kharar-chandigarh-road-350914
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Bansal campaigns for city Congress chief's son||Former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal today joined the campaign of Sumit Chawla, the Congress Candidate from Ward No. 14 in Dhanas village and the adjoining colonies. Chawla is the son of city Congress president Subhash Chawla.Bansal said all houses situated outside lal dora in villages would be given all facilities. The Congress would ensure that a separate budget be passed for villages so that their needs were adequately addressed.Earlier at a press conference, Bansal said the only work the BJP did in the past six years was to bring the city to 66th position from no. 1 place in Swachh Survekshan.He said, “The city has witnessed a massive downfall in every field during the BJP rule such as poor conditions of roads, pavements and parks.”“Piles of garbage, roads in bad shape, residents being crushed under the burden of various taxes, the city’s famous locations being turned into protest zones, thanks to the anti-farmer mindset of the BJP. People from all walks of life are forced to face the heat of the BJP misrule,” he alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-bansal-campaigns-for-city-cong-chiefs-son-350912
16-12-2021||---||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Congress support for AAP candidate||Chandigarh, December 15Senior Congress leader Naveen Gupta has decided to support Aam Aadmi Party’s candidate Onkar Aulakh, contesting the MC elections from Ward No. 11.At a press conference held at the Press Club today, Gupta said, “People had expectations from me and they wanted to see me as the ward councillor. Unfortunately, it couldn’t happen, so I have decided to support the AAP candidate. He also appealed to the people of the ward to vote for Aulakh.”Senior leader and former Union Minister Harmohan Dhawan was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-cong-support-for-aap-candidate-350909
16-12-2021||---||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: BJP counters 'chargesheet' of Cong with 'worksheet'||Chandigarh, December 15The BJP today rejected a “chargesheet” filed by the Congress against the ruling party a few days ago, terming it as a “bundle of lies”, at a press conference held at Kamalam, the party office here.Local BJP president Arun Sood, in the presence of MC election co-incharge and Rajya Sabha MP Indubala Goswami, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, former state party president Sanjay Tandon, released his ‘worksheet’ against the rival party’s ‘chargesheet.’Sood said during the tenure of the BJP, the health sector found its zenith as the civil dispensaries of Sector-22, 45 and 48 were upgraded to the status of Civil Hospital. The Civil Hospital of Mani Majra was also upgraded. Apart from that a 100-bed hospital was built in Sector 48 and an 80-bed hospital in Maloya.He said an advanced trauma centre (ATC) is under construction at Sarangpur. The number of MBBS seats in the GMCH 32 were increased from 50 to 200 with a view to increasing the number of doctors in the city.Referring to the education sector, Sood said during the past five years, 11 new government smart schools were opened in Chandigarh and five were under construction. He said in view of the quality of education, Chandigarh had come number one in the Education Index Report of NITI Aayog, beating Delhi.Sports also found a new dimension during the BJP regime with the opening of nine new sports complexes.The BJP claims the residential houses have been made free hold, Chandigarh will be the first slum-free city of the country by March 2022, seven state-of-the-art community centres were constructed and two “junj” houses were equipped with modern facilities.It’s admission of guilt by BJP, says CongressChandigarh: The city Congress has said the “worksheet” issued by the BJP is the admission of guilt of the saffron party.“Their actual agenda of ill deeds has been admittedly published in the chargesheet issued by the Congress. The BJP is again trying to woo the voters of Chandigarh by way of high-cost publicity and money power,” said the Congress in a press statement.“The residents have now made up their mind to oust the BJP to get rid of the taxes imposed by BJP-led corporation and to regain the status of “City Beautiful,” it added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-bjp-counters-chargesheet-of-cong-with-worksheet-350908
16-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Only 35% PGI doctors on National Digital Health Mission portal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15The Health Department has asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to ensure 100 per cent registration of its doctors National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) portal.The department has pointed out that only 35 per cent of its doctors are registered on the NDHM portal and that it is below the optimal target. The healthcare professionals enrolling on this portal will be able to treat patient remotely through telemedicine and it will also enable patients to have direct access with verified doctors.The Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM) will empower the onboard healthcare professionals onto India’s digital health ecosystem and connects patients to healthcare providers or vice versa with last mile coverage.A letter was written to Director, PGIMER from Director of Health and Family Welfare, Chandigarh, which states, “In our recent review meeting at the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) level, it was desired that registration of doctors on NDHM portal has not been achieved up to optimum level in UT, Chandigarh. One of the identified reasons have been that only 35 percent of doctors of PGIMER have been registered on the NDHM so far.”“It is desired that your institute take required action towards completion of 100 per cent registration of your doctors of your institute,” asked the DHS, while adding that this task may be treated on high priority and should be completed in short period.The registration of doctors on the portal will increase their discoverability by the patients and the doctors can have consented access to electronic medical records with seamless retrieval.At the same time, patients are required to create their digital health ID that will allow them to access and share their health data with participating healthcare providers. The coverage of health IDs by the residents of Chandigarh is also very poor as only 35.7 per cent population of the city has been covered under the Central Government’s project of making digital health cards for the citizens. Authorities told to increase enrolment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-35-pgi-docs-on-national-digital-health-mission-portal-350905
16-12-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Unaccounted investment of Rs70 cr found||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15The Income Tax Department found Rs70 crore of unaccounted investment in The Mohali Club, Phase 11, and The Palace Banquet Hall on the Dera Bassi-Barwala road during a search at the residence and other properties of the owners of the Makkar Group.The department concluded its five-day-long search on 22 premises in Chandigarh, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Mumbai, including those of Torque Pharmaceuticals Pvt Ltd, JW Marriott Hotel and the Makkar Group, on December 12.Sources in the department said searches covered the residential premises of Kuldeep Singh Makkar, Puneet Singh Makkar and Angad Singh Makkar, including their brick kilns and two banquet halls, The Palace and The Mohali Club. “The search and seizure operation unearthed huge unaccounted cash transactions in business and several other incriminating documents. The department found Rs70 crore of unaccounted investment in The Palace Banquet Hall and The Mohali Club. Several documents and digital data relating to ‘benami’ transactions were recovered. The investigation is under progress to calculate the real figures of tax evasion,” sources in the department said.“About five lockers of the Makkar Group have been sealed by the department. Only after they are opened can we decipher the exact figures,” added the sources.When contacted, Puneet Singh Makkar said, “The valuation of both the properties has been done in our absence and in an arbitrary manner. The properties have been overvalued to the extent to show double the actual rate. We and our entire staff have cooperated with the teams and obeyed all norms. As for ‘benami’ properties or transactions, it is a baseless allegation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unaccounted-investment-of-70-cr-found-350901
16-12-2021||---||Pinjore jeweller shot at, robbed of chain||Panchkula, December 15Three bike-borne unidentified miscreants shot at a jeweller and robbed him of a gold chain, a laptop bag containing some officials documents and his wallet last night while he was returning home on his two-wheeler after closing his shop, Manglam Jewellers, near Pinjore Khera.The victim, Harish Ohri (55), said the suspects overtook his Activa near Forest Complex around 9.15 pm and stopped him at gunpoint.“While one remained on the motorcycle, two masked suspects snatched the victim’s laptop bag, following which he lost control over the vehicle and fell on the ground. When the victim put up a resistance, one of them shot at on his right leg. They then took away the victim’s gold chain worth Rs1.80 lakh from his neck,” the FIR mentioned, quoting the complainant. After committing the crime, the suspects fled away towards Kalka. Passersby gathered at the spot. The victim then took an auto-rickshaw to reach the Pinjore police station to report the matter.Meanwhile, he called his younger brother Narender and narrated the entire story.The injured victim was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 from where doctors referred him to the PGI after giving him first aid.According to the police, the robbed laptop bag contained documents and his wallet, which had Rs8,000, credit and debit cards and a driving licence.A case was registered against unidentified persons under Sections 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of a common intention), 341 (wrongful restraint), 392 (robbery) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the IPC at the Pinjore police station. Inspector Ram Pal, SHO of the Pinjore police station, said the identity of all three suspects was yet to be established.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pinjore-jeweller-shot-at-robbed-of-chain-350897
16-12-2021||---||Arrangements for Chandigarh civic body poll reviewed||Chandigarh, December 15The Secretary, Local Government-cum-Home Secretary, Nitin Kumar Yadav, today reviewed the arrangements and preparedness for the coming Municipal Corporation (MC) elections.The Secretary reviewed the status of the electoral roll, deployment of police force to maintain law and order and the availability of resources for a smooth election process. The Secretary directed to depute addition force at sensitive booths to avoid any chaos during the elections.Besides, the enforcement of the Covid guidelines in election booths/stations was also highlighted. The Home Secretary directed all deputed staff to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour at the election booths. He added that special arrangements would be made for Covid positive voters, who intended to cast their vote. One health team, headed by a medical officer, would also be deputed with returning officers. Apart from Vijay Namdeorao Zade, Finance Secretary, and Sandeep Mishra, Secretary, State Election Commission, the meeting was attended by election observers, returning officers, expenditure observers and SSP Kuldip Singh Chahal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arrangements-for-chandigarh-civic-body-poll-reviewed-350895
16-12-2021||---||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Congress promises no new taxes, cut in water tariff||Chandigarh, December 15No new taxes in the next five years, reducing the water tariff, sewerage rates and bringing new technology for waste treatment are among the main promises made by the Congress in its manifesto, which was released today ahead of the Municipal Corporation poll.“The back-breaking increase in the water charges and other levies imposed by the BJP-run corporation will be rolled back. The Congress will bring back the old rates of sewerage cess to Rs20 per toilet seat. The existing sewerage tax being charged at 30 per cent of the water bill is the highest such tax in the country. This has burdened the people,” states the manifesto.Addressing a press conference, city Congress president Subhash Chawla said, “The Congress will enhance the revenue of the corporation by claiming its rightful share in the UT revenue as allocated by the Delhi Finance Commission and by taking other initiatives without taxing the people. The party will also cut all wasteful expenditure, due to which funds of the corporation have dried up despite an increase in taxes imposed by the BJP.”The party leader said if elected to power in the MC elections, the Congress would revamp the garbage management system and set up new world-class garbage treatment plants to clear garbage from the dumping ground at Dadu Majra. Improving roads, maintenance of 1,800 parks and CCTV cameras in inner roads are among the other promises made by the party.New smart schools will be set up and school books will be provided free of cost to girl students. It also promises to fulfil the old demand of ownership rights of properties falling within the lal dora of villages. The manifesto was released by Chandigarh Congress in-charge Harish Chaudhary.Pawan Bansal has a dig at AAPAll promises made by AAP are false. See the plight of Delhi, they could not fulfil these there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-cong-promises-no-new-taxes-cut-in-water-tariff-350893
16-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Independent candidates likely to dent vote bank of parties fielding 'outsiders'||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Independent candidates, who are fighting the MC elections from the area where they reside, are likely to dent the vote bank of the main political parties. Many of the Independents are contesting as the political parties did not field local candidates.The Independent candidates Chandigarh Tribune spoke to informed that there was no development in their area as parties have been fielding ‘outsiders’. Thus, they have taken on themselves to set the system right.Sector 51 resident Ashwani Mittal (53), a property consultant who quit AAP and is contesting from Ward number 32 (Sector 51 and 44), said, “The BJP, the Congress and AAP did not field their candidates from Sector 51. Even the last three councillors were not even from the ward. After AAP did not listen to our pleas of naming a local candidate, people here encouraged me to fight the poll, although the party changed its candidate and fielded one from Sector 44 at the last moment.”“Outsider councillors did not understand the local problems or do any of our works. If I am elected, I will work on getting an e-Sampark centre, a community centre, a government school, a local market and a dispensary in Sector 51. I will also ensure maintenance of all parks.” MN Shukla, who is independently fighting from Ward number 35 (Sectors 48, 49, 50 and 63), has been a vocal supporter of local candidates.“Because of the non-cooperative attitude of councillors, who are from other sectors, the Voice of Housing Societies (VOHS) felt they could not provide any relief to dwellers of housing societies, be it in the matter of stamp duty, unearned increase, non-issuance of completion certificate or a steep hike in the water tariff.Thus, the VOHS decided to have its own councillor from the area, who will be truly taking up the cause of the people,” shared Shukla.A local candidate from Kishangarh, Paramjit Kaur Lubana (34), who is fighting from Ward number 4 against the candidates from other areas, stated, “Villagers asked me to contest after they saw there is no candidate from Kishangarh. Due to outsider councillors’, our village has broken roads, streets, poor sewerage system and drinking water issues.”BJP rebel and Dadu Majra resident Narinder Chaudhary, who is contesting as an independent from Ward number 26, added, “The BJP preferred a nominee (Rajesh Kalia) who is a resident of Jujhar Nagar in Punjab and not from Dadu Majra. As a councillor, Kalia failed to get the garbage dumping ground issue resolved. I will get the dumping ground cleared and ensure parks are maintained and street lights lit. I know the local problems better.”Independents are already making efforts to emerge as a strong force as 12 of them had earlier formed ‘Azad Front’, which is spearheaded by former general secretary of the city Congress Shashi Shankar Tiwari. “They will not only dent the vote bank, but will also win the elections as local people are supporting them instead of outsiders fielded by political parties. In the MC elections, the winning margin is very less so these ‘Azads’ will make a major difference,” felt Tiwari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-independent-candidates-likely-to-dent-vote-bank-of-parties-fielding-outsiders-350891
16-12-2021||---||Chandigarh admn celebrates Rock-star Nek Chand's 97th birth anniversary||Chandigarh, December 15The UT Administration today celebrated the 97th birth anniversary of Padma Shri Nek Chand, the creator of Rock Garden, at the memorial in Rock Garden today in the presence of Anuj Saini, son of Nek Chand, and others. The celebration started with the lighting of diyas. Floral tributes were paid at the wax statue of Nek Chand by chief guest Nitin Kumar Yadav, Home Secretary-cum-Chairman, Rock Garden Society, and other guests.Certificates were given by the chief guest to the winners of an art craft and painting competition. The participants were from various schools and it was organised by the Rock Garden Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admn-celebrates-rock-star-nek-chands-97th-birth-anniversary-350889
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||No fatality, 8 cases of Covid-19 reported from Chandigarh||The city on Wednesday reported eight cases of Covid-19. There was no death due to the virus, while seven patients were cured of the disease. TNS4 new Covid cases surface in MohaliMohali: Four new Covid-19 cases were detected in the district on Wednesday. Eight persons were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, two were reported from Mohali and one each from Dera Bassi and Dhakoli. Of the 69,039 positive cases reported so far, 67,908 patients have recovered. There are now 58 active cases. The toll stands at 1,073. TNSThree fresh cases of virus surface in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported three fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,880. The toll remained at 380. While 30,473 people have recovered from the infectious disease, 27 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.68 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-fatality-8-cases-of-covid-19-reported-from-chandigarh-350888
16-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society, Chandigarh, told to run Sector 23 mini-Covid care centre from Monday||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15In view of the rising cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh, the UT Health Department has started opening up mini-Covid care centres for patients who require institutional isolation facility.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg has written to Sri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society to start the mini-Covid care centre at Bal Bhawan, Sector 23, to make it functional immediately so that patients can be sent to the centre from Monday.“In the past few days, the number of Covid cases is increasing and there are many cases in which the isolation facility is not available at home. There is need to start the facility of mini-Covid care centres again, especially for quarantine purposes,” said Garg.As present, there are over 75 patients currently infected with Covid in Chandigarh. The positivity rate of the past seven days stands at 0.5 per cent, while the cumulative positivity rate is 7.7 per cent in the city. “The NGO has been requested to again make the mini-Covid care centre at Bal Bhawan, Sector 23, functional immediately. The Director, Health Services, will start sending persons to the centre from Monday,” said Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/run-sector-23-mini-covid-care-centre-from-monday-says-ut-350887
16-12-2021||---||College teachers in Chandigarh to retire at 65||New Delhi, December 15Teachers of colleges under the Chandigarh Administration will retire at 65, instead of 58, as the Supreme Court today “dismissed as withdrawn” the Administration’s petition challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court verdict in favour of the teachers.The order came from a Bench led by Justice KM Joseph after senior counsel PS Patwalia and advocate BP Yadav submitted that the retirement age of teachers serving in government colleges under the Chandigarh Administration is 65 as prescribed under the regulations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).Going by the 1992 Rules, the Chandigarh Administration had fixed the retirement age of faculty members of institutes such as the Government College of Art and the Government College of Architecture at 58.Contending that the 1992 Rules did not apply to them, some aggrieved teachers had moved the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), which dismissed their plea.However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court in May ruled that the retirement age of teachers of institutes under the Administration would be 65, with an extension of five years as applicable in Central Government institutes. It had ordered the petitioners — who had been forcibly superannuated – to be taken back in service with consequential benefits.Citing AICTE Regulations, 2010, the High Court said the age for superannuation was 65 with a provision for re-employment up to the age of 70 years. Referring to the AICTE Act, the High Court had said, “Once Parliament legislates, such Act and the rules/regulations framed thereunder, would take over the field resulting in the rules framed by the president under proviso to Article 309 seizing to operate forthwith.”The Administration had challenged the High Court verdict and insisted that such teachers would retire at 58 as they were governed by the 1992 Rules. However, the Administration chose to withdraw its petition as the top court was not convinced with its contention.‘Prescribed under UGC regulations’The order came from a Bench led by Justice KM Joseph after senior counsel PS Patwalia and advocate BP Yadav submitted that the retirement age of teachers serving in government colleges under the Chandigarh Administration is 65 as prescribed under the regulations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/college-teachers-in-chandigarh-to-retire-at-65-350886
