17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 21 PG owner booked||Purse stolen from SUVChandigarh: An unknown person stole a purse from an SUV parked outside a café in Sector 7. The complainant, Hemant Sachdeva, reported that the thief broke the left window glass of his Safari and stole his purse containing Rs20,700, credit and debits cards and other documents. A case has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. TNSThree women flee with purseChandigarh: Three unidentified women stole a purse containing cash and documents from a shop in Sector 30. A girl reported that around three women stole her purse containing Rs20,000, ATM card and other documents from a shop. A case has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNSRegistration for admissionChandigarh: University Business School (UBS), Panjab University, has started online registration of candidates for admission to MBA programmes (MBA, MBA-IB, MBA-HR and MBA-EP) at the UBS for session 2022-23 from December 17 till January 31. Candidates are advised to visit the website https://ubsadmissions.puchd.ac.in for further information. TNSPU postpones examinationsChandigarh: Due to administrative reasons, the Panjab University authorities have postponed all undergraduate/ postgraduate odd semester exams and practical exams, scheduled from December 17, and also theory exams, scheduled from December 22. The fresh dates for these exams will be notified later. The PU has advanced the winter break, scheduled from January 28 to February 2, to December 18 to December 25. TNSUT police top in CCTNSChandigarh: The Chandigarh Police secured the first position among the UTs in the implementation of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and System (CCTNS). This was revealed during a virtual conference on good practices held by the National Crime Records Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs on Thursday. The award was presented to UT DGP Parveer Ranjan and SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal by Ajay Kumar Mishra, Union Minister of State (Home), through e-platform. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-21-pg-owner-booked-351272
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||DAV win athletics meet||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dav-win-athletics-meet-351271
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Take pro-active steps to avoid Covid panic: School Association||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-pro-active-steps-to-avoid-panic-school-association-351270
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Inter-college meet: Double delight for Ayush||Ayush Raikhy of GGDSD College, Sector 32, claimed two gold medals in the ongoing Panjab University Inter-College Athletics Championship today. Raikhy won the 100m gold by clocking 10.53s and another gold medal in 200m sprint (21.78s). Shamdeep Singh (10.73s) claimed silver medal in 100m event, followed by Sahilpreet Singh (11.08s) at the third position.Paramdeep Mor of DAV College, Sector 10, was adjudged the best athlete with 1,171 points. In the women’s category, Jasleen Kaur of DAV College scored 1,049 points to claim the best athlete title. They both participated in the 20-km walk event. In the men’s 800m category, Gurkamal Singh Gill (1:53.67s), Jagvinder (1:55.55s) and Ranjot (1:55.95s) claimed top three positions.In the 3,000m steeple chase, Sahil Sagar (9:29.74s), Amritpal Singh (9:36.54s) and Basant Chouhan (9:51.63s) claimed the first three positions. In 400m hurdles, Hardeep Kumar clocked 54.82s, followed by Manpreet Singh (55.44s) and Bhupinder (56.50s). Harpal Singh (14.94m) claimed the triple jump gold, while Jaskaran Singh (14.74m) and Nirpinder Singh (14.52m) finished second and third. Atish (50.00m), Inderpreet Singh (48.28m) and Arvind Singh (43.83m) claimed top three positions in hammer throw event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inter-college-meet-double-delight-for-ayush-351268
17-12-2021||---||Chandigarh firing case: Accused gets bail||Chandigarh, December 16A local court has granted bail to Virender Maharishi, who was arrested in connection with a firing incident that took place outside Tamzara Club, Industrial Area, Phase 1, Chandigarh, on December 6.The club manager had alleged that a group of youths opened fire into the air outside the club after an argument with the staff over bill. He alleged the accused fled the spot without clearing the bill.The police had arrested five accused, including Virender Maharishi of Ambala City, in this regard.Lekhraj Sharma, counsel for the accused, argued before the court that no specific allegations were attributed to the accused in the FIR. He said there was no intention of the petitioner to cause injury, which was the basic ingredient to attract Section 307 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firing-case-accused-gets-bail-351243
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||'Ragini & Saang Mahotsava' begins at Kalagram||A four-day “Ragini and Saang Mahotsava” to commemorate the 75th “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsava”, organised by the North Zone Cultural Centre, Ministry of Culture, Government of India, began at Kalagram today.The musical extravaganza began with Rakesh Bharania, a folk artiste of international acclaim, enthralling people with traditional Haryanvi folk songs dwelling on the patriotic theme. He presented an emotion-charged tale of ‘Bharat Mata’ (Mother India) in shackles of slavery under the alien hegemony.Another presentation of the evening, imbued in a typical Haryana colour, was based on the theme of “Azadi’, which earned him huge applause from the audience. He sang in a typical Haryanvi tradition.Saangi Pradip Rai Nindana, great grandson of the iconic Saangi Dhanpat Singh Nindana, performed in the evening. He presented the programme on the theme promoting mutual brotherhood among all community, especially Hindu-Muslim brotherhood. The programme will be performed daily from 5 pm onwards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ragini-saang-mahotsava-begins-351242
17-12-2021||---||Punjab government to set up Punjabi film development council: Channi||Mohali, December 16In order to promote Punjabi language and culture, the Punjab government would soon bring in a proposal in the forthcoming Cabinet meeting for setting up a Punjabi film development council in the state.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced this during an award function organised at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, to honour Punjabi actors, singers, musicians and background artistes for their contribution to the Punjabi culture.Channi said the proposal in this regard would be cleared in the coming Cabinet meeting.During the “Shane-e-Punjab” function organised by the Punjabi Film, Music and Television Guild Society and the Punjab Tourism Department, Channi honoured Punjabi folk singer late Gurmeet Bawa and Sardool Sikander with the “Shan-E-Punjab” tribute award and Punjabi musician Charanjit Ahuja and Punjabi actor Gaggu Gill with the Shan-E-Punjab lifetime achievement awards. He also honoured Punjabi singers Gippi Grewal, Sunanda Sharma, Ranjit Bawa Actor Dev Kharod, Singers Gurlej Akhtar and Kulwinder Kaily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-government-to-set-up-punjabi-film-development-council-channi-351241
17-12-2021||---||Jagtar Singh Hawara moves court to start trial in 16-yr-old case||Chandigarh, December 16Serving life term at Tihar jail in Delhi for the assassination of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, Jagtar Singh Hawara filed a plea before a local court today for starting trial in a case registered against him in 2005.The application has been filed through advocates AS Chahal and Dilser S Jandiala.The counsels said an FIR was registered by the Chandigarh Police in July 2005 against four people, including Hawara at the Sector 17 police station. They said while three accused were acquitted by the court of Additional Session Judge, Chandigarh, vide judgment dated May 27, 2010, but Hawara’s case was pending since then.The counsels argued that Hawara was also an accused in the case, but his trial did not take place on account of order of the Chandigarh Administration passed under Section 267, CrPC. Counsels said now the police had informed that the case in which order was passed had been decided.With the reply of the police Hawara’s trial should be started in the case without further delay, counsels added. They requested the court that warrants may be sent to the superintendent, Tihar Jail, Delhi, for production of the accused in the case before the court. The court has issued notices to parties concerned for February 23, 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hawara-moves-court-to-start-trial-in-16-yr-old-case-351236
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Varsh: Tributes paid to martyrs on 50th anniversary||To commemorate ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’, the 50th year of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in 1971 that resulted in the liberation of Bangladesh, a solemn ceremony was held at the Veer Smriti War Memorial in Chandimandir today to pay homage to martyrs.A wreath was laid at the memorial by General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen Nav K Khanduri, Former Chief of Army Staff, Gen VP Malik, former Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Sunil Lanba, and former Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, also paid floral tributes along with a large number of veterans from all three services.The 13-day war concluded on December 16 upon signing of the instrument of surrender by Pakistan.Soldiers from the Western Command were awarded two Param Vir Chakras and 46 Maha Vir Chakras, besides numerous other awards for gallantry, courage and self-sacrifice. Further, for their collective performance in war, units and formations were recognised with Battle Honours of Amritsar Airfield, Basantar, Burj, Chakri, Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehpur, Harar Kalan, Jarpal, Malakpur, Samba, Sehjra and the Theatre Honour - Punjab 1971.C-DAC celebrates India’s victory over PakistanThe Centre for Development and Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, today commemorated the 50th anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war by holding sports and cultural events. Kishore, Director, Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory, was the chief guest on the occasion.Honorary officers recall soldiers’ sacrificesMembers of the Defence Honorary Commissioned Officers’ Association (DHCOA) commemorated the 50th Vijay Diwas and paid tributes to martyrs, today. Homage was also paid to the late CDS, Gen Bipin Rawat, who was killed in a helicopter crash. Members, many of whom fought in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, recalled acts of gallantry of Indian soldiers and sacrifices made by them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vijay-varsh-tributes-paid-to-martyrs-on-50th-anniversary-351232
17-12-2021||---||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur to canvass today||Chandigarh, December 16Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will address a series of election meetings in the city tomorrow.“He will campaign for six BJP candidates during his one-day visit,” said party’s General Secretary Chandrashekhar who has been entrusted with his tour responsibility.BJP spokesperson Kailash Chand Jain said the Himachal CM would canvass for Sarvjit Kaur Dhillon (Ward No. 6) in Mani Majra, Kuljeet Singh Sandhu (Ward No. 14) in Dhanas, Ravinder Pathania (Ward No. 29) in Sector 56, Bharat Kumar (Ward No. 31) in Sector 52, Shakti Devshali (Ward No. 30) in Sector 41 and a special rally being organised by the Himachal Cell of the BJP in Sector 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-to-canvass-today-351230
17-12-2021||---||If elected, Cong to terminate contract with sanitation firms: Subhash Chawla||Chandigarh, December 16If elected to power in the MC, the Congress will terminate the contract with sanitation firms and review new waste processing plant project proposal.Subhash Chawla, president of the Chandigarh Congress, stated this while addressing a press conference at the Congress Bhawan in Sector 35 here today.He also demanded a CBI inquiry into the acts of “corruption of the BJP-led corporation”.Chawla said the UT Electricity Department was running into profits and contributing hundreds of crores of rupees to the UT Administration. Despite this, the BJP was all set to privatise the department and hand it over to one of its “cronies”. The sanitary condition of the city roads has turned from bad to worse.People waiting to oust BJP: Cong coordinatorChandigarh: The BJP has made no efforts for the betterment of the city in the past six years while in power in the MC and people are waiting impatiently for December 24 to oust the BJP. Rajinder Rana, Congress coordinator for the MC poll, stated this while addressing a rally in support of Congress candidate Gurbax Rawat in Sector 40-C (Ward No. 27) here. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/if-elected-cong-to-terminate-contract-with-sanitation-firms-subhash-chawla-351227
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Unite in BJP's support in Chandigarh MC elections: Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has appealed to people of Chandigarh to unite in support of the BJP, citing all-round development they have experienced over the past six years.Khattar was canvassing for BJP candidates for the second time in a week for the upcoming Chandigarh MC elections, scheduled for December 24. He sought votes for Rajinder Kumar Sharma (Ward No. 35) in Sector 49, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma (Ward No. 17) in Sector 22 and Harjeet Singh (Ward No. 8) near Mauli Jagran. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unite-in-bjps-support-khattar-351223
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Purvanchalis' role vital in development of Chandigarh, says Manoj Tiwari||BJP MP from Delhi and Bhojpuri film star Manoj Tiwari today hailed the role of Purvanchalis in the development of Chandigarh.“Natives of Purvanchal have made a different identity here on the basis of their hard work,” said Tiwari while addressing a series of public rallies in support of BJP candidates.Tiwari campaigned for Manoj Sonkar (Ward No. 7) in Vikas Nagar Sabzi Mandi, Savita Gupta (Ward No. 4) in Indira Colony, Devi Singh (Ward No. 20) in Hallo Majra, Bharat Kumar (Ward No. 31) in Adarsh Colony, Jaswinder Kaur (Ward No. 28) and Gopal Shukla, alias Pappu, from Ward No. 15.The Delhi MP, while communicating in Bhojpuri during most of the public meetings, appealed to the voters to unite in support of the BJP. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/purvanchalis-role-vital-says-manoj-tiwari-351220
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||There isn't much new in Chandigarh AAP manifesto||City AAP’s manifesto did not have much new to offer as the previously announced promises were among the 23 “guarantees” made in its manifesto, which was released today.AAP’s Chandigarh affairs in-charge and MLA from Delhi Jarnail Singh and Delhi government’s Food and Supplies Minister Imran Hussain formally released the manifesto at a press conference here today. Jarnail Singh, while telling about the 23 “guarantees”, appealed to people to give a chance to the AAP.The manifesto reiterated the freebies such as free smart parking, crèche, ambulance, e-rickshaws for senior citizens, Wi-Fi hotspot, 20,000 litres of drinking water, garbage collection and “chautha” event booking in community centres.When asked about the rates of water above 20,000 litres, its election campaign committee chairman Chandermukhi Sharma said: “We have not decided yet. We will assess it later.” — TNSPromises||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-there-isnt-much-new-in-city-aap-manifesto-351218
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 14 fresh cases of Covid||The city logged 14 fresh cases of coronavirus on Thursday. The overall tally has reached 65,673. With no new fatality, the death toll remained at 1,076. The number of active cases in the UT is 77. Meanwhile, 12 patients were cured of the disease, taking the cumulative recoveries to 64,520. TNS5 found infected in Mohali, no fatalityMohali: Five fresh cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 69,044. No death was witnessed, while nine patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each was reported from Boothgarh and Dhakoli, while three cases surfaced in Mohali (urban). Of the 69,044 cases reported from the district so far, 67,917 patients have been cured. The death toll stands at 1,073. TNSSix test positive in Panchkula distPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported six fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,886. The toll remained at 380. While 30,474 patients have been cured, 32 cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-14-fresh-cases-of-covid-351214
17-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula DC forms 4 teams to check illegal mining||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 16With no end to reports of unauthorised mining activity in the district, Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik today constituted four teams to curb the menace in coordination with the mining department.An RTI reply revealed that as many as 89 FIRs of illegal mining were lodged in the district between January 2019 and November this year. Further, 461 vehicles were caught and seized by the department for transportation of illegally mined material during this period. The actual numbers could be much higher than the reported numbers, say experts on the subject.In July this year, the issue of large-scale illegal mining in the district had led to the suspension of then District Mining Officer Om Dutt Sharma.From time to time, inquiries have also been ordered, special drives launched and repeated instructions issued to curb illegal mining, but the district continues to be a hotbed of the illegal practice.In 2019, the district administration had launched a special drive to curb the menace and even appointed dedicated officers in most-affected areas to keep a vigil during night hours. A special enforcement team was constituted by the state government to stop illegal mining activities in the district and the state, but to no avail.Now, the Deputy Commissioner has urged villagers to help the authorities concerned in curbing such illegal activities. He also instructed the Kalka SDM, the police, the BDPO and the area tehsildar to ensure successful implementation of ‘e-Rawaana’ system, under which a computer generated slip of vehicles used in the mining activities should be checked. “Offenders should be challaned and booked,” he told officials.Kaushik further asked the officials to inspect the licensed mining sites to ensure compliance of rules and regulations in carrying out such activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-dc-forms-4-teams-to-check-illegal-mining-351213
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||CTU holds nukkad natak to promote electric buses||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has taken an initiative to connect with tricity people by organising “nukkad nataks” at the ISBT, Sector 43, Chandigarh.The CTU has engaged the Samvaad Theater Group to organise such “nataks” every fortnight to create awareness among the public regarding the projects and initiatives being taken by the CTU and the UT Administration. A “nukkad natak” was presented today to promote the newly introduced electric buses on express routes. The CTU has already deployed 26 electric buses on three express routes — I1E (ISBT-17 to Kharar), SU4E PGI to the Panchkula bus stand) and 551E (ISBT-43 to the PGI).The express route will have a frequency of 10 minutes with limited stoppages to curtail travel time for commuters. The other 14 electric buses will also be put into operation by December-end.Pradhuman Singh, Director Transport, Yashjeet Gupta, GM, Chandigarh City Bus Service Society, and Amit Gupta, GM, CTU, were present at the event. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-holds-nukkad-natak-to-promote-electric-buses-351212
17-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||UT Administration plans to make Chandigarh a tech hub||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 16To address the growing needs of the industry in the region, the UT Administration has taken a first-of-its-kind initiative to develop Chandigarh as a centre to provide technical knowhow.To begin with, a team of experts, led by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, conducted a study tour of the International Centre for Automotive Technology (ICAT) at Manesar in Gurugram, a testing and certification centre for automobiles, on Wednesday.The experts, including Dr Baldev Setia, Director, Punjab Engineering College, Prof Manu Sharma, Coordinator, Technology Enabling Centre, PU, Dr Satish Kumar, Chief Scientist at CSIO, Manish Gupta, Chairman, CII, Chandigarh, and Rajiv Prashad, Director, Industries, UT, had a detailed deliberation with ICAT Director Dinesh Tyagi and other experts on the kind of facilities the centre is offering, the gaps and whether Chandigarh can play a role in filling these.On developing Chandigarh as a technological hub of the region, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, “We are trying to figure out the kind of facilities that need to be created in Chandigarh to cater to the industrial requirements of the region, including Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.”Being a land-locked city, no new big industry could be set up in the city, he said, adding that keeping in mind the space constraint, a lead could be taken on the technological front. “Now, we are working on how Chandigarh can be developed as a technological hub,” he said, adding that testing, certification and research centres could be set up in the city.Dr Satish Kumar said, “As of now, we are open to all ideas as we have to work according to the needs of the industry and the challenges faced by it.” To start with, they would first hold interactions with the industry and take all stakeholders, including institutes, on board, he said, adding that soon a concrete plan with a focused programme would be prepared for Chandigarh, which would have a national impact, but work would be of the international level.The centre would have several wings, including research, incubation, IT, accelerator and manufacturing platform, he added.“We have to understand what can be done in Chandigarh which will have local connectivity, but global impact so that the city becomes the fountainhead of providing technical solution to the requirements of the industry and end-users,” said Prof Manu Sharma. A research and development centre could also be explored as Chandigarh had a high density of scientists, intellectuals and technicians, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-administration-plans-to-make-chandigarh-a-tech-hub-351211
17-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: BJP's 'vision document' mixed bag of old and new promises||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 16The local BJP today released its “vision document-2021”, which has some old and new promises, ahead of the December 24 Municipal Corporation poll.Old promises such as removing the limits of lal dora, bringing a policy for need-based changes in all residential, commercial and industrial establishments and converting all leasehold property into freehold at reasonable rates have found a mention in the manifesto.“We have already met the freehold demand regarding residential properties to an extent. However, some residential categories, along with industrial and commercial, are yet to be covered. As far as need-based changes are concerned, some work has already been done and a committee has been formed for full resolution,” city BJP president Arun Sood told Chandigarh Tribune.The manifesto states that all contract workers will be regularised and city residents will be given preference in jobs. It also promises one lakh jobs for the youth by promoting knowledge-based industries such as artificial intelligence, robotics, machine learning and clean energy. “Besides, we will get the OBC quota implemented in the MC where only the SC and women qouta has been implemented so far,” said the city BJP chief.The ruling party further promised to provide nearly 4,000 affordable houses under the 2008 UT Employees Housing Scheme. “We have revived the scheme, which was cancelled at the time of the Congress. We will also fix the only pending issue of rates,” said former city BJP president Sanjay Tandon.“We will bring a policy to get the actual previous rates implemented,” said Sood.The BJP said no municipal tax would be levied in villages without completion of development projects and ownership rights would be given to those living in houses of EWS colonies built under the rehabilitation scheme.The party said the UT would become the first slum-free city of the country as the existing slum-dwellers would be given pucca houses. It also promised to increase the old-age, widow and handicap pension from Rs1,000 to Rs2,000 and the pension of those with over 70 per cent disability to Rs2,500.Union Industries and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal released the manifesto.Other promises||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-bjps-vision-document-mixed-bag-of-old-and-new-promises-351166
17-12-2021||---||3 NRIs among 4 killed in Dera Bassi mishap||Mohali, December 16Four persons, including a four-month-old baby, were killed as two cars collided near Dera Bassi on the Chandigarh-Ambala road in the wee hours of Thursday.The NRI victims have been identified as Harjeet Kaur Dhami (56), her daughter-in-law Sharanjeet Kaur (33) and her four-month-old grandson Ajaib Singh. Gaurav Kumar, a resident of Wadhwa Ram Colony in Panipat (Haryana), who was travelling in another car, also died in the mishap.The accident took place around 1.30 am at Janetpur village when a recklessly driven Maruti Swift car bearing a Haryana number crossed over the median and collided with a Maruti Ertiga cab in which five NRIs from Mohali were travelling. The NRI family was returning from a family function in Faridabad.Dera Bassi SHO Kulbir Singh said five members of the NRI family had come to India from Canada to attend a family function. He said the Swift car driver had been booked on a statement of Davinder Singh Dhami, one of the NRIs travelling in the Ertiga. He stated that on December 14, they had taken a cab from Mohali to attend a marriage function at Faridabad and met with the mishap on the way back. The complainant said the Swift car driver coming from the Chandigarh side lost control over the vehicle. After hitting the divider, the car jumped to the other side of the road and collided with their car before turning turtle, he added.The SHO said Dhami was sitting on the front seat of the Ertiga, being driven by Amit Kumar, while his wife Harjeet Kaur, daughter-in-law Sharanjeet Kaur, granddaughter Harliv Kaur and grandson Ajaib Singh were on the backseat. All were injured in the accident and taken to a private hospital in Dera Bassi, where doctors declared Harjeet Kaur, Sharanjeet Kaur and Ajaib Singh dead. The remaining injured were referred to the PGI due to their critical condition, he added.The police said Hritik Bhalla, a resident of Haryana, was driving the Swift car at a high speed. His relative Gaurav, who was travelling with him, also died in the accident. The Swift driver was absconding, said the police. A case has been registered against him under Sections 304-A, 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC.The bodies were handed over to the victims’ relatives after a postmortem.How it happenedThe accident took place around 1.30 am at Janetpur village on the Chandigarh-Ambala road when a recklessly driven Maruti Swift car crossed over the median and collided with a Maruti Ertiga cab in which five NRIs from Mohali were travelling. The NRI family was returning from a family function in Faridabad.Car driver at largeThe police said Hritik Bhalla, a resident of Haryana, was driving the Swift car at a high speed and lost control over the vehicle. A case has been registered against Hritik under Sections 304-A, 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC. He fled from the spot after the mishap, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-nris-among-4-killed-in-dera-bassi-mishap-351160
