19-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Kejriwal makes five promises to Chandigarh, seeks five years in MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19Making five promises, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed the city voters to give five years to the AAP in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.“The Chandigarh MC came into being in 1996. You gave 13 years to the BJP and 12 years to the congress, now give us five years,” he said while addressing the party supporters in a rally at Sector 43 Dussehra ground.“Both the BJP and the Congress have messed up the city. Chandigarh used to be considered the most beautiful city in Asia. But, due to both parties’ misrule, the number 1 city has dropped to 66th position in Swachhta ranking,” said Kejriwal while claiming to make the city number 1 in Asia, if elected to power.From the dias, he made five promises to the public. “First of all, we will end corruption in the MC and the corporation staff will come to your house for MC-related service like in Delhi,” he said.He further said the second promise is of clearing the waste dump in Dadu Majra. “There are similar mountain of waste in Delhi as the BJP is in power in the MC there. We will soon come in power in Delhi and will clear both the dumps of Chandigarh as well as Delhi,” he claimed.  “You will get zero water bill. People in Delhi get zero power and water bills,” he said.  His last two promises were covering the whole city with CCTV cameras for women security and doing works inside housing societies.‘Rumour that Chandigarh will go to Punjab’“There is one rumour going on these days that soon the Centre will give Chandigarh to Punjab. If that is the case, then vote for us in Chandigarh MC as we are going to form a government in Punjab,” he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kejriwal-makes-five-promises-to-chandigarh-seeks-five-years-in-mc-352138
19-12-2021||---||Panjab varsity offers to set up centre on epics||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18The Panjab University (PU) Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, has offered Punjab Government top set up a research centre on Hindu epics Ramayana, Mahabharat and Bhagavad Gita. The announcement was Punjab Chief Minister by Charanjit Singh Channi recently.The Vice-Chancellor (VC) shared that keeping in mind the rich heritage of imparting quality education, the PU had a national character and enjoyed an international stature drawing both faculty and students from all over the country and different parts of the globe. “The PU has already done work in oriental languages. Th university has its own Vishveshvaranand Vishwa Bandhu Institute of Sanskrit, Indological Studies at Hoshiarpur, Department of Sanskrit, Dayanand Chair for Vedic Studies, Department of Guru Nanak Sikh Studies, Guru Ravi Dass Chair of Sant Sahitya Studies, Bhai Vir Singh Chair, Sheikh Baba Farid Chair and others on the campus,” the VC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-offers-to-set-up-centre-on-epics-351984
19-12-2021||Mohali||Dengue claims one more life in Mohali||PU eves win tennis meetChandigarh: Panjab University won the North Zone Tennis Championship (Women) held at DCRUST University. Panjab University defeated Punjabi University, Patiala, (2-0) in the final. Himaanshika Singh outclassed Samriti (6-2, 6-0), while Simran Pritam defeated Pooja (6-1, 6-2) in the final match. MDU, Rohtak, and JMI, Delhi, claimed the third and fourth position, respectively. TNSCarrom teams announcedChandigarh: The Chandigarh Carrom Association has selected local men and women teams to participate in the 26th All-India Federation Cup Carrom Tournament, to be organised by the All-India Carrom Federation and hosted by the Uttar Pradesh Carrom Association, at Varanasi from December 25 to 28. The squad: (men) Mohammed Talib, Sanjay Negi, Mohammed Hassan and Himanshu Shekhar; (women) Nidhi Gupta, Maryam Khan and Sanya Chadha. Diwan Singh Aithani and Anup Gupta have been appointed the managers of the teams. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-claims-one-more-life-in-mohali-351982
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Pedestrian hurt in road mishap||Mobike stolen from Ind’l AreaChandigarh: Miscreants stole a motorcycle of a Mani Majra resident, Rajeev Kumar, from the Industrial Area, Phase 1, here, on December 11. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. — TNSMani Majra man duped of Rs2LChandigarh: Unknown persons duped a resident of New Indira Colony, Mani Majra, of around Rs2 lakh on the pretext of providing him loan. Complainant Sushil Kumar reported that he applied for personal loan at a finance company from a social networking site. Later, he received a phone call from an unknown person who took his bank passbook, documents and other details for providing personal loan. Later, someone changed/updated his bank details, mobile number and withdrew Rs2,04,989 from his bank account. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the IT Park police station. — TNS1 booked on assault chargeChandigarh: The police have booked a Sector 52 resident, Rohit Kumar, alias Golu, for assaulting Satinder Singh, a resident of Sector 52, near his residence on December 13. The complainant suffered injuries in the incident. A case under Sections 323 and 325 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pedestrian-hurt-in-road-mishap-351981
19-12-2021||---||Panjab varsity allows  kabaddi c'ship matches on football field||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Tents were pitched for setting-up a VIPs’ arena (stage) in the middle of the football field, which failed to host even a single match of the inter-college championship in the last few years for reasons well-known to the authorities concerned. This will benefit organisers of the ongoing Senior National Circle Style Kabaddi Championship.The authorities gave permission to use the football field, which is already in a sorry state, as a kabaddi ground for this three-day event. “This is not a big issue. The booking of this ground was made in advance. We are scheduled to revamp the entire ground for installing an underground sprinkler system. So, pitching tents will not harm it. The partial work to install the sprinkler system has been completed and the rest will be initiated after this (kabaddi) tournament,” said Dr Prashant Kumar Gautam, Director Sports, Panjab University.When asked about the poor condition of ground and not hosting inter-college football matches here, Gautam said, “The issue will be resolved once the sprinkler system starts functioning here.”Also, on giving permission to host kabaddi matches at this particular football ground instead of cricket or hockey fields Gautam said, “Those fields have already been prepared with facilities. To improve condition of the ground we are installing a sprinkler system here. The ground was not getting proper water. We cannot give permission to use cricket or hockey grounds for hosting kabaddi matches as thesefields are already equipped with modern facilities.”“We have two football grounds. Our main ground already has a sprinkler system, which is non-functional and repair procedure has already been initiated, while the other one, which is hosting kabaddi matches, is already being revamped,” Gautam added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-allows-kabaddi-cship-matches-on-football-field-351980
19-12-2021||---||Hockey Punjab beat Chandigarh, enter semifinals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Hockey Punjab and Hockey Karnataka registered victories in their respective quarterfinal matches of the 11th Hockey India Senior Men National Championship in Pune today.In the first quarterfinal, Hockey Punjab edged out Hockey Chandigarh (2-1) in a thriller to reach the semi-finals of the tournament. Skipper Rupinder Pal Singh (46th, 53rd) scored both goals, whereas Arshdeep Singh (50th), who put up a spirited performance, was the goal scorer for Hockey Chandigarh.In the second quarterfinal, Hockey Karnataka earned a hard-fought (3-2) win over Hockey Bengal. In the topsy-turvy encounter, it was Hockey Bengal who struck first through Alsem Lakra’s goal in the 9th minute. In the second quarter, Hockey Karnataka bounced back and took the lead through goals from Captain Mohamed Raheel (21st) and Harish Mutagar (30th). Abhishek Pratap Singh scored an equaliser for Hockey Bengal in the 40th minute. S Deekshith P converted a penalty corner in the 58th minute and helped Hockey Karnataka enter semi-finals of the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-punjab-beat-chandigarh-enter-semifinals-351979
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Actress Mahi Gill seeks votes for Congress nominee||Actress Mahi Gill reached the city today and sought votes for Harmohinder Singh Lucky, Congress candidate from Ward No. 2.Mahi said: “Lucky is my childhood friend and I came here to help him. He has always been with me in my good and bad times. So, I came here today to support him.” She appealed to people to vote for him.Congress national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, former MLA Alka Lamba and Punjab MLA Fatehjung Singh Bajwa also reached the city to campaign for party candidates.Surjewala alleged that every section was unhappy with the BJP. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/actress-mahi-gill-seeks-votes-for-congress-nominee-351978
19-12-2021||Zirakpur||22-yr-old model alleges rape by Zirakpur man||The police have booked a Zirakpur resident for allegedly raping a 22-year-old model on the pretext of marrying her.The complainant stated that the suspect, identified as Varinder Bhangoo, won her confidence on the pretext of marriage and offering professional assignments. The suspect continued to exploit her and later left her.When she approached the court, the suspect agreed to marry her after she took back the case. Later, he called her to a hotel and raped her but refused to marry her.After investigating the complaint, the Zirakpur police registered a case against the suspect and started searching for him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/22-yr-old-model-alleges-rape-by-zirakpur-man-351977
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||College teachers to continue stir  in winter break||On the call of the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU), teachers of the city colleges decided to boycott the winter break and continued with their agitation against the Punjab Government over non-implementation of the 7th pay grade and delinking with the UGC.On the first day of winter break announced by Panjab University on Saturday, teachers held a protest at MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/college-teachers-to-continue-stir-in-winter-break-351976
19-12-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula police  to inspect bars, eateries||The local police have started a special drive under which bars, restaurants and cafes will be inspected to ensure no illegal activity takes place there.The checking of these places will be carried out on Friday, Saturday and Sunday between 10 pm and 2 am. The police are setting up nakas around these places to check vehicles to keep tabs on anti-social elements. Cops from the crime branch unit will be deployed at nakas.Under the drive, the police will also act against restaurants and cafes violating Covid norms by operating in restricted hours and beyond permitted capacity.The police will also crack down on illegal sale of alcohol and gambling in public place.Starting the drive, the police inspected 74 cafes, restaurants and bars on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, besides checking 474 vehicles by setting up nakas at various places. Cops issued challans to 74 people found without a mask. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-police-to-inspect-bars-eateries-351975
19-12-2021||---||PU athletics meet: DAV-10 lift overall trophy||Chandigarh, December 18The DAV College, Sector 10, won the overall trophy of the Panjab University 73rd Annual Athletics Meet (men and women).In the men’s category, the Sector 10 college won the overall championship by scoring 127 points. The GGD SD College, Sector 32, claimed the second position by scoring 38 points and the GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, finished third with 29 points.In the women’s category, the DAV College (96 points), the Khalsa College for Women, Ludhiana (63 points), and the GTB Khalsa College for Women, Dasuya, (29 points) won the top three honours in that order.In the women 800m race, Gag Kaur (2:24.58s), Sonakshi (2:27.99s) and Anamika (2:34.90s) claimed the top three positions. Shreya clocked 1:08.51s to win the 440m hurdles event, followed by Manjot Kaur (1:09.51s) and Khushboo (1:11.77s). In the 3000m steeple chase, Shashi Lata (11:23.55s), Ramandeep Kaur (13:09.02s) and Jasbir Kaur (13:20.93s) made the podium finish, while Arshdeep Kaur (12.32m), Manali (11.56m) and Manjot Kaur (10.75m) were the top three position holders in a triple-jump event.In a hammer throw event, Maninderjit Kaur (45.94m), Pankit (39.88m) and Ripudaman Kaur (35.76m) shined, whereas Kamaljeet Kaur (1.40m), Laxmi Kumari (1.25m) and Priyanka (1.25m) claimed position in the high jump event.DAV College, the Khalsa College for Women, Ludhiana, and GGDSD College claimed the top three positions, respectively, in the 4x100m relay event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-athletics-meet-dav-10-lift-overall-trophy-351974
19-12-2021||---||Mock test for interns held at Sec 26 college||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Sector 26, conducted a career counselling session and a mock test for interns.The first session was on career pathways. Dr Bhavneet Kaur, regional mentor in Dr Batra’s, and Dr Balakrishnan Nair, a researcher in vertical health programmes in New Zealand, were the resource persons. Dr Bhavneet threw light on various opportunities available to a budding homeopath in India. She advocated the use of technology in homeopathy and emphasised to have a clear vision on diagnosis, prognosis and outcome of patients treated by them.Dr Balakrishnan Nair introduced international and national-level reputed colleges and courses, which one can pursue according to his/her interest after completing BHMS. He emphasised on broadening the horizon, accepting challenges related to homeopathy and proving them scientifically rather than just making claims.After the first session, the interns participated in a mock test that was conducted in order to prepare them for competitive exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mock-test-for-interns-held-at-sec-26-college-351972
19-12-2021||Panchkula||Man attacked with sharp weapon||A 34-year-old man from Belwali village was allegedly attacked by his fellow villager with a sharp weapon on Thursday evening.The complainant, Sanjeev Kumar, said at least three others were also involved in the crime. He alleged that the key suspect, Surendra, also threatened to kill him and his children. In his complaint, Kumar stated that Surendra first made a call to him to intimidate him, and then he and his son Harpreet took him to their house where he assaulted him.“I suffered head injuries in the assault by a sharp weapon. In the meantime, other conspirators Sardara, Shyam and Gurdeep came there. One of them held my arms while the other started slapping and throwing punched at me. As I yelled for help, my family members and neighbours came to my rescue. If they wouldn’t have intervened, the suspects would have killed me,” the FIR read, quoting the complainant.The injured victim was taken to the Civil Hospital from where he was discharged after treatment. A case has been registered. Head Constable Satish Kumar, the investigating officer, said the police were yet to make an arrest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-attacked-with-sharp-weapon-351970
19-12-2021||---||Sunil Toni to head Chandigarh DBA||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Sunil Toni has been elected president of the District Bar Association (DBA) here. He defeated Ravinder Singh Jolly in the contest.Amirtveer Singh was elected as the vice-president while Mukesh Kumar the secretary of the association. Navdeep Kaur was elected to the post of joint secretary, which was reserved for woman.Earlier, Chandan Sharma was elected unopposed as the treasurer after another contender withdrew his nomination.Toni has been elected as the president for the second term. He was earlier elected to the post in 2015- 16. Before that, he was elected vice-president in 2009.Toni said solving the parking problem and providing chambers to the new advocates would be his priorities.Chaman Lal, returning officer, said the election was peaceful and a total of 76 per cent polling was recorded. He said nine executive members and one secretary, library, were also elected unopposed earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sunil-toni-to-head-chandigarh-dba-351969
19-12-2021||---||Grewal elected president of High Court Bar Association||Chandigarh, December 18Advocate Santokhwinder Singh Grewal (Nabha) was elected president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association, while the vice-president’s post went to advocate Karan Nehra. The elections were held on Friday, but the counting went on till late in the evening. The final results were declared today.The honorary secretary’s post was bagged by Vishal Aggarwal, while Kanu Sharma was elected the joint secretary. Sahil Gambhir was declared elected to the treasurer’s postTalking to The Tribune soon after his election, Grewal said getting land for the lawyers’ chambers in the High Court from the Chandigarh Administration, besides the completion of pending multi-level parking and cafeteria project would be his top priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/grewal-elected-president-of-high-court-bar-association-351968
19-12-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||241 tenders of Zirakpur civic body put on hold||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 18The district administration has put on hold 241 tenders worth crores related to the development works of the Zirakpur Municipal Council after several contractors alleged anomalies in the due tendering process.Officials today visited Zirakpur and initiated a review of the entire process. They said the tenders would be allotted only after grievances of the contractors were redressed and “a thorough probe to check whether there was any mala fide intentions behind the irregularities”.Additional Executive Officer Jagjit Singh said, “Some of the contractors had some issues with the process. Around 241 tenders have been put on hold for now. Some of the tenders are being processed after the contractors gave their consent. An inquiry is being done to check whether there is any mala fide intention in the irregularities cited by them.”Officials said Friday (5 pm) was the deadline for the online technical bids of the tenders while the financial bids were to be opened on December 20, but some of the contractors alleged irregularities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/241-tenders-of-zirakpur-civic-body-put-on-hold-351967
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested for looting passengers at ISBT-17||The police arrested a 54-year-old native of Meghalaya for looting valuables from innocent people by offering them sedative-laced prasad at the ISBT, Sector 17, here today. The suspect has been identified as Krishan Lal, a resident of Jammu. He was booked under Sections 328 and 379 of the IPC at the Sector 17 police station.The police said the suspect had been operating at the ISBT, Delhi, before shifting to the ISBT, Sector 17. He fraudulently solemnised marriage three times. A stolen mobile phone, a black purse containing Rs1500 cash, an Aadhaar card, sedative pills and seven packets of biscuits were recovered from his possession, the police said.A Maloya resident Sagar (32) had stated to the police that he worked as an auto driver. On the night of December 17, he was coming from the ISBT, Sector 43, to the ISBT, Sector 17, to drop a male passenger. When he reached parking near parade ground, Sector17, the passenger offered him biscuits. After eating biscuits, he started feeling dizzy and got unconscious. When Sagar woke up next morning, he found his black colour purse containing Rs3500, a copy of the RC and driving licence missing.The suspect was arrested today from the outer gate of the ISBT, Sector 17, and stolen items were recovered from him. During interrogation, Krishan Lal disclosed that he targeted innocent people from UP, Bihar and Jammu by taking them into confidence on the name of religious places like Mata Vaishno Devi and offered them parsad. The suspect will be produced before the court on December 19 for seeking his police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-looting-passengers-at-isbt-17-351965
19-12-2021||---||Ambala MP seeks votes for BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Ambala MP and former Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria addressed a series of public meetings here today. Kataria sought votes for BJP candidates Rajesh Kalia (Ward No. 26) at the Dadu Majramarket, Manoj Sonkar (Ward No. 7) at the Mauli Jagran market, Bharat Kumar (Ward No. 31) in Sector 52 and Usha (Ward No. 16) at the Sector 25 mandi. Kataria said the lotus would again bloom in the MC elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-mp-seeks-votes-for-bjp-351964
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cast your vote, get discount||To encourage residents to cast their votes in the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections, the Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, has decided to give discount to voters on showing the inked finger.Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi and general secretary LC Arora said they met SK Shrivastava, State Election Commissioner, to discuss and promote the spirit of voting in the MC elections.Panchhi said they would also display banners and posters at prominent places in the city for optimum voting. He said members of the association would give discount to voters on showing the inked finger till December 31.Declamation, quiz competitionschandigarh: The State Election Department in collaboration with Department of Higher Education organised the election awareness campaign by conducting a state-level inter-college declamation and quiz competitions keeping in view the forthcoming Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections at DAV College, Sector 10. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cast-your-vote-get-discount-351963
19-12-2021||---||Mauli Jagran man held with eight stolen cycles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18The police arrested a Mauli Jagran resident and recovered eight stolen bicycles from him today.A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect, Parmod (19), at the Sector 26 police station.The police said he stole these bicycles from various sectors of the city. The suspect was produced in a court, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mauli-jagran-man-held-with-eight-stolen-cycles-351962
19-12-2021||---||Mani Majra resident gets 2-yr RI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Puneet Mohinia, Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Chandigarh, has sentenced a Mani Majra resident, Sunil Kumar, to two-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) after convicting him in a molestation case.The police had registered a case against the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 354, 354-D, 341 and 506 of the IPC on the complaint of a woman.In the complaint, the woman said she was going towards Mani Majra on her Activa scooter on August 18, 2017. When she reached in front of Bansal Atta Chakki, Subhash Nagar, Mani Majra, an accused, Sunil Kumar, who was following her, reached there and stopped his Activa ahead of her scooter. He caught hold of her hand.She slapped the accused and also raised an alarm, following which people gathered there. The accused threatened to kill her and fled from the spot. She informed the police about the incident. The accused was arrested later.After the completion of investigation, a challan was presented against the accused in the court.Finding a prima facie case, the accused was chargesheeted to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.The counsel for the accused argued that he had been falsely implicated in the case and no alleged occurrence took place. The public prosecutor claimed that the prosecution had proved the case.After hearing the arguments, the court said the prosecution had fully proved the case beyond the shadow of reasonable doubt.The court also rejected the plea of the accused for leniency claiming that he is a poor person and only bread earner in his family. The court said keeping in mind the nature of the offence, the convict did not deserve any leniency or benefit of probation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-resident-gets-2-yr-ri-351961
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sec 19-C association backs AAP candidate||The Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 19-C, here, today extended its support to AAP candidate Omkar Singh Aulakh.We are supporting the AAP candidate. No development has been done in our ward by previous councillors. Our pleas to councillors and the MC remained unheard. The presence of a large number of vendors in our sector is one of the biggest issues. — Dilbagh Rana, General Secretary, RWA, Sector 19-CAulakh is contesting the MC elections from Ward No. 11, which comprises of Sectors 18, 19 and 21. The RWA held a public gathering at a park near the local police station to extend its support to the candidate.Former Union Minister and senior AAP leader Harmohan Dhawan also reached the venue. Addressing the gathering, he appealed to people to vote for Aulakh.“The BJP and the Congress have ruled the MC for 25 years. Both parties have done nothing good for the city. This is the right time to support a clean candidate and the party,” said Dhawan.Dilbagh Rana, general secretary, RWA, Sector 19-C, said: “We are supporting the AAP candidate. No development has been done in our ward by previous councillors. Our various pleas to the councillors and the MC remained unheard. The presence of a large number of vendors in our sector is one of the biggest issues.”Aulakh said: “At the time of the BJP, the city slipped to the 66th place in the cleanliness rankings. There are garbage dumps everywhere. We will get it fixed. We will also resolve the vendors’ issue after coming to power in the MC. I will always be available for public.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-19-c-assn-backs-aap-candidate-351960
19-12-2021||---||BJP Himachal Cell to hold 'dham' today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur will be in the city tomorrow to campaign for BJP candidates contesting the MC elections, scheduled for December 24.The event was earlier scheduled for December 10. However, it was cancelled due to a helicopter crash on December 8 in which CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife and 12 other armed forces personnel died.Shivender Mandotra, convener, Himachal Cell, BJP, said ‘Himachali dham’ would be organised by the cell at the Rally Ground in Sector 25 tomorrow. Anurag Thakur will grace the occasion in the evening.Noted Himachali folk singer Karnail Rana will regale the audience and dance troupe from HP will perform a series of ‘Paharis Nati’. He said a special chef team (bhotis) had been invited from Jogindernagar, which would prepare a blend of regional Kangri, Mandiyali, Hamirpuri and Bilaspuri ‘dhams’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-himachal-cell-to-hold-dham-today-351959
19-12-2021||---||Sector 20 residents start 5-day protest against Panchkula MC||Panchkula, December 18The Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of Sector 20 today began its five-day protest against the Municipal Corporation for making the sector parking a paid facility and failing to address persistent civic issues, including damaging a green belt having more than 3,000 trees.“The civic body should withdraw the anti-public decision of starting paid-parking in the Sector 20 market. The sector was developed with a ‘no profit, no loss’ policy and we have already paid for all common areas. Hence, the corporation has no right to impose paid-parking in our sector,” said KK Jindal, president of the RWA.Jindal added that the green belt was lungs of the sector but the administration was adamant on destroying it to fulfil motives of their political bosses.On the issue of enhancement, Jindal said the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) had failed to implement the uniform policy of the state government to calculate enhancement even two years after its introduction in 2019.Former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia also extended her support to the protest.Avinash Malik, the general secretary of the area RWA, said the government had allotted the land to the societies in this sector at the rate of Rs1,206 per sq m whereas it was approved for Rs892 per sq m, thus overcharging Rs314 per sq m. He added that despite losing a number of legal cases in arbitration, the HSVP failed to ensure compliance of the orders.“The HSVP is looting the sector residents mentally and economically for the past 20 years,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-20-residents-start-5-day-protest-against-panchkula-mc-351958
19-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh vax pace hits 6-week low||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Even as Covid cases have started rising in the UT, the pace of vaccination has not gathered the much-needed pace as 1,85,724 people still have their second dose of the vaccine due.According to the data provided by the UT Health Department, 1,46,960 people have their second dose overdue as they missed the maximum gap from the first dose, while 38,764 beneficiaries have not turned up yet even as the minimum interval required between two doses has passed.This week, vaccination against Covid-19 was at the lowest in the past six weeks. After picking up pace in the week ending December 3 by administering 31,547 doses and 33,697 doses in the following week, the vaccination rate dropped to 24,604 in the week ending December 17.On the eve of the Independence Day, the UT had achieved 100 per cent vaccination target for the first dose. Given the 84-day gap, most of the beneficiaries must have taken their second shot by November. However, the second dose vaccination rate stands at 80 per cent in Chandigarh. On the recommendations by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), the schedule of Covishield vaccine under the national Covid-19 vaccination strategy is to administer the second dose at an interval of 12-16 weeks (i.e. after 84 days) after the first dose.The UT Health Department has been repeatedly appealing to local residents that they have sufficient doses of the vaccine and people should come forward to get themselves vaccinated.On December 13, 1,86,170 doses of Covishield were available with the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-vax-pace-hits-6-week-low-351957
19-12-2021||---||Day 3: Truck union continues protest||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 18Members of the All India Truck Ekta Union continued their protest for the third day today against the state government for not fulfilling their demands.However, truckers did not block road today. They sat on a dharna at the Chhat village traffic lights on the Zirakpur-Patiala highway.Amandeep Singh, district vice-president, All India Truck Ekta Union, said they would continue protest and block the traffic movement daily till their demands were not fulfilled.He said they want that the Channi government should revive truck unions and increase rates of transport as truck operators were already suffering losses due to the economic shutdown.Their other demands was that the transportation of wheat/jerry, which is given by the Punjab Government to contractors, should be directly given to associations, he added. Contractors were forcing truckers to do only 40 to 50 per cent of the transportation work, he said.Truckers were being forced to overload truck thus not only violating the law, but also causing losses to them, he added. Due to the Covid pandemic all types of trucks and haulage vehicles could not get business during the past two years, he said. So, their road tax dues should be waived off as such relief was provided to bus operators in Punjab, he added.If their demands were not met they would intensify agitation and hold a state-level protest, he said.The step to abolish truck unions had created a syndicate, which monopolised the trucking trade resulting in losses to both owners and traders, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-3-truck-union-continues-protest-351956
19-12-2021||---||Chandigarh residents not going to fall into trap of 'jumla': AAP MP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Sanjay Singh, Aam Aadmi Party’s senior leader and Rajya Sabha MP, said “the palace of dreams of the BJP built on the foundation of lies is going to collapse soon.”“People have understood that now ‘achhe din will never come’. Chandigarh residents are not going to fall into the trap of ‘jumla’ this time,” he said.Sanjay Singh was in the city today to campaign for party candidates contesting the MC elections. Addressing the people of Purvanchal in Dhanas, Singh appealed to them to vote for Ramchandra Yadav, AAP candidate from Ward No. 15.He also appealed to people to give a chance to the Aam Aadmi Party for the overall development and progress of the city.“We will develop Chandigarh on the lines of Delhi and provide all kinds of facilities to people here,” he claimed.Addressing the gathering, former Delhi Law Minister and MLA Somnath Bharti accused the BJP and the Congress of using the people of Purvanchal as a vote bank.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-not-going-to-fall-into-trap-of-jumla-aap-mp-351955
19-12-2021||---||BJP gives maximum respect to Dalits, OBCs: Hans Raj Hans||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Lok Sabha MP and Padma Shri singer Hans Raj Hans said the BJP was the only party in the country that gave maximum respect to Dalits and Other Backward Classes (OBCs).Hans Raj Hans was in the city today to address a series of public rallies in favour of the BJP candidates. He canvassed for Bhupendra Sharma (Ward No. 34) in Sector 46, Harjeet Singh (Ward No. 8) in Raipur Khurd, Sarvjit Kaur Dhillon (Ward No. 6), Savita Gupta (Ward No. 4) at Indira Colony, Mani Majra, Neha Arora (Ward No. 23) in Sector 35 and Vijay Rana (Ward No. 25) in Sector 37.He said: “While the BJP-led Central Government has initiated numerous welfare schemes for all sections of society, Chandigarh has convincingly benefitted from these schemes. The BJP will win full majority in the MC elections.”Representatives of several organisations announced their support to the BJP in the presence of Hans Raj Hans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-gives-maximum-respect-to-dalits-obcs-hans-raj-hans-351953
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress promises no waste dumping at Dadu Majra||Former Congress MP Pawan Kumar Bansal today promised the party would get the dumping of garbage at Dadu Majra stopped within six months after coming to power.“We will look into alternative ways. We will set up a new plant following the right process and disposal of garbage in a scientific way,” he said. The national Congress treasurer, along with Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala, MC poll coordinator Rajinder Rana and city president Subhash Chawla, was addressing a press conference outside the dumping ground at Dadu Majra.“In the past six years, the BJP-led MC has turned the life of around two lakh people residing nearby the ground into a mess by dumping garbage there without proper management. Those were days during the Congress rule when children used to play cricket there, even international cricketers, including Yuvraj Singh and Dinesh Mongia, played there,” he said.Surjewala alleged, “Conspiratorial discrimination, cruel slashing of development budget, criminal indifference and insurmountable taxes are the only legacies of the Modi government and the BJP-ruled Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.”“India’s City Beautiful carved out on the vision and dreams of Pt Jawaharlal Nehru has been converted into a “Garbage Mountain City” by the Modi and BJP government,” he alleged.“While the BJP has erected a 10-lakh tons garbage mountain in the past five years, not a penny has been spent on waste processing. This is a telltale of criminal negligence. The only bigger garbage mountain of the height of Taj Mahal (73 metre) is in Delhi under the Kejriwal government,” he said, taking a dig at AAP.Dumping ground a Cong gift: BJPThe dumping ground is a gift of the Congress to the City Beautiful which dates back with their tenure, said former BJP president Sanjay Tandon. Reacting to the Congress’ press conference, Tandon said, “This is the biggest ever blunder in the history of the Chandigarh MC. They brought the Dadu Majra waste treatment plant, that too without doing any homework in their series of scams and scandals. In the present scenario, the Congress lacks any planning or roadmap to resolve this issue. They are still clueless about its solution.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-promises-no-waste-dumping-at-dadu-majra-351951
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees Covid death, 17 fresh cases||5 infected in MohaliMohali: The district on Saturday reported five cases of Covid, pushing the tally to 69,055. Three patients were cured. — TNSFour test +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported four fresh cases of coronavirus on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 30,894. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-covid-death-17-fresh-cases-351950
19-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Election fever missing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 18Usual election fever seems to be missing this time ahead of the Municipal Corporation poll. It is evident from a low turnout at political gatherings, which mainly comprise of party workers and a few persons form the general public, and no visible poll atmosphere in the city, barring a few colonies and village areas.Many residents feel it may lead to a lower voting percentage than the previous MC elections. Have people lost faith in the city’s political system? Have strict norms ordered by the Election Commission caused the difference? Is Covid to blame for the subdued enthusiasm among voters?Former BJP MP Satya Pal Jain feels, “People are losing faith in the political system. Conflicting claims, allegations and counter allegations against each other have caused disinterest among people. Personal touch of political leaders is missing. Irrespective of political parties, leaders have become arrogant. One-to-one contact is also lesser as mostly text/WhatsApp messages are being used. Additionally, December 24 voting day follows holidays, so voting is also expected to be low.”Echoing similar views, Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), says, “People have lost interest in the Chandigarh political system. There is uncertainty and they do not want to show who they are supporting. When candidates of different parties come for canvassing in a locality, people are avoiding coming out. Otherwise, there used to be rush in parks and streets. There used to be many drawing room meetings.”The federation head also feels, “People have realised there is no strong political system in the city as councillors have no power and the bureaucracy rules. The councillors are only a recommending authority to the UT Administration, which has its own ways. Five years have seen five mayors, senior deputy mayors and deputy mayors each. Also, this time voting will be held on Friday. I fear voting may go down to 50 per cent.”RK Garg, president of the Second Innings Association, a city-based senior citizen, comments, “I think residents now have no interest in the civic body elections. The reason being this is just a vote politics and the public issues always take a back seat. The voice of people is not heard and their problems are not addressed. There is no mass leader who can take people along. People are not very happy to come out with their choice freely. It will affect voting too.”A resident of Sector 19, Gyan Chand Dadhwal, who has been closely observing city politics for a long time, adds, “We should appreciate the fact that the Election Commission this time has set strict norms, which has curbed the usual poll noise. That is why big rallies have been replaced with door-to-door campaigning.”A resident of the Panjab University campus said, “There is no MC poll atmosphere in our area. People have little interest in the elections.” Admitting that people are fed up with allegations and counter allegations, Chandigarh Congress president and former Mayor Subhash Chawla, said, “You see even at star campaigners’ public gatherings, there is not much rush. There are a few reasons for the subdued political atmosphere such as Covid, board examinations and election commission’s rules which say there will be no campaigning after 7 pm, no road shows and there will be a cap on gatherings.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/election-fever-missing-351948
19-12-2021||---||‘Must prevent Pakistan from meddling in Afghan issues’||Chandigarh, December 18Terming the Taliban in Afghanistan a dangerous idea that needs to be checked on all fronts, former GOC-in-C, Western Command, Lt Gen KJ Singh (retd) said an intrusive and tolerant government was required in that country.Implications for IndiaAll international leverages should be applied for Afghanistan’s developmentas its stability has implications for India. Lt Gen KJ Singh (retd)He said the process had to be Afghan-led and Afghan-controlled, but at present the Taliban dispensation was controlled from Rawalpindi by the ISI. Pointing out that there was little change in the Taliban of the earlier days, he said Pakistan had to be brought under control and prevented from meddling in Afghan affairs.All possible international leverages should be applied for the political, economic and social development of Afghanistan as the stability and security of that country had implications for India, he added.A panel discussion on the future of Afghanistan that comprised former Indian Ambassador to Germany and Indonesia Gurjit Singh, former Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan Vivek Katju and US political scientist Christine Fair deliberated upon contemporary issues afflicting that country, the role of India and the US and the way ahead.Sqn Ldr PPS Gill, a Canberra pilot and recipient of the Vir Chakra, described his experiences of the bombing raid on Karachi harbour during the 1971 Indo-Pak war.Speaking about the famous para-drop at Tangail, Brig PK Ghosh, a Vir Chakra recipient, who was then a Captain with the Para Brigade, said his tasks were to infiltrate into enemy territory, get in touch with Mukti Bahini leaders, gather information, select the drop zones and ensure their security during landings.Presentations were also made on the Battle of Dera Baba Nanak that was fought on the banks of the Ravi and Battle of Longewala in Rajasthan as well as on the Navy’s Operation Trident, the daring raid on Karachi by missile boats, and Operation Python, a follow-up strike that hit Pakistani ships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/must-prevent-pakistan-from-meddling-in-afghan-issues-351909
