20-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Covid: Chandigarh district magistrate makes home quarantine mandatory for travellers from 'at-risk' countries||Chandigarh district magistrate has ordered mandatory home quarantine for passengers travelling to the union territory from “at-risk” countries—a development that comes as Chandigarh reports a rise in Covid-19 cases in the middle of a looming threat from another coronavirus strain, Omicron.According to the Union health ministry, “at-risk” countries are the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand and Israel.Chandigarh reports 14 new casesThe latest from Chandigarh district magistrate Vinay Pratap Singh says that travellers from “at-risk” countries will be tested for Covid-19 at the airport and must compulsorily undergo home quarantine for seven days if they test negative. They will have to undergo a second test at the end of their quarantine period and will have to self-monitor themselves for any possible symptom or the next seven days.         The circular also orders hotels and guest houses in the union territory to make compulsory enquiries into the travel records of their patrons or guests for the last 15 days at the time of their check-in.The order will be effective for up to two months from December 21, 2021, to February 18, 2022, the order says. Any breach will invite legal action under Section 188 (disobeying orders of a public servant) under the India Penal Code, Monday’s order says.Chandigarh’s been reporting a steady rise in Covid-19 cases—the UT’s already recorded 58 new Covid cases since Thursday and one new fatality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-home-quarantine-mandatory-for-travellers-from-at-risk-countries-352556
20-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 14 new cases||Chandigarh reported 14 new cases but no fatalities in the last 24 hours, a health bulletin said on Monday.Chandigarh now has 100 active cases with a positivity rate of over the last seven days, the bulletin said.Chandigarh’s been recording a steady rise in Covid cases since last week---the UT's recorded 58 new cases since Thursday. It also recorded its first death in two months on Sunday.Chandigarh’s fatality count since the pandemic began almost two years ago stands at 1,078.The bulletin showed 1,084 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-14-new-cases-352546
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclist dies in road accident||Theft reported from DariaChandigarh: Eatables were reportedly stolen from Daria. According to the police, complainant Kunal Khanna reported that 123 cartons of Bournvita, 15 cartons of Nutella, 148 cartons of noodles and 50 cartons of Verka ghee were stolen from plot number 520/1 at Daria village on the night of December 17. A case has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNSNo fatality, 8 cases in cityChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported eight cases of Covid-19. There was no death, while three patients were cured of the disease.— TNS11 cases in Mohalimohali: Eleven Covid cases surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 69,066. No death was reported, while 12 patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, three each were reported from Kharar and Dhakoli, while five cases surfaced in Mohali (urban). — TNS9 fresh cases in Panchkula distpanchkula: The district reported nine coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 30,903. The toll remained at 381. While 30,486 people have recovered from the disease so far, 36 cases are active. — TNSRWA protest enters Day 2Panchkula: The five-day protest by the Sector 20 Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) against the Municipal Corporation for making the sector market a paid parking facility entered its second day on Sunday. Sector residents have also been protesting against the civic issues, including damaging a green belt having more than 3,000 trees. Former Deputy Chief Minister and Congress leader Chander Mohan extended his support to the protest. “If the authorities will not respond positively, we will further intensify the protest,” said KK Jindal, president of the Sector 20 RWA, adding that they had been forced to launch the protest since their pleas fell on deaf ears. TNSRomi Cricket Club log winPanchkula: Romi Cricket Club defeated Steel Birds & Ceasur Blasters, Chandigarh, by 84 runs to win the 21st MG Cup T20 Cricket Tournament. Batting first, Romi Cricket team scored 229/5 in 25 overs. In reply, the Chandigarh outfit was bundled out for 148 runs in 21.2 overs. TNSLWCC beat SD-32 Club by 27 runsChandigarh: Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) defeated SD-32 Club by 27 runs in the My Daughter-My Pride Cricket Tournament. Batting first, LWCC posted 118/9 in 20 overs. In reply, SD-32 lads were bowled out for 91 runs in 19.5 overs. TNSBlood donation camp at varsityChandigarh: A blood donation camp was organised by the Strategic Institute for Public Health Education and Research (SIPHER) in collaboration with the blood bank of the PGI, Chandigarh, Thalassaemic Charitable Trust, Chandigarh, Chandigarh University, Dr Ashok Sharma’s Cornea Centre and Smile Forever, at Chandigarh University. Dr Rakesh Gupta, president, SIPHER, said the camp was organised in memory of Raj Kumar Gupta, who was the director of Bharat Vikas Parishad Charitable Lab, Chandigarh. As many as 55 volunteers donated blood and pledged to donate eyes. Dr Ravikesh Srivastva, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of Chandigarh University, inaugurated the camp, which was organised to arrange blood for thalassaemic patients. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-dies-in-road-accident-352439
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kharar Football Club win tourney||Kharar Football Club won the Dinesh Kumar Memorial Football Five-a-Side Football Championship, organised by former football players, here today. Velocity City Football Club claimed the second position.Ashish was named the best player of the tournament, while Rohit was adjudged the best goalkeeper.Indian team defender Sandesh Jhingan and IP Nagi, NIS coach and Director, SAI, Patiala, awarded the winners.The championship was organised in the memory of former football (SAI) coach Dinesh Kumar, who was posted at the Sector 17 football stadium and nurtured several footballers from Chandigarh and neighbouring states. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-fc-win-football-tourney-352438
20-12-2021||---||Punjab, Maharashtra to clash in hockey semi-final today||Chandigarh, December 19Hockey Punjab will face Hockey Maharashtra in the first semi-finals of the 11th Hockey India Senior Men National Championship at Pune on December 20.Hockey Maharashtra held its nerves to script a thrilling 2-0 win in the shootout against Hockey Unit of Tamil Nadu in the fourth quarterfinals. Karthi S (46th, 48th) scored a brace for Hockey Unit of Tamil Nadu, while Pratap Kishanrao Shinde (8th) and Captain Taleb Shah (60th) scored a goal each to help Hockey Maharashtra earn a 2-2 draw in the regulation time.Hockey Punjab Coach Balwinder Singh said: “As many as 10 players are playing their nationals for the first time. I am happy with their performance, so far. We have the advantage of using the experience of Olympic bronze medallist Rupinder Pal Singh and he has been guiding these young players really well. The match against Hockey Maharashtra is expected to be a good game.”In the second semi-finals, Uttar Pradesh Hockey will take on Hockey Karnataka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-maharashtra-to-clash-in-hockey-semi-final-today-352436
20-12-2021||Mohali||Mohali gets 3 open-air gyms||Mohali got three new open-air gyms here today. Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu inaugurated an open-air gym in the ward of councillor Pramod Mitra in Sector 70, while another one was inaugurated in the ward of councillor Balraj Kaur Dhaliwal, also in Sector 70.The Mayor also inaugurated the work of creating a parking space by removing a wall in the ward of councillor Narpinder Singh Rangi in Phase 10. He was accompanied by Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi.Comedian Jaswinder Bhalla inaugurated an open-air gym in Ward No. 10. Mohali MLA and former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was also present. Bhalla said Mohali was surpassing Chandigarh and Panchkula these days and he himself was proud to be a part of Mohali city.Addressing the gathering, Balbir Singh Sidhu said ongoing development works in Mohali were a clear indication that whatever promises he made to the people of the area during the MC elections were being fulfilled one by one. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-gets-3-open-air-gyms-352435
20-12-2021||---||Panchkula-Zirakpur Highway: Work on underpass to begin soon, says Haryana Speaker||Panchkula, December 19Construction work of an underpass to be built on the Panchkula-Zirakpur highway at a cost of Rs25 crore will begin soon.This was stated by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta here today.Once completed, the underpass will provide a relief to residents of Sector 12/12-A and Sector 20 from traffic congestion.“Tendering process for the project has been completed and the work will begin soon,” Gupta said.The underpass was a pending demand oflocal residents, who have been facing long traffic jams every day on the national highway.Talking about the development works being carried out in the district, Gupta said a multi-featured park was being built in Sector 24 on 18 acres at a cost of Rs30 crore. Once completed, it would be the best park in the tricity.“It will have facilities such as an open air theatre, open cafe, cycling and jogging track, foot overbridge, meditation garden, skating rink and musical fountain,” the MLA said.He said cleaning and beautification work of two drains flowing in the city was being carried out at a cost of Rs15 crore.“The beautification work of the drain from Mata Mansa Devi Temple to Sector 17/18 has begun and the work to clean the drain of Sector 2 and 4 will start soon,” Gupta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-on-underpass-to-begin-soon-haryana-speaker-352433
20-12-2021||---||Employees, pensioners up in arms||Mohali, December 19The Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners’ Joint Front held a massive rally in support of their common demands at the Army Ground in Kharar today.The conveners of the rally stated that the Congress government in Punjab had crossed all boundaries of shamelessness by making false advertisements of regularisation of 36,000 employees without confirming a single unskilled employee.Administration officials later arranged a meeting with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in the evening.The protesting employees alleged that the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission had robbed the interest of employees and pensioners.“Employees recruited after July 17, 2020, are being deprived of the arrears of probationary period. Police action on protesters seeking jobs proves that the Channi government is completely destroying the interest of the employees,” they said.They demanded that unskilled outsourced workers should be made permanent, minimum wages of workers should be increased under the law and their salaries should be hiked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-pensioners-up-in-arms-352432
20-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Crackdown on illegal mining in Panchkula, 2 FIRs registered||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 19Two days after Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik ordered to constitute four teams to curb illegal mining in the district, two FIRs were registered for illegal mining. One FIR each was registered at the Chandimandir police station and the Raipur Rani police station.Though both FIRs were registered on the evening of December 18, the Raipur Rani incident took place late on December 15 night.In the first case, a team of the Mining Department and the police discovered mining pits in the Ghaggar near Sector 27/28. On a complaint of a mining guard, a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 21(4) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation of Development) and Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.Two offenders have been named in another case registered at the Raipur Rani police station.The suspects, Vishu and Rajiv, were booked for illegal sand mining in a river at Badona village. Though the mining team, led by mining inspector Sunil Kumar, spotted their vehicle carrying illegally mined sand, the suspects managed to escape due to low visibility.A senior official of the District Mining Department said: “Fresh cases registered against those involved in illegal mining rather reflect our strictness to curb the practice. If we continue to remain active, more such cases will be registered in future. We will maintain a strict vigil at night also to keep a check on illegal mining”.The Deputy Commissioner had asked independent teams to coordinate with the mining department to curb the menace. He had also urged villagers to help the authorities concerned in curbing such illegal activities.Despite drives, inquires and repeated instructions, the district continues to be a hotbed of the illegal practice.In July this year, the issue of large-scale illegal mining in the district had led to the suspension of the then District Mining Officer Om Dutt Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crackdown-on-illegal-mining-in-pkula-2-firs-registered-352431
20-12-2021||---||BJP failed to fulfil promises, says Congress coordinator||Chandigarh, December 19Addressing public meetings in support of Congress candidates in various wards in the city, Rajinder Rana, Congress coordinator for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections, said withered faces of BJP leaders proved that the condition of the saffron party was poor and people had made up their mind for a change.Rana said despite running the corporationfor six years, the BJP could not fulfil its poll promises and Chandigarh had been lagging behind in terms of development and cleanliness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-failed-to-fulfil-promises-says-cong-coordinator-352430
20-12-2021||---||AAP govt brought bad name to Delhi: Alka Lamba||Chandigarh, December 19“Delhi was ranked as the world’s most polluted Capital during the AAP government,” said Alka Lamba, national spokesperson for the Congress, at a press conference held at the Chandigarh Congress Bhawan, Sector 35, here, today.“In 2013, Delhi was the green capital of the world with number 1 ranking. Now, it has become ‘the capital of pollution’ and has been recently termed as “the most polluted capital city in the world,” said Lamba.Promises made by Kejriwal are nowhere to be seen now. He has made a mess of Delhi. Due to wrong policies of AAP, water and air pollution had reached the dangerous level in Delhi. During ‘Chhath Puja’, women had to perform rituals in the froth of the Yamuna. The AAP government has brought bad name to Delhi worldwide,” Lamba accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-govt-brought-bad-name-to-delhi-lamba-352429
20-12-2021||The MC should work as a team. The Mayor has a vital role to play in keeping the MC House||Open House: What expectations do you have from your next representatives?||Vineet Gandhi, Mani MajraSystematic disposal of garbageWe as citizens of Chandigarh expect clean service lanes, regular sweeping of roads, a systematic disposal of garbage and green area around houses, instead of paver blocks.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhNeed to develop proper marketsResidents of sectors 50 and 63 are facing a lot of inconvenience due to the delay in the development of markets and poor basic facilities. They are dependent on the markets of Burail village and Mohali for their day-to-day needs. Representatives in the new House should address the following issues on a priority basis: Reopening of Apni Mandi of Sector 50, developing markets where one can find eateries, chemists, ATM booths, E-Sampark Kendra, a post office and banks in sectors 50 and 63; installing a mobile tower of the BSNL to resolve the call drop problem and maintenance of internal roads as well as parks.Jai Goel, ChandigarhLack of work ethics in AdministrationThe MC has started the waste-segregation system and residents are following the same. Little do we know that the segregated waste is being dumped together at the Dadu Majra dump. Residents of Dadu Majra are facing multiple problems due to the lack of work ethics in the Administration. Candidates either have no clue what do with the garbage or they are just inefficient. Each and every clause of Swachh Bharat Sarvekshan 2016 is not been complied with. For a small town like Chandigarh, there can be plenty of solutions.Samita Kaur, ChandigarhMake spendings transparentThe representatives of citizens are required to work effectively. They are the medium between citizens and the Administration. They should get pending projects completed on time, roads constructed wherever necessary, ensure 24/7 hour water supply and power. The funds allotted to wards must be spent transparently. Councillors should be available to solve the problems of residents. NGOs and welfare societies must coordinate with councillors to improve the city’s ranking in Swachh Survekshan next year.MR Bhateja, NayagaonExpectations depend on our choiceIf we really want improvement in the basic amenities, this is the right time to go for the best candidate and vote for him or her. The yardstick is the ability, availability and assertiveness, and the one who meets all the three prerequisites can possibly deliver after election. The choice of the most appropriate candidate has to be without any consideration of his or her political linkage. It is a tough call, but that is what our RWA, MHC, in Ward No. 6 has advised to residents.SC Luthra, MHC, ChandigarhMaintain sanctity of City BeautifulBetter known as City Beautiful, Chandigarh has lost its glory in the past. Sanitation and cleanliness should be a priority. Security be beefed up to make the city a crime-free zone. Heaps of garbage be removed and littering by residents curbed. Stray menace be contained.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliVote for candidates, not partiesAs the Chandigarh MC is going to the polls on December 24, I believe people must vote for candidates, not parties. Whosoever is elected, it is his duty to work for the welfare of the people. There is no other way to get votes. If a particular candidate works for public welfare, he or she will automatically get votes. People never want just hollow promises. They want someone who really worries about his area. The candidates should have a proper road map for the development of the city before they go in public seeking votes.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurConvert properties to freeholdNew representatives should ensure markets for every sector, permission is granted for constructing additional floors in the existing societies on the pattern of the CHB and the HSVP, conversion of property from leasehold to freehold, shelters and benches at every bus stop and pothole-free roads.Naveen Kumar, ChandigarhMake city clean and crime-freeNewly elected ward representative should take steps to make our city clean and green, thus our ranking goes up in next Swacch Survekshan. Managing waste properly right from households to the disposal point should be our top priority. All-out efforts be made to make the city crime-free by installing high-definition CCTV cameras at vulnerable points. Lastly, the help of NGOs and social organisations must be taken in making our city clean and crime-free.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliDevise well-planned traffic systemDuring elections, people have so many expectations from the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh. They want pollution-free environment, a well-planned traffic system, roads without potholes, good water disposal system and corruption-free City Beautiful.Adish Sood, AmlohCouncillors shouldn’t be politically motivatedRepresentatives must be graduate so that they can take up issues of residents at various levels and solve them with a vision. They should not be politically motivated and must know problems of their respective areas. RWAs must take part in the election activities as they know problems of their area better than outsiders. Dummy candidates should not be allowed to contest, like in the name of most women representatives, their husbands or other family members call the shots.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhEnsure a strong democracyWe have struggled for freedom for so many years. All MCs should try to become a strong democracy. They must strive hard to provide better education, health, water and electricity services to residents and encourage brotherhood. The voice of the public should be raised at the administration level. They should give special attention to cleanliness, maintenance of parks and roads. They should spare time to listen to the problems of people and try to solve them timely. They should treat the public as a family and engage with the Opposition in a friendly manner.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliDon’t fall in trap of freebiesThere are some obligatory duties new representatives have to perform. They must know the priorities of their respective areas. We like candidates who understand will the problems of their wards and are easily accessible. Their motive should be to serve the residents and not to become their master. These days all candidates mostly promise freebies, instead of solving our problems. It is a sheer political ploy to garner votes and people should not fall in their trap.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaBe innovative to achieve resultsA great MC handles unexpected situations with quite confidence and finds solutions to them. It is essential to have eloquent, inquisitive, time-conscious and unflappable representatives who can deliver in the face of a crisis. They can focus on outcomes and use unconventional methods to achieve results. A good councillor should come up with solutions and he must be ruthless with meeting deadlines.Anita K Tandon, KhararRestore character of City BeautifulChandigarh has always been characterised as being a clean and green city without pollution, easy traffic, low taxes, low prices of petrol and cheap electricity water etc. A centre for higher education and medical facilities which are managed by bureaucrats, academics, doctors and engineers with integrity and accountability but without political interference. Lately, rampant corruption with investments in non-productive projects have led to high taxation and inflation. We expect honest people will be elected to the MC House who will restore the lost glory of City Beautiful.Dr DP Singh, ChandigarhPeople expect clean, better civic bodyIt will be good to see a change in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation House after the elections. The people of Chandigarh expect a clean and better administration from the new House. The main challenges which are waiting for them to be looked into immediately are: Public transport, traffic management, 24X7 supply of water and electricity and sanitation.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMake waste mgmt plant functionalChandigarh is doing well according to the resources it has but with the passage of time, there is a need for technology change. Pollution and population are always a matter of concern. New MC House should work to start the waste management plant in the city. More hi-tech parking and e-rickshaw should be promoted. Sincere efforts are needed to check the use of single-use plastic. Special machines should be installed across the city to dispose of plastic.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhNew councillors should be proactiveIt is generally observed that candidates are only seen just before the elections and disappear later. We should elect those persons who are visible in his/her ward after elections. In some cases, the activity level of councillors remains during inaugural functions only. We want a proactive MC House which should contribute to implementing policies once framed for the betterment of the city’s environment, e.g. door-to-door garbage collection.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhEnsure civic amenities in sector 50, 63There is a marked difference between civic amenities in the city and those provided to the residents of sector 50 & 63. They are living almost without any civil amenities. There has been no “Apni Mandi” since September at Sector 50. Residents of Sector 50 have to visit other sectors to meet their basic needs of vegetables fruits. New MC representatives should immediately restore “Apni Mandi” operations at Sector 50 and make efforts to set up a temporary market till the modalities for the auction of shopping centres are chalked out.Smriti, ChandigarhMaintain status of planned cityNow, it is the turn of voters to elect their representatives. The basic needs such as regular water supply, recarpeting of roads, maintenance of parks and street lights are a few issues which voters should keep in mind while electing their representatives. Parking woes and traffic congestion are other areas of concern. The new team must make efforts to maintain the planned status of City Beautiful and improve its ranking in various national level competitions.Wg Cdr (Dr) Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliChoose right candidate CarefullyWe need to be very careful in voting for a right candidate. The issues that need to be tackled on priority are door-to-door collection of segregated waste, stray menace and partially functional CCTV cameras at traffic lights. In view of the Omicron threat, Covid protocol needs to be strictly enforced. All medical services should come under the Essential Services Act and strike by doctors/para medical staff should be banned pending the pandemic threat. Night petrolling must be intensified to check the incidents of eve-teasing, snatching and theft. VAT be kept under check so as to keep fuel prices on a par in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. It should be made mandatory for newly elected councillors to attend at least 90% House meetings, otherwise their membership be suspended.Yash Khetarpal, PanchkulaWake up call for electorateFor me an ideal candidate would be one who fights election for serving people of the city, not for getting power and money; one who does not give contracts and tenders on the basis of commission offered or personal relations but on merit; who spends public money on works of public benefit and not on free vacations in the name of study tours; who ensures that employees do their job of maintenance and cleaning of the city, not use them for personal work in his or her home. Unless voters wake up to the need of choosing honest candidates, the MC will be a burden on honest taxpayers.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhCouncillors have a big role to playOne should expect nothing from newly elected councillors rather it should be the other way round. The councillors should visit their respective wards at odd hours and see what residents need the most. If there are dark spots, then the very next day tube lights should be installed. They themselves can check the wastage of water by residents in the morning. They should talk to housewives to know their problems. Last but not least, the Mayor will pass orders as consented by a majority of the councillors, so one expect much from the councillors, rather than the Mayor.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhPrioritise works, keep public interests in mindNewly elected councillors should first prioritise the public-centric projects they need to focus on. Their top priority should be the safety and security of women, which has gone for a toss in Chandigarh. Up next is the nagging traffic mess that needs to be addressed, sooner than later, so that one could drive on the city roads sans any unfounded fears of a mishap. The ill-kempt city parks need immediate attention. CCTV cameras need to be installed at vantage points to ensure safety of women, especially those who work in night shifts. The new representatives must also effectively deal with the stray menace. To cap it all, the system of garbage collection needs to be streamlined to make the city filth-free.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhStreamline garbage collectionThere are many expectations from new councillors. Besides streamlining garbage collection in the city, infrastructure of community centres needs to be strengthened. Many community centres are in a shabby condition. Their upkeep is vital. These should be well equipped with indoor recreational facilities for enjoyment of leisure lifestyle, especially by women and senior citizens.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhTransformational decisionsOther than managing various challenges thrown up by Covid-19 for the past two years, Chandigarh needs many transformational decisions by the new MC representatives to improve the living standards of the citizens. The city needs proper solid garbage management apart from the repair of broken pavements across the city. Open electrical junction boxes need immediate attention to prevent electrocution of people especially at night. Quality of potable water needs to be given priority. The threat of stray dogs in public parks and residential areas also has to be effectively dealt with. The other immediate priorities of the new MC office-bearers include improvement in law and order, upgrade of public transport, piped gas connections in all the sectors, upkeep of the public gardens, removal of encroachments on open spaces etc.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhOld issued be resolved speedilyThe old problem of waste management plant, which has a limited capacity and has not been running properly, should be resolved effectively. Road recarpeting should be carried out in routine, more funds be generated by renting all properties under the corporation and more CCTV cameras be installed to enhance vigil on the activities of criminals as crime has increased manifold in the city. Illegal constructions should be curbed.Aarti Verma, PanchkulaResolve issue of bus queue sheltersThe Administration dismantled over 300 old brick and concrete bus queue shelters in 2016 to build new ones. It struggled hard to finalise the design of new bus queue shelters. One or two samples were also built. No work has been carried out by the authority concerned to rebuild the demolished shelters or construct new ones. New representatives should get cement benches constructed (on the pattern of the bus-stops at the PGI and Sector 18-D) till new bus queue shelters are built.Akhilesh, ChandigarhA long list of genuine expectationsThere is a long list of genuine expectations from new MC House. The issue of waste management at the Dadu Majra dump be solved by installing modern machinery with the help of global agencies. Repair and maintenance of roads be carried out under professional supervision. There must be an easy and affordable conversion of properties from leasehold to freehold. Lighting up dark spots and installing CCTV cameras on internal roads can help check crime. Water tariff be reduced and storm water disposal streamlined by proper cleaning of road gullies.Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhEfforts needed to restore city’s gloryNewly elected councillors, being the guardians of their respective wards, hopefully shall strive hard to complete the unfinished tasks left by the earlier representatives and restore the glory of the City Beautiful that has nosedived in the past few years. The new representatives are expected to visit their areas at periodic intervals, interact with the local residents, listen to their grievances and understand the problems faced by them. They are also expected to take steps to resolve the various issues faced by the residents and also ensure that the people are, at least, provided with basic amenities in the form of safe water, uninterrupted power supply, clean environment and smooth roads. This will go a long way in restoring the City Beautiful status of Chandigarh.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaQUESTIONIn view of the Omicron threat, the UT authorities decided to close schools by advancing the winter vacation by seven days. How can the UT Education Department ensure schools function smoothly in the wake of the pandemic or is shutting schools the right option?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-expectations-do-you-have-from-your-next-representatives-352428
20-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||UTCA players Harnoor, Raj in World Cup U-19 squad||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19It was a moment to remember for friends Harnoor Singh and Raj Angad Bawa when they received confirmation of representing India in the upcoming Under-19 Men’s Cricket World Cup. Interestingly, both are from the third generation of their families to make headlines in the world of sports.The World Cup is scheduled to be played in the West Indies from January 14 to February 5. The 14th edition of the tournament will see 16 teams competing for the trophy in 48 matches.Harnoor and Angad, registered with the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, have been playing together since the age of 13.The duo was earlier representing Punjab till the time Chandigarh got the BCCI affiliation. With their selection, they have now become the first from Chandigarh (after affiliation) to represent the nation in U-19 World Cup.“It’s like a dream come true for me. However, it’s just the first step. I am looking forward to giving my best. The past few years have been good for me and I have performed well. I wish to carry forward the same in the coming World Cup and many tournaments ahead,” said all-rounder Angad. He said, “Being an all-rounder is definitely an advantage as I can play dual role. My family has supported me in this journey and I am happy to make them proud,” said Angad, a fast bowler and attacking left-handed batsman. He is the son of a renowned cricket coach Sukhwinder Bawa and grandson of hockey Olympian Tarlochan Bawa, who was a member of the team that won gold at London in 1948. “I take the honour of carrying forward the legacy,” added Angad, who was in the India B team for the triangular one-day series.Coming from cricketers’ familyExpertise on improving skills comes directly from the family for right-hand opener Harnoor, who is deemed as India’s next opener, as his father Birinder Singh had represented the Punjab U-19 team while his grandfather Rajinder Singh was also involved in the game. He honed his skills under his uncle, a Ranji player. “It’s a new innings of my life, I must say a turning point. I am eager to grab it by using the best of my strengths. It was a dream to live up to my family’s expectations. They are very happy,” said Harnoor, who scored 412 runs (highest), including three centuries, in the U-19 Challenger Trophy and got selected for India A team for the triangular one-day series. “I had a good domestic season and this selection is the result of my latest performance. Three consecutive centuries and hitting a maximum number of boundaries in the Challenger Trophy helped me get selectors’ attention,” said Harnoor. “He is going to shine in the world cricket. Since his childhood, he was dreaming to get this opportunity,” said Harnoor’s coach Harjinder Singh Pannu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/utca-players-harnoor-raj-in-world-cup-u-19-squad-352427
20-12-2021||---||Another case against 54-yr-old man held for looting people||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19The UT police have registered another case against 54-year-old Krishan Lal, who was arrested for allegedly looting money and valuables from people after offering them sedative-laced eatables.In the fresh complaint, Rajinder Singh (60), a resident of Sector 66, Mohali, who owns a cloth shop, stated that on September 13, he had boarded a Haryana Roadways bus for Delhi from the ISBT, Sector 17. On reaching Zirakpur, a man offered him biscuits, which he ate. He started feeling dizzy and fell unconscious.The bus conductor took him to a hospital at Ballabgarh, Haryana, from where he was referred to a hospital in Delhi. The victim regained consciousness after two days and found that his purse containing Rs30,000 and documents, his gold ring and mobile phone were missing.The police said the victim came to know about the suspect’s arrest following which he approached them.Acting on the complaint, another case has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 17 police station.Earlier, an auto driver had complained that on the night of December 17, he was coming from the ISBT, Sector 43, to the ISBT, Sector 17, to drop a male passenger. When he reached the parking near Parade Ground, Sector 17, the passenger offered him biscuits. After eating the biscuits, he started feeling dizzy and fell unconscious. When Sagar woke up the next morning, he found his purse containing Rs3,500, a copy of the RC and the driving licence missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-case-against-54-yr-old-man-held-for-looting-people-352425
20-12-2021||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh cops create special cell for protection of runaway couples||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19The UT police have created a special cell for the protection of runaway couples at the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU), Sector 17.The special cell will collect and maintain information and prepare a database in respect of runaway couples from Chandigarh who approach the court of the District and Sessions Judges in Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana, for protection. The cell will also call for reports regarding assessment of the threat perception to runaway couples and take appropriate action or issue necessary instructions.The order regarding setting up of the special cell was issued by the SP (Headquarters), Manoj Kumar, which will be headed by the incharge of the AHTU under the supervision of the SP, Women and Child Safety Unit.Besides, the Emergency Response Service System (ERSS) helpline, a helpline number has also been set up to receive and register requests for providing necessary assistance or protection to such couples.The order mentions that in case of reporting of any violence against inter-caste and inter-religion marriage or honour killing, an FIR will immediately be registered and intimation given to the DSP concerned, who will ensure effective investigation and take the case to its logical end with the perpetrators within the period of 60 to 90 days.The special cell will also take immediate steps to provide security to the couple/family and, if necessary, shift them to a safe house within the same district or elsewhere keeping in mind their safety and threat perception. The order states that any failure by the police officer to comply with the aforesaid directions will be considered an act of misconduct for which departmental action will be taken.Will prepare a databaseThe special cell will collect and maintain information and prepare a database in respect of runaway couples from Chandigarh who approach the court of the District and Sessions Judges in Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana, for protection. The cell will also call for reports on assessment of threat perception.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-create-special-cell-for-protection-of-runaway-couples-352424
20-12-2021||---||Sanjay Tandon releases BJP candidate's manifesto||Chandigarh, December 19Former Chandigarh BJP state president Sanjay Tandon released the manifesto of party candidate Anup Gupta, who is contesting from Ward No. 11 (Sector 18, 19 and 21).“The key highlight of the manifesto is to introduce helpline numbers to address problems of residents and setting up of call centres on a priority basis,” said Gupta, a businessman by profession.“I will be focusing on getting maximum participation from residents of my ward. Installation of solar lights in parks, HD CCTV cameras in inner roads of sectors, open air gym in parks, swings, proper lights and 24-hours clean water supply will be ensured,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tandon-releases-party-candidates-manifesto-352423
20-12-2021||---||Actor, Congress General Secretary seek support for Harpreet Babla||Chandigarh, December 19Actor Gurpreet Ghuggi campaigned for Harpreet Kaur Babla, Congress candidate from Ward No. 10 (Sector 27, 28 and 29).Ghuggi said: “Babla family is like his own family and he knows them for several years”. Ghuggi assured the residents of Sector 29 that Babla would get MC works started on a priority in Sector 29.Congress General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala attended a rally in Sector 28-C in Babla’s favour.Surjewala, who termed Harpreet’s husband Devinder Babla as “sher”, said he was known as a go-getter and left no stone unturned to get any work done.Later, Punjab Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli also attended the same rally in Sector 28-C.Harpreet went door to door in Sector 27-D in the morning. She, along with her husband Congress councillor and Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla, held rallies in Sector 27, 28 and 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/actor-congress-general-secretary-seek-support-for-harpreet-babla-352421
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Nityanand Rai seeks votes for BJP candidates||Terming Chandigarh a “reflection of mini-India”, Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said all-round development of the city had made it the home of many. The BJP-led MC has not only given respect, but has also tried to provide benefits of government schemes, which make this city one of favourite places to live in.Rai was campaigning in support of BJP candidates Devi Singh (Ward No. 20) in Behlana, Yogita Vicky Shera (Ward No. 19) at Ram Darbar and Jasmanpreet Singh (Ward No. 32) in Sector 51 today.Asking voters to ensure the win of the BJP, Rai said the people of the city should vote for the BJP in the name of development. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nityanand-rai-seeks-votes-for-bjp-candidates-352420
20-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC polls: Anurag Thakur woos native Himachalis||Chandigarh, December 19Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting and Sports & Youth Affairs Anurag Thakur today appealed to people from the hill state of Himachal Pradesh to vote in favour of the BJP during the coming MC poll in the city.Lauding the role of native Himachalis, Thakur said the interests of Himachalis were safe and secure with the BJP.Thakur was in the city today to address a series of public meetings in support of party candidates Rajinder Sharma (Ward No. 35) in Sector 48, Prince Bandula (Ward No. 13) on the PU campus and an indoor meeting with Ravinder Rawat (Ward No. 27) in Sector 40.He also addressed a gathering of Himachalis at the Sector 25 rally ground. Popular folk singer Karnail Rana enthralled the people with his all-time famous songs. A Himachali dham was also savoured by natives of the hill state.Thakur said the “double engine” governments had proved beneficial for UT residents. He said whatever scheme had been implemented by the Central Government, Chandigarh was the first beneficiary. Many schemes would be implemented in the future, which would benefit locals here. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central Government had turned out to be people’s “favourite” in the country and the win in the recent MC elections in the North East was a clear indication of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thakur-woos-native-himachalis-352419
20-12-2021||---||Congress writes to EC over BJP hoardings on Chandigarh roundabouts||Chandigarh, December 19The Chandigarh Congress, in a letter to the State Election Commission, UT, alleged that the BJP had put up hoardings on city roundabouts in view of the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections, scheduled for December 24.In the letter, Rajesh Sharma, spokesperson for the Chandigarh Territory Congress Committee, alleged that “The BJP has put up hoardings on roundabouts in the city. It is unauthorised, illegal and a clear violation of the Model Code of Conduct.”The letter mentioned: “Such illegal boards or materials should be removed immediately and expenses borne on such publicity material should be added to the election expenditure of individual candidates. Initiate appropriate legal action in this regard and intimate the action taken thereupon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-writes-to-ec-over-bjp-hoardings-on-roundabouts-352418
20-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Kejriwal makes five promises, seeks 5 yrs for AAP in MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19Making five promises, AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today appealed to city voters to give five years to AAP in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.“The Chandigarh MC came into being in 1996. You gave 13 years to the BJP and 12 years to the Congress, now give us five years,” he said while addressing party supporters at a rally at the Sector 43 Dasehra ground.“Both the BJP and the Congress have made a mess of the city. Chandigarh used to be considered the most beautiful city in Asia. However, due to both parties’ misrule, the number 1 city has dropped to the 66th position in the Swachhta rankings,” said Kejriwal, claiming that they would make the city number 1 in Asia, if elected to power.What he promisedFrom the dais, he made five promises to the public. “First of all, we will end corruption in the MC and the corporation staff will come to your house for MC-related service like in Delhi,” he said.He said the second promise was of clearing the waste dump at Dadu Majra. “There are similar mountains of waste in Delhi as the BJP is in power in the MC there. We will soon come to power in the Delhi MC and will clear both the dumps of Chandigarh as well as Delhi,” he said.“You will get zero water bill. People in Delhi get zero power and water bills,” he said. His last two promises were CCTV cameras in the entire city for the security of women and work inside housing societies.Addressing the gathering earlier, AAP Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann said, “The real name of the Bharatiya Janata Party is Bharatiya Jumla Party. BJP leaders only indulge in rhetoric. The broom button is the button of your luck. It is the button of your children’s future. So when you come out of the house to vote on December 24, you come out thinking that today is the day of change. December 24 is the day of Chandigarh, will be recorded as a change in history.”‘Chandigarh will go to Punjab’ rumour“There is a rumour going on these days that soon, the Centre will give Chandigarh to Punjab. If that is the case, then vote for us in the Chandigarh MC as we are going to form the government in Punjab,” Kejriwal said earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kejri-makes-five-promises-seeks-5-yrs-for-aap-in-mc-352416
20-12-2021||---||Severe cold in Northwest, no relief likely for 3 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh are in the grip of a severe cold wave, the Meteorological Department said on Sunday. People in Punjab and Haryana reeled under biting cold conditions with the holy city of Amritsar on Sunday recording a minimum temperature of minus 0.5 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal.Moderate fog was reported in Amritsar and Ludhiana. In Haryana, Sirsa was the coldest at 0.6 degrees Celsius. Churu in Rajasthan reported the lowest minimum temperature of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius in northwest India, followed by Sikar (minus 2.5 degrees Celsius) and Amritsar (minus 0.5 degrees Celsius). Delhi recorded a minimum of 4.6 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cold to severe cold wave conditions are highly likely to continue over the next three days. Dense fog is predicted in Uttarakhand over the next two days and in Punjab and Haryana on December 23 and 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/severe-cold-in-northwest-no-relief-likely-for-3-days-352273
