21-12-2021||Chandigarh||President of Bar assn takes oath||Award for PU Dy LibrarianChandigarh: Dr Neeraj Kumar Singh, Deputy Librarian, AC Joshi Library, Panjab University, has been awarded the "University Librarian of the year 2021" award by the Madhya Pradesh Library Association at a function organised at Madhya Pradesh Council of Science and Technology in Bhopal. The award was given to Dr Singh in recognition of his professional excellence and contribution to the application of IT in the field of library services. TNSHoliday in UT on December 24Chandigarh: On account of the MC elections, the UT Administration has announced a public holiday on December 24 (Friday) in all government offices/boards/corporations/institutions, including industrial establishments, under the Chandigarh Administration, and within the meaning of Sector 25 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. However, the Administration has clarified that it will be a paid holiday in industrial shops and commercial establishments and for daily wage employees. TNSFive arrested for planning dacoityChandigarh: Five persons have been arrested by the operation cell of the UT police for allegedly planning to commit a dacoity. A country-made pistol, a cartridge and sharp weapons have been recovered from their possession. According to the police, the suspects, Bhuvneshwar Paswan (27), Rohsan Kumar (21), Rajan Singh (24), Sunil Kumar Paswan (30) and Shivam Kumar (24), all natives of Bihar, were nabbed near a forest area in Sector 28 while they were preparing to commit a dacoity. A case has been registered against them at the Sector 26 police station. TNSYouth held with 50-gm heroinChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Punjab resident with 50.5-gm heroin. The suspect, Vijay Kumar (27), a resident of Ferozpur, was nabbed from Sector 28. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. TNSSkater Janvi wins bronzeChandigarh: Local skater Janvi won a bronze medal in the ongoing 59th National Skating Championship, being held at Dhelpur, Punjab. She has been a national champion in roller freestyle event for the past two years. She aims to represents Chandigarh in the forthcoming freestyle skating national championship. TNSMannat claims tied-2nd positionChandigarh: Local golfer Mannat Brar, a student of St Kabir Public School, Sector 26, claimed tied-2nd position in the All-India Junior Golf Tournament at Kalhaar Golf Course, Ahmadabad. She lost the top spot by one stroke. “Ground conditions were tough as fast winds troubled a lot. This was the final IGU Junior tournament of the year and the 2021 annual merit will be decided after this tournament. I am hoping to grab a good spot in the Merit of Order,” said Mannat. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/president-of-bar-assn-takes-oath-352893
21-12-2021||---||Hockey Punjab, Uttar Pradesh to vie for title||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Hockey Punjab registered a (3-0) win over Hockey Maharashtra to enter the final of the Hockey India Senior Men National Championship in Pune. Captain Rupinder Pal Singh (28th, 46th) starred with a brace and Surdarshan Singh (38th) chipped in with a goal for the winning team.In the second semis, Uttar Pradesh Hockey edged past Hockey Karnataka (2-1) in a closely fought encounter. Mohammad Amir Khan (4th) and Vishal Singh (8th) got on the score sheet for Uttar Pradesh Hockey, while captain Mohamed Raheel (22nd) scored the only goal for Hockey Karnataka. The 3rd/4th place match will be played between Hockey Karnataka and Hockey Maharashtra on December 21, followed by the final between Uttar Pradesh Hockey and Hockey Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-punjab-uttar-pradesh-to-vie-for-title-352892
21-12-2021||Mohali||Top seed Vansh logs easy victory||Top seed Vansh Nandal outplayed Punjab’s Hardhik Khanduja (6-2, 6-1) in a first round boys’ U-16 match on the opening day of the Roots-AITA National Ranking Championship, today.Hiren Malik of Haryana also march ahead by defeating Tanishq Jood, while Robin Premchandani defeated Arnav Chaudhary. Delhi’s Anant Mudgil also recorded a win over Rajasthan’s Sahil Godara and Haryana’s Fateh Singh blanked Chandigarh’s Haarlem Singh. Maharashtra’s Svarmanya Singh faced a tough competition from Atharva Raj Balani before recording a win, whereas Akshat Dhull easily defeated Priyansh Bathwal.In the girls’ U-16 matches, Jannat Dudeja defeated Naisha Garg and Rasha Dhaliwal ousted Ayushi Prajapat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-vansh-logs-easy-victory-352891
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD nominee from Ward 17 joins BJP||SAD candidate Kulmeet Singh Sodhi ‘withdrew his candidature’ in support of the BJP. He was contesting against Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma from Ward No. 17.BJP state president Sanjay Tandon said the BJP was marching towards victory by becoming stronger in the city.Welcoming Kulmeet to the party fold, Mayor and party candidate Ravi Kant Sharma said his homecoming would not only strengthen the party but would also benefit him. He was earlier also in the BJP.Ambala MP seeks votes for BJP candidatesChandigarh: Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria appealed to people to vote for BJP candidate Manoj Kumar Sonkar (Manu) from Ward No. 7 and Bimla Dubey from Ward No. 9 in the forthcoming MC poll. Sonkar was weighed against laddoos and Anil Kumar Dubey was weighed against coins. Around 8,000 people took part in a walk from Vikas Nagar to Mauli Jagran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-nominee-from-ward-17-joins-bjp-352890
21-12-2021||Zirakpur||Man takes poison, dies||A 28-year-old man residing in Country Homes Society on the VIP road here allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance under mysterious circumstances on Monday.The deceased, identified as Paras, a native of Narela in Delhi, was residing in the society with a live-in partner for the past sometime. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The victim’s father told the police that his son was married and had a daughter. He had a strained relationship with his wife and was living separately. The police have initiated inquest proceedings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-takes-poison-dies-352889
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Property grab case: Accused denied bail||A local court has dismissed the bail application of one of the accused, Gurpreet Singh, in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh.The police had arrested Gurpreet Singh, along with other accused, in the case.As per the FIR, the accused allegedly grabbed the house of Rahul Mehta in March 2017. The police alleged that Gurpreet posed himself as Rahul Mehta for the execution of the sale deed of the house at the sub-registrar office on March 1, 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-accused-denied-bail-352888
21-12-2021||---||Liquor vend licensees want order on dry days amended||Chandigarh, December 20Liquor vend licensees have requested the authorities to open liquor shops after 5 pm on the day of the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections to be held on December 24.The UT Administration has declared December 22 to December 24, and December 27 (counting day) as dry days.In a representation to the Deputy Commissioner, the licence holders submitted that it is clear from the model code of conduct that there is a restriction on the sale, service and consumption of liquor during the polling on December 24.The polling will end at 5 pm. Accordingly, liquor shops should be allowed to open after the voting hours in the city. However, on the days prior to elections on December 22 and 23, liquor shops should be permitted to remain open during the day, till canvassing is allowed. Similarly, on the day of counting, liquor shops should be permitted to open after 6 pm.The liquor vend licensees are already running into huge losses in this financial year. Hence, it was requested that the order dated December 17 may be amended accordingly in the larger interests of the trade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-vend-licensees-want-order-on-dry-days-amended-352887
21-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Man prepares sweets sans licence, penalised Rs30,000||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Dr Aman Inder Singh, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh, has imposed a penalty of Rs30,000 on a person who was found preparing sweets for human consumption without a licence required under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.The court also sentenced the convict to undergo imprisonment till the rising of the court. A complaint was filed against the accused by the Food Safety Officer, Chandigarh, under Sections 26(2) (iii) and 31(1) of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, punishable under Section 63 of the Act.In the complaint, the officer said she inspected the premises of accused Shyam Sunder Gupta, proprietor of M/S New Gupta Petha House, Plot No. 172/2, Palsora village, Sector 55, Chandigarh, on September 17, 2018. The officer found that the accused was preparing and selling sweets (petha) without any valid licence.On the basis of facts available on record, the court served a notice to the accused for the offence on November 19, 2019, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.The counsel for the accused denied charges and alleged that he was falsely implicated in the case. The counsel said neither any sample of food article was collected by the officer nor raw material for preparation was taken into possession. The entire case had been falsely foisted upon the accused.The public prosecutor argued that the prosecution had proved the case beyond the shadow of doubt.After hearing the arguments, the court said the prosecution had proved that the accused was found preparing and selling sweets (petha) without having any food licence for human consumption by way of public sale and thereby committed an offence.“Accordingly, the convict is sentenced to undergo imprisonment till the rising of the court and pay a fine of Rs30,000. In default of the payment of fine, the convict will have to undergo simple imprisonment for one month,” the court said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-prepares-sweets-sans-licence-penalised-30-000-352886
21-12-2021||---||In a first, Ambala prison radio to have women RJs||Ambala, December 20The prison radio, launched in February this year at the Central Jail, Ambala, will soon have six women inmates as radio jockeys (RJs). So far, only men inmates are running the shows.Lakhbir Singh Brar, Superintendent of Central Jail, Ambala, said: “Inspired by the content and the state of happiness emerging from the jail radio, women inmates have expressed their desire to be trained as radio jockeys. We are seeing the positive impact of the prison radio on the inmates. While the radio hasbeen dominated by men, it is now time to open this platform for women inmates as well. In the first phase, six women inmates will join as the RJs.”These inmates will be trained by Dr Vartika Nanda, founder of Tinka Tinka Foundation and head of the Department of Journalism at Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University.According to Brar, Prison Radio was of immense help to inmates to beat stress and depression in the absence of visitations. Besides, trials have also been started for six male RJs as well. They will be provided training through online mode.The Superintendent said at present, the jail radio was run for three hours offering a mix of self-created content and also songs and religious music. “Aap Ki Farmaish” is the most popular programme. Legal aid awareness programmes are also being run regularly on the prison radio with the help of the District Legal Services Authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-a-first-ambala-prison-radio-to-have-women-rjs-352881
21-12-2021||---||Panchkula MC hires new agency for maintenance of toilets||Panchkula, December 20The Panchkula Municipal Corporation has allotted the work of maintenance of public toilets (market and community toilets) to the Hansi Luv Kush Cooperative Society (Hisar). The agency will start its operations from January 1 next year.The MC had snapped its ties with the Sulabh agency, which was hired for the maintenance and repair of public toilets, following complaints from residents and market welfare associations about their dilapidated condition.The civic body had earlier allotted the work for repair and maintenance of mobile toilets to another agency, Brahmanand Co-operative Society (Kurukshetra).Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said strict instructions had been issued to the new agency to maintain utmost cleanliness inside the toilets. “Any complaint regarding the public toilets should be resolved within a day,” he said.Chandigarh Tribune, in a report earlier this year, had highlighted the poor condiation of public washrooms in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-hires-new-agency-for-maintenance-of-toilets-352877
21-12-2021||---||2 flyovers to come up on highway||Mohali, December 20The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is set to begin the construction of two flyovers to decongest traffic on the Zirakpur-Ambala highway. The two flyovers, planned over a distance of about 1.5 km, will come up near the Best Price store-Singhpura chowk and the other a little ahead of the McDonald light points on the ring road before the Ghaggar bridge.Officials of the NHAI said the project had a time frame of 18 months and its cost would be about Rs40 crore. The connectivity of Mohali-Panchkula road would require alterations but that project would be undertaken separately. At present, two major encroachments and 50 minor encroachments on the 1.5-km have been identified which will be removed, the officials said.With a vehicular underpass under construction near Chandigarh-Zirakpur border and two upcoming flyovers in Zirakpur till the Ghaggar bridge, it will be a sort of rollercoaster ride for the commuters. But officials said the movement of traffic would remain smooth. “Given the limitations of the thickly populated area, the frequent ascent and descent are hard to overcome but our main motive is to decongest the traffic in the area,” said the officials.Residents demand three underpassesResidents of Issapur, Dhakoli and Harmilap Nagar have been demanding the construction of railway underpasses in their respective areas to overcome a jam-like situation at the level crossing in the rush hours in the morning and evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-flyovers-to-come-up-on-highway-352876
21-12-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu has pushed Mohali city 5 years back: Ex-Mayor Kulwant Singh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 20Former Mayor of Mohali and head of Azad Group Kulwant Singh has alleged that Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu and his team had pushed the city five years back in terms of development.The former Mayor alleged Sidhu, who was a minister in the Punjab Government, allegedly had stopped development works approved by the MC House led by him (Kulwant Singh) and was now inaugurating the same. The works which were supposed to be carried out five years ago were now being started and the Sidhu brothers had pushed back the development of Mohali.Kulwant said people were well aware of the false statements being made by the MLA and Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu regarding the development of the city and they would not be lured by the false dreams shown by the Sidhu brothers.He said as far as signing of an MoU with GMADA was concerned, he had signed an agreement of Rs50 crore per annum with the authority in August 2016 for development works related to the city. Under the agreement, GMADA was to pay Rs50 crore per annum (for five years) to the MC for various development works of Mohali city and Rs25 crore per annum for the next five years. The MC had received one instalment from GMADA during his tenure.Kulwant said that the Congress government in the state was formed in March 2017 and the MLA used his power to stop the flow of money from GMADA to the MC. Talking about the arrears of excise cess of the Punjab State Electricity Board, he said during his term as Mayor, the MC received Rs8 crore from the Board and the electricity bills for about Rs5 crore were adjusted. Though Sidhu and his team had tried their best to prevent the MC from receiving any amount from the Board, he was able to get the money for the MC.The former Mayor said 50 open air gyms were set up in wards under a pilot project during his term and approval was given for 50 more gyms. However, the MLA did not allow these gyms to be set up and kept the resolution on hold, he alleged.Deputy Mayor refutes allegationsDespite repeated attempts the MLA could not be contacted for his comment over the issue. However, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said the former Mayor was misleading people as he was interested in contesting the Assembly seat in the coming elections. He said Kulwant Singh and his councillors had lost the MC elections as he had not brought any major project for the city. He said as a mayor, it was his responsibility to complete the projects which were passed by the MC during his term.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mla-has-pushed-mohali-city-5-years-back-ex-mayor-352875
21-12-2021||---||Chandigarh Congress files complaint with EC against BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20The Chandigarh Congress has filed a complaint with the State Election Commission against the BJP, stating that the party was “influencing voters flouting the rules.”In a letter to the Commission on Monday, the Congress said: “The BJP, in order to influence the voters of Chandigarh, took out a vehicle rally with supporters carrying party flags in Sector 20 on December 19. Almost all bikers were without helmets and they were raising slogans and creating ruckus on city roads.”A video grab of the rally has also been attached with the letter.“Several BJP leaders also shared videos and photos of the rally on social media platforms. This is a clear violation of the model code of conduct,” the letter reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-files-complaint-with-ec-against-bjp-352874
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress believes in ideology of togetherness, says Kanhaiya Kumar||Addressing a public gathering in favour of Congress candidate Ravi Thakur at Bapu Dham Colony here today, Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar said the party believes in the ideology of togetherness. It respects all colours and wishes to bring all together. Even the party flag has three colours - saffron, white and green - that encompass courage, peace and prosperity, but the BJP mindset is devoid of peace.He said Pandit Nehru had made a planned city called Chandigarh, which was known as “City Beautiful” for its planning, beauty, cleanliness. The BJP has destroyed its glory. Once known for its pure air, it was now even difficult to breathe here, like in Delhi.‘Fear of defeat forced Modi govt to repeal farm laws’Chandigarh: Kuldeep Singh Rathore, president, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee, appealed to city people to vote for the Congress. Addressing a press conference at the Congress Bhawan here, Rathore alleged that the Modi government was forced to reduce excise duty on petrol and diesel after its resounding defeat in the Himachal Pradesh bypoll. The fear of electoral defeat forced the Modi government to repeal the farm laws. Rathore, who lived in Chandigarh for several years, says the civic conditions in the city have become miserable due to rampant corruption that prevailed in the corporation during the past six years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-believes-in-ideology-of-togetherness-says-kanhaiya-352873
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal a 'visionless' CM, says Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari||Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari hit back at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the series of announcements that he made in his Chandigarh rally, quoting him as a ‘visionless’ and ‘department-less’ CM.Tiwari, also former Delhi state BJP president, was in the city for the second time in a week’s time to campaign for the party candidates contesting the MC elections.While addressing a press conference, Tiwari confronted Kejriwal’s claim to remove the mountain of garbage dumps in Dadu Majra. The Delhi CM should first tell whether piles of garbage at the entrance to Delhi ended.Tiwari said the AAP government was accused of embezzlement of Rs60,000 crore in the Delhi Jal Board. Due to the promptness of the BJP, the Rs13,000-crore scam regarding the construction of a hospital was exposed even before reaching its conclusion.Later, Delhi MP and Bhojpuri superstar Manoj Tiwari campaigned for BJP candidates of various wards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kejriwal-a-visionless-cm-says-delhi-mp-352872
21-12-2021||---||Congress will restore glory of City Beautiful: Pawan Bansal||Chandigarh, December 20Former Union Minister Pawan Bansal, while addressing a public meeting in Sector 32 in favour of Congress candidate Balwinder Kaur, lambasted the BJP for hurting the pride of city residents by lowering the status of Chandigarh in all areas. He reiterated the resolve of the Chandigarh Congress to bring back the past glory of the city.The former minister said Chandigarh’s number one status in terms of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation would be brought back. City roads would be made pothole-free within six months.“The BJP has been falsely claiming that it has improved basic amenities and law and order situation in the city. However, the real situation is exactly opposite. One can see piles of garbage, broken pavements and poor condition of roads across the city,” he said.General Secretary AICC Harish Chaudhary said: “We are winning the elections with a thumping majority. After coming to power, we will increase revenue from the Centre as well as from other sources and minimise the burden on residents.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-will-restore-glory-of-city-beautiful-bansal-352863
21-12-2021||---||Trains cancelled as farm activists stage 'rail roko' in Punjab||Chandigarh, December 20The “rail roko” agitation in Amritsar by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has affected the movement of trains plying over the City Beautiful and the holy city, resulting in the cancellation of the Sachkhand Express, Paschim Express, Chandigarh-Amritsar Express and SAS Nagar- Ferozepur Cantt Express.Farmers and farm activists are agitating at Devidaspura in Amritsar over various demands such as farm loan waiver and compensation or jobs for relatives of farmers who died during the agitation against the farm laws that have now been repealed.Sources said the Sachkhand Express (train number 12715 and 12716) had been cancelled between Chandigarh and Amritsar. The Paschim Express (train number 12925 and 12926) will short-terminate in Chandigarh. “Many trains have been affected due to the agitation. The Chandigarh- Amritsar Express (train number 12241) has also been cancelled and the SAS Nagar-Ferozepur Cantt Express (train number 14613) has been cancelled between Mohali and Amritsar,” the sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trains-cancelled-as-farm-activists-stage-rail-roko-352850
21-12-2021||---||Chandigarh Urban Festival from February 20 to 27||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Chandigarh Urban Festival (CUF 22) will be organised from February 20 to 27 next year. The theme of the week-long festival is to celebrate togetherness and love for City Beautiful, “Apna shehar apna jashan” during which various cultural and sports activities that reflect the true nature of Chandigarhians and represent the soul of the tricity will be held.It has been decided that the celebration of CUF 22 will coincide with Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to add to the nationalistic fervour and also with the annual Rose Festival so as to add colour to the vibrant atmosphere all across the city.There will be performances, competitions, exhibitions, food, music, art, theatre, sports as well as commercial stalls on the people’s avenue, Janmarg.Give entries by Jan 20Keeping with the format of CUF 22, individuals as well as groups from the tricity are hereby invited to come forward to give their ideas and entries for organising/showcasing their event(s) on or before January 20. After all entries are received, a final calendar for the events selected and finalised will be prepared and announced.The inauguration of CUF 22 will be held at the Open Hand Monument in Sector 1 on February 20 Like every year, the grand finale on February 27 will include a colourful carnival from Matka Chowk to the Tourism centre culminating with a breathtaking display of sky lanterns in People’s Plaza opposite the High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-urban-festival-from-february-20-to-27-352845
21-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19 hits TB programme in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Pandemic has put enormous challenges and unprecedented stress on the healthcare system, and the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP) was no exception. Chandigarh has witnessed 38 per cent shortfall in the tuberculosis (TB) cases in 2020 when Covid-19 was raging in the Union Territory.A total of 4,319 TB cases were notified under the TB programme in 2020 (Jan-Dec), which was 38.5% less than the total cases notified in 2019 (which was 7,026). In 2021, in spite of a severe second wave of Covid-19, the programme has been able to report 3,948 TB cases (till Oct, 2021). Even the testing for TB diagnosis reduced after 2018 and only 13,817 tests were conducted in 2021.The data pertaining to TB notification was tabled in the Lok Sabha.“In normal (pre-Covid) times, a significant number of CT chest requisitions used to be for evaluation of lungs for pulmonary TB. However, due to lockdowns and disruption in access to TB services, fewer people could be diagnosed, treated and followed-up for TB in the past one and a half years,” said Dr Mandeep Garg, who is a renowned chest radiologist with the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.“During the two waves of Covid-19 in India, especially the larger second wave, the services of a majority of medical personnel were required to be relocated for Covid-19 care, which to some extent, did affect the various programmes being run by the Government of India for diseases like TB,” he added.Prof Digambar Behra, formerly associated with Department of Pulmonary Medicine, PGI, said, “The National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme has been badly affected due to Covid-19 as all health facilities were closed for a long time and patients were devoid of the access to health system. All resources and manpower were directed to Covid care. This has been the biggest setback to this programme as we have again reached from where we started in 2016. Earlier, there was an increasing trend in TB case notification every year. Many patients also did not report to hospitals even if they had symptoms because they feared Covid.”Prof Behra said, “We need proactive TB case finding approach, particularly into the vulnerable groups like slum dwellers and those with comorbidities. Even as the health facilities have now opened, the notification hasn’t gone up and the picture is still grim. We have to catch the patients through aggressive testing. Another way is through implementation of bi-directional TB-Covid screening and TB screening/testing for all presumptive cases with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI).’“We have to recast the TB programme by supplementing more people and reaching out to village heads as well as NGOs,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-hits-tb-programme-352833
21-12-2021||---||Covid: Ascertain guests' international travel history, Chandigarh hotels told||Chandigarh, December 20To prevent the spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration has directed the owners, managers and caretakers of hotels, guest houses and serais to ascertain the international travel history of their guests of the past 15 days.In an order issued by District Magistrate Vinay Pratap Singh, it was stated that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued Covid-related guidelines for international arrivals according to travellers from specified countries at risk would be tested on arrival at the airport and, if tested negative, they would follow home quarantine for seven days. A retest would be conducted on the eight day of arrival in India and, if negative, further self-monitoring of their health for the next seven days would be done. “There is an apprehension that international travellers arriving in the UT may breach the guidelines, thus posing a danger to human life, health and safety by becoming a cause of as well as leading to the transmission and spread of the pandemic in the UT,” he said.To prevent danger to human life, health and safety, he directed all owners/managers/caretakers of hotels/guest houses/serais in the UT to ascertain the international travel history of their guests of the past 15 days at the time of their check-in and prohibit the stay in their premises of person(s) not following the above guidelines.The order shall come into force with effect from midnight on December 21 and shall be effective for a period of 60 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ascertain-guests-intl-travel-history-hotels-told-352830
21-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||6 floating islands for migratory birds at Sukhna Lake||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20With an aim to attract more migratory birds, the UT Department of Forests and Wildlife has created six floating islands in Sukhna Lake.As the birds prefer shallow water for feeding and the water level of the lake is quite high this year, it becomes difficult for the birds to feed as they have to dive deep into the water for food. The department has made these six floating islands out of bamboo to provide a place to the birds to easily find food and perch on in the middle of the waterbody. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said six floating islands had been set up for the winged guests to bask, rest and sleep during their winter journey in the lake.On an experimental basis, a bamboo raft was pushed into the lake in 2019, he said, adding that as a large number of birds used that raft, they had increased the number of such rafts to five last year. Due to the depth of water, birds need mudflats for resting and in the absence of such facility, they had decided to create artificial islands for the birds in the lake, he said. With the onset of the winter season, migratory birds have started arriving at Sukhna Lake.Dalai said common pochard, common coot, mallard and pintail duck, all common species, had already arrived at the lake for their winter sojourn. However, during the annual census conducted on November 14 by the Chandigarh Bird Club to mark the birth anniversary of ornithologist Dr Salim Ali, 73 species of waterfowl and other birds were spotted at Sukhna Lake and the adjoining areas. The most common species that arrive at the lake are ruddy shelduck, black-winged stilt, Eurasian coot, great cormorant, Indian spot-billed duck, northern pintail, white-breasted waterhen, white-browed wagtail, pied kingfisher, citrine wagtail and common kingfisher.How these will helpAs the birds prefer shallow water for feeding and the water level of the lake is quite high this year, it becomes difficult for the birds to feed as they have to dive deep into the water for food. The department has made these six floating islands out of bamboo to provide a place to the birds to easily find food and perch on in the middle of the waterbody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-floating-islands-for-migratory-birds-at-sukhna-352829
21-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Overflowing garbage bins not a Swachh sight in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 20For a city that recently pledged to improve its cleanliness rankings after a decline in the latest Swachh Survekshan, the sight of overflowing dustbins, containers and filth strewn around these does little to improve its image.For instance, a green dumpster placed near the Sector 14 Government College for Women is often found overflowing with kitchen waste, forcing people to throw filth around the already overflowing large bin. “It is an eyesore and not just raises a stink, but has become a serious health issue for people residing near the dustbins,” said Dheeraj, a resident of Sector 12-A.SK Nayar, president of the Citizens’ Welfare Association, said, “Even though the civic body makes tall claims regarding promoting cleanliness in the city, the ground reality reflects a totally opposite scenario. Is this how the MC aspires to go on top of the cleanliness chart?”Earlier this year, in June, the civic body had installed 300 sets of colour-coded dustbins in public places for easier waste segregation, but some of these too have been damaged or are in a bad condition. The messy state of affairs not only led to city slipping to the 99th rank in the annual cleanliness rankings, but also mirrors the lackadaisical attitude of the MC towards cleanliness.Seeking public support, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had expressed confidence to improve the rankings of the city next year in Swachh Survekshan.According to local residents, inefficient door-to-door garbage collection and absence of a solid waste management plant at the Jhuriwala dumping ground were the key reasons behind the decline in the cleanliness rankings of the city.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal could not be contacted for his views on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overflowing-garbage-bins-not-a-swachh-sight-in-panchkula-352828
21-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh sees worst dengue outbreak in four years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20This year the city witnessed its worst dengue outbreak in the past four years with the UT registering a fourfold increase in cases over the previous years – 1,584 cases against approximately 300 cases every year since 2018.The city also witnessed three deaths due to dengue this year, whereas no fatalities occurred due to the disease before this since 2015. The outbreak this year was attributed to the region recording a delayed withdrawal of the south-west monsoon – the second time in four years. Normally, the monsoon withdraws by the end of September. This year, the date extended to October 25.Experts blame the prolonged rainfall this year for the increased vector population. Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “This year, the prolonged monsoon season became conducive for breeding of mosquitoes causing dengue. Besides, all focus was shifted to the second wave of Covid this year, a possible factor behind the massive outbreak.”“A large number of city residents and public and private institutions were challaned for not keeping their surroundings clean and dengue larvae were detected in their refrigerator trays, pots and tyres,” she said.The UT Health Department has been on its toes to deal with the worst outbreak of all times. As many as 6,81,757 houses were visited by teams of health workers to check the breeding of mosquitoes, while 10,881 notices were issued to city residents who were found flouting norms. As many as 489 challans and 338 show-cause notices were issued to to public institutions. During the survey, dengue larvae were found in 7,620 coolers, 5,398 containers, 707 overhead tanks and 685 tyres.Shortage of bedsThis season was also marred with hospitals running out of beds for patients requiring medical intervention. The emergency wards of all three government hospitals were full with dengue patients requiring platelets.The demand for platelets rose to such an extent that there was a shortage of platelet kits in the market. “There are 300 trolleys at our hospital but all were occupied during the ‘dengue season’. We had to tell the patients that we don’t have beds and it was almost a Covid-like situation. Patients’ families were counselled not to panic. We had also set up a triage in the emergency and preference was given to patients who had a low platelet count.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-sees-worst-dengue-outbreak-in-four-years-352827
21-12-2021||---||Panjab University Asst Prof Dr Anil Kumar dies of Covid, 14 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 20The city on Monday reported 14 cases of Covid-19 and one death due to the virus. Dr Anil Kumar, an Assistant Professor in the Department of Laws, Panjab University, died due to Covid-19. The 45-year-old resident of Sector 14, a case of chronic kidney disease and hypothyroidism, died at the PGI. He was hospitalised since November 21. He was fully vaccinated. Mohali sees 1 death, one fresh caseMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,074. Only one case was reported, while 12 patients were cured of the disease. Of the 69,067 cases reported from the district so far, 67,951 patients have been cured. There are now 42 active cases.2 fresh Covid cases in Panchkula distpanchkula: The district reported just two fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,905. The toll remained at 381. While 30,490 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 34 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.65 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-asst-prof-dies-of-covid-14-new-cases-352826
21-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Visually impaired, she has a vision for Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Forty-six-year-old Lata Diyat, an Independent candidate for the Municipal Corporation (MC) poll, is visually impaired. However, she has a vision for the City Beautiful.Despite 100 per cent impairment, Lata has actively been participating in social work being done by an environment society. She has also been teaching voluntarily at the Institute for the Blind, Sector 26, for the past eight years.Lata, who is BA, BEd and has cleared NET, is fighting from Ward No. 6 (parts of Mani Majra). She decided to take a plunge into politics for social work, improve sanitation in her ward and turn the whole city greener by planting more trees.“Besides, I will work for solving the water and power issues. I am an animal lover. So, I will get a shelter built for them,” said Lata, a resident of Shanti Nagar, Mani Majra. Her main slogan is “Ek vote paryavaran ke naam”.Unlike other candidates, she has to face some unusual questions. “I am getting a good response during campaigning, but some people in rural areas ask me how I will work in the ward being visually impaired? I tell them that to understand the problem of garbage and potholes, I do not need eyes. And after all, my ward people will become my eyes,” she remarked.A native of Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh, Lata completed her studies from the School for Blind and pursued senior secondary education from Government Model School, Sector 18. Later, she did her higher studies from the GCG, Sector 11, and BEd from the Sector 20 BEd College. Her father was a lawyer in the Punjab and Haryana Court and mother a housewife. Both have died.She lost her vision at the age of 30 when she was diagnosed with glaucoma. Later, Lata got married to Gurwinder Singh, a gardener. The couple has two sons. One, who is studying in the School for Blind, is 80 per cent visually impaired due to glaucoma while the other son is studying at Khalsa School, Sector 26.“Sometimes, people make us feel that ‘divyangs’ are different from them and can do nothing. I think we are just like others and can do anything,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/visually-impaired-she-has-a-vision-for-city-352824
21-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: BJP, Cong, AAP raise the poll pitch on common platform||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20A few days after the city chiefs of the BJP and the Congress challenged each other for a debate, they shared the dais today, criticising each other over various civic issues ahead of the December 24 MC poll.They had a dig at each other at an RWA interaction event organised by the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC). Along with them, the AAP convener was also present.Subhash Chawla, president of the city Congress, which is eyeing a comeback in the MC, said people should first seek a report card from a political party to know whether it has fulfilled its promises. He claimed that the BJP had failed to fulfil 25 promises made in the 2016 manifesto before the MC elections.“We wanted to keep this election positive, but the BJP tore the chargesheet (at a press conference) prepared by us highlighting its failures. You (voters) rejected us five years ago, now the ruling party should answer why it failed to perform rather than blaming the Congress,” he said.The two-time Mayor sought to know “why taxes are being imposed on the public. We are paying taxes, but are we getting our share? As per RTI information, in 2019-20, there was a revenue collection of Rs4,000 crore, according to which the MC should have got Rs1,200 crore. If we get this amount, Chandigarh will become a Paris. The BJP failed to bring the required funds. It says it has increased the revenue of the MC; what’s the big deal? It’s been done by imposing taxes. Resources should have also improved.”The senior Congress leader slammed the BJP over garbage collection and smart parking lots. “We do not know whether 24x7 water supply came or not, but we know that residents have been burdened with a Rs550-crore loan taken from a French firm. They should have got a referendum done whether the public needs 24x7 at this cost,” he said.City BJP president Arun Sood took on the Congress chief while highlighting the “achievements” of his party and claimed that they had fulfilled 95 per cent of the promises made in the last manifesto. “We have released a 28-page booklet giving details of what we did in the MC. However, where is the Congress’ 14-year-rule report card. They have nothing to show, I think,” he said.On financial viability, Sood said, “The grant-in-aid, which was only Rs276 crore till 2015, has been increased to Rs502 crore in 2021 in our rule. Besides, with the special grant, we got additional water for the city from the Kajauli waterworks. We also got Rs102-crore special grant for village development. I challenge the Congress if it proves that it got even a penny extra than the grant-in-aid.”On taxes, Sood replied, “For 14 years, the Congress ran the MC with a fixed deposit as the grant-in-aid was too low, thereby weakening the corporation. During our time, the fund generation increased. Parking fee is a service charge, not a tax. The property tax was started by the Congress. The Covid cess is being used on Covid-related expenditure. There is no harm in paying Rs5 on beer as cow cess for gaumata’s welfare.”He blamed the Congress for the dumping ground issue, alleging that without the tender process, the work of waste processing plant was given to Jaypee at the time of former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal. “It took four years of litigation to show the door to the firm and now we are going to float a tender in January for a new technology. Nearly 45 per cent of the dumping ground waste has been cleared by us,” he said.Vineet Singh, a resident of Sector 61, asked Sood, “We are using a PIN code of Mohali. Our home deliveries and parcels never reach on time due to this. No one has heard our plea; the issue must be resolved.”AAP convener Prem Garg said, “Through better utilisation, free and well-managed parking lots can be provided. On the lines of Delhi, the MC staff will come to your place for services.”Replying to him, the BJP chief quipped, “Delhi needs the Chandigarh model and not vice-versa. Whether it is air pollution or the plight of people during Covid in Delhi, we know where you stand. Chandigarh is also ahead of Delhi in education.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-cong-aap-raise-the-poll-pitch-on-common-platform-352823
21-12-2021||New Delhi||IMD: Cold wave expected to continue for next two days in northwest India||Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in northwest India over the next two days and abate thereafter, the IMD said today. Cold wave conditions will continue over central and east India for the next three days and relief is likely thereafter, it said.“Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours and cold wave conditions are very likely at isolated pockets for the subsequent 24 hours,” the weather office said.Cold wave conditions are likely over parts of Uttarakhand, UP, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand till Wednesday and over Jammu, Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad, HP and Gangetic West Bengal till Tuesday afternoon.Meanwhile under the influence of two western disturbances in quick succession, light to moderate rainfall and snowfall is likely over western Himalayan region from December 22 to 25. Light isolated rainfall is also likely over Punjab on December 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/imd-cold-wave-expected-to-continue-for-next-two-days-352668
