22-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records 5 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh reported five new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours on Wednesday, a health bulletin said on Wednesday.The UT now has 99 active cases with a positivity rate of 0.82 per cent.Chandigarh fatality count since the cases were first reported in the UT in March 2020 is 1078.The bulletin said 1,413 samples were tested over the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, the UTs reported 10 new recoveries on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-5-new-covid-19-cases-353330
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man crushed to death by truck||Rotaract Club installed at RBUMOHALI: Rotaract Club, sponsored by Rotary Club of Rupnagar, has been installed at Rayat Bahra University. At the installation ceremony, the chief guest was Rotary's PDG Er Manmohan Singh, a member of the Punjab Infrastructure Regulatory Authority (PIRA). Rotary's PDG Dr RS Parmar was the Guest of Honour on the occasion. The event was jointly presided over by Dr Parvinder Singh, Vice-Chancellor, and Rtn Adv Harsimar Singh Sitta, Rotary Roopnagar president, who is Assistant Advocate General of Punjab. TNSSector 28 man commits suicideChandigarh: A 54-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 28 here on Tuesday evening. The police said no suicide note was found from the spot. The victim has been identified as Davinder, who was working as an assistant line officer with the UT Electricity Department. On getting information, the police reached the spot and shifted the body to the mortuary at the GMSH, Sector 16. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-crushed-to-death-by-truck-353164
22-12-2021||Mohali||Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu hits back||Reacting to the statement made by former mayor Kulwant Singh accusing Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu of creating hurdles in development projects during his five-year term, Jeeti Sidhu has said the former mayor’s claims are misleading.Jeeti Sidhu said the MLA has brought big projects to Mohali. The biggest of these is the construction of a medical college in Mohali which is under construction and classes have started there from this session. Similarly, the MLA solved the traffic problem at Landran Chowk by getting projects worth crores approved from the government. “A new Civil Hospital was being constructed in Sector 66, Mohali, more than Rs65 crore has been recovered from GMADA and Rs10 crore from the PSPCL,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mayor-hits-back-353163
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Justice Tejinder Singh Doabia (retd) passes away||Justice Tejinder Singh Doabia (retd) passed away at the age of 80 after a cardiac arrest here yesterday. He had served in the J&K High Court for five years.Justice Doabia is survived by his wife Raghbir Kaur, two sons Inder Pal Singh Doabia, who is the Additional Advocate General, Punjab, and Manpreet Singh Doabia, an advocate of the Supreme Court.Justice Doabia was a student of the first batch of Senior Model School, Sector 16, Chandigarh.While on the Bench of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, he was a co-author of the Full Bench wherein rights were granted to the women of J&K marrying outside the state, to their ancestral property. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/justice-doabia-passes-away-353162
22-12-2021||Mohali||Food delivery boy hit by SUV in Mohali's Phase 9, dies||A 21-year-old motorcycle-borne food delivery boy was crushed to death by a recklessly driven SUV in Phase 9 here this evening. Four unknown youths, occupants of the car, fled the spot after the accident. The vehicle crashed into a roadside railing before hitting a nearby bus queue shelter.The front portion of the vehicle was badly damaged. Eyewitnesses said the occupants of the car were in an inebriated state and there were liquor bottles in the SUV. The motorcyclist was injured and rushed to the hospital. The police reached the spot and impounded the SUV, bearing a Haryana registration number. Investigating officer Amarnath Singh said, “The victim was taken to the hospital. The police have impounded the vehicle.” Eyewitnesses said the motorcycle was badly damaged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-delivery-boy-hit-by-suv-dies-353161
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Roller skating team win gold||After a gap of 17 years, the Chandigarh roller skating team has bagged gold in the National Roller Skating Championship held at Dhelpur (Punjab). They overpowered Haryana 3-1 in a tie-breaker finish. The match ended 1-1 in the stipulated time. Senior coach Sarabjit Singh Magnat accompanied the team. Yuvraj and Jujhaar were the top performers for the side. In the tie-breaker, Ankush shined to help Chandigarh bag gold. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roller-skating-team-win-gold-353160
22-12-2021||---||Teachers stage sit-in at chowk||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 21The tonsuring of heads by women vocational teachers would prove dearer to the state government, says Haryana Pradesh Congress president Kumari Selja who visited the protesting teachers here today.Salja said the state government was discriminating against vocational teachers in matters of salary. The Congress raised the issue in the Assembly, but the government did nothing, she added.The women vocational teachers have threatened that they would tonsure their heads if the state government failed to regularise their services.Meanwhile, the teachers, who had been protesting for the past 58 days, took out a march and staged a sit-in at the Housing Board Chowk at 7.30 pm. Rajnish Sharma, Head of Vocational Education in the Education Department, told the protesters that a meeting would be held between them and the Education Minister on Wednesday. After this assurance, the teachers cleared the protest site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-stage-sit-in-at-chowk-353159
22-12-2021||Mohali||PSPCL JE held on graft charge||The court today remanded a PSPCL junior engineer to two-day police custody for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs90,000 from a flour mill owner of Khelan village.Vigilance officials said the junior engineer, Malkiat Singh, was allegedly demanding Rs3 lakh as bribe after he raided the flour mill owned by Kushalpal to check power theft on November 28.A Rajapur resident, Pardeep Kumar, was involved in negotiating the bribe money. Officials said Rs1 lakh was handed over to the PSPCL employee on the same day. Pardeep was nabbed with Rs90,000 paid by the flour mill owner as the next instalment. Later, Malkiat Singh was arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pspcl-je-held-on-graft-charge-353158
22-12-2021||---||Anganwadi workers block highway; chaos on roads||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 21A large number of anganwadi workers today staged a sit-in on the Kharar-Chandigarh highway near Desumajra, disrupting the movement of vehicles. The police and senior officials negotiated with the protesters and got the road cleared.A members of the anganwadi workers union, Gurdeep Kaur, said, “The anganwadi workers have been protesting for the past nine months but the government is not ready to listen to them. We demand our honorarium be increased, arrears paid and salaries and allowances given to the workers on the pattern of Haryana.”Meanwhile, the movement of traffic in Mohali, Kharar and Kurali areas was affected. Eyewitnesses said the jam-like situation started around 11 am and continued till 10 pm at several places. The toll tax collection was stopped for hours at the Baroudi toll plaza on the Kurali-New Chandigarh road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anganwadi-workers-block-highway-chaos-on-roads-353157
22-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Former Delhi Congress MLA Jai Kishan's remark sparks row||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Sparking yet another controversy, former Delhi Congress MLA Jai Kishan today asked a public gathering to cut tongues and set on fire the candidates of the BJP and AAP who come to seek votes.He was speaking at a rally for the party candidate from Ward Number 16, Sonia, in the Sector 25 colony. In what seemed like inciting the public, he said, “...leaders of the BJP and AAP have no right to ask for your votes. If they come to seek votes, cut their tongued and set them on fire...”While trying to align voting with Dalits, Jai Kishan further told the gathering, “...I am a Valmiki and have won five times. The two governments (of the BJP and AAP), which crushed the farmers, do not think Dalits have any ‘aukat’...”“Had the Congress and Baba Saheb not been there, then your son would not have become IPS officers and our sisters cabinet ministers. Remember, they did not allow us to ride a ‘ghodi’. So, we have to bring back the Congress to power.”Jai Kishan had courted controversies in Delhi in 2015 when he was arrested for allegedly beating up a group of students and a teacher inside a private school for attending a reality show in Hyderabad without his permission.“This is highly condemnable. There must be decency in election campaigns. There should not be personal and below-the-dignity comments,” said AAP convener Prem Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-delhi-mlas-remark-sparks-row-353156
22-12-2021||---||Give Chandigarh city in 'safe hands': Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21While making an appeal to vote and support the Congress in the upcoming MC elections, Netta D’Souza, acting president of the All-India Mahila Congress, called upon women voters to give the city in ‘safe hands’ this time.Addressing a press conference at Congress Bhawan, Sector 35, she said Chandigarh, which used to be known for its beautiful landscape and learned populace, was now leading the country in crime against women.City Congress president Subhash Chawla said if his party won the elections, it would give 100 per cent relief in the water tariff and property tax charged from them during the entire duration of the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19.On the occasion, Congress leaders displayed costly vegetables and LPG cylinders to highlight the plight of women, whose kitchen budget has been hit.BJP releases itscampaign reportCity BJP president Arun Sood today reiterated that the city residents would retain the BJP-led MC in the elections scheduled for December 24.Sood, along with former city BJP president and co-incharge of the party’s HP unit Sanjay Tandon and former MP Satya Pal Jain, was addressing a press conference while releasing the party’s campaign report.The city BJP chief informed that a total of 12 star campaigners, through their 56 public rallies, canvassed for the party candidates. Besides, other leaders addressed 72 meetings in every nook and corner of the city.AAP has a dig at BJPIn a scathing attack on the BJP, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the double engine of the BJP government had failed and turned into a “trouble engine”. In a press conference here today, AAP city affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh alleged that in the name of development, the BJP launched a surgical strike on the people of Chandigarh by imposing various types of hefty taxes. He said the BJP chief should tell why the city slipped in the Swachh ranking?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/give-city-in-safe-hands-congress-353155
22-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Night shelter set up on cycle track in Chandigarh's Sector 22!||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21The UT Administration has set up a night shelter, meant to facilitate homeless people during biting cold nights, on a cycle track at Sector 22-C.Every year, the shelter is set up in the area at an open space near a public convenience. This year too, it was installed at the same place. However, sources claimed that it was relocated to a cycle track (located nearby) as it was blocking the view of an advertisement hoarding pasted on the wall of the public convenience.The hoarding was carrying an advertisement of a political party in connection with the MC elections.“There’s no logic in shifting the shelter from an open space to a narrow location having a cycle track. The shelter was clearly blocking the view of the hoarding for people coming at the roundabout,” said Atul, a regular passerby.Meanwhile, blocking of the cycle track disrupted traffic as cyclists had to use the slip road or pavement. “It’s difficult to cross the path amid hindrance. If the track was laid specifically for cyclists, it should not be used for any other purpose,” said Anil, a cyclist.One of his companions added, “We are being forced to use the main road and negotiate heavy traffic. The authorities concerned should look into this as this is one of the busiest traffic junctions of the city.” UT officials could not be contacted for a comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-shelter-set-up-on-cycle-track-in-sec-22-353154
22-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid cases up in Tricity, but fatalities low||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Even though Covid cases are on the rise in the tricity, the number of deaths has not increased relatively, which, experts say, is enough reason not to panic amid concerns of another surge.Nine more contract virus in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported nine cases of Covid-19 and no death. As many as five patients were cured of the disease. TNSIn the past 20 days, around 330 positive cases were reported from the area, but only six persons died due to the virus. The positivity rate of the tricity continues to remain below 1 per cent. In the past seven days, 0.84 per cent of the samples turned out positive in Chandigarh.In the past 20 days, two deaths each in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula have been reported. Among the deaths reported from Chandigarh was a 45-year-old man with chronic kidney disease and hypothyroidism. He was hospitalised at the PGI since November 21 and was fully vaccinated against Covid.A 35-year-old woman died of Covid recently in Chandigarh. She was a case of bilateral pneumonitis and was admitted to the GMSH, Sector 16, since December 7.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “Cases are rising as Covid-appropriate behaviour is not been followed. People are not masking up and a lot of gatherings can be seen in the city. Among the two deaths recorded in the city, one was not vaccinated and the other had comorbidities. There is no need to panic, but we need to be careful as the behaviour of the new variant can’t be predicted. We must take proper precautions and must get vaccinated.”The two Covid deaths in Panchkula were of a 67-year-old man with multiple comorbidities such as diabetes and kidney disease and of a 52-year-old man with chronic kidney disease and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.Reduced hospitalisation, says PGIDr Rajiv Narwal, Civil Surgeon, Panchkula, said, “A lot of individuals who are testing positive in our district have been either fully or partially vaccinated. However, we have seen reduction in hospitalisation and deaths in our district.”Though there are 104 active cases in Chandigarh, only 23 Covid beds are occupied in all government and private hospitals.Dr Surjit Singh, Director, PGI, said, “With the rise in cases, there has not been much difference in the hospitalisation of Covid patients. At the PGI, 17 Covid patients are admitted and this number has been static for a long time. We are prepared for any surge in the near future. It is yet to be seen how Omicron will behave.”8 test +ve in Panchkula Panchkula: The district reported eight cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. A 13-year-old boy, a 14-year-old girl and a 53-year-old man from Indira Colony, a 13-year-old boy and a 45-year-old woman from Sector 20, a 26-year-old woman from Chandimandir, a 20-year-old woman from Sector 18 and a 57-year-old woman from Sector 21 tested positive for the virus. TNS2 cases in MohaliMohali: Two new Covid cases — one each from Gharuan and Kharar — surfaced in the district. There was no fresh death while two patients were cured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-up-but-fatalities-low-353153
22-12-2021||---||Campaigning for Chandigarh MC polls ends, over to voters now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Roadshows, rallies and public meetings organised by candidates marked the last day of campaigning for the December 24 Municipal Corporation elections.According to the State Election Commission, UT, the silence period for the elections to the MC will begin 72 hours prior to close of poll. No posters, pamphlets and advertisements will be published in newspapers or displayed in a matter of canvassing from 5 pm on December 21. Action will be taken against the violators.Senior leaders of the BJP, Congress and AAP held press conferences and rallies in different parts of the city. The candidates contesting from the 35 wards remained on their toes and reached out to as many people as possible on the last day of the campaigning.Former Chandigarh BJP president Sanjay Tandon and senior party leader Avinash Rai Khanna addressed a public rally for party candidate from ward number 12 Saurabh Joshi at Patel Market, Sector 15. Manoj Kumar Sonkar, BJP candidate from ward number 7, met residents of Mauli Jagran, Charan Singh Colony and Vikas Nagar and assured them regarding development of the ward. Congress coordinator for the MC poll Rajinder Rana held six public rallies during the day.Congress star campaigner Kanhaiya Kumar also held rallies today. AAP held a nukkad natak in ward number 3 at Bapu Dham Colony.Some also took out vehicle rallies. JJ Singh, AAP candidate from ward number 35, held a roadshow in his area and addressed a public meeting at Progressive Enclave Society, Sector 50. BJP candidate Anup Gupta from ward number 11 held a car rally. He also met a group of senior citizens and held an awareness walk. Many preferred foot march. Congress candidate Harpreet Kaur Babla from ward number 10 held a padyatra in the entire ward with her husband, councillor Devinder Singh Babla.Congress candidate from ward number 2 Harmohinder Singh Lucky took out a foot march in Sector 7, 8, 9 and 10, and appealed for votes. Lucky said “false promises” of the BJP had been exposed and the public now wanted a change. His rival, BJP’s Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, continued with his door-to-door campaigning. He alleged that the Congress had only given corruption to the city, while the BJP’s focus was on development.Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja addressed a party election rally in Sector 25. She said it was the Congress which had bestowed ownership rights on thousands of people living in slum areas.Voter awareness campaignThe Election Commission will intensify its voter awareness campaign from Wednesday by putting up hoardings and jingles on radio. It had earlier tied up with golfer Jeev Milkha Singh and cricketer Anjum Chopra for the campaign. This time, voting is on Friday, so many fear the voting percentage may fall as the day follows holidays and many people may go out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/campaigning-ends-over-to-voters-now-353152
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (Sanyukt) raises Punjab's claim over Chandigarh issue with BJP leaders||With election around the corner, the old issues like Punjab’s claim over Chandigarh are once again back in currency.This time leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) have claimed that the Centre has principally agreed to the long-pending demand of Punjabis to hand over Chandigarh to Punjab. Party chief spokesperson Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad said SAD (S) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa had taken up the issue with top BJP leaders who agreed to the demand. Dhindsa accepted that he had discussed the issue with BJP leaders, but he refused to share information on the outcome of the meeting.Earlier, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal had also claimed that he had reliable information that the BJP could hand over the control of Chandigarh to Punjab.In a press release, MLA and former state FM Parminder Singh Dhindsa urged the BJP-led central government to resolve the long-pending issues of Sikh Panth and Punjab. Parminder said the BJP government at the Centre should announce a solution to these issues for the betterment of the Panth and Punjab.Parminder said the main objective of Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) was not to seize power, but to resolve the issues of the Panth and Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-sanyukt-raises-ut-issue-with-bjp-leaders-353030
