23-12-2021||Chandigarh||All in place for Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections on Friday||The elections for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation will be held here on Friday, it was announced on Thursday.About 6.3 lakh voters, including three lakh women, are eligible to cast votes.Officials said all necessary arrangements, including those related to security, have been made to ensure smooth polling.The number of wards has increased from 26 in 2016 to 35 now and 694 polling booths have been set up.Over 3,000 policemen will be on duty to enforce tight security arrangements.The poll timings will be from 7.30 am to 5 pm. There are 203 candidates in the fray whose electoral fate will be declared on December 27.Traditionally, the municipal election -- held every five years -- sees a locking of horns between the BJP and the Congress, but with the entry of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the contest this time will be three-cornered.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) holds majority in the current House.In the last MC elections, BJP had won 20 seats and its erstwhile ally Shiromani Akali Dal won one. Congress had managed to win only four seats.The BJP is fighting election on plank of its “achievements” in past five years.On the other hand, Congress and AAP have targeted the BJP for allegedly failing to undertake development work and have criticised it over city going down in the ‘Swachh Survekshan’ (a ranking for cleanliness) rankings.The two parties also targeted BJP for not resolving the issue of Dadu Majra dumping ground and also raised issues like rise in prices of essential commodities. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-in-place-for-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-elections-on-friday-353688
23-12-2021||---||High drama after girl dies at Mohali hospital||Mohali, December 22High drama prevailed at the Sector 71 hospital in Mohali when the family members of 19-year-old girl alleged that she died due to negligence on the part of the doctors here today.A resident of Sector 42, Kavita, alleged that despite their repeated appeals, the authorities did not provide them the ‘summary’ of the treatment till the afternoon. Deceased Gurpreet Kaur, a BCom-I student, was admitted to the hospital on Monday evening after she complained of dehydration and loose motions.Naveenpal Singh Lehal, SHO, said, “A police complaint has been received in this regard. The kin of the deceased have asked for a post-mortem of the deceased to ascertain the cause of her death. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. Further action will be taken on the basis of the post-mortem report.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-drama-after-girl-dies-at-hospital-353476
23-12-2021||---||Badminton meet: Panjab University, MCM DAV college in final||Chandigarh, December 22Panjab University Campus registered a 2-0 win over DAV College, Sector 10, to march into the final of Panjab University Inter-College Badminton Championship (women). In the second semifinal, MCM DAV College, Sector 36, recorded a 2-0 win over the Government College for Girls, Ludhiana.Guru Nanak College log winGuru Nanak College, Muktsar, defeated Government College, Muktsar, 37-11 in Panjab University Inter-College National Style Kabaddi (women) Championship. In other league matches, GGD SD College, Sector 32, recorded a 62-17 win over Post Gradate Government College, Sector 11. The Sector 11 team won their second league match by defeating Government College, Muktsar, 42-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badminton-meet-panjab-university-mcm-dav-college-in-final-353477
23-12-2021||Mohali||1,552 get degrees at Chandigarh University||As many as 1,552 students from various streams were awarded degrees for the academic year 2020-21 during the annual convocation of Chandigarh University, Gharuan.Thirty meritorious students, including 18 graduate and 12 postgraduate students, were awarded gold medals while 28 students were given PhD degrees by the in charge of External Affairs Department, Dr Vijay Chauthaiwale, and a Padma Shri recipient, Dr Neelam Mansingh Chaudhary. Dr Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, congratulated the students and wished them luck for their future endeavours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-552-get-degrees-at-chandigarh-university-353478
23-12-2021||---||Top players sail ahead in all-India badminton meet||Chandigarh, December 22Top seed shuttlers had an easy day during the opening day of Maharaja Agrasen All-India Open Prize Money Masters Badminton Tournament today, being played at the Sector 38 Sports Complex.Top seed Pankaj Nathani defeated Harsimran Singh 21-7, 21-6 to move ahead in the men’s 35 years’ singles pre-quarterfinals.The championship is being conducted under the aegis of the Chandigarh Badminton Association and has witnessed participation by more than 700 players in the age groups from 35 years to 75 years in singles, doubles and mixed doubles events.The championship was inaugurated by Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Director Sports, UT Administration, Tejdeep Singh Saini. All matches are being conducted following the Covid protocol, said the organisers.Meanwhile, in the Round-32 matches of men’s 35 years’ singles category, Dr Vivek Kaushik outplayed Simardeep Singh Nagpal 21-7 21-6, Dr Manish Chaudhry outclassed Manpreet Singh Jal 21-10 21-17, Sarabjit Singh faced a tough resistance from Anuj Talwar before logging 21-23 26-24 21-13 win and third seed Anuj Bhaskar overpowered Vinay Thakur 21-10 21-10. In other one-sided matches, Varinder Singh blanked Vikram Nagpal 21-13 21-7, Anish Sharma ousted Ravi Srivastava 21-15 21-19, Mukesh Kumar defeated Arun Kumar 21-18 21-15 and Mohammad Munir beat Prince Sharma 21-12 21-17.In the men’s singles 40 years’ event, top seed Abhinn Shyam Gupta ousted Vinod Kumar 21-7 21-4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-players-sail-ahead-in-all-india-badminton-meet-353479
23-12-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court issues notice to Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to the Union Territory of Chandigarh, through its Home Secretary, on a petition against the dismissal of plea for supplying a copy of an order/judgment in “Hindi”.The notice by Justice Rajbir Sehrawat came on a petition filed by Guriqbal Singh through counsel Naveen Kaushik. Relying upon the provisions contained in Sections 354 and 363 of the CrPC, the counsel submitted that the petitioner was entitled to get a copy of the order/judgment passed by the court in the “language of the Court”. For the Union Territory of Chandigarh, “Hindi”, “Punjabi” and “Urdu” had been declared “the languages of the Court under the High Court Rules and Orders”. As such, his prayer for supply of a copy of the order/judgment in “Hindi” had wrongly been dismissed. The case will now come up for hearing on April 29, 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-issues-notice-to-chandigarh-353480
23-12-2021||Mohali||Protest against 'poor' facilities at ESI Hospital in Mohali||Members of the Mohali Industries Association (MIA) today held a protest against the poor state of functioning of the ESI Corporation and facilities at the ESI Hospital in Mohali.More than 100 industrialists and members of the MIA gathered at the MIA Bhawan and marched towards the Phase 7/8 light point raising slogans against the Centre, the state government, the ESI Corporation and the Punjab Health Department.Anurag Aggarwal, president, MIA, said, “It is an astonishing fact that the ESI Hospital and dispensaries are currently working for only 6 hours from 8 am to 2 pm. Insured workers may be referred 24x7 only to the empanelled hospitals under the ESI Scheme, where cashless medical facility is available, instead of referring them to the Civil Hospital-Phase 6 Mohali, GMCH-32, GMSH-16 or the PGI, Chandigarh. ESI dispensary should work 24x7 hours for the welfare of the poor. There should be Ambulance service at the ESI Hospital, Mohali, as well as the facility of all laboratory tests.”Vivek Kapoor, vice-president, MIA, said Rs10 crore was deposited with the ESIC every month from Mohali but it was disgraceful that not even 10 per cent of this was actually spent on the workers by the corporation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-against-poor-facilities-at-hospital-353481
23-12-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Sippy murder case: Kin allowed to inspect soft data of CBI investigation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Inderjeet Singh Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Chandigarh, has allowed the family members of advocate Sukhmanpreet Singh Sidhu, alias Sippy, who was murdered in 2015, to inspect the soft data of the investigation carried out by the CBI into the case.In an application filed before the Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Chandigarh, Deepinder Kaur (mother of the deceased) and Jasmanpreet Singh Sidhu (his brother) had requested the CBI to provide the soft data regarding the case. The court in the order says, “Instead of filing a reply, the public prosecutor for the CBI stated that some of the content of the soft data cannot be provided to the applicants due to its sensitive and personal nature. The data relates to the other witnesses of the case. However, the investigating officer of the case, present in the court, is directed to facilitate the inspection of the soft data available with the CBI to which the counsel for the applicant conceded and requested for adjournment to go through the record.”The court has now fixed the next date of hearing for January 12, 2022, for filing a protest petition, if any.Family members have demanded to provide the soft data retrieved from mobiles and a laptop and external drive of deceased Sukhmanpreet Singh Sippy. They have also demanded one DVD containing CCTV footage dated September 18, 2015, of a camera installed at Thapar Shoe Shop in Sector 19, Chandigarh. They said in the absence of the information demanded, it is not feasible to file a protest petition.The family members of Sippy have opposed the untrace report filed by the CBI. A Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate and national shooter, Sippy was murdered on September 20, 2015. After the murder, the police had registered a case against an unknown person. When the police could not solve the case, it was transferred to the CBI in 2016. But neither the police nor the CBI has been able to reach the killers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sippy-murder-case-kin-allowed-to-inspect-soft-data-of-cbi-investigation-353482
23-12-2021||---||Panchkula: Sector 20 residents bear brunt of protest against paid parking||Panchkula, December 22As all shops in Sector 20 had remained shut up to 3 pm on Wednesday (the last day of the five-day protest by the Sector 20 Residents Welfare Association and the Market Welfare Association), residents bore the brunt of the protest.Next course of actionIf the authorities don’t scrap paid parking at Sector 20 and stop the destruction of the green belt, we will mobilise all RWAs and market associations to stage a district-level protest on January 7. KK Jindal, president, Sector 20 RWAMeanwhile, members of the RWA and the market association staged a demonstration outside the Municipal Corporation in Sector 14 and criticised the civic body for the “anti-public” move.The protesters were also up in arms over the “destruction” of the green belt to make Ashiana flats as well as persistent civic issues in the sector.“If authorities don’t scrap paid parking at Sector 20 and stop the destruction of the green belt, we will mobilise all RWAs and market associations to stage a district-level protest on January 7 next year,” said KK Jindal, president of the Sector 20 RWA.“I criticise the statements given by Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal in the media that paid parking will not be rolled back. It’s highly condemnable,” he added.“Contrary to our plans of planting more and more trees to keep the environment green, the administration is adamant on destroying the green belt in our sector, which has more than 3,000 trees,” Jindal stated.“50 per cent of our businesses has been affected after the introduction of the paid parking system in the sector market,” said Surinder Kathpal, president of the market welfare association.He said the implementation of the paid parking system in Sector 20 was a “politically motivated step.”Leaders of the Congress and the JJP also extended their support to the protest.Among leaders who joined the protest were former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, Ward 20 councillor from Congress Salim Dabkouri and Ward 14 councillor from JJP Sushil Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sector-20-residents-bear-brunt-of-protest-against-paid-parking-353483
23-12-2021||Dera Bassi||52-year-old woman dies in Dera Bassi in hit-and-run||A 52-year-old woman died after being hit by a speeding car while crossing the road at Mirpur village here on Tuesday evening.The deceased has been identified as Inder Kaur, a housewife. The unknown car driver fled the spot.The police said the impact of the bang was so strong that the victim was thrown some distance away. She was rushed to the PGI where she succumbed to her injuries.On a statement of her son Nanak Singh, a case has been registered against the unidentified driver under Sections 304-A and 279 of the Indian Penal Code at the Mubarikpur police post. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/52-yr-old-woman-dies-in-hit-and-run-353484
23-12-2021||---||Nayagaon resident to cough up Rs 16K for driving drunk in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 22The court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh, TPS Randhawa, imposed a fine of Rs16,000 on a resident of Nayagaon, who was caught driving a vehicle under the influence of liquor and without a valid licence.As per the prosecution, the accused, Shiv Kumar, was found driving a vehicle in a manner dangerous to the public, and in contravention of the traffic rules. The incident took place on December 5 at 00:40 am at the Transport Area light point. The accused was also found under the influence of liquor.A case was registered against him under Sections 181, 184 and 185 of the Motor Vehicles (MV) Act at the Sector 26 police station and he was arrested.A notice of accusation was served upon the accused, to which he pleaded guilty and did not claim trial.Holding him guilty, the Additional CJM ordered him to pay a fine of Rs5,000 under Section 181, Rs1,000 under Section 184 and Rs10,000 under Section 185 of the MV Act. In case the fine was not paid, the convict would have to undergo simple imprisonment for one month, the order read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nayagaon-resident-to-cough-up-rs-16k-for-driving-drunk-in-chandigarh-353485
23-12-2021||---||Chandigarh Congress complains to poll panel over 'fake survey'||Chandigarh, December 22The city Congress today lodged a complaint with the State Election Commission to “unearth the deep-rooted conspiracy wherein a fake survey was published by a channel” by allegedly forging its name. The party also demanded those who circulated the ‘survey report’ on the social media should be traced and punished as per law.Addressing a press conference at the Congress office in Sector 35 here, Punjab Cabinet Minister Raj Kumar Verka stated that during the Punjab Assembly elections in 2017, a survey was published giving 100 seats to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), but it got only 20 seats. “The AAP is in the habit of circulating such surveys before the elections, which prove to be false. This particular survey also gives an advantage to AAP,” he claimed.Verka said, “People of Punjab and Chandigarh have now become aware of such shenanigans of AAP and give them a befitting reply by totally rejecting them in the MC elections.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-complains-to-poll-panel-over-fake-survey-353486
23-12-2021||---||Temporary teachers block Kharar-Chandigarh highway||Mohali, December 22Temporary teachers protesting in support of their demands, including regularisation and pay hike, blocked the Kharar-Chandigarh highway near Desu Majra in Kharar here this afternoon, causing traffic jam and inconvenience to the passersby and local residents.The protesters claimed that they had been working in government schools for 18 years on meagre salaries. Hundreds of meetings had been held with government representatives but to no avail, they added. They said their protest would continue till their demands are met.The police officials said the situation got tense as the protesters and the commuters clashed with each other on several occasions. On Tuesday, the teachers had staged a protest at the Kharar bus stand. Traffic was hit on Kharar-Ropar highway on Tuesday night.Some councillors of the Kharar civic body, Kharar Chamber of Commerce officials urged the protesters to call off the sit-in near the Kharar bus stand but the teachers did not budge.Meanwhile, Sarv Shiksha Abhiyaan teachers staged a protest march in Phase 3B2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/temporary-teachers-block-highway-353487
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Night shelter removed from cycle track in Sector 22-C||Collaborative research projectMohali: With the aim of promoting interdisciplinary research, Chitkara University and Chitkara International School (CIS) have launched a collaborative research project, which facilitates collaboration between the faculty and students. Fourteen teams have been formed from both institutes to work on this initiative. Explaining the importance of patents, the IPR Cell Coordinator, Chitkara University, Dr Sartajvir Singh, said, "Innovations and patents are intricately linked. Patents help to create ownership over innovations and facilitate investments and commercialisation." TNSFrench team visits UIETChandigarh: A French delegation, a part of the French Embassy in India, visited the University of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University. The delegation comprised of Dr Fabien Chareix, Attaché for Scientific and Academic Cooperation, French Embassy in India; Baptiste Fondin, Project Manager - Scientific and Academic Cooperation; Leah Maria Therese Paul, Project Manager - Academic Partnerships and Alumni; Ophelie Belin, Director, Alliance Francoise, Chandigarh; and Nidhi Chopra, Manager, Campus France, Chandigarh. They interacted with the faculty and discussed the possible academic and research collaborative programmes. TNSCricket tourney from Dec 31Panchkula: The 10th Major Sandeep Sagar Memorial U-13 Cricket Tournament will be held from December 31 at CL DAV Cricket Academy. The knockout matches will be played under the 25-over (each side) format, while the final match will be of 40 overs (each side). The interested teams can confirm their entries with the organisers before December 25. TNSDilshan leads in shooting meetChandigarh: Dilshan Kelky was in lead in the men's standard pistol event with a score of 282 points in the ongoing Panjab University Inter-College Shooting Championship on Day 3 on Wednesday. Abhimanyu Yadav (280 points) and Japtesh Singh (279 points) were at second and third position. In the women's sports pistol event, Gauri Sheroan (201 points), Anjali Chaudhary (288 points) and Surbhi Rao (286 points) were the top three performers. Udhayveer (293 points) claimed lead in the men's rapid fire pistol round, followed by Adarsh (293 points) and Japtesh (290 points). TNSMan nabbed with 25 liquor boxesChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 32-year-old man found in possession of 25 boxes of liquor. The suspect, identified as Jagbir, was carrying the liquor boxes in a Swift car and was nabbed near a dispensary in Sector 22..Groups clash at Sec 38 (West)Chandigarh: A cross FIR has been registered following a clash between two groups in Sector 38 (West). In a complaint, Shivam of Dadu Majra village alleged that Sagar and four others stabbed him at the Mandi ground. On his complaint, a case was registered. Later, three suspects — Sagar (19), Shubham (20) and Monu (21), all from Sector 38 (West), were arrested. In another complaint, Sagar alleged that Shivam, Ritik and others attacked him with swords, leaving him hurt. A case was registered and Sumit (18) and Raja (20), both of Dadu Majra, arrested. TNSPU declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University has declared the results of MA (Psychology) 2nd semester, BA (first semester, golden chance) and BSc (first semester, golden chance) examinations.Man booked for killing cowAmbala: The police have booked Om Prakash of UP for allegedly killing a cow in Ambala City on Wednesday. In his complaint to police, Jai Prakash Jindal, a resident of Ambala City, has alleged that on Tuesday, his servant Om Prakash killed his cow with a hammer and then fled the scene. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-shelter-removed-353488
23-12-2021||---||Leopard gets entangled in wire in Nurpur Bedi||Ropar, December 22A leopard got entangled in chainlink fencing of a farm in the Nurpur Bedi area today.Wildlife Department Range Officer Mohan Singh said they got information in this regard around 6 pm. On reaching the spot, it was found that an adult leopard was trying to get itself free from a chainlink wire in which its legs had got entangled.Senior officials were informed and a team experts was requisitioned to rescue the wild cat, he said.District Forest Officer (Wildlife) Dharamveer Dairu said it was an adult leopard and was agitated as its legs had got entangled in the wire and also due to the presence of a large number of people.A team of experts from the Chhatbir zoo was expected to reach late at night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-gets-entangled-in-wire-353489
23-12-2021||---||Delivery boy’s death in Phase 9: Mohali Police yet to identify four SUV occupants||Mohali, December 22A day after a 22-year-old motorcycle-borne food delivery boy was crushed to death by a recklessly driven SUV in Phase 9, the four occupants of the SUV are still out of police reach. The deceased has been identified as Surjeet Singh, a native of Gurdaspur. Investigating officer Amarnath said, “A case has been registered at the Mataur police station. The four unknown youths are yet to be identified. The police are investigating the matter.”Four unknown youths fled the spot after the accident. The vehicle crashed into a roadside railing before hitting a nearby bus queue shelter. The front portion of the vehicle was badly damaged. Eyewitnesses said the occupants of the car were in an inebriated state and there were liquor bottles in the SUV. The motorcyclist was injured and rushed to the hospital. The police reached the spot and impounded the SUV, bearing a Haryana number.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delivery-boys-death-police-yet-to-identify-four-suv-occupants-353490
23-12-2021||---||Zirakpur-Shimla Highway: Repair potholes, report in 15 days, NHAI told||Panchkula, December 22Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik today issued strict instructions to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to repair potholes on the Zirakpur-Shimla highway and sought an action-taken report on the matter within 15 days.Kaushik was chairing a meeting of the District Road Safety Committee at the Mini-Secretariat. He told Chandigarh Tribune that they would make sure the NHAI complied with the order. In reply to Kaushik’s query, NHAI officials said patchwork on the highway was underway and would be completed in 10 days.Earlier this year, his predecessor Vinay Pratap Singh had asked the NHAI to repair potholes on the Zirakpur-Kalka highway before November 30.In April this year, the district administration had directed road construction agencies to identify and develop seven stretches of 5 km each in the district as ‘model roads’ by making them accident-free. The DC said the agencies should work on this plan on a priority basis.According to officials, the identified roads will include two stretches of PWD (B&R), one each of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, the Urban Local Bodies Department and the Haryana Urban Development Authority and two of the NHAI.Meanwhile, the DC also asked the NHAI, the MC and the police to initiate a joint drive against illegal parking. He also emphasised on reducing the response time of ambulances for transporting accident victims to hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-shimla-highway-repair-potholes-report-in-15-days-nhai-told-353491
23-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Barring GMCH, hospitals not updating 'bed availability status' on Chandigarh portal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Introduced during the Covid-19 second wave following the Punjab and Haryana High Court directions, the online system of “bed availability status” at hospitals has stopped in Chandigarh.On checking, it was found on the official website, chdcovid19.in/chdcovidbed19, that no government hospital other than the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 (GMCH-32), has been uploading its bed availability status online.It is pertinent to mention here that the count of active cases in the city has climbed up to 99 in the city, the highest after July. The cases have started to increase with an average 10 cases being reported daily.The portal had come into existence during the second wave when the UT was reeling under shortage of beds and the public was hard pressed for information on bed availability in the hospitals for their kin suffering from serious Covid-19 infection.According to the portal, a majority of hospitals stopped the practice of updating the bed availability in the month of July when the second wave subsided. However, some hospitals continued till August and September.During a hearing on a plea on the Covid-19 management, senior advocate Anupam Gupta, while pointing at a Centre’s order dated April 29, had said there was nothing to show on implementation of the directions passed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in letter and spirit by the Chandigarh Administration. As per the MHA order, among other things, a web portal be created by every state/UT to ensure access to information on availability of oxygen, drugs, vaccine and vacant beds in government/private hospitals and vaccination centers.The portal was later launched following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. “As directed by the High Court, data on availability of hospital beds will be uploaded daily on the UT Administration website,” the then UT Adviser, Manoj Parida, had said.When contacted, UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “I am going to access this tomorrow and talk to hospital authorities. Covid cases had reduced in between and this could have been the reason why some hospitals stopped sharing information on availability of beds.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/barring-gmch-hospitals-not-updating-status-on-chandigarh-portal-353492
23-12-2021||---||In death, little Anaika gives a new lease of life to 5 patients||Chandigarh, December 22At the PGI, Anaika, two and a half years old, served a noble cause as she left this mortal world. Her family donated her organs and gave a new lease of life to three terminally ill organ failure patients and the gift of sight to two more, thereby impacting five lives.Prof Surjeet Singh, Director, PGI, said, “This noble act of the family is really praiseworthy and should motivate others. It is really crucial for everyone to understand that even in times of grief, one positive response can change the lives of multiple strangers and bring a smile to many faces. It was a courageous decision taken by the donor Gupta family even as they were grieving the sudden demise of their daughter.”Anaika had met with a fatal car accident when the car she was travelling in along with other family members collided head-on with a pick-up truck near a housing society in Sector 89, Mohali on December 12. The mother and brother of Anaika, along with three other relatives, died on the spot. Anaika, being critically injured, was rushed to SGHS Hospital, Sohana. Later, she was shifted to the PGI on December 15 where she succumbed to her injuries. The child was declared brain dead on December 21.In spite of the irreparable loss, Anaika’s father Amit Gupta, a businessman based in Bengaluru, decided to donate his child’s organs. He had rushed to Chandigarh after hearing about the tragic accident. His wife along with her kids had come to Chandigarh earlier to visit her parents who reside here.Sharing his sentiments, Amit Gupta said, “I have lost everything…my wife, my son and now even my daughter. My world is doomed. Can there be anything more traumatic? So I thought if I could save someone from this terrible pain of losing their family member. Although I have lost my daughter, she continues to live in five others.”Following Amit Gupta’s consent, Anaika’s liver, kidneys and corneas were retrieved at the PGI. Since there was no matching recipient for liver here, it was allocated for a matching recipient at the IKDRC, Ahmedabad, with the intervention of NOTTO.The harvested liver was sent from the PGI to the international airport at Mohali in 18 minutes by creating a “green corridor” for a GoAir flight scheduled for departure at 3.35 pm yesterday. After landing at 5.35 pm at Ahmedabad, the retrieved liver was taken to the IKDRC, Ahmadabad, where it was transplanted to a terminally ill seven-year-old boy.The retrieved kidneys were transplanted to renal failure patients here at the PGI, giving them a fresh lease of life. The harvested corneas, on transplantation, restored the sight of two corneal blind patients.In all, five lives were impacted, one in Ahmedabad and four at the PGI.‘Green corridor’ createdThe harvested liver was sent from the PGI to the international airport at Mohali in 18 minutes by creating a “green corridor” for a GoAir flight scheduled for departure at 3.35 pm on Tuesday. After landing at 5.35 pm at Ahmedabad, the retrieved liver was taken to the IKDRC where it was transplanted to a terminally ill seven-year-old boy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-death-little-anaika-gives-a-new-lease-of-life-to-5-patients-353493
23-12-2021||---||Omicron threat: Chandigarh to activate 'war room' soon||Chandigarh, December 22In view of the threat posed by the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the UT Administration is all set to re-activate its “war room” meetings to keep a close watch on the situation.In an advisory issued by the Centre, state governments and UTs have been asked to activate “war rooms” and bring back curbs, including night curfews and ban on large gatherings if more than 10 per cent of all tests in a week turn positive or if the occupancy of hospital beds breaches 40 per cent of the capacity.A senior UT official said they would adhere to the directions of the Centre and would soon activate the “war room” to keep a vigil on the Covid trend. He, however, said there was no need to panic as the number of daily Covid cases in the city was still on the lower side, but people strictly needed to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Five cases in UTChandigarh: The city on Wednesday saw five cases of Covid. There was no death, while 10 patients were cured of the disease. TNS8 cases in P’kulaPanchkula: The district saw eight virus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,921. The toll remained at 381. TNS6 +ve in MohaliMohali: Six new cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. Five persons were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/omicron-threat-chandigarh-to-activate-war-room-soon-353494
23-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Despite high fuel prices, Chandigarh has only 1,791 e-vehicles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Notwithstanding the high fuel prices, the use of electric vehicles is yet to reach the tipping point as the UT has only 1,791 active e-vehicles.To encourage the use of electric vehicles, the UT Administration has prepared a draft electric vehicle policy to give incentives to residents. The draft policy will be unveiled soon to invite suggestions and objections, if any, from the public, said an official.At present, these vehicles are out of the reach of the common man due to high cost and lack of infrastructure in the city.To a question raised in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Heavy Industries Krishan Pal Gurjar submitted that the total number of active electric vehicles in Chandigarh as on December 8, 2021, was 1,791, whereas the total number of active vehicles as on December 8, 2021, was 7,20,272.The Central Government had already sanctioned 70 charging stations for Chandigarh under the Phase II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME) India scheme.A senior UT official said the work on installation of 37 of the 70 fast-charging stations had already been allocated and it was likely to be completed by the end of January next year.However, 48 charging stations had already been installed in the UT till November 8 this year under Phase I of the FAME India scheme.The minister said several steps had been taken for adoption of electric vehicles in the country. He said the government had approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for manufacturing of an advanced chemistry cell (ACC) in the country in order to bring down the prices of battery in the country. Drop in the battery price will result in cost reduction of electric vehicles. He said GST on electric vehicles had been reduced from 12 per cent to 5 per cent and the GST on chargers/charging stations for electric vehicles had been reduced from 18 per cent to 5 per cent. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had issued a notification advising states to waive road tax on electric vehicles, which in turn would help reduce the initial cost of electric vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-high-fuel-prices-chandigarh-has-only-1-791-e-vehicles-353495
23-12-2021||---||3,700 police personnel to ensure peaceful poll in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 22Around 3,700 police personnel will be deployed at 212 polling stations to maintain law and order during the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections, scheduled for Friday.Personnel from police stations, the PCR unit, intelligence wing, security branch, traffic and Home Guards will be deployed to ensure peaceful elections. Sixteen DSPs, 54 inspectors, 2,838 other police personnel and 800 Home Guards jawans will be deployed at 212 polling stations, which include 694 booths. A total of 52 polling stations have been declared sensitive that have 220 sensitive booths. A majority of these booths are in colony areas.“Elaborate security arrangements have been made to keep a vigil,” said a police official. UT DSP Parveer Ranjan today briefed the police personnel regarding the MC elections at the Police Lines, Sector 26. They were asked to maintain law and order and to also ensure the safety of EVMs and officials on election duty.52 polling stations sensitiveOf the 212 polling stations, 52 that includes 220 booths, have been declared sensitive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-700-police-personnel-to-ensure-peaceful-poll-353496
23-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC Elections: Candidates go online in a big way, meet voters one-on-one||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22A day after the campaigning ended in the city, candidates contesting from 35 wards held one-on-one meetings with voters.The offline campaign shifted to online, which intensified today. Several candidates spent more time on campaigning through the social media. They, along with their supporters, also called up voters in their wards.Saurabh Joshi, BJP candidate from ward number 12, spent more time behind the scenes today. He met his digital team and asked it to intensify the online campaign. “I spent time with the social media team. I sat over a cup of tea with people known to me in my ward,” said Joshi, a former councillor.Another BJP candidate from ward number 2, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor, spent considerable time on one-on-one meetings with people in the area. “For two days, I will meet as many people as possible through one-on-one interaction,” said Sidhu.His rival Harmohinder Singh Lucky also remained on his toes, holding personal meetings. “We have been campaigning for the past many days and have covered every house and market. Now is the time to make one last effort to meet them without supporters,” said the Congress leader.“We have met voters in the ward many times in the past few days. It’s the last opportunity to meet them for a one-on-one interaction. Our supporters are contacting people through phone calls,” said Ravinder Kaur Gujral, Congress candidate from ward number 23.According to the State Election Commission, UT, the silence period for the elections to the MC began yesterday at 5 pm. Thus, candidates tried innovative ways to reach out to voters.Short leave in factories, shops Chandigarh: To provide an opportunity to people to exercise their right to franchise in the MC elections, scheduled for December 24, the UT Adviser has fixed Friday as short leave for all factories and shops and commercial establishments falling in the area of Ward No. 1 to 35 of the MC. The order has been issued under Section 65 of the Factories Act and under provision of Sub-section (I) of Section 10 of the Punjab Shops and Commercial Establishments Act as applicable to the UT. The Administration has already announced a public holiday on Friday in all government offices/boards/corporations/institutions, including industrial establishments, under the Chandigarh Administration. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-candidates-go-online-in-a-big-way-meet-voters-one-on-one-353497
23-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Specify if sentences are to run concurrently: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22In a significant judgment that will change the way multiple sentences are awarded to the convicts, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the trial courts across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to specify whether these will run concurrently or consecutively.“The court of first instance, while awarding multiple sentences of imprisonment in a trial, must specify in clear terms as to whether the sentences would run concurrently or consecutively and in case they were to run consecutively the order or sequence in which the same would run,” Justice Vikas Bahl asserted. The High Court Registrar-Judicial was also asked to circulate the judgment to all trial court judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Justice Bahl asserted Section 31 of the CrPC provided that the court had the power to sentence a person convicted in one trial for two or more offences to several punishments. The punishments, when consisting of imprisonment to commence one after the expiration of other, would be inflicted in such order as the court may direct, unless the court directed such punishments to run concurrently.Referring to Supreme Court judgments, Justice Bahl asserted the sentences would run consecutively where a person was convicted for two or more offences in a trial. But the sentence did not include life imprisonment and it was not specified that the sentences were to run concurrently.Justice Bahl added life sentences could not be directed to run consecutively and had to necessarily run concurrently in case of multiple life imprisonment sentences. This was because life imprisonment meant full span of one’s life. Such sentences would, however, be superimposed so that remission or commutation in one did not result in remission of the sentence in others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/specify-if-sentences-are-to-run-concurrently-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-353396
