24-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||12 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||As many as 12 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded in Chandigarh on Friday with a positivity rate of 0.88 per cent.The average number of positive cases in the last seven days has been 11.The number of cumulative cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh has reached 65,754.The death toll remains 1078 as no new death was reported.The number of active cases has reached 103 as 1368 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.A total of six patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 64,573 patients have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-354046
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||No vaccine, no entry: Only fully vaccinated people allowed in public places, says Chandigarh Administration||Chandigarh administration announced on Friday that it was banning those not fully vaccinated from public places, hotels, bars, cinemas, and banks—a decision that comes two days after the Haryana Government made a similar announcement.A new order from UT Adviser Dharam Pal cited the new Omicron variant and a consequent surge in cases to say adults whose vaccine doses are still pending should remain out of “public places/market/function/public transport/religious places” until they’re fully vaccinated. “As all are aware that Covid-19 pandemic has posed a huge challenge to the community and affected each and every individual adversely,” the order says. “In public places with large gatherings like sabzi mandi, grain markets, public transport, parks, religious places malls, shopping complexes, Haats, Local market and other similar places only fully vaccinated (second Dose) adult persons or those who are not due for the second dose as per health protocol are to be allowed,” the new order said. Violations will be penalised with a fine of Rs 500, the order said.This means hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, gyms and fitness centers, private as well as public sector banks, and even government offices could only let in adults who are either fully vaccinated or those whose second doses are not due yet.Additional and joint municipal commissioner; the municipal medical officer of health; medical officers designated by the UT's Director Health & Family Welfare; Station House Officers; and any other official specifically entrusted with the task by the Chandigarh deputy commissioner are responsible for enforcing the directions. The order comes as data shows that over 1.85 lakh beneficiaries have missed the date for their second dose and are now overdue. The development also comes on a day when Chandigarh recorded 12 new Covid-19 cases.Here's the full orderAs all are aware that COVID-19 Pandemic has posed a huge challenge to the community and affected each and every individual adversely. Large numbers of beneficiaries are due and overdue since long for 2nd dose of COVID-19 Vaccination. Further, new variants of COVID are emerging frequently and recently Omicron cases are showing increasing trend in our country. Looking into current scenario steps need to be taken for increasing coverage of vaccination to mitigate spread of Corona Virus.The COVID vaccination has been demonstrated to be effective against SARS-CoV2 Variants of concern in reducing mortality, morbidity and mortality. It is therefore, of paramount importance to fully vaccinate the remaining population. Considering emergent issues especially because of the new variant of concern ‘OMICRON’ of COVID- 19, the persons who are not fully vaccinated are required to take more precautions. Accordingly, all those adult persons who have not yet taken both the doses of COVID vaccination should remain at their residences and should not visit any of the Public Places/Market/function/Public Transport/Religious Places etc.Now the Chandigarh Administration has decided that to ensure safety of non-vaccinated Adult Persons, the following should be strictly enforced from 01.01.2022 in entire UT Chandigarh:-1) In public places with large gatherings like sabzi mandi, grain markets, public transport, parks religious places, malls, shopping complexes, Haats, local market and other similar places only fully vaccinated (second Dose)adult persons or those who are not due for second dose as per health protocol are to be allowed. In case any adult person(s) are found of above violations, they would be imposed a fine of Rs.500/-. Non-payment of the fine by the violator will attract proceedings under Section 188 of IPC. Every Officer designated below shall be responsible for enforcing of these directions:-i) Tehsildar and Naib-Tehsildar;ii) Additional/ Joint Commissioners, Municipal Corporation;iii) Medical Officer of Health, Municipal Corporation;iv) Medical Officers as designated by the Dlrector Health & Family Welfare, UT Chandigarh;v)  Station House Officers;vi) Any other Officer/ Official specifically designated by the Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh form time to time.2) All Government/Board/Corporation offices located in Chandigarh to allow only fully vaccinated (second dose) Adult Persons (including their employees) or those who are not due for second dose as per health protocol.3) Hotels, bars, restaurants, mall, shopping complexes, cinema halls, gym and fitness centers to allow only fully vaccinated (second dose) Adult Persons (including their employees) or those who are not due for second dose as per health protocol.4)   Both Private and Government Sector Banks to allow only fully vaccinated (second Dose) Adult Persons (including their employees) or those who are not due for second dose as per health protocol. Instruction to these banks may be given, accordingly.Following means may be considered for verifying the vaccination status (in case of COVISHEID beneficiary will be eligible for second dose after 84 days from first dose and in case of COVAXIN, beneficiary will be eligible for second dose after 28 days from first dose):Vaccination teams where and whenever demanded by office in charges for on the spot vaccination or for regular vaccination camps at places of gathering would be provided by the Health Department, Chandigarh.In order to contain the spread of Corona Virus infection Deputy Commissioner, UT Chandigarh to ensure compliance to above mentioned steps 1st January, 2022 onwards.DHARAM PAL, IASAdviser to the Administrator, UT & Chairperson, State Executive Committee of State Disaster Management Authority, UT, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-vaccine-no-entry-only-fully-vaccinated-people-allowed-in-public-places-chandigarh-administration-354036
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 60% voter turnout in municipal elections||Chandigarh recorded 60 per cent voter turnout for municipal elections on Friday---almost exactly the same as 2016---officials said after voting for all 35 wards of the local body closed.Chandigarh had recorded 59.6 per cent voting in 2016.Voting was highest in ward no 16 (72.81%) and lowest in Ward 23 (42.66%). Voting began at 7.30 am. Long lines of people could be seen outside many polling stations well past voting closed officially at 5 pm as many voters dashed to booths to get their votes in before the deadline. "There has been no report of any delay in starting the poll process," an electoral officer told IANS in the afternoon.The Bharatiya Janata Pary holds the majority in Chandigarh's current municipal corporation. The entry of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as a serious contender made it a three-cornered contest this time, marking a significant departure from the usual pattern having only two primary rivals, the Congress and BJP.Campaigning was high-voltage, with all three parties using every trick in the book, including having “star campaigners” to dazzle voters. AAP’s campaign saw Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia interact with city residents and ended with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s public rally in Sector 43, but saw a whole array of other prominent leaders, such as its Punjab chief and MP Bhagwant Mann and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, step in to boost the party’s star credentials.The Congress pulled out some of its big guns too—Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar, old warhorse Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kumari Selja, Randeep Singh Surjewala, and Punjab faces Manpreet Badal, Raj Kumar Verka and Mohinder Singh Kaypee made up the party’s most prominent campaigners.An elderly is brought out of a polling station during the municipal elections at Government High School at Hallo Majra in Chandigarh on Friday. Tribune photo: Ravi KumarNot to be outdone, BJP used 12 campaigners for canvassing and even mounted door-to-door campaigns. Union ministers Som Prakash, Piyush Goyal, Ajay Bhatt, Nityanand Rai and Anurag Thakur addressed public rallies. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari were also in the city for canvassing.Votes will be counted on December 27.A total of 633,475 voters, including 301,275 women, will decide the fate of 203 candidates.The ruling BJP made development and its achievements in the past six years its main campaign agenda.The Congress, having lost three successive elections to the BJP, based its campaign on anti-incumbency, saying the saffron party failed miserably to retain the tag of the 'City Beautiful'.The AAP campaign was largely focused on replicating its successful "Delhi Model" in the city.A total of 212 polling stations were set up in different parts of the city. Among 694 booths, 220 are sensitive. Most of these booths are in the 13 new villages that were merged with the municipal corporation.Over 6,000 police and BSF personnel will be on poll duty. There will be 4,200 poll officers. --- Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/polling-on-for-35-seats-of-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-353974
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Woman duped of Rs 3.6L, 1 booked||Bank staff hold gate rallyChandigarh: The Cooperative Bank Employees Federation State of Punjab, on Thursday held a gate rally in front of the head office of Punjab State Cooperative Bank at Sector 34 due to a delay in the implementation of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission report in the bank. About 500 employees of Punjab State Cooperative Bank and 20 District Central Cooperative Banks participated in the gate rally. Retired employees of the bank also took part in the rally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-duped-of-3-6l-1-booked-353891
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Yania enters badminton quarters||Taw Yania ousted Hema Tuteja (21-7, 21-4) to reach the women’s singles 45+ quarterfinals during the ongoing Maharaja Agrasen All-India Open Prize Money Masters Badminton Tournament at the Sector 38 Sports Complex here today.Rinku Bharadwaj also marched ahead by defeating Baby Pait (21-10, 21-4), whereas Nitu defeated Nisha Jain (21-12, 21-11). Farogh Mukadam outplayed Nilakshi Bhatnagar (21-7, 21-10) and Suresh Khatri defeated Sunita Banothu (21-1, 21-2) in other pre-quarterfinals.In the men’s singles 35+ event, top seed Pankaj Nathani easily sailed ahead by defeating Dr Vivek Kaushik (21-17, 21-12). Dr Manish Chaudhry defeated Sarabjit Singh (21-10, 21-14), Anuj Bhaskar outplayed Varinder Singh (21-19, 21-13), Anish Sharma defeated Mukesh Kumar (21-14, 21-16) and Peeyush Aggarwal defeated Oma Kant (21-14, 21-16).Kamal Vashishtha registered a comeback (17-21, 21-19, 21-15) win over Mohammad Munir. Simardeep Singh defeated Rishi Sharma (23-21, 14-21, 21-15) and Akash Sethi ousted Sanni Gautam (21-12, 24-22). In the women’s singles 35+ pre-quarterfinals, Amit Jyoti registered an easy (21-9, 21-9) win over Shikha Singla and Binny Bansal defeated Javvadi Vijaya Chandrika (21-6, 21-11).The pair of Aman Saxena and Mohamed Danish Khan faced a tough resistance from Kamal Vashishtha and Tribhuwan Singh Bisht before logging a (15-21, 21-10, 21-13) victory. Ashish Mishra and Rishi Sharma defeated Amit Sondhi and Arpan Badhan (15-21, 21-17 and 21-15), while Pankaj Nathani and Peeyush Aggarwal defeated Asheesh Mitter and Rajesh Rajpal (21-14, 21-12). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yania-enters-badminton-quarters-353890
24-12-2021||---||DAV College-10 win Panjab University Shooting Championship||Chandigarh, December 23DAV College, Sector 10, won the Panjab University Shooting (Men) Championship by scoring 136 points. Panjab University Campus claimed the second position with 41 points, while GGDSD College, Sector 32, finished third with 32 points.In the women’s final, Panjab University Campus scored 56 points to win the championship. DAV College claimed the second position with 55 points and MCM DAV College, Sector 36, finished third with 38 points.PU Campus badminton champPanjab University Campus won the Panjab University Badminton (Women) Championship. MCV DAV College, Sector 36, finished second and DAV College, Sector 10, claimed third position.GGDSD win kabaddi meetGGDSD College, Sector 32, won the Panjab University Kabaddi (Men) Championship. Guru Nanak College, Muktsar, and Post Gradate Government College, Sector 11, finished second and third, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dav-college-10-win-pu-shooting-championship-353889
24-12-2021||---||Punjab CM Channi sanctions Rs 2.5 crore for development of High Court Bar Association||Panchkula, December 23Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday announced the sanction of Rs2.5 crore for the development of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association. He also accepted an invitation to visit the Bar on January 6, 2022. Association president Santokhwinder Singh Grewal (Nabha), vice-president Karan Nehra, honorary secretary Vishal Aggarwal and other members expressed gratitude to the Chief Minister for his “gesture”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/channi-sanctions-2-5-cr-for-development-of-high-court-bar-association-353888
24-12-2021||---||Mohali's Sector 77 gets open-air gym||Mohali, December 23Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu inaugurated an open-air gym in Sector 77 here today.Addressing the gathering, the Mayor said: “In this Covid era, exercise is a must to strengthen our immune system. Expensive gym equipment are being installed in the open so that people can exercise near their houses. In addition to walking in parks, people can stay fit by doing workout on these machines”.Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said the Mohali Municipal Corporation was also preparing to take over the sports stadium constructed by GMADA soon.The Mayor said after assuming the office, he had passed Rs5 crore for gyms in Mohali. For the first time not only the work of strengthening infrastructure in societies was being carried out by the MC, but also residents of these societies were being provided with the facility of open-air gyms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-77-gets-open-air-gym-353887
24-12-2021||---||Work towards good governance: Punjab minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to panchayat members||Mohali, December 23With an aim to sensitise panchayats to development planning, Punjab Rural Development and Panchayats Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa launched a training manual, “Integrating Sustainable Development Goals into Gram Panchayat Development Plan”, here today.In a function held at Vikas Bhawan, Mohali, Tript Bajwa said the training manual had been developed jointly by Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Coordination Centre, Department of Planning and State Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Government of Punjab. The objective of this training manual was to strengthen the capacities of Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) members for developing an inclusive and holistic developmental plan for their respective gram panchayats within the framework of SDGs.The Cabinet Minister said this document would be a guiding document and a helping hand in systematic and sustainable capacity building of PRI members for integrating SDGs into the developmental plans. He urged the panchayat members to work towards good governance, social inclusion, women empowerment and economic development. He said gram panchayats are the most relevant and effective agencies of the Panchayati Raj for localisation and realisation of SDGs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-towards-good-governance-minister-to-panchayat-members-353886
24-12-2021||---||Panchkula: Gang involved in recording obscene video calls busted||Panchkula, December 23The police claim to have arrested two members of a gang allegedly involved in “making obscene video calls and luring others to join them on social media platforms” to blackmail and extort money from them. A sum of Rs 3.50 lakh was also recovered from them.The suspects have been identified as Nasir Mohammad, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, and Kushanpal, a resident of Agra in Uttar Pradesh. The police said the gang targeted a local resident.The police came to know about the involvement of Nasir, who was in the Delhi police custody in another case.The police brought him from Delhi on a production warrant and obtained his remand after producing him in a court. During police interrogation, he revealed the name of his accomplice Kushanpal.The police arrested another suspect from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan yesterday and recovered Rs3.50 lakh from him.On July 8, 2021, the Sector 20 police received a complaint through the DCP office from a resident of Youngman Housing Society about ‘sextortion’.The victim informed the police that he received a friend request from someone claiming to be a woman. When he accepted the request, the woman asked him to chat on WhatsApp.While chatting on WhatsApp, the woman made an obscene video call to the victim and asked him to join her. The woman recorded his video call and started blackmailing him.The woman later started sharing screenshots of the video call with the victim’s friends. She asked the victim to transfer Rs1.48 lakh into a bank account.The complainant said later he received a call from a person who identified himself as Gaurav Malhotra.According to the police, Malhotra told the victim that his obscene video had been uploaded on YouTube and a woman had lodged a police complaint against him in this regard. When the victim asked the caller to delete the video, the latter sought money from him.“The victim lost a total of Rs16.11 lakh in extortion,” the police said. The victim later lodged a police complaint. A case was registered at the Sector 20 police station.The plaintWhile chatting on WhatsApp, a “woman” made an obscene video call to the victim and asked him to join her. The woman recorded his video call and started blackmailing him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-involved-in-recording-obscene-video-calls-busted-353885
24-12-2021||---||Chandigarh MC polls: Paid holiday for staff in factories, shops today||Chandigarh, December 23Repealing its earlier order, the UT Administration has now declared December 24 a paid holiday for all employees in factories, shops and commercial establishments falling in the area of Ward No. 1 to 35 of the Municipal Corporation (MC).The order has been issued to provide an opportunity to the public to exercise their right to franchise in the MC elections, scheduled for Friday. On Wednesday, the UT Administration had fixed short leave for staff of all factories, shops and commercial establishments.Meanwhile, in partial modification of the order issued by the Excise and Taxation Commissioner on December 17, now dry days will be observed up to 9 pm on December 24 and the whole day on December 27 when counting will take place. Earlier, dry days were to be observed for the whole day from December 22 to 24 and on December 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paid-holiday-for-staff-in-factories-shops-today-353878
24-12-2021||Saurabh Malik||Don't finalise e-auction bids for 3 nursing home sites in Panchkula: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23Just over a month after an e-auction was conducted for three nursing home sites in Sector 21, Panchkula, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the finalisation of bids.The direction came after the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj was, among other things, told that the entire exercise was carried out only for the benefit of Alchemist Hospital.Appearing before the Bench, Manish Kumar and other petitioners through counsel Akshay Jindal added that the respondent-Alchemist Hospital, after the revision in the layout plan of the area, participated in the e-auction conducted “hurriedly” on November 20 and submitted bids for two of the nursing home sites.As the case came up for preliminary hearing, Jindal sought directions for quashing the layout plan dated October 25, whereby school/ nursery sites were changed to nursing home sites number one,two and three in front of house number 1957-P, Sector 21, Panchkula.Jindal invited attention of the Bench to the layout plan before asserting that a nursery school and a primary school sites were reflected adjoining the “released land where Alchemist Hospital was situated in Sector 21, Panchkula” at the time of allotment of plots to them till October 25.He argued that the procedure mandated under the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran Act was not followed prior to revising the layout plan. Still further, there was a complete negation of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as notice was not published inviting objections from the residents of the locality. “Malice in the decision-making process is also alleged by asserting that this entire exercise has been done only for the benefit of respondent Alchemist Hospital…,” the Bench observed.Issuing notice of motion to the state of Haryana and other respondents, the Bench also fixed the case for further hearing in the first week of March next year. “It is directed that, in the meantime, the bids received in the e-auction conducted on November 20, 2021, pertaining to nursing home site number 1, 2 and 3, Sector 21, Panchkula, be not finalised,” the Bench directed.Haryana Additional Advocate-General Aman Bahri accepted the notice on behalf of the state and two other respondents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-finalise-e-auction-bids-for-3-nursing-home-sites-in-panchkula-high-court-353851
24-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula district sees highest daily vax count after Nov 15||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 23A day after the Haryana Government announced to make second dose of the Covid vaccine mandatory to enter public places from January 1, the district today witnessed highest daily vaccination since mid-November, giving new hopes to local health officials for improvement in vaccine numbers amid persisting concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus.As many as 3,763 beneficiaries received the Covid vaccine, the highest after November 15 when 3,878 were administered the jab.From December 16 to 22, the district saw an average 2,200 people getting vaccinated daily.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, confirmed that there was a positive response from those who were yet to take their second dose in the wake of the announcement by the Haryana Government. “It should have happened much earlier since people became complacent towards the virus,” she said. She hoped there would be improvement in the district’s vaccine figures.When asked if the number of centres would also be increased in case of more people turning up for vaccination, the official stated that they had already been conducting vaccination at all dispensaries and near to home under ‘Har Ghar Dastak Teekakaran Abhiyaan’. Hence, there was no need to open additional sites.Currently, as many as 4.75 lakh people have received the first dose. It is 107.03 per cent of the targeted population. However, around 1 lakh beneficiaries who have taken their first dose were yet to come forward for the second dose. According to an estimate, around 75,000 to 80,000 beneficiaries were overdue for their second dose.As per stock availability, the district has 1.39 lakh doses of Covishield and 36,000 doses of Covaxin in its kitty.After recent instructions from the Deputy Commissioner, the district health authorities are trying to improve the momentum of the vaccination campaign and accelerate its coverage among other measures to prevent the third wave of the pandemic.Stock availabilityAs per stock availability, the district has 1.39 lakh doses of Covishield and 36,000 doses of Covaxin in its kitty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-district-sees-highest-daily-vax-count-after-nov-15-353850
24-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Upload availability of beds on portal, Chandigarh hospitals told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23A day after Chandigarh Tribune highlighted that no hospital in the UT, barring the GMCH-32, is uploading its bed availability status on the online portal, the UT Health Department has directed all hospitals to upload the status on the website in view of the Omicron variant of Covid-19.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg, while taking cognisance of the report published in Chandigarh Tribune, wrote to the heads of all health institutions, “It has been brought to the notice of the undersigned that except for the GMCH-32, no other hospital/health facility is updating the status of bed availability on the portal. The system of updating the data was started as per the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and it seems that after reduction in the number of patients, it has been discontinued.”Garg further wrote, “Considering the emergent issues, especially because of Omicron, the new variant of concern, the bed availability status should be updated on the portal. Issue a direction to all hospitals/health facilities (government and private sector) functioning in the UT for compliance from today itself.”The portal had come into existence during the second wave when the UT was reeling under shortage of beds and the public was hard pressed for information on bed availability in the hospitals for their kin suffering from serious Covid-19 infection.According to the portal, a majority of hospitals stopped the practice of updating the bed availability in the month of July when the second wave subsided. However, some hospitals continued till August and September.City reports 11 fresh casesChandigarh: The city recorded 11 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday. The overall tally reached 65,742. The death toll remained at 1,078, while 13 patients were cured of the disease. TNS2 cases in Mohali, no fatalityMohali: Two fresh cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 69,077. No death due to the virus was witnessed, while two patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each was reported from Kharar and Mohali (urban). Of the 69,077 cases reported from the district so far, 67,960 patients have been cured. There are now 43 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,074. TNS6 fresh cases in Panchkula distPanchkula: The district reported six fresh Covid cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,927. The toll remained at 381. While 30,496 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 50 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.60 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/upload-availability-of-beds-on-portal-city-hospitals-told-353849
24-12-2021||---||High drama over 'fake' voter cards in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 23A day before voting, high political drama was witnessed in the city.Congress men allegedly beat up BJP leaders saying that they were giving “fake” voter cards to residents in Sector 34.Dr Anish Garg, chief spokesperson for the Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), was allegedly thrashed by Congress workers.“I have lodged a complaint with the police after Congress ‘goons’ beat me up,” said Dr Garg, a BJP supporter, whose video in which he is seen being thrashed by a group four-five persons went viral.Rajiv Sharma, spokesman for the Congress, said, “Fake voter cards were being given to residents of Sector 34 by the driver of a BJP leader. A person cannot be in possession of so many voter cards; it’s an offence, which requires proper investigation by the police.”City BJP president Arun Sood and city Congress chief Subhash Chawla were at the Sector 34 police station.AAP lodges complaintAAP later complained to the authorities to conduct an inquiry into the “fake” voter ID card issue. Returning officer Harjit Singh Sandhu said, “We have declared the polling station (Government School, Sector 34) sensitive. We have also written to the police to submit a report to us too after an investigation into the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-drama-over-fake-voter-cards-353846
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kirron Kher in Chandigarh to cast vote||Through a video, Kirron said during the Congress rule, the then MP, Pawan Kumar Bansal, had brought the Jaypee company for setting up a waste processing plant, which did not work and gradually led to piling of waste at the dumping ground in Dadu Majra. Replying to her, Bansal claimed the garbage processing plant was working at the time of the Congress. The dump was almost at ground level. He said the BJP MP did nothing during her seven-year tenure. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kirron-in-city-to-cast-vote-353829
24-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Make your vote count today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23The city will go to the polls tomorrow when voters will decide the fate of 203 candidates in the fray from 35 wards in the MC poll.In view of Covid, the polling staff and voters will be given gloves, masks and sanitisers by the State Election Commission, UT. Thermal scanners will also be there for measuring the body temperature.Can vote without voter card tooA total of 97 Covid patients will have the last one hour (4 pm to 5 pm) for voting along with other voters. Some voters and those on duty have, however, raised concern over the common one hour. However, officials said they would take care of it and provide PPE kits to patients.The Election Commission will give a red carpet welcome to voters at nine model polling stations. “We will lay a red carpet at the nine booths. During the parliamentary poll, a pink carpet was laid at some booths,” said an official.A total of 212 polling stations, comprising 694 polling booths, have been set up in different parts of the city. Among the booths, 220 are sensitive. Most of these booths are in the 13 new villages that were merged with the MC. Unlike the 2016 MC poll, there will be around 1,000 voters per polling booth. The figure was around 1,400-1,500 in 2016. Over 6,000 police and BSF personnel will be on poll duty. There will be 4,200 poll officers.Tents, sheds for voters’ convenienceIn view of Covid, the Election Commission has put up tents/sheds so that voters do not have to stand in long queues. They can wait for their turn in the enclosed area.What you need to knowMC poll Dec 24Polling 7.30 am to 5 pm (Covid patients to be allowed in last one hour)Counting and result Dec 27Total voters 6,30,311Male 3,30,713Female 2,99,581Third gender 17Total wards 35, Total polling booths 694, Sensitive 220||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-your-vote-count-today-353826
