25-12-2021||Chandigarh||AFT stays court-martial proceedings against Lieutenant Colonel accused of improper relationship with jawan's wife||The Armed Forces Tribunal has stayed the court-martial proceedings against a Lieutenant Colonel from the Army Dental Corps, who was charged with having an improper relationship with the wife of a havildar, and ordered that he be released from service on the completion of his term of contract this month.The havildar’s wife, who was undergoing dental treatment at that time, had made a complaint to the army authorities against the officer and also lodged an FIR with the local police. The Army ordered a court of inquiry to investigate the matter.The police after the investigation into the complaint found that the officer was not blame-worthy and the closure report of the police was accepted by the civil court. Further legal proceedings initiated before the higher courts by the complainant against the closure report were also dismissed and, according to the petition, she is now facing trial for levelling false charges.The Army, meanwhile, cancelled the first court of inquiry and ordered another court of inquiry after the complainant made a second complaint which was similar to the first complaint. On completion of the second court of inquiry and subsequent proceedings, he was issued a tentative charge sheet.In his petition before the AFT, the officer has averred that it would be a complete travesty of justice and harassment if the second departmental inquiry could be ordered after the previous one has resulted in the complete and honourable discharge of the individual up to the stage of High Court. “Having gone through the record, we find a prima facie case is made out for staying the court of inquiry,” the Tribunal observed. Directing that the court of inquiry and all proceedings in pursuance to the issuance of the tentative charge sheet be kept in abeyance till further orders, the Tribunal said that the officer shall be permitted to be relieved from duties on completing his contract on December 31, 2021. The release would be subject to the final outcome of the case in the AFT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aft-stays-court-martial-proceedings-against-lieutenant-colonel-accused-of-improper-relationship-with-jawans-wife-354375
25-12-2021||Ambala||Volleyball meet ends at Ambala Central Jail||The final of an inter-block volleyball championship was played at the Ambala Central Jail today in which team Ashoka defeated team Shivaji by 2-1.Deputy Commissioner Vikram Singh, who was present as the chief guest, distributed prizes and medals among the players of the winning team. He congratulated the inmates who participated in the games and said they should continue to work with positive intent.Jail Superintendent Lakbir Singh Brar said the games were held to maintain the physical fitness of inmates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/volleyball-meet-ends-at-ambala-central-jail-354191
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man booked over voter card spat in Chandigarh||Blo suspendedChandigarh: A booth-level officer (BLO), Timar Basu, has been suspended in connection with the spat between the BJP and the Congress on Thursday. He reportedly got voter cards of Sector 34 residents distributed through some person. The Congress had alleged that a BJP man was giving cards to residents. This had led to a clash. TNSRs1.5 crore seized from 3 at LalruLalru: In a combing operation ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections, the police on Friday detained three car-borne persons with two bags containing Rs1.5 crore in cash at ITI Chowk here. After informing Japneet Kaur, Assistant Director, I-T Department, Mohali, the probe was handed over to the department. TNSI-League squad of RoundGlassChandigarh: RoundGlass Punjab FC have named a 27-member squad for the I-League. They are as follows: Goalkeepers: Lalthuammawia Ralte, Jaspreet Singh, Jaskaranbir Singh and Penand Singh; defenders: Aakash Sangwan, Rino Anto, Lalchhuanmawia Fanai, Josef Yarney (England), Bikash Yumnam, Saurabh Bhanwala and Gurtej Singh; midfielders: CK Vineeth, Kean Lewis, Denzil Kharshandi, Tongbram Maheson, Suranjit Singh, Shankar Sampingiraj, Ashis Pradhan, Freddy Lallawmawma, Rupert Nongrum and Joseba Beitia (Spain); forwards: Ashish Jha, Aphaoba Singh, Sumeet Passi, Robin Singh, Travis Major (Australia) and Kurtis Guthrie (England). TNSMobile phone snatchedChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants assaulted a man and fled away after snatching his mobile phone. According to the police, the complainant, Karan Sharma, reported that miscreants snatched his phone near the road separating Sector 35 and 36. The suspects also assaulted the victim. A case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNSBoy injured in hit-and-runChandigarh: A nine-year-old boy was injured after being hit by a rashly driven Brezza that sped away from the spot. The complainant, Pardeep Kumar, a resident of Sector 47, reported that a car hit his son Ayush outside their house on December 21. The boy was injured and admitted to a private hospital in Mohali. The car's number was provided to the police following which a case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNSPO nabbed at Ram darbarChandigarh: The police have nabbed a Hallo Majra resident, who was declared a proclaimed offender (PO) by the local court in October 2019. ASI Surjit Singh and Constable Krishan Kumar of the Sector 31 police station were on patrolling duty in Ram Darbar on December 23 when they nabbed the PO, identified as Ankit Kumar. He was produced in a court and sent to judicial custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-over-voter-card-spat-354190
25-12-2021||---||Mohali: Licences of 4 immigration firms cancelled||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 24The administration has cancelled the licences of four immigration firms and suspended the licences of another four firms found without valid documents recently.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia directed all Sub Divisional Magistrates and police officers to take strict action against fake travel agents.Officials said a list of 471 registered travel agents had been uploaded on the official website of Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar district.Under the Punjab Travel Professionals Regulation Act, 2012, passed by the Punjab Government, licences are issued to consultants, travel agencies, coaching institutes of IELTS, ticketing agents and general sales agents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/licences-of-4-immigration-firms-cancelled-354189
25-12-2021||---||Security up at Panchkula court complex||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 24In the wake of the Ludhiana court blast, the police here today strengthened security at the district courts complex in Sector 1.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa reviewed security arrangements at the courts complex this morning and issued an advisory to boost security in and around the building.An ACP rank officer had been appointed as nodal officer to look after the security of the complex, the DCP said.At entry and exit points, door frame metal detectors are in place and police personnel, equipped with handheld metal detectors, are deployed there, he added.Handa said they also organised regular meetings to review security at the complex.It had been instructed to check fire extinguishers installed at the complex and the operator had been put on alert.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/security-up-at-court-complex-354188
25-12-2021||Mohali||6,000 engineering students get degrees at Chandigarh Group of Colleges, Landran||Around 6,000 students of the engineering graduates of 2020-21were conferred degrees during the 15th annual convocation of the Chandigarh Group of Colleges, Landran, which concluded yesterday.Chief guest Prem Singh, Group CHRO of JK Organisation and president of National HRD Network, conferred the degrees on the students. He said, “We need a large number of passionate entrepreneurs in our nation and the way the CGC is nurturing innovation and research among students through its Atal Community Innovation Centre RISE Association, it is incredible. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-000-students-get-degrees-354187
25-12-2021||Mohali||2 held with 7 stolen phones||The police have arrested two suspects and recovered seven stolen mobile phones from them. The suspects, identified as Babban and Sahil, were booked under section 379-B of the IPC at the Phase-1 police station on Thursday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-with-7-stolen-phones-354186
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shuttler Vijayendra Kumar pips Dharminder||Vijayendra Kumar beat Dharminder Sharma 21-10, 21-7 to enter the men’s singles semifinals of the U-50 age category of the Maharaja Agrasen All-India Open Prize Money Masters Badminton Tournament.In the quarterfinals of the men’s singles (35 years age category, Pankaj Nathani defeated Dr Manish Chaudhry 21-14, 21-6 and Anuj Bhaskar beat Anish Sharma 21-13, 21-14. Peeyush Aggarwal defeated Kamal Vashishtha 21-11, 21-10. Akash Sethi beat Simardeep Singh 21-9, 17-21, 21-10. In the women’s singles, Sandhya Melasheemi defeated Kavita Kaul 21-1, 21-8 and Amit Jyoti beat Preetika Kakkar 21-8, 21-8. Kabra Prabina beat Nisha Jain 21-5, 21-5. Binny Bansal beat Nidhi Kumar 21-13, 21-16. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shuttler-vijayendra-pips-dharminder-354185
25-12-2021||---||Mohali to get 20 MGD of water daily from next year||Mohali, December 24As a New Year gift, residents of the city will get 20 MGD of uninterrupted water supply daily from the Kajauli waterworks from next year.This was stated by Mohali MLA and former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu who visited the water treatment plant at Shihpur (Kharar) on Friday. Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present.Sidhu sought complete information from the officials concerned about the plant. He said this was a huge project for the city and by successfully completing it, he had fulfilled another promise made to the people of Mohali.Sidhu said after the commencement of electricity connection in the next one week, the people of Mohali would be supplied 20 MGD of potable water daily. He said this was a great New Year gift for the people of the city and the project would ensure that there would be no shortage of potable water in Mohali for the next 20 years.He said Rs200 crore had been spent on the laying of pipelines from Kajauli to Mohali while Rs95 lakh was spent on the construction of the water-treatment plant alone. He said a 23-km pipeline had been laid under this project. The Rs300-crore project was very important to him and he was very happy and satisfied with its completion today.Sidhu said 20 MGD of water supply would reduce the dependence of the city on tubewells and would also help in conserving groundwater. He said the people of Mohali would not have to face any water crisis in the coming summer and the Kajauli water supply network would be laid across Mohali.It may be recalled here that Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi had filed a case in the High Court with regard to water shortage in Mohali.The MLA announced that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi would inaugurate the plant. “As soon as we get the power connection, testing will start and in the New Year, we will start operating the water-treatment plant,” he said.Jeeti Sidhu said with the expansion of the city, Mohali needed more water and now with the daily supply of 20 MGD of more water, Mohali would not have to face water scarcity for many years to come. The credit for this project goes to the MLA who had worked tirelessly for its completion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-get-20-mgd-of-water-daily-from-next-year-354184
25-12-2021||---||Will rid Punjab of corruption, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain tells bizmen in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, December 24Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has said businessmen of Punjab are setting up factories in other states but are afraid of running units in Punjab as leaders are asking for a share in their businesses.Jain held a meeting with traders and industrialists in the Dera Bassi Assembly constituency. He said corruption was rampant in Punjab due to which common man was getting poorer, while politicians were getting richer day by day. Jain assured the traders and businessmen that with the formation of the Aam Aadmi Party government, corruption would be eradicated from Punjab and a productive business environment would be created.Addressing the businessmen, Jain said the businessmen of the state knew how to vote and pay taxes. Political leaders, on the other hand, know how to misuse the power and taxpayers’ money. The ruling parties of Punjab such as the Akali Dal, the Congress and the BJP have jointly looted the treasury of Punjab. What is the reason that most Punjabi businessmen are successful in Canada today? “There is no bribery in Canada and it is easy to do business there,” said Jain.The Delhi Health Minister said big companies in the country were looting traders and people and these had been given security and freedom to loot by the ruling parties. The Kejriwal government in Delhi has stopped the looting of businessmen.Jain said AAP is going to form government in Punjab. Corruption and bribery will be stopped in the state on the second day after the formation of the government as AAP knows how to eradicate corruption, he added.‘Loot of state treasury’Addressing the businessmen, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the businessmen of the state knew how to vote and pay taxes. Political leaders, on the other hand, know how to misuse the power and taxpayers’ money. The ruling parties of Punjab such as the Akali Dal, the Congress and the BJP have jointly looted the treasury of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-rid-punjab-of-corruption-delhi-minister-tells-bizmen-354183
25-12-2021||---||Mohali: Youth Akali Dal protests case against Bikram Majithia||Mohali, December 24Members of the Youth Akali Dal today staged a protest in front of the office of Senior Superintendent of Police against the registration of a case against former Cabinet minister and senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia in Mohali.Led by the district president (Mohali, urban) of the Youth Akali Dal, Harmanpreet Singh Prince, and the district youth president (rural), Manjit Singh Malikpur, the protesters raised slogans against the state government. They warned the government that if the case registered against Majithia under political vendetta was not taken back, then they would be forced to intensify their stir.Addressing the gathering, Harmanpreet Singh said whenever the rogue forces had tried to suppress the Akali Dal, it had emerged stronger than ever. He said the present Congress government should keep in mind that the history of the Akali Dal was full of sacrifices and even today, the Akali workers would not shy away from making any major sacrifice.Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma said the Congress government of Punjab had registered a false case against former Cabinet Minister Bikram Singh Majithia to cover up its failures. It was the first time in the history of India that there was no complainant, no witness, no fact and still a drugs case had been registered against Majithia, alleged Sharma. If a case was to be registered, then it should be against Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu for his involvement in various scams, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yad-protests-case-against-majithia-354182
25-12-2021||---||MC to issue licences to 680 hawkers in Panchkula||Panchkula, December 24The Municipal Corporation has decided to issue licences to vegetable and fruit hawkers. Only licensed hawkers will be allowed to operate on streets.The monthly charge for licensed hawkers will be Rs3,000 for non-motorised carts and Rs5,000 for motorised carts.“For obtaining the licence, hawkers can submit their applications to the Superintendent of the enforcement wing between December 27 and 31 at the Sector 12 community centre,” said Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal today.The licences would be issued on a first-come-first-served basis. For now, only 680 hawkers (20 in each sector) will be issued licences.The mandatory documents to be submitted with the application are a passport size photograph and a copy of Aadhaar card. “The push carts of hawkers found roaming around without a proper licence will be impounded,” MC officials said.A decision to issue licences was taken at a recent meeting of general House the MC.According to officials, vendors, who have been allotted spaces in vending zones, will not be allowed to submit their application for the licence. Similarly, the licensed hawkers will not be allowed to operate in the vending zones.“It is big step towards making the city encroachment-free,” said Goyal. A total of 16 vending zones are to be set up in the city. At least eight will be built in the trans-Ghaggar sectors.Eight vending zones have been established in Sector 2, 4, 8, 10, 11, 12, 15 and 19 in which a total of 778 sites have been allotted. However, most of the vendors who have been allotted sites in the Sector 19 vending zone (the first and biggest) were yet to take possession despite repeated warnings.Street vendors in Sector 20 had recently protested against the MC for “conducting an eviction drive without allocating them space in vending zones.” They had alleged that civic body was acting against the Street Vendors Act by snatching their livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-to-issue-licences-to-680-hawkers-in-panchkula-354181
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Leopard found dead in Nepli Range of Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary||A nearly five-year-old male leopard was found dead in Nepli Range of the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary on Thursday. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said no injury mark was visible on the body.A panel of three veterinary doctors, comprising experts from the UT Animal Husbandry Department, Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Wildlife Department conducted the post-mortem to find out the cause of the death.Dalai said the panel would submit its report on Monday. He, however, ruled out hunting as all claws of the leopard were found intact. — TNSNo injury markDebendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said no injury mark was visible on the body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-found-dead-in-nepli-354180
25-12-2021||---||Not vaccinated? Can't enter public places in Chandigarh from January 1||Chandigarh, December 24The UT Administration has decided to restrict the entry of unvaccinated individuals to public places, hotels, banks and government offices from January 1. Over 1.85 lakh beneficiaries are yet to take their second dose as they have failed to turn up on the due date.The Administration said the decision had been taken to ensure the safety of non-vaccinated adults as they should not visit public spaces and stay at their residences as the “threat of Omicron looms large”. “In view of the new variant of concern, Omicron, persons who are not fully vaccinated are required to take more precautions. All adults who have not yet taken both doses of the Covid vaccine should remain at their residences and should not visit public places/markets/functions/public transport/religious places,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Non-vaccinated persons will have to refrain from coming to public places with large gatherings such as the sabzi mandi, grain market, parks, religious places, malls and shopping complexes. Here, only fully vaccinated adults or those who are not due for the second dose as per the health protocol would be allowed.Violation of these orders will attract a fine of Rs500 and non-payment of the fine by the violator will attract proceedings under Section 188 of the IPC. All additional/joint commissioners, Municipal Corporation, medical officer of health, medical officers as designated by the Director, Health and Family Welfare, UT, station house officers and any other officer/official specifically designated by the Deputy Commissioner have been designated for enforcing these directions.The entry is also restricted at all government/board/corporation offices, hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, gyms and fitness centres and both private and government sector banks. “A large number of beneficiaries are “due and overdue” since long for the second dose of the Covid vaccine.4 cases, no fatality in Mohali districtMohali: Four fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 69,081. No new death was reported, while two patients were cured. Among the new cases, one was reported from Kharar and three from Mohali (urban). Of the 69,081 cases in the district so far, 67,962 patients have been cured. There are now 45 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,074. TNS12 found infected in city, no deathChandigarh: The city on Friday reported 12 cases of Covid-19. There was no death due to the virus, while six patients were cured of the disease. TNS2 fresh cases in Panchkula distPanchkula: The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 30,929. The toll remained at 381. While 30,501 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 381 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.61 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-vaccinated-cant-enter-public-places-in-ut-from-jan-1-354179
25-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Dwellers of Chandigarh colonies, slums vote for a change this time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24Despite facing dejection many times from their previous candidates, residents of colonies in the UT turned up to cast their ballot with a fresh ray of hope, even as the motive behind voting — “development and change” — did not change over the years.Pigeonhole dwellers of colonies and slum clusters of Hallo Majra, Ram Darbar and Behlana flocked to polling booths in multitudes since morning unlike sectors where voters turned up in the latter part of the day.“We’ve seen these candidates come and go and our roads remain as full of potholes as ever. There is no one toclean the muck despite complaints made to councillors.We are living in hell-like conditions since ages, but here we are yet again, casting our votes in a grim hope that thingswill change. Can’t believe we are living in Chandigarh, which is called the City Beautiful,” said Shiv Kumar, a resident of Hallo Majra.Other women voters had concerns for their daughters as the colonies are no more a safe place to live, colony residents felt.Rina Pandey, a 40-year-old from Ram Darbar, said, “We are voting for a new candidate this time as we have tried candidates from both parties previously. None of them worked for the welfare of women. All we ask for is to make Ram Darbar safe for girls and women. There is a gang culture here and crimes are committed openly. I want to work but cannot leave my children at home as it is not safe here.”Rajni (20) of Behlana, who is pursuing BA, exercised her right to franchise for the first time today. Sharing her experience, she said, “I asked my mother to accompany me to the polling station. It is a whole new and different experience. I am voting for a change in the conditions of our area. I do not feel safe in my locality and hope the elected leader addresses these issues on priority.”AAP, Cong face-offChandigarh: Workers of AAP and the Congress had a heated argument outside a polling booth at the PU. AAP leader Chandermukhi Sharma opposed presence of a large group of “outsiders” near a polling station. He alleged that they were from the Congress. On getting information, a police team reached there. Later, the matter was resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dwellers-of-colonies-slums-vote-for-a-change-this-time-354178
25-12-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid patient father-son duo reaches Chandigarh polling station in PPE kits||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24Casting a vote brings a sense of empowerment. It is an opportunity to decide who will be the in-charge of your area. This was stated by a 21-year-old Covid patient, who, along with his father (also a Covid patient), turned up to cast his vote at a polling station in Sector 21.The young Covid patient, who voted for the first time in the MC elections, said, “I did not want to lose the opportunity to cast my vote when the government facilitated us in exercising our right to franchise. We did so with pride as we donned PPE kits and were escorted with a health team in an ambulance.”“There are a lot of issues in my area that needs to be addressed and I believed that every vote counted for choosing the right leader,” he said.The father-son duo reached the polling station at 4:50 pm and polled at 6 pm. Initially, when they reached the venue, local voters started objecting to their presence as they feared contracting the infection. The duo was asked to wait until everyone left the polling station.The 61-year-old Covid patient said, “It is our duty to vote and we were very particular about it. We never missed voting. The arrangements were satisfactory for patients and the escorting staff was very supportive.”There are 97 active Covid patients in the city at the moment and all were contacted to cast their vote by the UT Health Department team. However, only two turned up for polling. This is the first election ever since the pandemic and also the first time when Covid patients had come to exercise their right to vote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/father-son-duo-reaches-polling-station-in-ppe-kits-354177
25-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Fully enthused, residents of 13 merged Chandigarh villages vote for 1st time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24Brimming with enthusiasm, residents of 13 villages turned out in large numbers to cast their votes for the first time in the Municipal Corporation (MC) election with a hope to get better services, on a par with their urban brethren.The 13 villages, including Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas, had merged with the MC after the term of their panchayats ended in January 2019. These villages have a population of more than 50,000.The Ward No. 1 comprising Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu and Khuda Lahora villages and Khuda Lahora Colony witnessed 71.95 per cent polling. Similar pattern was reported from Ward No. 8 consisting of Mauli Jagran, Raipur Kalan, Raipur Khurd and Makhan Majra villages where polling was 68.86 per cent.Meanwhile, 71.48 per cent polling was witnessed in Ward No. 15 comprising Sarangpur village and the Rehabilitation Colony, Dhanas.Radhe Shyam, (47), a resident of Kishangarh village, said, “After the election, we want the councillor to raise our issues at an appropriate platform and also get them resolved at the earliest.”Manjeet Singh of Khuda Lahora said he was looking forward to getting things streamlined for the village under the new system. He said they now wanted that the issue of regularisation of constructions outside the ‘lal dora’ should be resolved as the earliest. “After the merger of the villages with the MC, the ‘lal dora’ should not have any significance and it should be abolished as done by many state governments,” he said.With the merger of the 13 villages, the numbers of wards of the MC have increased from 26 to 35. Earlier, only nine out of 22 villages in the city were under the jurisdiction of the civic body.Coming out of a polling booth after casting her vote, Rajmeet Kaur of Daria village said they hope for timely recarpeting of roads, improvement in water supply and better sanitation in the villages.Groom votesA groom, Constable Navjeevan of the Punjab Police, exercised his right to vote at a polling station in Khuda Ali Sher. “It’s my wedding today. First, I will vote and then my barat will go to Phagwara. Every vote counts, so I would tell people to make sure they go and vote,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fully-enthused-residents-of-13-merged-villages-vote-for-1st-time-354176
25-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||60.45% voters show up, seal fate of 203 candidates in Chandigarh MC polls||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24The MC poll today saw 60.45 per cent voters exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 203 candidates in the fray from 35 wards in the city.The percentage this time is a tad better than the previous two MC elections. In the 2016 MC poll, 59.54 per cent voting was recorded, while in 2011, 59.84 per cent polling was witnessed.While the morning hours witnessed a low voter turnout, the voting percentage increased as the day progressed. Between the start of polling at 7.30 am and 10 am, only 12.37 per cent voters had turned up at 694 polling booths.Bogus voting?By 1 pm, the voting percentage had touched 33.7 per cent, which further rose to 46.9 per cent by 3 pm.Serpentine queues were witnessed in Maloya, Daria, Ram Darbar, Kishangarh, Dhanas, Indira Colony, and some villages and colonies.As a result, though voting was to end at 5 pm, in several wards, it continued till late in the evening. The last ballot was cast at 8.45 pm. “All those who reached by 5 pm were allowed to vote. We gave coupons to them. Voting continued till 8.45 pm,” said K Bhandari, OSD to the State Election Commissioner, UT.To ensure the Covid protocol inside the polling stations, face masks were distributed among voters and hand sanitisers were made available. However, social distancing went for a toss at many polling stations.Wheelchairs for physically challenged voters were found missing in various polling stations. Two Covid positive patients also exercised their right to vote. The highest number of votes was polled in ward number 16, where 72.81 per cent voters cast their ballot. Ward number 23 (Sector 34, 35, 43) saw the lowest voting of 42.66 per cent.The counting of votes will be held on December 27 and the results will be declared by afternoon.Polling agents not allowed to enter?Supporters of candidates protested at two polling stations at Hallo Majra and Colony No. 4, Industrial Area.Kripanand Thakur, Independent candidate, alleged that at the Hallo Majra polling station, his polling agent had gone outside to answer the call of nature. When she returned, she was not allowed to enter. “The Congress candidate’s polling agent was also not allowed,” he alleged. His supporters protested against officials.Shashi Shankar Tiwari, head of the Azad Front, alleged that all polling agents except those of the BJP were sent outside the polling station at the electricity office near Colony No. 4 at 4.30 pm.Tiwari alleged they were let in after 45 minutes following protests by his supporters. He alleged there could have been some rigging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-45-voters-show-up-seal-fate-of-203-candidates-in-city-354175
