26-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Two more people test positive for Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Chandigarh||Two more people, including an 80-year-old man who is a patient of hypertension, have tested positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Chandigarh.The samples of five family contacts of previous Omicron positive case were sent for genome sequencing to NCDC, New Delhi.Two of these were found to be positive for Omicron variant.One of them is an 80-year-old male, who is a patient of hypertension but is asymptomatic. He has been isolated in hospital. On last re-test on December 24, he was again tested positive. He will be re-tested again on January 1.The second is a 45-year-old male, who was reported as RTPCR negative on December 24 and stands discharged.Genome sequencing report of remaining three is pending but they all have tested negative on RTPCR retesting on December 24 and discharged.Total Omicron cases reported till date- 3Discharged- 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-people-test-positive-for-omicron-variant-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-354692
26-12-2021||Vijay Mohan||DRDO explores plant-based compounds to tackle muscular impairment at high altitude||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is exploring the feasibility of using plant-based compounds to counter skeletal muscle  impairments individuals deployed in high altitude areas.Known as polyphenols, certain plant-based compounds have shown anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory properties and appear to mainly act by reversing oxidative stress and cell membrane dysfunction to eventually ameliorate skeletal muscle impairments.Polyphenols, abundantly available in edible plants, have shown great potential in therapeutics and are vital for health as they regulate metabolic disorders, chronic illness, obesity, cancer, etc. Recent research has also portrayed polyphenols as a performance enhancer.“The available literature recommends that bio-active polyphenols with their potential anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory properties could be a probable solution for high altitude induced skeletal muscle impairments and thereby improving performance,” a study published recently by scientists at DRDO’s Defence Institute of Physiology and Allied Sciences has suggested.Pointing out that hypobaric hypoxia induced skeletal muscle responses show a dynamic feature that is dependent on the duration of hypoxic exposure and availability of oxygen percentage, the study observed that skeletal muscles are tolerant to hypoxia to a certain limit, that is, 2,000-3,000 metres. Climbing over 3,500 metres engenders severe oxidative muscle damage and decline in physical performance, which demands a promising therapeutic agent, the study said.Hypobaric hypoxia is explained as a medical condition resulting from deficiency in the amount of oxygen reaching the body tissues in an environment where the atmospheric pressure is low due to the increase in altitude. Apart from naturally occurring compounds, synthetic or laboratory produced therapeutic agents to mitigate such muscular degeneration are also under investigation.Extreme environmental conditions prevailing in extreme environmental conditions at high altitude induce skeletal muscle atrophy in unacclimatised persons, impair skeletal muscle physiology, decrease regeneration and decelerate physical activity. This is because of lower levels of atmospheric oxygen, which is a very essential ingredient for cellular aerobic respiration, enzyme activity and protein synthesis.Turmeric, red grapes, berries, peanuts, rhodiola and green tea are some of the examples listed in the study which contain significant amounts of polyphenols, like curcumin, catechins, resveratrol, quercetin, salidroside which are believed to have significant therapeutic potential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/drdo-explores-plant-based-compounds-to-tackle-muscular-impairment-at-high-altitude-354675
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||MC officials deterred  from doing duty in Chandigarh||A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-officials-deterred-from-doing-duty-in-chandigarh-354565
26-12-2021||Workers carry out a final inspection of CCTV cameras on the road separating Sector 27 and 28 in Chandigarh on Saturday. The UT Administration has installed nearly 300 CCTV cameras across the city to penalise traffic violators. The system will be made operational in January next year. A total of 2||Traffic violators beware!||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-violators-beware-354559
26-12-2021||Mohali||2 arrested with 300-gm heroin||Woman’s purse stolen in Sec 22Chandigarh: An unknown person stole a purse of a Sector 35 resident from an ATM booth in Sector 22-C here on December 24. According to the complainant, the purse contained an ATM card, a pearl necklace and documents. On the statement of the woman, a case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNS4 booked for attacking manChandigarh: Rakesh, a resident of Sector 52, alleged that Charanjit Singh, Rohit, alias Ghona, and two others attacked him with a sharp weapon near the Khera Mandir park in Sector 52 on December 23. The complainant, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the GMSH-16. A case under Sections 323, 324 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNSChess: 4 claim lead on Day 1Chandigarh: Aryan Arora, Swastik Singhal, Agaaz Bansal and Pratyaksh Goel claimed joint lead by scoring 2½ points each in the U-20 open category during the opening day of the U-20, U-16, U-12 and U-8 (open and girls) Chess Championship - 2021. Harsh Yakhmi and Krish Gupta scored 2 points each to remain at the second spot. In the U-16 open category, Aditya Singla (2 points) claimed the lead, followed by Atharav Singh Naruka and Aaditya Singla (1½ points). In the U-12 category, Ayaan Garg, Ekaaksha Partap Singh Negi and Vedant Garg (3 points) claimed the joint lead. In the U-8 category, Udyaansh Goyal claimed lead by scoring 2 points. TNSJaiveer shines in equestrian meetChandigarh: Local equestrian Jaiveer Makkar, a student of Doon School, bagged a silver medal in the Junior National Equestrian Championship - 2021 at the Amateur Riding Club (Mahaluxmi Race Course), Mumbai. Makkar also claimed fourth position in the show jumping (accumulator) event. He clocked a perfect round of 33.58 seconds with 65 points. He was leading the show till his fellow rider Geetika Tikkeitty clocked a timing of 32.88 seconds. However, her horse was too fast and went out of control, which led to her jumping the fence out of the arena. Makkar, meanwhile, showed a true sportsmanship and decided to file an objection. The championship witnessed a neck-to-neck competition with about 100 entries from the finest riders across the country. TNSSia makes it to tennis finalMohali: Sixth seed Sia Mahajan overpowered a tough challenge by Rubani Sidhu (7-5, 4-6, 6-2) to reach the girls’ U-16 final in the ongoing Roots-AITA National Ranking Tennis Championship, on Saturday. She will face Vishita Jhorar, who defeated Jhanvi Bhat (6-3, 6-1), in the title clash. In the boys’ U-16 semis, Krish Ajay Tyagi defeated Vansh Nandal (6-3, 6-4) and Hitesh Chauhan ousted Arjun Rathi (6-1, 6-3). In the boys’ doubles U-16 final, Hitesh Chauhan and Krish Tyagi defeated Vansh Nandal and Dhruv Sachdeva. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-with-300-gm-heroin-354557
26-12-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Agriculture Minister gives grant for works||The state government is committed for the overall development of rural as well as urban areas, this was stated by Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister, during a function at the BDPO Amloh.He said to date more than Rs 93 crore had been spent for the development of rural areas in Amloh constituency. Besides, Rs 2.5 crore has been sanctioned and is being handed over to panchayats, he said while addressing the gathering at a function organised to distribute grants to rural people. The minister handed over cheques for about Rs 4.88 crore for the development of villages and the amount was transferred to the beneficiaries accounts for the renovation of their houses.He called upon the people not to fall into the trap of false promises being made by leaders coming from Delhi. Earlier, he handed over approximately 3,000 sports cycles to school students at Amloh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/agriculture-minister-gives-grant-for-works-354556
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haroon-Suchitra in badminton final||The second seed pair of Haroon Rashid and Suchitra Misra reached the 45+ mixed doubles final by defeating Sunil Dutt Tyagi and Rekha Singh in the ongoing Maharaja Agrasen All-India Open Prize Money Masters Badminton Tournament at the Sector 38 Sports Complex here today.Meanwhile, Sandhya Melasheemi defeated Kabra Prabinu to win the women’s 35+ final. In the men’s 35+ singles semi-final, fourth seed Peeyush Aggarwal stunned second seed Akash Sethi in straight games. In the 35+ men’s doubles semis, Pankaj Nathani and Peeyush Aggarwal defeated Aman Saxena and Mohammed Danish Khan, while Lakhwinder Sigh Punnu and Varun Sharma ousted Akash Sethi and Paras Gupta.In women’s semis, Lavita Singhal and Sandhya defeated Pema Landon and Rupali Gupta, while Aneesha Mehta and Kabra Prabinu outplayed Parul Boro and Tanu Narang. In the mixed doubles, Varun Sharma and Sandhya made it to the final by defeating Mandeep Kang and Samarjit Kaur.In the men’s 40+ semis, top seed Abhinn Shyam Gupta defeated Vinay Bhalla. Lakhwinder also logged an easy win over Manoj Tiwari.In one of the women’s semis, Manishi Singh defeated Nalini Malik. In the women’s doubles 40+ event, Madhusmita Deka and Sushila Kajla defeated Nilakshi Bhatnagar and Rupali Gupta and Manishi Singh and Nalini Malik outplayed Geeta Aggarwal and Geeta Mahajan. In mixed doubles semis, Mit Adhyaru and Sheetal Somani outplayed Manoj Tiwari and Sejal Seth, whereas Jaideep Kohli and Sushila Kajla defeated Ashish Kumar Sharma and Rupali Gupta.Taw wins women’s 40+ titleTaw Yania defeated top seed Suchitra Misra to win the women’s 40+ final. In the men’s 45+ semis, Lalit Yadav defeated Anil K Srivastava and Ajanta Choudhury ousted Md Saleem. In the women’s 45+ semis, Suchitra Misra defeated Farogh Mukadam and Taw ousted Rinku Bharadwaj. In the mixed doubles 50+ semis, the pair of Navdeep Singh and Rachna Garg defeated Amrit Versha Kohli and Vikram Bhasin, while Rajneesh Bhatia and Seema Saini defeated Rajpal Singh and Rashmi Thakral.Ram winner in 55+ categoryTop seed Ram Lakhan defeated Jayprakash to win the men’s 55+ final. Philip Bency won the men’s 65+ title by defeating Anil Mittal. Anil Mittal and Sanjay Parande won men’s doubles 65+ final by defeating Balbir Singh Jamwal and Sat Pal Angurala. Basant Kumar Shikari and Yogendra Kumar Jaiswal won the men’s doubles 70+ final by registering a win over Darayus Surti and Jairaj Ge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haroon-suchitra-in-badminton-final-354554
26-12-2021||---||Road accident victim succumbs to injuries at PGI||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 25A road accident victim, who was fighting for his life at the PGI, Chandigarh, succumbed to his injuries on Friday.The victim, identified as Brijpal (40), a resident of Beed Ghaggar area in Chandimandir, met with an accident on December 21.Brijpal’s wife Anita, in her complaint to the police, said her husband had left for the office on a scooter in the morning of December 21.“Around 8.30 am, I got a call informing that my husband’s scooter was hit by a car near the Bella Vista chowk,” the complainant said in the FIR.The victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, from where he was referred to the PGI.A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-accident-victim-succumbs-to-injuries-at-pgi-354553
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Purohit pays floral tributes to Vajpayee on birth anniv||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit paid floral tributes to former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his 97th birth anniversary.In a ceremony organised at the Punjab Raj Bhawan, Purohit along with officials of the Raj Bhawan paid tributes to the former PM.Remembering Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary, the Governor said he was a distinguished leader, a politician par excellence, a selfless social worker and a remarkable orator who set an example of good governance in India with politics based on ideological principles.Purohit said celebrating his birth anniversary as ‘Good Governance Day’ and re-dedicating ourselves to this cause was the real tribute to this great leader of the masses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/purohit-pays-floral-tributes-to-vajpayee-on-birth-anniv-354552
26-12-2021||Mohali||Award for Chitkara varsity alumna||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/award-for-chitkara-varsity-alumna-354550
26-12-2021||---||Special checking drive at mall in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 25The police today carried out a special checking drive at VR Punjab mall under the supervision of SP (Rural) Manpreet Singh and Balongi SHO Inspector Rajpal Singh Gill in view of festive season and the bomb blast in Ludhiana.A sniffer dog squad and an anti-sabotage team combed the area. Special nakas were also installed on the main entrance of Balongi near the cremation ground and the Sikh Museum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-checking-drive-at-mall-in-mohali-354549
26-12-2021||---||RoundGlass Punjab FC to start new campaign today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25RoundGlass Punjab FC is all set to begin its Hero I-League 2021-22 campaign against newly-promoted Rajasthan United FC at Kalyani Stadium tomorrow.“It has been good 11 weeks of preparation in the pre-season. A big plus for us is that we head into the first game with all players available and no injury worries. We feel that we’ve worked well and now we’re in a position where we are ready for the game. Lads are excited to play tomorrow. The match has come at a good time for us. We feel well-prepared and, hopefully, we can put on a good performance,” said Head Coach Ashley Westwood.Defender Gurtej Singh said: “Our preparation has been good after 11 weeks here in Kolkata and the squad is gelling together well. The bonding in the team is great and we have a wonderful mix of young and senior players. Everyone is working hard in training and we’re all ready to go for tomorrow’s match.”Over the transfer window, RoundGlass Punjab FC strengthened its ranks with highly experienced Indian stars such as CK Vineeth, Robin Singh, and Rino Anto, who will now be seen playing alongside players from the last season like Bikash Yumnam, Saurabh Bhanwala and Aakash Sangwan. Spanish midfielder Joseba Beitia will continue from the last season, with defender Josef Yarney and forwards Kurtis Guthrie and Travis Major being the three new additions to the Club’s foreign contingent.The team took 10-weeks pre-season training in Kolkata, which began on October 8, and entered the League’s bio-bubble on December 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roundglass-punjab-fc-to-start-new-campaign-today-354548
26-12-2021||---||Another member of gang involved in 'sextortion' held||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 25The police arrested the third member of a gang allegedly involved in “making obscene video calls and luring others to join them on social media platforms” to blackmail and extort money from them. 2 nabbed earlierThe police had earlier arrested Nasir Mohammad, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, and Kushanpal, a resident of Agra in Uttar Pradesh, of the gang that blackmailed a local resident with obscene video calls and extorted Rs16 lakh from him.The suspect, identified as Kuldeep Kumar of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, was nabbed at Bhiwadi yesterday. So far, the police have seized Rs3.87 lakh from the three suspects arrested in the case.The police had earlier arrested Nasir Mohammad, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, and Kushanpal, a resident of Agra in Uttar Pradesh, of the gang that blackmailed a local resident with obscene video calls and extorted Rs16 lakh from him.On July 8, the Sector 20 police had received a complaint through the DCP office from a resident of Youngman Housing Society about ‘sextortion’.The victim informed the police that he received a friend request from someone claiming to be a woman. When he accepted the request, the woman asked him to chat on WhatsApp.While communicating on WhatsApp, the woman made an obscene video call to the victim and asked him to join her. The woman recorded the video call and started blackmailing him.The woman later started sharing screenshots of the video call with the victim’s friends. She asked the victim to transfer Rs1.48 lakh to a bank account.According to the police, the victim also received a threatening call from a person who identified himself as Gaurav Malhotra and end up losing over Rs16 lakh.Fed up of the harassment, the victim finally approached the police. A case in this regard was registered at the Sector 20 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-member-of-gang-involved-in-sextortion-held-354547
26-12-2021||Mohali||Auditorium to come up on 2.5 acres in Sector 78||An auditorium will come up on 2.5 acres at Sector 78 here in the city. The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has allotted land for the purpose.Disclosing this, former Health Minister and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said a letter regarding allotment of land by GMADA had been handed over to the Municipal Corporation. He said the auditorium would be constructed within a period of three years and at a cost of Rs15 crore.He said the auditorium would be bigger and more magnificent than Tagore Theatre in Chandigarh. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi would soon lay its foundation stone and kickstart the construction work, he added.Sidhu said there would be a large parking lot as well as a huge auditorium hall. The complex will have a lift and rooms. He said Mohali was becoming a major industrial hub and arrangements would be made to hold conferences in the auditorium. Sidhu added that with this, a long-pending demand of Mohali residents was met. He said the auditorium would give impetus to the theatre art here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auditorium-to-come-up-on-2-5-acres-in-sector-78-354546
26-12-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Panchkula district police battle staff shortage||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 25The district police are facing shortage of staff as the department is functioning with the strength approved on the 1991 Census even though new police stations and police posts were created after Panchkula was declared a district in 1995. Sec 14 police station, 5 posts sans staffAlthough the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) has written letters to the top officials, no action has been taken to improve the khaki strength.In reply to an RTI application, the DCP stated that a proposal had been sent to the top officials on December 8 last year for approving a total of 841 posts, including 42 of sub-inspector, 106 of assistant sub-inspector, 215 of head constable and 478 of constable.In the motor transport branch of the local police, only 78 cops have been approved for 100 four-wheelers while this branch needs another 240 men in uniform. As many as 81 cops are required for PCR vehicles and motorcycles, which have not approved posts.As per a report of the Bureau of Police Research and Development, 114 cops are required in each police station, but on an average there are only 20 to 30 in each police station of Panchkula. Now, the situation is that no police personnel are on deputation in the Police Commissionerate, Panchkula, whereas a total of 320 cops from here are on deputation in other stations while about 300 police personnel are on duty at the Haryana Police Headquarter and on temporary duty with various units of the Haryana Police. This comes to 25 per cent of the total sanctioned strength of the Panchkula police.The RTI reply revealed that not a single post had been sanctioned for the Sector 14 police station. Besides, there are five police outposts in Sector 2, 6, 10, Ramgarh and Madhawala where not a single post has been approved. Interestingly, these police posts are still functioning.Vijay Bansal, an advocate and president of Shivalik Vikas Manch, has sent a letter to state Home Minister Anil Vij on behalf of the general public and requested for providing providing force in all police stations and police posts in the district to maintain law and order.Bansal said according to the RTI reply, Panchkula district bordered the two states of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh and a UT, Chandigarh, and there was a need for increasing the detective staff in the crime branch to check unlawful activities. At present, only 28 posts are approved for the crime branch, while the requirement is of 60 posts. Similarly, only 19 posts are approved for the detective wing, for which a total of 53 posts are required.Bansal said the then Chief Minister late Bhajan Lal had approved six police stations and four police posts for Panchkula district when its total population as per the 1991 Census was 3,10,396. The district population rose to 5,61,396 in the 2011 Census. At present, there are 11 police stations and 16 police posts in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-dist-police-battle-staff-shortage-354545
26-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Heaters installed at aviary to keep birds warm||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25The UT Forests and Wildlife Department has installed five heaters inside the Chandigarh Bird Park to keep the birds warm during winter.Over 70,000 persons have visited the park since its openingThe bird park was inaugurated by Savita Kovind, First Lady of India, on November 16. More than 70,000 people have visited the park since it was thrown open to the public on November 17. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, said they were getting more than 15,000 visitors every week. People not only from the city but also neighbouring states were coming in large numbers to see the exotic birds. However, the department has decided to keep the park closed every Monday and Tuesday to give rest to the birds and to carry out necessary maintenance works.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, said they had placed five heaters inside the enclosures to keep the birds warm during these harsh winter conditions. To ensure the safety of the birds, the heaters have been placed at such strategic locations that the birds don’t come in direct contact of the devices, he said, adding that it was likely to increase the temperature inside the enclosures by up to 10 degrees.He said the department was also using polythene sheets to cover the sides and top of the enclosure to keep the birds warm.The department has established the Bird Park on 6.5 acres at Nagar Van behind the Sukhna Lake. The facility has got two small aviaries and two walk-through ones. The structure surrounds thousands of plants of varying canopies, which give an ideal habitat, food and shelter for these birds so that they can freely fly and breed.The department has planned the enclosure in such a way that the birds, apart from having a free flight and nesting in the natural habitat, will stay at the aviary and visitors will be able to walk past them.The park’s lush green spaces are covered by terrestrial plants, ferns, shrubs, bushes, aquatic plants, trees and creepers to provide every bird with an environment that is perfectly suited to its unique needs. Herbs, shrubs and trees have been planted to suit the birds’ natural habitat.Dalai said ample space for each and every bird had been provided to the birds in the park, which has 58-foot flying height and nearly 200x150 feet of ground area each for terrestrial birds and aquatic birds.The park has African love birds, budgerigars, white swan, black swan, wood duck, golden pheasant, yellow golden pheasant, green wing macaw, African grey parrot, finches and melanistic pheasant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heaters-installed-at-aviary-to-keep-birds-warm-354543
26-12-2021||Mohali||15 BSF personnel test positive in Mohali||10 cases in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Saturday reported 10 cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Eight more patients have got the better of the disease. The city has so far seen 65,764 cases. While 64,581 patients have recovered from the disease, 105 cases are still active. —TNS9 more infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported nine fresh cases of coronavirus on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 30,938. While 30,505 patients have recovered from the infectious disease, 52 cases are still active. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-bsf-personnel-test-positive-in-mohali-354542
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Waste  collection starts in 26 more areas of Chandigarh||Keeping in view the Swachhta mission, the Municipal Corporation has started waste collection through its two-bin vehicles from 26 unserviced residential areas in the city.Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said these unserviced areas included villages, pockets of some sectors and Mani Majra. More than 80 garbage-collection vehicles have been pressed into service besides non-mechanised rehris to collect garbage from narrow lanes in these areas.She said areas such as Burail, Hallo Majra, Adarsh Colony, Butrela, Maloya, Industrial Area (Phase 2), Sector 42, 52 and others were being covered under the initiative from today.Anindita said this step would not only facilitate the citizens but also result in the removal of garbage points, waste segregation at source, overall better waste management, giving the city a cleaner look. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-collection-starts-in-26-more-areas-of-ut-354540
26-12-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Traffic jams mar X-mas fervour||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25The Christmas fervour overflowed on to the tricity roads as massive rush was witnessed for most part of the day on the main roads. It started building up in the day time and by the evening, it was choc-a-block situation around major commercial hubs.The main road from Tribune Chowk to the Transport light points witnessed bumper-to-bumper traffic as vehicles moved towards shopping malls in the Industrial Area, Chandigarh. Revellers heading to Shimla for the Christmas celebrations got stuck in massive traffic jams on the Chandigarh-Mani Majra road. With severe cold weather predicted in the coming days, youngsters and families are headed uphill in the hope of witnessing the fresh snowfall.“We are caught in the traffic jam here only. God only knows when we will reach Shimla,” said Bharti Arora, a resident of Ambala.At the Industrial Area, a massive vehicular movement kept the traffic police on their toes as frequent traffic jams were witnessed.The daily commute on the Chandigarh-Zirakpur went haywire in the evening as queues stretching up to 1 km were witnessed.The Patiala chowk, VIP Road, Zirakpur-Shimla light point under the flyover and the K-area light point remained clogged for most part of the day. Long queues of vehicles were seen on the flyover towards the Chandigarh side around 6 pm.Residents of Zirakpur said it was a nightmarish situation on the roads as there was chaos on the road in the evening.Commuters said the vehicular underpass under construction near Chandigarh-Zirakpur border is turning out to be an excruciating bottleneck even on normal days and the makeshift arrangement on the slip road is just not enough. “The Punjab PWD and the NHAI urgently need to widen the road to ensure a smooth flow of traffic. Given the construction work will take more than a year, diverting the traffic on the slip roads is not the solution. Now that the digging work has begun on the Zirakpur-Chandigarh road side, the traffic jams have increased,” said Shristi Sachdeva, teacher of a government school who commutes from Chandigarh to Dera Bassi daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-jams-mar-x-mas-fervour-354539
26-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||After month-long hectic campaign schedule, candidates get time to relax||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25After a month of hectic election campaigning and a day after voting, candidates in the fray got some free time today. Some took rest, spent time with their families, partied with their near and dear ones, while the others returned to their professional routine.Senior Deputy Mayor and BJP candidate from Ward Number 2 Maheshinder Singh Sidhu returned to his fitness routine what he loves most, besides taking stock of works in the ward.“After meeting people in the morning over a cup of coffee, I took a round of the ward to have a look at the ongoing MC works, as I couldn’t monitor the progress of these works in the past few days due to the hectic election schedule. After many days, I returned to the gym and had a walk at the Sukhna Lake in the evening,” shared the young leader.For the sitting woman councillor, Gurbax Rawat, who is a Congress candidate from Ward Number 27, it was an enjoyable day. She got to do a cameo for the role of Lord Rama at an event held at Tagore Theatre, Sector 18.“I had fun today. At an event where people from parts of Chandigarh were asked to come in the attire of Lord Ramchanderji, I dressed as Rama and took part in the event. Besides, I took out some time for myself,” said a smiling Gurbax.Congress candidate from Ward Number 10 Harpreet Kaur Babla, along with her husband Devinder Singh Babla and the other members of the family, spent time at their Mullanpur farmhouse.“After a gruelling election schedule, the day was well spent with the family at our farmhouse in Mullanpur. It was a relaxed morning catching up and playing with my granddaughter. In the morning, I personally called and thanked all my supporters for their unprecedented support and efforts they had made all these days,” said Harpreet.Ward Number 11 candidate of the BJP Anup Gupta, the richest candidate in the fray with assets worth Rs45 crore, including those of his wife, returned to business after spending time with his family.“The business is always on, even if I am not at the workplace physically. But today, after many days, I went to my work. I also got to spend some free time with my family members,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-month-long-hectic-campaign-schedule-candidates-get-time-to-relax-354538
26-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||9 counting centres set up across Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 25Nine vote counting centres have been set up by the State Election Commission, UT, and the final results will be known by around 2 pm on Monday.Location of the centresThe outcome of each round will be updated after every hour at the tents outside the counting centres as well as on the Nigam Chunav App of the commission.“Since there were 26 wards last year, the final results were out around 1 pm. This time, the results should be known by 2 pm,” said K Bhandari, OSD to the Election commissioner, while talking to Chandigarh Tribune.According to him, the strongrooms where 694 EVMs have been kept will be opened at 7:30 am so that mechanised counting can be started at 9 am. Nine returning officers and observers, who are UT officers of various departments, have been appointed for these centres.Around 80 staff members will be put on the counting job.While 80 BSF personnel will be guarding the centres inside, the local police will be deployed outside. The staff deputed at the centres will be provided with sanitiser, masks, etc.Agents (representatives of political parties) and mediapersons will be allowed to witness counting from the barricading to be put up at the counting centres.Last year, there were seven counting centres while the number of wards was 26. With the wards having been increased to 35 this time, the number of centres has also been raised to nine. The fate of a total of 203 candidates of various political parties and Independents was sealed yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-counting-centres-set-up-across-city-354536
