27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh joins Aam Aadmi Party||Former Mohali mayor and realtor Kulwant Singh on Monday joined the Aam Aadmi Party ahead of the Punjab Assembly polls next year.             AAP leader Raghav Chadha and state party chief Bhagwant Mann inducted him to the party fold. Mann said Kulwant Singh’s familiarity with Mohali’s issues and voters will help AAP a great deal.Meanwhile, Sheetal Angural, national executive member of BJP SC Morcha, joined AAP with his associates at party headquarters here. Raghav Chadha said people are continuously joining the party and with the support of Sheetal Angural, AAP will be strengthened in Jalandhar West.Bhagwant Mann referring to AAP’s performance in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls said, “Chandigarh proved that people are the real power in democracy. And people of Punjab have already decided to depart from traditional parties to elect an honest government that prefers development.”                  Mann thanked voters of Chandigarh for choosing AAP that was contesting the MC elections for the first time.   He added that the Aam Aadmi Party will make Chandigarh “City Beautiful again”.   Kulwant Singh thanked the party leadership for giving him an opportunity to serve people. He said, “I’m impressed by Arvind Kejriwal’s model of development in Delhi. Their work in the field of education, health and basic amenities is commendable. I’m looking forward to serving people.” —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-mohali-mayor-kulwant-singh-joins-aam-aadmi-party-355168
27-12-2021||Dera Bassi||Kuljeet Singh Randhawa gets AAP ticket from  Dera Bassi||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kuljeet-singh-randhawa-gets-aap-ticket-from-dera-bassi-355086
27-12-2021||---||5 killed as private bus rams into 2 stationary buses in Ambala||Ambala, December 27Five people were killed on the Ambala-Chandigarh national highway near here on Monday morning when a Delhi-bound private luxury bus rammed into two other tourist buses which were parked on the roadside, police said.Twelve passengers sustained injuries in the accident and they were admitted to the Civil Hospital in Ambala City.Most of the passengers in the buses were sleeping when the accident occurred in the morning, they said.Police said that the deceased were identified as Rahul (21), a resident of Jharkhand; Pardeep Kumar (22) of Uttar Pradesh; Mena Bai (4) of Chhattisgarh; Rohit Kumar (53) of Chhattisgarh and an unidentified passenger. Two of the buses were badly damaged in the accident and had to be removed from the highway with the help of cranes.All three buses involved in the accident were private vehicles, police said.Police said it seemed the bus coming from the Jammu side rammed into the parked buses after it tried to overtake some vehicle going towards Delhi.The driver of the offending bus, which was on its way from Jammu to Delhi, fled from the site, the police said, adding a case had been registered against the unidentified driver. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-killed-in-road-accident-in-ambala-355049
27-12-2021||Mohali||Newborn girl's body found at Mataur village in Mohali||DAV-10 eves karate champsChandigarh: DAV College, Sector 10, won the Panjab University Inter-College Karate (Women) Championship on Sunday. Panjab University Campus and Dasmesh Girls College, Mukerian, bagged second and third positions, respectively. In the ‘kata’ category, Janhavi, Sneha and Divyanshi claimed top three positions, respectively. Mehakdeep won -50kg gold by defeating Bobby. Muskan claimed third position. In the -55kg event, Deepika, Madhu and Shanu claimed top three positions, respectively. Manpreet defeated Himanshi to win the -61kg final. Jassila claimed the third position. In the -68kg final, Etisha Dass defeated Jyotsana, while Rittika Rani claimed third position. Simran Kaur won the +68kg category gold medal by defeating Janhavi. Ishika claimed bronze medal. TNSLecture delivered at Panjab varsityChandigarh: The Professor Pradeep Kumar Memorial Lecture was delivered by Professor G Gopa Kumar, former Vice-Chancellor, Kerala Central University, at Panjab University. The lecture was chaired by Emeritus Professor BS Brar of Panjab University. The lecture is held annually in memory of Professor Pradeep Kumar, a former faculty member in the Department of Political Science. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newborn-girls-body-found-355013
27-12-2021||---||Panjab University's NSS volunteer gets best author award||Chandigarh, December 26Sartaj Singh, an NSS volunteer of Panjab University, Chandigarh, and a student of the Political Science Department, has been selected as the best author in the Pradhan Mantri Yuva Scheme, started to encourage young authors to write about the freedom fighters of their country.Singh said a total of 75 young writers from across the country had been selected for this scheme. He had been writing for the past several years and had won over 70 essay writing competitions at the national and international level organised by various colleges and universities of India.Sartaj Singh has presented research papers in more than 40 national and international seminars. His six research papers have been published in different journals. Till now, he has participated in over 25 workshops.Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar congratulated Singh on his achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-universitys-nss-volunteer-gets-best-author-award-355012
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Triple delight for Chandigarh shuttler||Chandigarh’s Varun Sharma bagged three gold medals and Peeyush Aggarwal bagged one gold and one silver medal on the concluding day of the Maharaja Agrasen All-India Open Prize Money Masters Badminton Tournament at the Sector 38 Sports Complex.Sharma won titles in the men’s doubles 35+, men’s doubles 40+ and mixed doubles 35+ categories, while Aggarwal won the men’s singles 35+ title and claimed silver in the men’s doubles 35+ along with Pankaj Nathani.In the men’s doubles 35+ final, Lakhwinder Singh Punnu and Sharma defeated Nathani and Aggarwal (21-18, 21-19). In the mixed doubles 35+ final, Sharma paired with Sandhya Melasheemi and ousted the pair of Jaideep Kohli and Madhusmita Deka (21-5, 21-17). Punnu and Sharma won the men’s doubles 40+ final by defeating Jaideep Kohli and Opinder Pal Singh (21-14, 16-21, 21-16).Aggarwal, meanwhile, defeated top seed Nathani (21-10, 21-4) to win the men’s 35+ singles final.Aneesha Mehta and Kabra Prabinu registered a comeback (15-21, 21-17, 21-15) win over Lavita Singhal and Sandhya Melasheemi to win the women’s doubles 35+ title, while Madhusmita Deka and Sushila Kajla ousted Manishi Singh and Nalini Malik (21-13, 21-11) in the women’s doubles 40+ final.In the men’s singles 40+ final, second seed Punnu defeated Abhinn Shyam Gupta (21-14, 21-19). In the mixed doubles 40+ final, Jaideep Kohli and Sushila Kajla came from one game down to defeat Mit Adhyaru and Sheetal Somani (16-21, 21-17, 21-16).Ajanta Choudhury won the men’s singles 45+ final by defeating Lalit Yadav (21-8, 21-18). In the same age group, Lalit Yadav and Mahesh Kandwal defeated Mhammed Saleem and Navdeep Singh (17-21, 21-13, 14-3) (conceded) to win the men’s doubles final. Lavita Singhal and Seema Saini won the women’s doubles final by defeating Pema Landon and Taw Yania (21-17, 21-18).Vijayendra wins titleIAS Vijayendra Kumar gifted himself a perfect birthday present by bagging a gold medal in the men’s singles 50+ final. Kumar defeated top seed Ranjit Singh (21-18, 18-21, 21-6). In the men’s doubles final, fifth seed pair of Manish Arora and Ranjit Singh faced a tough competition from Jitendra Bist and Kamal Dang before logging a (21-16, 15-21, 21-12) win. Navdeep Singh and Rachna Garg won the mixed doubles title by defeating Rajneesh Bhatia and Seema Saini (29-30, 21-18, 21-15).Haroon-Suchitra claim goldIn the mixed doubles 45+ final, Haroon Rashid and Suchitra Misra ousted Lalit Yadav and Sunita Singh (21-16, 21-14). In the men’s doubles 55+ final, Dharmendra Juneja and Kanwaljit logged (21-13, 14-21, 21-18) win over Ashish Goenka and Ram Lakhan.Lakhan and Manjusha Sahastrbudhe won the mixed doubles final by defeating Rajeev Mehta and Renu Mehta (21-6, 21-11). In the men’s singles 60+ final, second seed Paran outplayed top seed Rajiv Verma (21-10, 21-19). Gurcharan Singh and Pankaj Gupta won the women’s doubles final by defeating Paran Hazarika and Sanjiv Kapoor (21-19, 17-21, 23-21). Ashwani Kumar and Eira Pant won the mixed doubles 60+ final by defeating Dr Vinod Kumar Gupta and Pratibha Tandon (21-18, 21-15) and Yogendra Kumar Jaiswal won the men’s singles 70+ final by defeating Basant Kumar Shikari ((5) 21-18 21-5). Sudhir Goel and Vishal Gupta won an exhibition match by defeating Arwinder Jeet Singh and Parminder Singh (28-26, 21-19). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/triple-delight-for-city-shuttler-355011
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Swastik, Aditya, Ayaan, Seyan emerge champs||Swastik Singhal (3½ points) won the U-20 open category final on the concluding day of the Chandigarh Chess Championship - 2021. Aditya Singla won the U-16 open final by scoring 2½ points, while Ayaan Garg claimed U-12 title with a score of 4½ points. Seyan Sachdeva scored 2½ points to win the U-8 category.Four boys and four girls each in U-20 and U-16 categories and two boys and two girls each in U-12 and U-8 categories have been selected to represent Chandigarh in the nationals to be held next year.In the U-20 category, Swastik claimed the title whereas Aryan Arora, Agaaz Bansal and Krish Gupta claimed three points each and Pratyaksh Goel and Manobhav Sethi scored 2½ points each.In the U-16 category, Aaditya Singla, Kamya Kumari, Atharav Singh Naruka and Pankaj Ahuja claimed two points each. In the U-12 final round, Vedant Garg, Ekaaksha Partap Singh Negi and Siddharth Bhargav scored four points each and Aaditya Bhargav scored 3½ points.In the U-8 category, Seyan and Adhiraj Singh Khehar scored 2½ points each, while Udyaansh Goyal and Advait Ranganath scored two points each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swastik-aditya-ayaan-seyan-emerge-champs-355010
27-12-2021||---||Hockey Championship: Uttar Pradesh defeat Chandigarh, claim title||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26Uttar Pradesh Hockey won the 11th Hockey India Junior Men National Championship by defeating Hockey Chandigarh (3-1) at Kovilpatti, Tamil Nadu.Tournament’s top scorer Sharda Nand Tiwari opened the tally for Uttar Pradesh Hockey in the 15th minute with a trademark penalty corner, before Arun Sahani (16th, 34th) stretched the lead further. Raman pulled one goal back for Hockey Chandigarh in the 51st minute, but Uttar Pradesh Hockey held on to the lead to be crowned champions of the tournament.“This has been a combined team effort from the boys who have each given everything for the team. There are a lot of players in this team who have the potential to break into the national team setup if they can keep up this level of performance,” said Rajesh Sonkar, coach of Uttar Pradesh Hockey.Hockey Association of Odisha edged out Hockey Haryana (3-2) in a closely contested affair to bag third place. Hockey Association of Odisha took the lead in the match through Deepak Minz (27th), only to be pegged back by two goals from Rohit (34th) and Deepak (36th), who put Hockey Haryana in the lead in the third quarter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uttar-pradesh-defeat-chandigarh-claim-title-355009
27-12-2021||Deepankar Sharda||11 yrs on, Chandigarh Sports Council House yet to meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26It’s been over 11 years since the general House of the Chandigarh Sports Council (CSC) held a meeting. If a reply to an RTI is to be believed, the CSC general House had last met on June 21, 2010. The information has been provided by the CSC.The CSC general House, which is one of the main components of the UT Sports Department’s functioning, is appointed for a three-year term.Besides ex-officio members, who include vice-president (Secretary Sports, Chandigarh Administration), secretary (Director, Sports, Chandigarh Administration), joint secretary (Joint Director Sports, Chandigarh Administration) and AC (F&A), the Adviser to the Administrator, who is also president of the CSC, has this year nominated UT Member Parliament and her sister, two journalists, former international golfer and hockey player and office-bearers of different sports associations’ as members of the general House of sports council for a period of three years. However, no meeting was held of previous houses, since 2010, if the RTI’s reply is to be believed.The CSC is stated to be a registered society under the Societies Act, created by the UT Administration, to complement sports development programmes of the UT Sports Department. The main objective of the CSC is to provide financial assistance to recognised local sports associations. The sports council itself organises national/international matches on its own. It also extends cash awards to local sportspersons, who bring laurels for the City Beautiful in national/international meets.“There is a gap of 11 years since the last meeting of the CSC, which is stated to be held on June 21, 2010, at the conference room of Adviser to the Administrator,” said a senior official.The meeting was headed by then Adviser Pradip Mehra along with other members. Various issues, including opening of regular membership and health spa facilities at the Lake Sports Complex, enhancing cash awards for local players, enhancement of DA/refreshments of trainees and others, were discussed at the meeting. Notably, state-run hockey/football and cricket academies also run under the CSC.“The CSC House should meet at least once a year to discuss development of sports in UT. The main function of the CSC is to control academies, introduce courses for coaches and run schemes on behalf of the Sports Department,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-yrs-on-chandigarh-sports-council-house-yet-to-meet-355008
27-12-2021||---||Surinder wins 1,500-metre walk||Chandigarh, December 26Chhajuram, Parjat Singh and Malvinder Singh Dhillon claimed first three positions, respectively, in the men’s 100 m (80+) event during the 41th Masters Athletics Championship. Gurdial Kaur claimed gold medal in the women’s category.In the women’s shot put (60+) category, Opinder, Veenu and Prem Somra claimed top three positions, respectively, while in the women’s long jump (55+) event, Parvesh Sharma claimed the top position.In the men’s 1,500-metre (30+) walk, Surinder Rana claimed gold medal and BS Rana won silver medal in the 5-km (65+) walk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surinder-wins-1-500-metre-walk-355007
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, to host ASCE India Student Symposium||The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) HQ announced Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, as hosts for the ASCE India Student Symposium 2022 (March 25 to 27). Further, UPES, Dehradun, and DIT Institute Pimpri, Pune, will be co-hosts of the symposium.During symposium, several events like concrete canoe competition, steel bridge competition, seminars on sustainable solutions and others will be organised. The winners of many events will represent India in the ASCE HQ events in the USA. Dr Baldev Setia (Director), Dr Siby John (Deputy Director), Dr Umesh Sharma (Head of CED), Dr Sanjeev (Dean Students) attended the occasion. The Director, PEC, shared the 100 years legacy of the institute. Sharma, informed about the Civil Engineering Department’s infrastructure and assured full support to students for this event. Thomas, Executive Director, ASCE, and KN Gunalan, ASCE President, 2020, congratulated hosts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-to-host-asce-india-student-symposium-355006
27-12-2021||All children must be vaccinated||Open house: Is shutting schools right option, If not, then how can Chandigarh schools function smoothly?||As the third wave of Covid with new its new Omicron variant is gripping our city fast it is prayed that children be permitted to attend their schools only after getting fully vaccinated. Human life is precious. The UT Administration should think twice before reopening schools.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhDon’t confine kids to homeThe vaccination drive for school going children can be effectively carried out at their respective institutions. This will enable children continue their school routine. This virus will go on mutating, but normal activities cannot be stopped. Best is to vaccinate children and not to confine them at homes.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe Chandigarh Administration is soon going to unveil the draft electric vehicle (EV) policy. What are your expectations from the policy ?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comClosing schools right step of admnClosing schools will affect students education. It is not possible to teach all students at a single time while maintaining Covid-19 protocol. The government must provide free internet and laptop to students from poor background so that they can study well at homes. This will help students to keep themselves updated in future also.Bhavtaran Singh, ChandigarhWill help in checking virus transmissionThe advancement of winter vacations in schools by the UT Administration is a step in right direction. This was necessitated due to detection of a few Covid cases in one of the schools. The step taken will help in checking transmission of virus in schools. Shutting of schools though adversely affects education as there is no substitute for classroom teaching, at the same time health of students cannot be compromised at any cost. As schools are likely to reopen after vacations it is important that adequate steps be taken to contain the spread of virus and Covid appropriate behaviour is enforced amongst students and teachers.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaTeacher-student interaction a mustAll schools have already taken online or offline assessment tests of their respective students. Therefore, for the sake of students’ health and safety, schools should be closed keeping in view the present Covid situation in the city. Moreover, interacting with every student through online teaching ensures smooth study. This keeps teachers and students well-connected and safe also.Dr Shakha Sharda, ChandigarhMake teaching more interestingClosing schools due to Omicron threat is a good move of the UT Administration. Educational institutions need to go further online to safeguard students against the new variant. Teaching has already gone online since the onset of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Teaching has to be more interesting to avoid boredom and monotony. Students can be called once a week or month on rotational basis to keep in touch with teachers and school and clear their doubts.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliContinue offline classes in schoolsIt is a fact that the third Covid wave with new Omicron variant is already here. The biggest concern is safety of children as a few students have contracted the virus. Despite this situation, schools can continue with offline classes while following the Covid-19 guidelines in letter and spirit. A strict vigil should be kept upon students’ health. Any student with symptoms of the disease should be sent back home. Parents too must be guided to not to send their ward to school if his/her health is not good. There is no need to panic if any student contracts virus. Students and staff, who came in contact with the infected child, must get themselves tested for the virus. That particular class where Covid case has surfaced must be closed. There is no need to close the whole school. If the number of cases show an upward trend, then immediately, the school must be closed. Avoid assembly and other functions, which lead to congregation of students. Prevention is better than cure.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurMany roads to a single destinationShutting schools isn’t the ultimate solution of the present Covid situation in the UT. Teachers follow of Covid norms on premises of school, but outside every rule goes for a toss. A weekly check in schools can ensure that everyone follows appropriate protocol. Students of Class IX to XII can be called to schools while following the odd-even norm on alternate days. There are many roads to a single destination. We just need to think of it.Sushree Priyadarshni, ChandigarhKids rely on free meals at schoolsAdvancing winter vacations in schools carries social and economic costs for people across communities. Many children rely on free or discounted meals provided at government schools. Parents are often asked to help their children study at home when schools are closed. Some parents struggle to perform this task as they might not be educated. Besides, working parents leave children alone at home when schools are closed. This is risky for children. So, Covid appropriate behaviour is to be followed at all cost to keep schools open.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhPhysical surveillance needed in schoolsThe UT authorities need to reconsider imposition of frequent lockdowns and shutting schools due to the ongoing pandemic. Rather more physical surveillance is needed to enforce safety protocol rather than closing schools, which causes loss to students. Besides, all should follow Covid appropriate behaviour at schools to stay safe from the virus.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliEnsure compliance of authorities decisionThe chill in winter mornings is harmful for children. Advancing the winter vacation by seven days in UT schools is the right decision. Some private schools thought it otherwise despite the fact that some students got infected with virus. The UT Education Department must ensure compliance of its decision by all schools.SC LUTHRA, ChandigarhStart online classes after winter vacationThe new Omicron variant of coronavirus has sparked concerns over students health and education. Schools started winter break one week earlier because some students and teachers contracted virus. The UT Administration should start online classes after winter break in schools to check the spread of the virus. Parents should give their consent to their wards for attending offline classes in schools.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhThe situation requires harsh decisionsThe UT Education Department has taken right decision of advancing the winter break in schools by a week. In case of complete shutdown due to another wave of the pandemic, the authorities can smoothly shift to online classes as schools have created necessary infrastructure for the same. Teachers have gained experience of online teaching for more than one year. It is a fact that no virtual classes can replace classroom study and the school environment. The present situation requires harsh decisions and solutions without much choice.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhClose schools if Omicron cases riseA decision on reopening of schools must be taken after winter vacation. The Health Department should monitor the pandemic situation strictly in the city. As kids will be at a higher risk, the department need not take any chance because Omicron cases have already been detected in the city. If Omicron cases continue to rise in Chandigarh only then the Education Department must close schools again.Anita Tandon, KhararSchools must be last place to closeIt’s surprising that the UT authorities decided to close schools ahead of scheduled winter break in view of the ongoing pandemic. Once again closure of schools for long period would be disastrous for children. The prolonged school closure, limited resources for students, teachers and parents and not much access to remote learning have wiped out decades of progress in education and rendered childhood unrecognisable. Schools must be the last place to close. The authorities must do everything to keep schools open. The government must invest more in digital connectivity to make sure that no child is left behind when it comes to online education.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliPrevention is better than cureThe UT Administration decided to close school by advancing winter vacation by seven days. This is a step in right direction because Omicron variant is six times more transmissible than the Delta strain. Even fully vaccinated people has contracted Omicron. The UT Education Department and all concerned must follow the principle “Prevention is better than cure”. Online study can be a better way of imparting education during the pandemic.Adish Sood, AmlohSanitise schools at regular intervalsSending children to school is risky during the ongoing pandemic. Experts have warned that Omicron variant is more infectious. The UT Education Department should take the threat seriously. To run schools smoothly ensure all teachers, staff and eligible students are vaccinated. Managements must get schools sanitised at regular intervals. Online classes option can be considered by the authorities concerned. Closing schools should be the last option.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaMore students could have been infectedIt is rightly said “A stich in time saves nine”. The Chandigarh Administration has taken right step by advancing winter vacations in schools lest more students could have got infected with the virus. Parents should make sure that their kids wearing face masks and follow Covid protocol.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhClosing schools not a fair decisionIt is true that Omicron is more dangerous than Delta variant. But the decision of the UT authorities to close schools is not fair. Students have already borne too much loss due to the pandemic. The UT Administration should not give permission for fairs and social gathering. Schools should be kept open in the city.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliChildren are vulnerableThe UT Administration has taken a timely decision to close schools in the city. It will benefit schoolchildren in two ways. One from the Covid-19 threat and the other from the prevailing intense cold wave. Children are vulnerable and not vaccinated as yet. They need special care and protection at this juncture. Schools should be closed for longer period depending upon the rise in Omicron cases.RPS Chopra, ChandigarhRisking life makes no senseOmicron is slowly taking its toll across the city. Schools have been closed for winter break. As per various studies, the Omicron threat is to start by the end of December and its peak is predicted in February 2022. As a precautionary step schools can be closed for some more days. Let students study through virtual mode. Once the health authorities are able to contain and control the pandemic, schools can be re-open for students. Risking students’ life to the disease makes no sense.Dr Rajeev Kumar, ChandigarhToo much online learning not goodThe decision taken by the UT Administration to advance the winter vacation of schools is a foresighted one. Prevention is always better than cure. Children are the most affected mentally and psychologically due to closure of schools. Their physical activities are hampered and soft skills such as reading, writing and communicating with teachers and friends is also impacted. The UT Education Department should come out with a blended mode (Online and offline) of imparting education to schoolchildren. Too much online learning is not advisable as it is not that effective.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhDon’t fear, Omicron not deadly as DeltaThe Omicron danger looms large in the UT, but no one should fear as it is not as deadly as Delta variant. School should adhere to Covid protocols and the authorities must enforce them strictly. The Education Department should not close schools as teachers and students will suffer. Although online mode is available, many students don’t have the means to afford it. Students are more comfortable with offline classes. They want direct contact with teachers for the removal of doubts. Schools must not be closed.Bharat Bhushan Sharma,ChandigarhA wise decision indeedWith the Omicron threat looming large over the country in general and Chandigarh in particular, the decision of the UT Education Department to close city schools and advancing winter vacations is a wise and well-thought step. Keeping in view the danger to lives of people, especially the younger lot, the dispensation cannot be complacent and lower the guard against the killer Corona variant. The surge in new variant cases in the city and elsewhere in the country left the authorities concerned with no obvious choice except to close schools. Exploring any other possibility to take Omicron could have disastrous ramifications.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhAdopt odd-even system in classroomsPandemic is again surging in the UT. Omicron cases are being reported from the city. So, it’s a time to rethink for educational institutions, especially schools. Either give one month vacation or start calling students on alternative days while following odd-even system in schools. Proper sanitisation of staff and students should be there before they enter and exit schools. Both online/offline education mode should be run simultaneously for students. Unnecessary activities should be suspended with immediate effect in schools.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhVocational classes can be suspendedCovid cases again increasing in the UT. The authorities should reduce and divide classes in two or more parts. They should call students to schools as per their assigned timings. Vocational classes can be stopped in schools. Online education is also a good option. Sanitisers and face masks should be given staff and students in schools.Aarti Verma, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-is-shutting-schools-right-option-if-not-then-how-can-chandigarh-schools-function-smoothly-355005
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur developer delays possession of office space, told to pay Rs 25K fine||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed Citi Centre Developers (opposite party) to pay a compensation of Rs25,000 for its failure to give the possession of an office space booked in the project, Citi Centre Zirakpur.In his order, commission president Rajan Dewan also directed the opposite party to refund the entire amount of Rs12,77,500 to the complainants along with nine per cent interest per annum from June 29, 2017 till its realisation. The opposite party should comply with the order by within 30 days from the date of receipt of its copy, failing which it would be liable to pay an additional cost of Rs10,000.The complainants - Namita Khattar and Anuj Khattar - had booked a office space unit on the fifth floor in the project - Citi Centre Zirakpur - on June 29, 2017 after paying full and final payment to the tune of Rs12,77,500. The OP was to deliver the possession of the fully furnished office space unit within 12 months i.e. by June 29, 2018. On July 15, 2019, the opposite party issued a letter of offer of possession in the pre-final stage.It is submitted that instead of delivering the physical possession of the unit in question, fully furnished complete in all respect having all basic amenities, the opposite party demanded maintenance charges/electricity charges, which was duly agitated by the complainants. They also paid Rs15,000 as electric meter charges on August 23, 2019, to the opposite party. They pleaded that they were shocked when they visited their site/unit on October 23, 2019 and found that not even a single unit was complete on the fifth floor. The complainants sent an email to the opposite party seeking refund of the amount with interest, but to no avail.The opposite party stated that the complainants did not clear the dues. As a result, the unit could not be prepared for possession. So, the delay was solely attributable to the complainants and prayed for the dismissal of the complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/developer-delays-possession-of-office-space-told-to-pay-25k-fine-355004
27-12-2021||Vijay C Roy||Chandigarh-based start-ups venture into new markets with unique offerings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26The absence of policy in Chandigarh could not deter the indomitable spirit of start-ups in the city. Spread across various sectors, start-ups are striving to create a new market with their innovative offerings.For example, a city-based SOS Party aims to create a tech driven platform for artists where they get paid gigs.The start-up claims that it is a community of super skilled artists from around the world, who are trained to deliver phenomenal highly engaging experiences.“The artists are talented and trained and we want to enable them to earn through their passion. The entertainment and team building sector is much unorganised right now. We plan to become the Urban Company for the artists and expand wellness and connection activities to not just corporates, but also to families, communities and resorts,” said Arjun Tuli, founder, StayonSkill(SOS) Technologies Pvt Ltd.“During pandemic when resorts and travel were closed, we started doing wellness events for corporates. We have curated online and offline events for companies like Google, Amazon, Cisco etc with the help of trained artists,” Tuli added. The company has also raised a funding of Rs1.5 crore.Similarly, notwithstanding competition from established players, city based start-up, Lapalap, claims to offer cheaper discounted online grocery and it’s growing ever since its launch in October this year. Currently, the start-up is serving Chandigarh market only and offering Omni channel - both delivery and in-store pick up (Touch and feel) option.“Amid pandemic, except for grocery, chemist and vegetables, the demand for other merchandise came to a standstill and many of them closed down. So, we have created an online store for grocery and offering discount to the tune of 50 to 60 per cent,” said Sandeep Gandotra, founder, Lapalap.“Compared to ‘kiryana’ stores, we are providing maximum discounts to consumer, keeping a side a limited margin,” he added. As the demand for groceries and health-related products registered a sharp increase, especially during the lockdown, the local ‘kiryana’ and departmental stores have become cynosures of small businesses.Similarly, the trio team of Isha Dhaliwal, Abhishek Dhaliwal and Minni Singh founded, “This Life Matters Pvt Ltd”, a beverage company for retailing Kombucha, a fermented tea. Known for its health benefits, the craze for this slightly sweet and fizzy beverage in India is believed to have started in Goa. The company claims the beverage is good for digestion problem, arthritis, and its other benefits are weight loss, clean lungs, and detoxification.“People, who had Kombucha, came back to us and gave more orders not only for themselves, but for their near and dear ones also after experiencing various health benefits,” said Minni Singh. Currently, they are retailing the product in Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula, Delhi, Noida and Rajasthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-based-start-ups-venture-into-new-markets-with-unique-offerings-354979
27-12-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Spurt in passport applications at Chandigarh RPO||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26Passport applications at the Regional Passport Office in Sector 34 here have almost doubled ever since the lockdown restrictions were lifted after the second wave of Covid-19.Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj said: “There were around 2,000 applications per day before September. After the Covid-induced lockdown and travel restrictions were lifted, thenumber of applications went up to around 4,000 per day”.“The number of appointments at Passport Seva Kendras in Chandigarh, Ludhiana and Ambala, which provide services to a total of 12 districts in Haryana and 11 in Punjab, including Chandigarh, has now been increased to meet the growing number of applications,” said Kabiraj.He said: “The spurt in passport applications has resulted in an increase of waiting period for appointments. Tatkal applications, which had a waiting period of one day, are now taking about a week. Normal applications, where the waiting period was of one week, are now taking about three weeks for appointments.”He said: “Appointments at our Passport Seva Kendras in Ludhiana, Chandigarh and Ambala have been increased by 30 per cent so that the waiting period can be shortened for the convenience of the applicants.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spurt-in-passport-applications-354972
27-12-2021||---||3 'assault' ASI at Police Lines gate in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 26An auto-rickshaw driver and two others, including a woman, have been booked for allegedly assaulting a UT police ASI and snatching his mobile phone after he objected to wrong parking.According to the police, ASI Amrik Singh was on duty near gate no. 1 of the Police Lines, Sector 26, on December 25 when an auto driver parked his vehicle there. The parking of vehicles near the gate is prohibited.Sources said when the ASI objected to the parking of auto there, the driver, his brother and their mother entered into an altercation with the cop. The police said the trio assaulted the ASI and pelted him with stones. The assailants fled the spot after snatching the ASI’s mobile phone. The ASI failed to note down the registration number of the auto.The police were informed about the incident following which a case under Sections 323, 353 and 379-A of the IPC was registered at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-assault-asi-at-police-lines-gate-in-chandigarh-354958
27-12-2021||---||26-yr-old vehicle thief nailed by Chandigarh police||Chandigarh, December 26The UT police have arrested a 26-year-old vehicle thief and recovered 12 stolen two-wheelers. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Chhinderpal of Ferozepur, was nabbed at Sector 42 while he was riding a motorcycle which was stolen from the parking lot of the lake in Sector 42.During interrogation, he confessed to stealing more vehicles from Chandigarh and Mohali. Disclosures made by him led to the recovery of 11 two-wheelers.A total of eight cases, including six registered in Chandigarh and two in Mohali, have been solved with his arrest. It is being investigated from where he stole the remaining four vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-yr-old-vehicle-thief-nailed-by-chandigarh-police-354954
27-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||New tech to overcome cracks on Chandigarh roads||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26To check the problem of regular cracks on roads, the local Municipal Corporation has introduced a new technology of re-carpeting roads by using a glass-fibre grid.The recarpeting work is underway on the road separating Sector 55 and 56 which often developed potholes and cracks, giving commuters a bumpy ride. The work has been completed on the Sector 55 side of the road.The technology was used in parts of the airport road in Mohali. The method was recommended by the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research, Sector 26, to the civic body as per an MoU signed between the two. “It is used on weak roads which develop regular cracks and where the soil has moisture. It is one of the many methods to prevent the problem. After using this technology on the Sec 55/56 road, we will wait to see its outcome. If it produces good results, the same technology will be implemented on other roads,” said an MC official.The technology is also seen as an alternative to costly concrete roads which were earlier laid in Sector 32 and Sector 39. Its benefitsThe glass-fibre grid is a net which is laid between the wearing surface and the binder layer of a road. It reinforces asphalt structures. It is claimed to be a multipurpose solution to improve performance, to extend service life and thus to reduce maintenance costs of roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-tech-to-overcome-cracks-on-chandigarh-roads-354951
27-12-2021||Amit Sharma||EOW of Chandigarh police to probe cases of Rs 1 cr and above||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Chandigarh police will now be dealing with complaints of fraud of Rs1 crore and above. Earlier, the minimum limit for EOW cases used to be Rs50 lakh.Sources said owing to limited staff in the wing and a rise in the number of complaints, the Police Department decided to revise the limit. Now, complaints involving cheating, embezzlement, misappropriation, forgery, etc, of Rs1 crore and above will be investigated by the EOW.The order to revise the limit has been issued by UT DGP Praveer Ranjan. The sources said the number of complaints had been increased in past few years. “With time the limit has to be increased as the number of complaints involving fraud of up to Rs1 crore has increased, which has led to a huge backlog of complaints,” said a police official.Police officials said now, the complaints involving amounts less than Rs1 crore will be dealt with by the police stations concerned. A police official said the EOW dealt with important cases concerning multi-level marketing fraud, share market fraud, foreign trade-related fraud, land and building racket, offence of forgery, cheating by individuals and non-banking financial companies, cyber crime, etc.Limit revised thrice in 8 yearsThe minimum limit for EOW cases has been revised thrice in the past eight years. Earlier, the EOW had a limit of Rs10 lakh, which was raised to Rs25 lakh in 2013, and further to Rs50 lakh in 2017. In the latest revision, it has been increased to Rs1 crore and above.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eow-of-chandigarh-police-to-probe-cases-of-1-cr-and-above-354947
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 10 new Covid cases||The city recorded 10 fresh Covid cases on Sunday. With these cases, the tally has reached 65,774. The death count remained at 1,078. Fourteen more people were cured of the disease. The active caseload now is 101. — TNS4 fresh cases in Panchkula panchkula: The district reported four fresh coronavrius cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 30,942. The toll remained at 381. While 30,508 people have recovered from the disease, 53 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.59 per cent. — TNS Mohali witnesses 2 casesmohali: Two cases of Covid have been reported in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the number of total cases to 69,100. No death was reported till Sunday evening, while five patients were discharged from the hospitals. The two cases surfaced in the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur. There are 55 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-10-new-covid-cases-354945
27-12-2021||---||3 fresh Omicron cases in tricity||Chandigarh, December 26Tricity reported three new cases of the Omicron variant today, two from Chandigarh and one from Panchkula. With these fresh cases, the number of Omicron cases in the tricity has risen to four.In the UT, two family members of the city’s first Omicron case, a 20-year-old international traveller from Italy who came to meet his relatives in the city, tested positive for the new variant.One of them is an 80-year-old man who is a patient of hypertension. Though he is asymptomatic, he has been isolated in the hospital.The second patient, a 45-year-old man, was discharged after his re-test result came out negative on December 24. A total of seven family members of the first Omicron patient of the city were tested for Covid and five of them were found positive, following which their samples were sent to Delhi for genome sequencing. According to health officials, the results of three samples that were sent for genome sequencing were still pending.Panchkula’s first caseA 23-year-old woman from Kalka, who studies in the US and arrived in India on December 15 to meet her family, today became the first person in the district to test positive for the Omicron variant.The fully vaccinated woman, who landed in Delhi, was tested on December 17 and her samples came out positive for coronavirus the next day. She was immediately shifted to Ojas Hospital while her samples were sent to Delhi for genome sequencing. According to the health officials, all five immediate family members of the woman, grandfather, grandmother, father, mother and sister (all fully vaccinated), were her only contacts. They all tested negative.The woman stands discharged while her family members will be re-tested again, said the District Covid nodal officer, Dr Rajeev Narwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fresh-omicron-cases-in-tricity-354942
27-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Party leaders keep fingers crossed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 26Whether the ruling BJP will retain power in the Municipal Corporation House or the Opposition Congress will bounce back, or the new entrant AAP will make a mark in the UT. The answer will be known by Monday afternoon when the results of the civic body elections start coming in. A total of 203 candidates are in the fray.A day before the counting, all three parties claimed they would get a majority. City BJP president Arun Sood, while talking to Chandigarh Tribune, said: “We are going to have a thumping majority in the MC House. The public is going to bless us based on our works done in the six-year term. This is our commitment to the people that we will take the city to number one and provide international basic amenities here in the next five years. AAP is a B-team of the Congress and the two kept seeing the shifting of leaders into each other’s fold ahead of the poll.”Local Congress president Subhash Chawla also exuded confidence. “We are going to have our own Mayor in the MC. We will comfortably get a majority. Our feedback says so and our candidates are also 200 per cent sure. The BJP will not even reach the double digit figure. AAP wanted to help the BJP by cutting our votes, but the ‘aam aadmi’ did not connect to Kejriwal’s party.”City AAP president Prem Garg claimed, “We will not get fewer than one lakh votes in total. We will have our own Mayor. There is a lot of undercurrent in our party’s favour. Lower and middle class ‘aadmi’ has voted for us. We have done very well in the colonies. People in the urban area also voted for us. There may be a miracle.” All set for counting: All arrangements have been made at the nine counting centres set up across the city. The trends will be updated every hour at the tents pitched outside the centres as well as on the Nigam Chunav App of the State Election Commission, UT.Seats to watch forWard No. 25 (Sectors 37 and 38): It is BJP chief Arun Sood’s ward from where young party leader Vijay Rana is in the fray.Ward No. 14 (Dhanas): Sumit Chawla, son of Congress chief Subhash Chawla, is contesting from here.Ward No. 30 (Sector 41, Buterla, Badheri villages): Only SAD councillor and city party president Hardeep Singh is the candidate.Ward No. 13 (Sectors 11, 12, 14): Chandermukhi Sharma, AAP’s election committee in-charge, is fighting on this seat.Ward No. 17 (Sec 22, 23): Sitting Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma is in the fray from this ward.19 seats needed for majorityThere will be a total of 36 votes, 35 councillors and one ex-officio member, i.e. MP (Kirron Kher), in MC House. A party needs 19 seats to form a majority and get its councillor elected as Mayor.Will have majorityWe are going to have a thumping majority in MC House. The public is going to bless us based on our works done in the six-year term. Arun Sood, City BJP presidentFeedback signals big winWe are going to have our own Mayor. We will comfortably get a majority. Our feedback says so and our candidates are also 200 per cent sure. Subhash Chawla, Cong presidentUndercurrent in our favourWe will not get fewer than one lakh votes in total. We will have our own Mayor. There is a lot of undercurrent in our party’s favour. — Prem Garg, City AAP president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-party-leaders-keep-fingers-crossed-354941
