28-12-2021||Chandigarh||15 new Covid cases in Chandigarh; fully-vaccinated elderly man dies||Chandigarh reported 15 new Covid-19 cases and recorded one death over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the administration said on Tuesday.A 77-year-old fully vaccinated man died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.The UT now has 100 active cases and an average positivity rate of 0.85 per cent over the last week.The latest fatality takes cases to 1,079. The bulletin showed 1,374 samples were taken for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-fully-vaccinated-elderly-man-dies-355529
28-12-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh done, now Punjab, says Arvind Kejriwal after AAP’s stunning performance in MC elections||After its spectacular debut at the Chandigarh’s Municipal Corporation elections, the Aam Aadmi Party now turns its attention to the Punjab assembly elections early next year.The party had a phenomenal showing at its very first municipal polls in Chandigarh, sweeping 14 seats and emerging as the single largest party, although it’s still short of the halfway mark at 18.AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal, who was one of the party’s star campaigners for the civic body elections and who has been dividing his time between his own duties as the chief minister of Delhi and campaigning for next year’s Punjab elections in the last few months, now looks to wrest power from the ruling Congress in Punjab.AAP’s currently the chief opposition party in Punjab.“The people of Chandigarh performed a miracle. Chandigarh chose a new face, a new party, and honest politics over old faces and big names,” he says in the video.“Chandigarh chose AAP’s new faces over BJP’s current mayor, two former mayors, and Chandigarh’s youth leader. A man who runs a dhaba beat the incumbent mayor of the BJP.”“The common man has won. This shows people are fed up with old parties, old politicians, and old politics. People are tired of corruption. People have chosen new faces and honest politics. I’m grateful to the people of Chandigarh who’ve brought the change. Chandigarh showed the same kind of revolution Delhi did before.”“I want to assure the people of Chandigarh that we won’t let you down. We’ll live up and strengthen the trust you’ve reposed in us. We should strive to make the city beautiful now. And we’ll work with everyone regardless of their political affiliations,” he said.“Some experts had said after the 2017 elections that AAP failed to capture the popular imagination in Punjab’s urban areas. Chandigarh’s vote for us showed that even urban areas of Punjab are with us this time. Rural and urban areas want a change. Punjab wants a change. Punjab wants new and honest politics. We’ll all work together to change Punjab like we changed Delhi.”  चंडीगढ़ की जनता ने चमत्कार कर दिया। चंडीगढ़ ने नए चेहरे, नई पार्टी और ईमानदार राजनीति को चुना, पंजाब भी अब बदलाव चाहता है। पंजाब भी अब नई और ईमानदार राजनीति चाहता है। pic.twitter.com/pddKiEf00o||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-done-now-punjab-says-arvind-kejriwal-after-aaps-stunning-performance-in-mc-elections-355502
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||PGI prepares to vaccinate teens between 15 and 18 from January 3||Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research said it was ready to administer two doses of Covaxin to teenagers between 15 and 18 at its paediatric centre.Those eligible for the vaccine in that age group will get two shots of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin at an interval of 28 days, the hospital said in a statement. This vaccination drive will begin on January 3  Parents or guardians could register their wards on the Cowin app.The hospital will begin to administer “precautionary” doses at its LT -1 Nehru building from January 10, the hospital’s statement said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-prepares-to-vaccinate-teens-between-15-and-18-from-january-3-355496
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Our 3 Chandigarh councillors were offered money by BJP, alleges AAP’s Raghav Chadha||A day after the Aam Aadmi Party won 14 seats in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation poll, its leader Raghav Chadha on Tuesday alleged that their three elected councillors were offered between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 75 lakh by the BJP.Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Chadha claimed that some BJP leaders have contacted and even visited the houses of winning AAP candidates and offered them money. "Two of them were offered Rs 50 lakh and one was offered Rs 75 lakh by BJP's senior leaders on Monday evening" for leaving AAP and joining the BJP, claimed Chadha without disclosing the names of the councillors. He said as a "precautionary measure", AAP has decided to install cameras at the residences of his party's councillors, who have also been directed to record the conversation if any BJP leader visits or contacts them. He said they would make camera footage and call recordings public if any BJP leader approaches or contacts AAP councillors. Asked if the party would take any legal action in the matter, Chadha said they will move the state Election Commission on this issue.He further said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will meet the party's municipal councillors soon.A party needs 19 votes to have its councillor elected as Mayor.Besides 35 councillors, the Chandigarh MP, who is an ex-officio member in the MC house, has a voting right. At present, BJP's Kiron Kher is the MP from Chandigarh.To a question on Punjab Congress MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa joining the BJP, Chadha said the Congress party is “completely finished” in the state and more MLAs and ministers will leave the Congress in the days to come.    Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood has dubbed Chadha's claims as “baseless and lies.”  AAP leader Chadha even claimed that some central ministers called up AAP's councillors for fixing a meeting with the Union Home Minister and the BJP president.Earlier this month also, the AAP had accused the BJP of trying to poach its lawmakers from Punjab, with MP Bhagwant Mann claiming he was offered money and a place in the Union Cabinet if he joined the saffron party ahead of the assembly elections.The BJP had dismissed the allegations as baseless. --- With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/our-3-chandigarh-councillors-were-offered-money-by-bjp-alleges-aaps-raghav-chadha-355484
28-12-2021||---||AAP announces 15 more candidates for Punjab Assembly polls; Kulwant Singh to contest from Mohali||Bathinda, December 28The Aam Aadmi Party has announced 15 more candidates for the Punjab Assembly polls.With this the party has announced 88 candidates for the 117-seat Assembly.They are Gurdeep Singh Randhawa from Dera Baba Nanak, Baldev Singh Miyadian from Rajasansi, Manju Rana from Kapurthala, Ratan Singh Kakarkalan from Shahkot, Sheetal Angural from Jalandhar West, Jeet Lal Bhatti from Adampur, Kuljit Singh Sarhal from Banga, Charanjit Singh from Chamkaur Sahib, Kulwant Singh from SAS Nagar, Rupinder Singh Happy from Bassi Pathana, Rajinderpal Kaur Feena from Ludhiana South, Ranvir Singh Bhullar from Ferozepur Urban, Jagroop Singh Gill from Bathinda Urban, Jaswant Singh Gajjanmajra from Amargarh and Gurdev Singh ‘Dev’ Mann from Nabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-announces-15-more-candidates-for-punjab-assembly-polls-kulwant-singh-to-contest-from-sas-nagar-355466
28-12-2021||Mohali||Ex-Mohali Mayor Kulwant Singh joins AAP||Seven-yr-old girl drownsDera Bassi: A seven-year-old girl died after drowning in a pit filled with water near an under-construction area in a house in Mirpur on Monday evening. The victim, identified as Mohini, was at home with her elder brother at the time of the incident. Around 5 pm, passers-by saw the girl’s body floating in the pit. The girl was pulled out of the pit and taken to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, where doctors declared her brought dead. The police said it appears that the child accidentally fell into the pit while playing. Mubarikpur police station in-charge Arshdeep Sharma said no foul had been suspected. TNSExhibition concludesChandigarh: The three-day Creative Karma Visual Art Exhibition, which was held at Punjab Kala Bhawan, Sector 16, concluded on Monday. The exhibition was dedicated to doctors and frontline medical staff who served society during the pandemic. Forty budding and amateur artists, including specially abled, from different states exhibited their artwork. Some of the maiden participants, including Sahila Sharma, were appreciated for their artwork. TNSAcclaimed writer passes awayChandigarh: Madhur Kapila (79), a renowned figure in the Hindi literature, died of cardiac arrest here on December 19. Born on April 15, 1942 in Jalandhar, Kapila started her writing career when she was just 12. Among her popular published works included “Bhatke Raah”, “Satwan Swar” and “Saamne ka Aasman”. For her outstanding contribution to the Hindi literature, Kapila was awarded the Chandigarh Sahitya Akademi Award in 2011. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-mohali-mayor-joins-aap-355374
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Adda XI log win in cricket||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adda-xi-log-win-in-cricket-355373
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||PMLSD School, Chandigarh, student wins snooker championship||Chandigarh’s 17-year-old Ranveer Duggal, a student of PMLSD School, Sector 32, defeated Dhruv Patel of Gujarat to win the sub-junior category final of the National Snooker Championship in Bhopal.Duggal defeated Patel on the decisive black ball of the deciding frame in a best of seven frames match, which went the full distance 84-33, 54-34, 22-58, 15-79, 51-56, 76-18 and 55-48 points. In a pulsating affair, Duggal showed exemplary grit and determination. He started in a confident manner to win the first two frames and had a break of 40 in the first frame.However, Patel rallied strongly to take the third followed by the fourth with a flourishing break of 60 in the restoring parity at 2-2 frames. The fifth frame was a nail-biting affair before Patel pocketed the frame on the black decider for a crucial lead of 3-2.However, Duggal clawed back into the game and put the score at par 3-3. Patel was leading 48-00 in the deciding 7th frame. However, he made a wrong choice. With three red balls remaining, Patel chose the yellow ball, instead of the pink. The lead was reduced to 13-48 and Duggal took its advantage. He cleared the table to grab a 35-point clearance. In the decisive round, Duggal pocketed the black for a superb victory. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-32-school-student-wins-snooker-championship-355372
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana college bags overall trophy||GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sudhar, Ludhiana, won the overall trophy on the concluding day of the Panjab University Inter-College Karate (Men) Championship here today. GGDSD College, Sector 32, claimed second position and Arya College, Ludhiana, finished third.In the ‘kata’ category, Ketan Choudhary of GHG Khalsa College defeated Anuj of Arya College to claim the gold medal. Om Silhi of SD College, Hoshiarpur, claimed the bronze medal. In the -60kg category, Anuj of Arya College won the gold medal by defeating Paras of DAV College, Hoshiarpur. Ronit of AS College, Khanna, finished third. In the -67kg final, Choudhary defeated Varun Joshi of SGGS College, Sector 26. Mohammed Hadi of Post Gradate Government College, Sector 11, claimed bronze medal.Prabhjot Singh of SPN College, Mukerian, claimed the -75kg category gold by defeating Animesh Singh of DAV College. Rajat of SD College, Hoshiarpur, claimed bronze medal. In the -84kg category, Vishal of GGDSD College defeated Gurvinder Singh of AS College, Khanna. Gageshdutt of Arya College claimed third position.In the +84kg final, Navdeep of Panjab University defeated Sahil of GGDSD College to claim the top podium position. Dayanand of SGGS College claimed bronze medal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ludhiana-college-bags-overall-trophy-355371
28-12-2021||Mohali||FSSAI licence number must on bills from January 1: Mohali DHO||The District Health Department has made it mandatory for all food business operators (FBOs) to mention licence/registration number on cash receipts, invoices and bills from January 1 next.Disclosing this here today, District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Subhash Kumar said the rule was being implemented across the country from January 1, 2022 by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) for the convenience of people. He said through this registration number, which is issued by the FSSAI or the Health Department, customers would be able to ensure that the shopkeepers from whom they are buying any food item had licence/registration number or not.The DHO said several people visit the Health Department office to get food safety licence, but this process was fully online. He said under the Food Safety Act, sweetmeat shop owners would have to mention the expiry date of sweets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dho-fssai-licence-number-must-on-bills-from-january-1-355370
28-12-2021||Mohali||Nursing Assn members protest on Chandigarh-Kharar highway, commuters suffer||Members of the Punjab Nursing Association today staged a protest on the Chandigarh-Kharar highway near Desu Majra in support of their demands, much to the chagrin of local residents.Late in the evening, heated discussion ensued between the protesters and local residents. The residents requested the agitators to shift their protest to some other place which does not cause inconvenience to them.Eyewitnesses said the protest near the Kharar bus stand led to traffic jam and affected the movement of vehicles on the busy road in the afternoon.Kharar resident Jaspreet Kaur, a college student, said: “It has become a nightmare for commuters who remain stuck in traffic jam for three to four hours daily. A few days ago, children travelling in local buses had nowhere to go to relive themselves for five to six hours on the flyover.”People living in nearby Kharar villages are now up in arms and have started making announcements from village gurdwara not to support the protesters. Office-goers, schoolchildren, farmers and businessmen are suffering a lot due to the protest, the residents said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nursing-assn-members-protest-on-chandigarh-kharar-highway-commuters-suffer-355369
28-12-2021||---||Punjab’s Gurbaaz Singh outplays Chandigarh's Satvik Singla in Tennis||Mohali, December 27Top seed Delhi’s Deepam Malik managed to overcome a tough challenge by Haryana’s Akshat Dhull in a boys’ U-16 first round match during the ongoing Roots-AITA National Rankings Tennis Championship. Malik faced a 3-6 defeat in the first set. He, however, won the next two sets (6-0, 6-3) to march ahead in the championship.Punjab’s Gurbaaz Singh outplayed Chandigarh’s Satvik Singla (6-1, 6-2) and fourth seed Punjab’s Ekamjeet Singh Cheema ousted Hardik Khanduja (6-0, 6-3).Yasharth Chaddha of Uttar Pradesh also logged a (6-3, 6-3) win over Punjab’s Aarya Vaibhav. Delhi’s Ronit Gupta defeated Punjab’s Gundeep Garg without conceding a single game (6-0, 6-0), whereas another player from Punjab Anhad Singh Oberai defeated Arpit Garg (6-3, 6-1).Haryana’s Sidhanth Sharma also logged an easy (6-2, 6-3) win over Aryan Chauhan and Agnivesh Bhardwaj outplayed Pratyush Goel (6-3, 6-3). Dhruv Sachdeva defeated Fatehyaab Singh (6-1, 6-2), Fateh Singh outplayed Daksh Kapoor (6-1, 6-1), Kunsh Kakkar defeated Japnaam Singh (6-3, 6-0) and Svarmanyu Singh overpowered Prabhav Sibbal (6-3, 6-4) in some other easy matches. Haryana’s Dilshan Chhikara faced a tough fight from Punjab’s Sumukh Marya before logging a (7-5, 1-6, 7-5) victory. Uttarakhand’s Varchasva Thapliyap also recorded a comeback (3-6, 6-3, 6-1) win over Punjab’s Armaan Walia, whereas Harwin SinghMunjal easily defeated Hiren Malik (6-4, 6-2).City’s Sia logs easy winChandigarh’s Sia Mahajan defeated Haryana’s Naisha Garg (6-0, 6-0) to move ahead in the girls’ U-16 event. Punjab’s Mankirat Kaur defeated Ira Chadha (6-4, 6-4) and third seed Haryana’s Vanya Arora outplayed Chandigarh’s Ajenika Puri (6-1, 6-2). Saravnoor Kaur defeated Vanshika Yadav (6-2, 7-5), Rasha Dhaliwal outplayed Tamanna Walia (6-0, 6-4), Dayanand Jhadav defeated Yana Gupta (6-1, 6-2) and Snigdha Ruhil ousted Mokshika Yadav (6-0, 6-1) in some one-sided matches. Chandigarh’s Isheeta Midha also marched into the second round by defeating Shriya Singh (6-4, 6-2) and Radha Sadhra blanked Kanak Shekhawat (6-1, 6-0). Punjab’s Rubani Sidhu outplayed Madhumita Ramesh of Tamil Nadu (6-0, 6-2), Sidhak Kaur defeated Priyanshi Katial (6-3, 6-3) and Suhani Gaur outplayed MehakPreet Kaur (6-0, 6-0).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurbaaz-outplays-chandigarhs-satvik-355368
28-12-2021||---||RoundGlass Punjab FC log victory||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27RoundGlass Punjab FC (RGPFC) started their I-League campaign by registering a 2-0 win over Rajasthan United FC.Striker Kurtis Guthrie scored the first goal in the 27th minute and substitute Aphaoba Singh added the second in the last minute of the match. The Punjab outfit showcased a brilliant performance throughout the match. The side got an opportunity to score lead in the 4th minute. However, Ashish Jha hit the crossbar.The side was again close to score the opener in the 18th minute. However, Guthrie failed to put the ball over the goal line. RGPFC lads finally got their breakthrough as Kurtis kept his nerves calm to post the ball in the nets. The Englishman gently chipped the ball over an onrushing Rajasthan custodian to get the first goal. The side got another chance. However, Shankar’s header from Lalchhuanmawia Fanai cross went inches past the post in the 35th minute.The side closed the first half with a one goal lead. After the lemon break, RGPFC head coach Ashley Westwood brought on Sumeet Passi and Aakash Sangwan, replacing Rino Anto and Fanai, respectively. Three minutes after the restart, captain Gurtej Singh came close to doubling the lead. However, his header from a corner kick routine missed the target narrowly.Shankar and Joseba Beitia tried their luck from long range, but could not test the opposing keeper. At the hour mark, Suranjit saw his header saved. Just a minute later, Jha also saw a headed effort tipped over the bar by Vishal. In the 71st minute, Beitia stepped up to take a free kick. However, the shot went out of play after rippling the side netting of the goal.Minutes later, Kurtis almost doubled his tally as he got his head to a deep cross from Sangwan. However, his shot went wide of the target. Substitute Aphaoba finally made it two for RGPFC in the 90th minute as he reacted smartly to head the ball home from a close range.RGPFC will now play their next game against Churchill Brothers FC Goa on December 31 at Naihati Stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roundglass-punjab-fc-log-victory-355367
28-12-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula youth, friend injured in knife attack||A 23-year-old youth from Rally village in Sector 12-A was allegedly attacked by a group of 12 men at Yavnika Park in Sector 5 where the victim had gone to celebrate his friend’s birthday.Rohit and his friend Vikas sustained knife injuries in the attack, the police said.Vikas had come to Rohit’s rescue when he was stabbed in the hip. According to the victim, the suspects threatened to kill him.Injured Vikas was taken to the Civil Hospital where he concealed the truth upon doctors’ inquiry so that their parents didn’t come to know about it. However, Rohit’s parents came to know about his injuries when he reached home following which he revealed the incident to them.Subsequently, a formal complaint was given to the police. Acting on it, the police registered a case. The suspects named in the FIR are Jatin, Sandeep, Roshan, Akhilesh, Pintu, Nikhil, Arun, Mantaj, Golu, Amit, Prem and Akash. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-youth-friend-injured-in-knife-attack-355366
28-12-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula man in police net for murder bid on wife||A man has been arrested for allegedly attempting to kill his wife in broad daylight near Sector 12-A today though the police said the pistol recovered from the suspect was a toy.The suspect was identified as Shamsher Singh, who lives in Sector 19.According to the FIR, the suspect followed the auto-rickshaw in which his wife was travelling in from Zirakpur, stopped it and pointed the pistol at her head.On a complaint of the auto driver, identified as Sanjay Kumar of Mauli Jagran, a case was registered against the suspect under the Arms Act and the IPC at the Sector 14 police station.Kumar told the police a woman boarded his auto-rickshaw near City Court in Dhakoli when he was on his way to Majri Chowk from Zirakpur. “As I turned towards Sector 12-A, a turbaned man blocked my auto with his bike and held a pistol towards us. The suspect then dragged out his wife and started beating her up. He then placed a gun on her head with an intention to kill her. As he saw the police, he tried to flee.”Passersby nabbed him and handed him over to the police.Inspector Rajiv Miglani, SHO, Sector 14 police station, said, “The couple was having an strained relationship for a long time. Last week, the woman had shifted to her father’s house. She regularly takes an auto to reach her workplace. Today, the suspect followed her and stopped her.”The SHO said the police would take an expert opinion before dropping the charge under the Arms Act against the suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-in-police-net-for-murder-bid-on-wife-355365
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 7 fresh Covid-19 cases||The city recorded seven fresh cases of coronavirus on Monday. With these, the UT’s overall tally reached 65,781. The death toll remained at 1,078. Five more patients were cured of the disease. The active caseload is 103. —TNSSix test +ve in Mohali districtMohali: Fresh six cases of Covid surfaced during the past 24 hours in the district. No death was witnessed on Monday while five patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, three each surfaced in Kharar and Mohali. —TNSPanchkula tally up by 2Panchkula: Two fresh cases were added to the district tally on Monday – a fresh case and another which was untraced till Sunday. While the overall tally reached 30,944, the death count remained at 381. There are 51 active cases. The recovery rate stands at 98.60 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-7-fresh-covid-19-cases-355364
28-12-2021||---||Mystery shrouds newborn girl's death at Ambala Civil Hospital||Ambala, December 27The Ambala police have registered a murder case against an unidentified person in connection with the death case of a newborn girl at the Civil Hospital, Ambala City.As per information, the newborn girl died at the Civil Hospital on December 26. After getting information, a police team reached the hospital.In his statement to the police, Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Barara, stated that on December 24 he admitted his wife Kajal to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where she gavebirth to a girl child. His sister-in-law Puja wastaking care of them. The couple already had a daughter.On December 26, Puja informed that the child was having some breathing issues and she was rushed to the emergency ward where the newborn was declared dead. Pradeep claimed that the child died while undergoing treatment. They had no suspicion on anyone and they don’t want to get the postmortem done.Later, the postmortem was conducted by a board of doctors. The postmortem report stated that “Combine effect of asphyxia due to throttling and smothering, which is ante-mortem in nature and sufficient to cause death in ordinary course of nature”.On the basis of the postmortem report, a murder case has been registered against an unidentified person under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Baldev Nagar police station.Investigating Officer Sub-Inspector Ravi Kumar said: “CCTV footage is being examined and the matter was under investigation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mystery-shrouds-newborn-girls-death-at-ambala-civil-hospital-355363
28-12-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula people rush to get vaccine as deadline nears||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 27As the deadline for mandatory Covid vaccine (January 1) draws near, people in the district are turning up at vaccination centres in large numbers to get the vaccine. Over 6,000 people were inoculated against Covid-19 on Monday. Out of this, 4,261 beneficiaries were due for second dose.The Haryana Government had recently announced to ban the entry of unvaccinated people and eligible beneficiaries who are not fully vaccinated at public places from January 1.As Covid complacency gripped people, average daily vaccination figure started coming down in the district.After the state government’s announcement of mandatory vaccination on December 22, the next day (December 22) saw a total of 3,763 people turning up for vaccination, which was the highest single-day figure after November 15.It further went up to 4,446 on December 24 and plummeted to 2,702 on Christmas. From December 16 to 22, the district saw an average 2,200 people getting vaccinated daily.Though the district attained 100 per cent first dose vaccine coverage in September, second dose coverage is still 86.9 per cent. Of 4.79 lakh beneficiaries, who have received the first dose, around 93,000 are yet to take their second dose.Amid Omicron scare, the Health Department wants the entire eligible population to be fully vaccinated.The mandatory vaccine rule has now given new hopes to the district Health Department for improvement in vaccine figures.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said she expects that the vaccine pace would pick up steam now.“People had become complacent towards the virus and weren’t coming forward for vaccine. The mandatory vaccine rule has definitely left them with no option but to take the vaccine. It is important to be fully vaccinated to increase protection against the virus,” she said.The district has ample vaccine stock. At present, the district has 1.35 lakh doses of Covishield and 34,000 doses of Covaxin in its kitty.Stock availableThe district has ample vaccine stock. At present, the district has 1.35 lakh doses of Covishield and 34,000 doses of Covaxin in its kitty.Important to be fully vaccinatedPeople had become complacent towards the virus and weren’t coming forward for vaccine. The mandatory vaccine rule has definitely left them with no option but to take the vaccine. It is important to be fully vaccinated to increase protection against the virus. — Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-people-rush-to-get-vaccine-as-deadline-nears-355362
28-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Housing Board e-auction elicits poor response, yet again||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has again received a poor response to an e-auction held for its commercial as well as residential properties on a freehold and leasehold basis.The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of residential units, both freehold and leasehold, and commercial units on a leasehold basis. The last date for submission of the e-bids was till 10 am today and the bids were opened from 10:15 am onwards.Of the 113 commercial units, the CHB could sell only five units to the highest bidders. The total reserve price of the five commercial units was Rs1.94 crore, while the units were sold for Rs1.98 crore.Similarly, of the 27 residential units on leasehold basis, only three units could be sold. The total reserve price of the three units was Rs1.31 crore, while the highest bids received against these units was Rs1.33 crore.The CHB also received a lukewarm response to its residential properties on a freehold basis as it could sell six of the 19 units put up for the e-auction. The reserve price of the six units was Rs3.82 crore and the board fetched Rs3.93 crore from these.An MIG flat in Sector 51 on a freehold basis was sold to the highest bidder for Rs96.01 lakh against the reserve price of Rs90 lakh, while the highest bid for a commercial unit on a leasehold basis in Sector 51-A was Rs54.01 lakh against the reserve price of Rs53.39 lakh. Similarly, an MIG flat in Sector 39 on a leasehold basis received the highest bid of Rs96.04 lakh against the reserve price of Rs94.86 lakh.The CHB earned a total revenue of Rs7.26 crore from the auction of six residential units on a freehold basis, three residential and five commercial units on a leasehold basis. The total reserve price of these units was Rs7.08 crore.It may be mentioned that in an e-auction held on September 1, the CHB could sell two out of 149 commercial units on leasehold basis, two out of 33 residential units on leasehold basis and eight of the 34 residential units on freehold basis to the highest bidders.Earlier on August 10, the CHB had received a total of five e-bids against 151 commercial units and could sell only three units to the highest bidders. Similarly, 15 e-bids were received against 38 residential units and only five units could be sold to the highest bidders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-e-auction-elicits-poor-response-yet-again-355348
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh slips to 2nd place in NITI Aayog's Health Index||Chandigarh has slipped to the second position among UTs in the fourth Health Index report released by NITI Aayog, the government think tank, today. Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu bagged the top spot.According to the report, Chandigarh dropped from the first place in the base year (2018-19) to second in the reference year (2019-20). Chandigarh scored 73.38 in the base year, but dropped to 62.53 in the reference year.The report also revealed that the city recorded a fall in full immunisation coverage during 2014-15 to 2019-20, but registered an increase of 47.5 per cent (highest) in the first trimester ANC registration during this period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-slips-to-2nd-place-in-niti-aayogs-health-index-355347
28-12-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||5,165 opt for NOTA in Chandigarh MC elections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Unable to find a suitable candidate who deserved their vote in the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections, as many as 5,165 voters (1.34 per cent of the total votes polled) pressed the NOTA (none of the above) button.The maximum 441 voters preferred not to vote for any candidate in Ward No. 28, while 325 voters pressed the NOTA button in Ward No. 7, 233 in Ward No. 29 and 70 in Ward No. 8.In Ward No. 3, 147 voters went for NOTA option, higher than the votes secured by the Bahujan Samaj Party and Independent candidates. In 23 wards, the number of votes secured by 36 Independent and regional party candidates was even less than the number of voters who exercised the NOTA option.In the last MC election in 2016, the highest NOTA option was preferred in Ward No. 5 where 708 voters did not cast their votes ?for any candidate. In Ward No. 19, only 88 voters pressed the NOTA button. A total of 2,780 voters had chosen not to vote for any candidate and preferred the NOTA option.In comparison to the NOTA option availed of by the voters in the 2016 MC elections, lesser number of people went for it this year. While it was 1.58 per cent of the total votes polled in the last election, it was only 1.34 per cent this time.Eight AAP candidates lose security depositEven after emerging as the single largest party, eight AAP candidates lost their security deposit. As per the norms of the Election Commission of India, if a contestant polled one-sixth or less of the total votes polled, the security deposit is forfeited. Of the 203 candidates, the State Election Commission has forfeited the security deposit of 103 contestants, including 16 of the BSP, one of the CPM, two of the Congress, 12 of the Samajwadi Party, 15 of the SAD and 49 Independent candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-5-165-opt-for-nota-355346
28-12-2021||To get its candidate elected as the Mayor||Who will don Chandigarh Mayor's cap||Missing star campaigners: Did BJP sense defeat?It seems some BJP leaders had sensed defeat long before. Perhaps this is the reason, its listed star campaigners, Home Minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, did not turn up in the city though the party claimed they had their engagements. AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia among other Delhi MLAs made their presence felt in the city. Kejriwal had addressed a rally in Sector 43. — TNSPoll different on several countsThis year’s MC poll was different from all previous ones for many reasons. The 13 villages, which were earlier under the UT Administration, were merged with the MC. Their residents were the new voters and it seemed many leaders had no idea about their voting behaviour and aspirations.The number of wards was increased from 26 to 35. Owing to an increase in the number of seats, ward delimitation was carried out which affected the political calculations of the sitting councillors.This time, the old partners, the SAD and the BJP, parted their ways over the farm laws issue. While the BJP contested 35 seats, its former ally fought in alliance with the BSP. AAP also contested for the first time here.Besides, several rebels contested as Independents. In view of multi-cornered fronts, poll pundits failed to guess that AAP was going to make it big in the poll. Many had predicted only three to five seats for AAP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/who-will-don-mayors-cap-355320
28-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Political bigwigs bite dust in Chandigarh MC elections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Bigwigs from the ruling BJP, including the sitting and two former mayors, city Congress chief’s son and the AAP election committee chairman had to bite dust in the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, along with Davesh Moudgil and Rajesh Kalia, who were mayors in the current MC term, lost to the AAP candidates.Sharma, who secured 2,889 votes, lost to Daman Preet Singh, who polled 3,717 votes, from Ward No. 17. Moudgil was defeated by Jasbir Singh from Ward No. 21. While Jasbir polled 3,016 votes, Moudgil managed to secure 2,077 votes. Kalia got the third place in Ward No. 26. AAP candidate Kuldeep Kumar polled 5,824 votes and Jatinder Kumar of the Congress bagged 4,384 votes while Kalia got 3,193 votes.City Congress president Subhash Chawla’s son Sumit Chawla, who was contesting from Ward No 14, had to taste defeat too. BJP candidate Kuljeet Singh Sandhu won from the ward with 3,198 votes while Kuldeep Singh of AAP got 2,943 votes and Chawla 2,532 votes. AAP leader Chander Mukhi Sharma, who is the party’s election committee chairman, lost the election from Ward No. 13. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had asked Chander Mukhi and two other senior leaders of the party — Prem Garg and Pradeep Chhabra — to contest the MC polls. However, Chander Mukhi fought the elections, but faced defeat from young Congress candidate Sachin Galav, a former Panjab University (PU) leader, by 285 votes.Key losersCouncillors’ kin taste defeatSitting BJP councillor Jagtar Singh Dhillon’s wife Saravjit Kaur Dhillon lost from Ward No. 6. Former councillor and city Congress vice-president Bhupinder Singh Badheri’s son Atinder Singh Robby too tasted defeat from Ward No. 3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-political-bigwigs-bite-dust-355307
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||29 of 35 municipal councillors in Chandigarh are new faces||The MC House will have as many as 29 new faces out of the total 35 councillors.All 14 candidates from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are first-time councillors. Four of them had left the Congress before the elections. The youngest councillor, Neha (26), is also from AAP.The Congress also has only three sitting or ex-councillors — Gurbax Rawat, Harpreet Kaur Babla and Gurcharanjit Singh Kala. Its other five councillors are new faces.In the BJP, four are old and current councillors — Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, Kanwarjit Singh Rana, Dalip Sharma and Sarubh Joshi. Other 10 are new faces. Out of these 10, two are wives of councillors. — TNSWard Number 11||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/29-of-35-municipal-councillors-are-new-faces-355299
28-12-2021||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh MC elections: Periphery areas script spectacular AAP victory||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27Periphery areas, including 13 villages which were merged with the Municipal Corporation (MC), contributed to AAP’s victory in its MC poll debut in a big way. In Ward No. 1, comprising Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu and Khuda Lahora villages, and Khuda Lahora Colony, neighbouring Mohali district, the AAP candidate won with a margin of 1,009 votes. The areas that fall under Ward No. 4, 15, 19, 21, 26, 29 and 31, which mainly include periphery areas of the city, also voted for AAP. The party candidates won with a huge margin in a majority of these wards.In Ward No. 21 that includes Sector 47, Bair Majra, Faidan Burail and Chahar Taraf Burail, was won by AAP candidate with a margin of 939 votes defeating a BJP candidate. The margin of AAP candidate’s win in Ward No. 26, comprising Dadu Majra colony, Dadu Majra village, Shahpur colony and village, and rehabilitation colony, Sector 38 (West), was of 1,440 votes.Ward No. 29, which includes several colonies of Sectors 55 and 56 situated close Mohali border, also put their trust in the AAP candidate who won with a margin of 2,738 votes.Similarly, the AAP candidate registered a big win with a margin of 1,062 votes from Ward No. 31 which includes colonies of Sectors 52 and 63 situated on the periphery.Even the Bhaskar colony of Sector 25 and Sector 25 (West), that fall under Ward No. 16, voted for the AAP candidate. The AAP candidates also comfortable won in many wards comprising sector areas.In Ward No. 17, comprising Sectors 22 and 23; Ward No. 18, including Sector 20 and 30; Ward No. 22, which includes Sectors 31, 32 and 33; Ward No. 23, including Sectors 34, 35 and 43; and Ward No. 25, which has Sectors 37 and 38, the AAP candidates registered win.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-periphery-areas-script-spectacular-aap-victory-355298
28-12-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC poll results: AAP's 14-seat debut win stuns big parties||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerged as the single largest party in its MC poll debut by winning 14 seats even as the results threw up a hung House.The ruling BJP could win only 12 seats and the Congress remained on third position with eight seats. The SAD retained its single sitting councillor’s seat while its alliance partner BSP drew a blank. Though the Congress remained at the third spot, it got the highest vote percentage. The grand old party polled 1,14,942 votes (29.79% vote share). While the ruling party had the second highest share in voting (1,13,045 votes with 29.30% vote share), AAP, which topped the seat tally, had the lowest voting share among the top three parties. It got 1,04,471 votes with 27.08% vote share.Also, Ward No. 10 Congress candidate Harpreet Kaur Babla, wife of Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla, won from the woman-reserved seat with the highest margin of 3,103 votes, defeating Rashi Bhasin of the ruling party.Another Congress candidate from Ward Number 34, Gurpeet Singh, won with the lowest margin of nine votes. He got the better of BJP’s Bhupinder Sharma. Similarly, Senior Deputy Mayor and BJP candidate from Ward Number 2 Maheshinder Singh Sidhu could save his seat by the second lowest margin of 11 votes, beating his arch-rival Harmohinder Singh Lucky of the Congress. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, two former BJP mayors Davesh Moudgil and Rajesh Kalia, the son of the city Congress chief and the AAP’s election campaign committee chairman were among the prominent losers. The wives of some sitting councillors also tasted defeat.The richest candidate in the fray, BJP’s Anup Gupta, defeated Omkar Singh Aulakh by 167 votes from Ward Number 11. Gupta, along with his wife, had declared assets worth Rs45 crore in his nomination papers. Highest winning marginsClose contests“People are done with the BJP as well as the Congress. They wanted a third alternative and found it in Arvind Kejriwal. — Prem Garg, AAP city chief“We have 13 votes (with MP’s vote). Councillors should support our mayoral candidate as we can give a stable govt. — Arun Sood, BJP president“If AAP is able to have its Mayor, it will never be in a position to fulfil its promises of freebies, as the Admn will not support it. — S Chawla, Cong chief60.7% of 6,33,475 lakh voters voted for 203 candidates||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-poll-results-aaps-14-seat-debut-win-stuns-big-parties-355297
28-12-2021||Vishav Bharti||Win in Chandigarh MC signals change in Punjab: Kejriwal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 27With the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerging as the leading party winning 14 of 35 wards in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls, its national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Monday claimed the party’s victory “is a sign of the ensuing change in Punjab”.He said the people of Chandigarh have chosen “honest politics” of AAP, rejecting the “corrupt politics” of its rival parties. Party leader Manish Sisodia too claimed that the people of Punjab “have decided to give a chance to Kejriwal this time”.It’s Mandate for honest politicsThe victory of AAP in Chandigarh MC is a sign of ensuing change in Punjab. People of Chandigarh have chosen honest politics of AAP, rejecting corrupt politics. —Arvind KejriwalHowever, political analysts say infighting in the Congress and anti-incumbency against the BJP favoured AAP in the UT. They feel the result may not be an indicator of the party’s performance in the Punjab Assembly elections.The analysts say AAP’s claims are far-fetched. The UT poll results may not help AAP beyond boosting the morale of its cadre and building a perception in a limited way, they say.Chandigarh-based political observer Dr Pramod Kumar says the UT results are a clear mandate against the BJP. The Congress despite getting the highest vote share lost because of its internal rift. “A large section of Congress workers joined AAP, which built the party in Chandigarh,” he says. The party, however, is unlikely to repeat the same feat in Punjab, he claims.Echoing similar views, political commentator Jagtar Singh says AAP won mainly in urban pockets of Chandigarh. “This clearly shows their style of politics is unlikely to find favour in a large part of Punjab,” he claims.Besides, the experts say the politics in Punjab is completely different than in Chandigarh. Cautioning the Congress in Punjab, Dr Kumar says, “The party must acknowledge that its Chandigarh unit messed up the election due to internal conflict and the Punjab unit is going the same way. More than AAP winning this election, it is about the Congress losing it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/win-in-chandigarh-mc-signals-change-in-punjab-kejriwal-355180
28-12-2021||New Delhi||AAP victory in Chandigarh MC poll is a sign of upcoming change in Punjab, says Kejriwal; big setback for Congress||With the AAP emerging as the leading party winning 14 of 35 wards in Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls, its national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the party’s victory is a sign of the ensuing change in Punjab which will go to assembly polls early next year.Congratulating his party’s winning candidates and the workers, he also said the people of Chandigarh have chosen “honest politics” of the AAP, rejecting the “corrupt politics” of its rival parties.चंडीगढ़ नगर निगम में आम आदमी पार्टी की ये जीत पंजाब में आने वाले बदलाव का संकेत है।चंडीगढ़ के लोगों ने आज भ्रष्ट राजनीति को नकारते हुए AAP की ईमानदार राजनीति को चुना है।AAP के सभी विजयी उम्मीदवारों एवं सभी कार्यकर्ताओं को बहुत-बहुत बधाई।इस बार पंजाब बदलाव के लिए तैयार है।  The AAP won 14 of 35 wards in the final results declared on Monday. The BJP, which enjoyed a majority in the previous Municipal Corporation House, came a close second registering win in 12 wards, while the Congress bagged eight seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal one.The Congress, which was aiming to defeat the BJP, has been pushed to the third place.“The victory of Aam Aadmi Party in Chandigarh Municipal Corporation is a sign of ensuing change in Punjab. People of Chandigarh have today chosen honest politics of AAP, rejecting the corrupt politics,” Kejriwal tweeted.“Many congratulations to all the winning candidates and workers of the AAP. Punjab is ready for change change,” he added.The AAP, which is the main Opposition party in Punjab, has contested the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls for the first time. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-victory-in-chandigarh-is-a-sign-of-upcoming-change-in-punjab-says-kejriwal-big-setback-for-cong-355117
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP emerges as leading party as Chandigarh MC poll throws up hung house; BJP's sitting mayor loses||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections the results of which were declared here on Monday threw up a hung verdict even as the new entrant AAP made a major impact in the Chandigarh politics.The AAP, which contested the MC poll for the first time, bagged 14 seats while the ruling BJP could manage 12 and the Congress remained third winning only eight seats.SAD won a single seat. The majority mark is 18 seats.Among the prominent losers were sitting mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, and former mayors Davesh Moudgil and Rajesh Kalia. All three BJP candidates were mayors in the current term of the party.Former Congress mayor Kamlesh also tasted defeat.Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla's son Sumit Chawla also lost. BJP president Arun Sood's seat from where party's Vijay Rana contested was also lost.Though the AAP won the maximum seats, its election campaign committee chairman Chandermukhi Sharma lost his seat.The richest candidate in the fray, BJP's Anup Gupta, won from his seat. He along with his wife had declared Rs 45 crore assets during the nominations filed for the polls.From the Congress, Devinder Singh Babla, leader of opposition in the MC House, showed his dominance. His wife Harpreet Kaur Babla contesting from a woman reserved seat won by the highest margin of 3,103 votes.The AAP had promised freebies like free 20,000 litre water per month per house, free public parking lots, free door-to-door waste collection, free primary education and mohalla clinics. Clearing the waste dumping ground was also its promise.It is believed that people were agitated with the ruling party over the issues of raised water, sewerage and parking lots rates. Covid cess and cow cess were also the issues often raised by the opposition. National issues like price rise also seemed to have affected the party.Anti-incumbency seems to have gone in favour of the AAP instead of the Congress. Other than the BJP it is also a big blow to the opposition Congress which was eying a comeback in the MC. Wards and winners*Ward 1: Jaswinder Kaur of AAP wins.*Ward 2: Maheshinder Singh Sidhu of BJP wins.*Ward 3: Dalip Sharma of BJP beats Ravi Kumar of Congress by 90 votes*Ward 4: Suman Devi of AAP beats Savita Gupta of BJP by 12 votes.*Ward 5: Congress’s Darshana wins.*Ward 6: Sarbajit Kaur of BJP wins by 502 votes.*Ward 7: Manoj Kumar of BJP beats Om Parkash of Congress by 784 votes.*Ward 8: Harjeet Singh of BJP beats KS Thakur of Congress by 682 votes.*Ward 9: Bimala Dubey wins.*Ward 10: Harpreet Kaur Babla, wife of leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla, wins by 3,103 votes. It is the highest winning margin so far.*Ward 11: Richest candidates in fray, Anup Gupta of BJP, beats Omkar Singh Aulakh of AAP by 167 votes.*Ward 12: Saurabh Joshi of BJP beats Deipa Dubey of Congress by 1,017 votes.*Ward 13: Sachin Galav of Congress wins.*Ward 14: Kuljeet Sandhu of BJP wins by 255 votes.*Ward 15: AAP's Ram Chander Yadav beats Congress’s Dheeraj Gupta by 178 votes.*Ward 16: Poonam of AAP beats Usha of BJP by 993 votes.*Ward 17: Mahesh Sidhu of BJP wins by 11 votes, beats HS Lucky of Congress.*Ward 18: Taruna Mehta of AAP beats Sunita Dhawan of BJP by 1,516 votes.*Ward 19: Neha of AAP beats Kamlesh of Congress by 804 votes.* Ward 20: Gurcharanjit Singh of Congress beats BJP’s rebel and independent candidate Kirpanand Thakur by 269 votes.*Ward 21: Former mayor Davesh Moudgil loses to AAP’s Jasbir Singh by 939 votes.*Ward 22: Anju Katyal of AAP beats Heera Negi of BJP by 76 votes.*Ward 23: Prem Lata of AAP beats Ravinder Kaur Gujral of Congress by 681 votes.*Ward 24: Jasbir Singh of Congress defeats Sachin Kumar of BJP by 997 votes.*Ward 25: Yogesh Dhingra of AAP wins.*Ward 26: AAP's Kuldeep Kumar wins by 1,440 votes.*Ward 27: Gurbax Rawat of Congress beats Ravinder Singh Rawat of BJP by 2,862 votes.*Ward 28: Nirmala Devi of Congress beats Jaswinder Kaur of BJP by 2,568 votes.*Ward 29: AAP's Manaur Khan wins by 2,738 votes.*Ward 30: Akali Dal’s Hardeep Singh wins by 2,145 votes.*Ward 31: Lakhbir Singh of AAP beats Bharat Kumar of BJP by 1,062 votes.*Ward 32: Jasmanpreet Singh of BJP beats Sanjeev Kochhar of AAP by 940 votes.*Ward 33: BJP’s Kanwarjit Rana wins.*Ward 34: Gurpeet Singh of the Congress wins by nine votes.*Ward 35: Rajinder Sharma of BJP beats Jagjiwan Jeet Singh of AAP by 474 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/counting-of-votes-under-way-for-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-polls-355069
